Dean’s Office. Welcome to the University of Florida College of Dentistry Dean’s Office. We are committed to providing exceptional service to faculty, staff, students and guests. The College of Dentistry Dean’s Office is located on the fourth floor of the Dental Tower. Please contact us or stop by with questions or concerns. 
Associate Deans of Dentristry. Associate or assistant deans employed by schools of dentistry reported the second-highest average salary of all associate deans during the 2010 to 2011 academic year, $164,764 per year. According to a study released by the College and University Professional Association for Human Resources, or CUPA-HR, the average annual salary of associate deans in schools of medicine was $188,206, the highest salary reported by associate deans in any college department.
Dean of Dentistry Job Description The following is a full job description for Dean of Dentistry. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Dean of Dentistry along with statistics. If after reading this page you determine that Dean of Dentistry is not the position you are looking for, you may want to try one of these similar titles: Instructor-Dentistry, Professor-Dentistry, Asst. Professor-Dentistry, Assoc.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Dean of Dentistry may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Job Description for Dean of Dentistry. Administrative head of the university's dentistry program. Responsibilities include developing the curriculum, staffing the department, reviewing faculty performance, and creating an atmosphere conducive to scholarly pursuits.
510000000 Graduate School Dean's Office. The Dean of the Graduate School will report to the Provost and will be expected to work closely with all the Deans of... 7 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all UAB jobs in Birmingham, AL-Birmingham jobs. 2  Salary Search: Dean Graduate School salaries in Birmingham, AL. 3  Learn more about working at Uab.
From an accredited medical school,. Reporting to the Dean of the. Including Colleges of Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health.... 2 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all University of Florida jobs in Gainesville, FL-Gainesville jobs. 2  Salary Search: Chair salaries in Gainesville, FL. The Dean of the Graduate School will report to the Provost and will be expected to work closely with all the Deans of... 7 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all UAB jobs in Birmingham, AL-Birmingham jobs. 2  Salary Search: Dean Graduate School salaries in Birmingham, AL. 3  Learn more about working at Uab.
For faculty serving as Associate Dean or Clinic Director, the survey data suggest that higher salaries are earned in the Northeast (Associate Dean, median salary of $173,890, and Clinic Director, median salary of $128,455). Of the 59 dental schools eligible to participate in the survey, 58 submitted responses (98% participation rate), and 44 submitted faculty salary data within those responses (92% complete data submission rate).
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Dean of Dentistry in the United States is $274,527 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Dean of Dentistry in the United States are expected to make less than $274,527. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $274,527. 1  Salary. Job Description for Dean of Dentistry. Administrative head of the university's dentistry program. Responsibilities include developing the curriculum, staffing the department, reviewing faculty performance, and creating an atmosphere conducive to scholarly pursuits.
Salary and Benefits. The relationship between Nationwide Children’s Hospital and The Ohio State University provides many benefits to the pediatric dental resident. You will enjoy employee status at Children’s with a salary from $50,645.92 to $52,208.00, depending on the year in residency. 