Tigers are the biggest members of the cat family and are closely related to other big cats, such as snow leopards and lions. The predatory felines are critically endangered, and only 3,050 to 3,950 tigers are thought to remain in the wild. 
It is true that domestic cats are related to lions, but only distantly. In fact lions are more closely related to tigers than your average house cat. Domestic cats and lions and other bigger cat species are in different subfamily, but still fall under the family Felidae. 
It has long been known that the five species of big cat-the tiger, lion, leopard, jaguar and snow leopard, which belong to the Panthera genus-and the two species of clouded leopard are more closely related to each other than to other smaller cats. Tigers are less closely related to lions, leopards and jaguars than these other big cats are to each other, according to a new comprehensive study. The genetic analysis also reveals the tiger began evolving 3.2 million years ago, and its closest living relative is the equally endangered snow leopard.
Siberian Tiger – Panthera tigris altaica. With the tiger being the largest of the big cats, the Siberian Tiger has a very prestigious title. This is because it is also the largest of the different tiger species. As their name indicates they are found in Siberian.
Habitat. Tigers live in Asia. Larger subspecies, such as the Siberian tiger, tend to live in northern, colder areas, such as eastern Russia and northeastern China. Smaller subspecies live in southern, warmer countries, such as India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia. Diet. All tigers are carnivores. Most of a tiger's diet consists of large prey, such as pigs, deer, rhinos or elephant calves. To kill their prey, tigers will clamp down on the animal's neck with their jaws and suffocate the animal.
Yes, distantly. They're both part of the Big Cat family. Tigers and Lions are closely related. They both belong to the  family Felidae and the Genus Panthera (roaring or gr … eat cats):    Jaguar, Panthera onca found in the Americas.  Tiger, Panthera tigris, found in Asia.  Leopard, Panthera pardus found in Asia and  Africa. 
The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to 3.38 m (11.1 ft) over curves and exceptionally weighing up to 388.7 kg (857 lb) in the wild. 
Of all the big cats, the tiger is the largest – and the closest to extinction. As recently as 100 years ago, there were as many as 100,000 wild tigers living in Asia. Today, about 3,200 remain in the wild. Poaching is the number one threat to the tiger’s existence. The prevalence of this threat will have a major bearing on whether or not the species goes extinct in many important landscapes. Every single tiger organ is sold on the black market today.
The massive paws, teeth, and rippling muscles of tigers scream king of the predators.. Tigers belong to the genus Panthera, or big cats. Other species in the genus are Leopards, African lions, Snow Leopards and Jaguars. Tigers, named Panthera tigris, include eight subspecies, distinguished by size, coloration, and geographic distribution. Three of these subspecies are extinct. They are the Caspian, Bali and Javan tigers. The five remaining subspecies are Bengal, Siberian, Sumatran, Indo-Chinese and, South China tige
The Siberian tiger (also known as the Amur and the Ussuri tiger) is a large subspecies of tiger, found throughout western and central Asia. The Siberian tiger is the largest species of tiger in the world closely followed by the Bengal tiger, found on the Indian subcontinent. 