pathogens. Disease causing microorganisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and viruses, found commonly in sewage, hospital waste, run-off water from farms, and in water used for swimming. Most pathogens are parasites (live off the host) and the diseases they cause are an indirect result of their obtaining food from, or shelter in, the host.
Pathogen. Definition. noun, plural: pathogens. An agent causing disease or illness to its host, such as an organism or infectious particle capable of producing a disease in another organism. Supplement. Pathogens are mostly microscopic, such as bacteria, viruses, protozoa, and fungi, thriving in various places such as air, dust, surfaces, soil, etc. Not all bacteria are pathogens, in fact most of them are harmless and only a few are pathogenic.
Bloodborne pathogens are infectious microorganisms in human blood that can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Needlesticks and other sharps-related injuries may expose workers to bloodborne pathogens. 
A human pathogen is a pathogen (microbe or microorganism such as a virus, bacterium, prion, or fungus) that causes disease in humans. The human physiological defense against common pathogens (such as Pneumocystis) is mainly the responsibility of the immune system with help by some of the body's normal flora and fauna. Some pathogens (such as the bacterium Yersinia pestis, which may have caused the Black Plague, the Variola virus, and the Malaria protozoa) have been responsible for massive numbers of casualties and have had numerous effects on afflicted groups.
any disease-producing agent or microorganism. pathogen risk factors. risk factors dependent on the characteristics of the pathogen, e.g. virulence or persistence in the environment of a bacterium or virus. pathogen. any disease-producing agent or microorganism. pathogen risk factors. risk factors dependent on the characteristics of the pathogen, e.g. virulence or persistence in the environment of a bacterium or virus. 1  Facebook.
Most pathogens are infectious microbes, such as bacteria or viruses, which are capable of causing disease. Other parasites, such as fungi and protozoans, are also considered pathogens. Because not all microbes are harmful, pathogens refer specifically to those that can cause disease or other harm. pathagens are bacterias.which cause people to get sick. pathagens are bacterias.which cause people to get sick. Pathogens and non-pathogens are not alike, as one is a type of bacteria/illness inside your body when a non-pathogen is not inside your body and it is not an illness or a bact … eria. 2 people found this useful. Answered. In Microbiology.
In biology, a pathogen (Greek: πάθος pathos “suffering, passion” and -γενής -genēs “producer of”) in the oldest and broadest sense is anything that can produce disease, a term which came into use in the 1880s. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen.
A pathogen is an infectious agent that causes illness to the host. These are commonly attributed to be bacteria and viruses. Pathogens and non-pathogens are not alike, as one is a type of bacteria/illness inside your body when a non-pathogen is not inside your body and it is not an illness or a bact … eria. 2 people found this useful. Answered. In Microbiology.
Typically the term is used to describe an infectious agent such as a virus, bacterium, prion, fungus, viroid, or parasite that causes disease in its host. The host may be an animal, a plant, a fungus, or even another microorganism. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen.