Best Answer: Wiggins Name Meaning and History English: patronymic from the personal name Wiggin. Dictionary of American Family Names, Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-508137-4 http://www.ancestry.com/facts/Wiggins-fa... Wiggins Surname The surname Wiggins indicates son of Wigand, a personal name derived from the Breton name Wiucon, meaning high and noble..
Wiggins is a name that originally was Wigan. Check the history of Wales. The only ferry crossing the Mississippi at St.Louis before bridges were built there was owned and operated by a Mr. Wiggins. Therefore, most pioneers headed West to settle the country crossed on Mr. Wiggins Ferry. Best Answer: The name was first found in 1026 in Cambridgeshire. English: patronymic from the personal name Wiggin.
The Wiggins' immigrants that came to America: 83 from Ireland, 72 from England, 21 from Great Britain, 13 from Scotland, 4 from Canada, and 1 from Germany. The first Wiggins that came over to America was Thomas Wiggins who came over in 1630 to New England. In 1920, most Wiggins families lived in Texas, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, and New York. Best Answer: The name was first found in 1026 in Cambridgeshire. English: patronymic from the personal name Wiggin.
Origin of Wiggins, Meaning of Wiggins. Origin: Wiggins is a patronymic variation of the English name Wiggin, derived from the Breton given name Wiucon, with elements meaning worthy and high, noble. The name was brought to England by followers of William the Conqueror
The personal name is first recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086 as Wighen and in 1163 as Wigein. The surname development has included Wygen (1297, Cornwall) and Wiggans or Wiggins (1752, Yorkshire). This Olde English name has two possible derivations, the first being from the Breton personal name Wincon or Uuicon which was introduced into England by the Normans after the Conquest of 1066. The name means worthy and high, or noble.
Wiggins Surname The surname of WIGGINS was a baptismal name 'the son of Wigand'. Early records of the name mention WIGHEN (without surname) listed as a tenant in the Domesday Book of 1086. Radulfus filius Wigein, was documented in Leicestershire in 1163. Wiggins Surname The surname Wiggins indicates son of Wigand, a personal name derived from the Breton name Wiucon, meaning high and noble..
Wiggins Early Origins. First found in the county of Cambridgeshire, where one named Wighen was listed in the Domesday Book in 1086. Another early bearer of the name was Radulfus filius Wigein, who was living in Leicestershire in 1163. Family names were standard in England by the 14th century, by which time the Wiggins family had already grown into several notable and distinguished houses, having been granted lands by Duke William of Normandy, their liege Lord, for their distinguished assistance at the Battle of Hastings in 1066 A.D. More.
Spelling variations of this family name include: Wiggin, Wiggins, Wigan, Wigans, Wiegand, Wigand, Wigens and many more. First found in the county of Cambridgeshire, where one named Wighen was listed in the Domesday Book in 1086. Wiggins Surname The surname Wiggins indicates son of Wigand, a personal name derived from the Breton name Wiucon, meaning high and noble..
Wiggins Surname The surname of WIGGINS was a baptismal name 'the son of Wigand'. Early records of the name mention WIGHEN (without surname) listed as a tenant in the Domesday Book of 1086. Radulfus filius Wigein, was documented in Leicestershire in 1163. The name has many variant spellings which include Wiggin, Wigan Wigans and Wiggans. http://www.4crests.com/wiggins-coat-of-arms.html Zane Name Meaning and History 1.English: unexplained. 2.Italian (Venice and Mantua) and Greek (Zanes): from a variant of the Venetian personal name Z(u)an(n)i ‘John’ (see Zani).