First, when you make a gift transfer of any property, including your home, to a child or children, you effectively remove that property from your estate. Therefore, the property is not valued in your estate nor is it part of what is called your probate estate. By David S. DeRose, Esq. There are various reasons that parents may desire to transfer the family home to their children: to avoid Pennsylvania Inheritance Taxes, to possibly keep a nursing home from being able to eat away the value of the property or to avoid the probate process.
Quote: The most common reason that clients have of wanting to transfer property to their children is to avoid having to sell their home to pay for care fees. Transferring property to your children like this does NOT protect your home. Often this is classed as a gift with reservation. So your family won't avoid the care fees-particularly as your gran is in her 80s so is likely to need care soon. Let alone the capital gains tax issues-or as you say the claim your mum/uncle's spouses would have on the property in the event of a divorce.
The first risk is loss of control: If you transfer your property into your child’s name then you will no longer be the legal owner of the property. Therefore, if you decide that you wish to sell your property you first have to have the agreement of the new owner in order to do so. If you were thinking of transferring your property to children some or all of these issues may apply to you. Therefore why not read our section on avoiding care home fees or call us on 0800 028 5119 to discuss your situation and see how we might be able to assist you.
For example, if you purchased your home in 1970 for $60,000, and today your home is worth $150,000, then a transfer of the home by gift to your child results in your child assuming your tax basis in the property of $60,000. By David S. DeRose, Esq. There are various reasons that parents may desire to transfer the family home to their children: to avoid Pennsylvania Inheritance Taxes, to possibly keep a nursing home from being able to eat away the value of the property or to avoid the probate process.
If your children are not living in your property when you transfer it into their names it will be subject to capital gains tax when they come to sell it. This means that if the property increases in value after being transferred over to your children, they may then be liable to pay tax on it. If you were thinking of transferring your property to children some or all of these issues may apply to you. Therefore why not read our section on avoiding care home fees or call us on 0800 028 5119 to discuss your situation and see how we might be able to assist you.
Outright gift. If you are moving out of your home, you can give the property to your child today. However, you will probably have to dip into your unified federal gift and estate tax exemption ($5.43 million for 2015). Here’s how it works. 
The fourth issue is avoiding residential care fees: The most common reason that clients have of wanting to transfer property to their children is to avoid having to sell their home to pay for care fees. Transferring property to your children like this does NOT protect your home. If you were thinking of transferring your property to children some or all of these issues may apply to you. Therefore why not read our section on avoiding care home fees or call us on 0800 028 5119 to discuss your situation and see how we might be able to assist you.
Risky business: Parents who sign over their homes to their children to avoid paying for care-home fees could be forces to sell if caught. Councils are spying on parents who sign over their homes to their children to avoid care home fees. Local authority inspectors are rifling through residents’ financial records to see if they deliberately tried to conceal their property wealth. 