The thymus is a lymphoid gland comprised of two identically sized lobes, located behind the sternum (breastbone) but in front of the heart. It derives its name from a resemblance it bears to the bud of the thyme plant (thymus in Latin). After this age, the size of the thymus declines as the lymphoid tissue disappears and fat and fibrous tissue appears. T-cells have derived their name from the thymus, because this is where they are produced in the human body. Lymphoid stem cells are delivered to the outer cortex, or layer, of the thymus in blood.
Thymus. The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. Located in the upper chest region, the primary function of this gland is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T lymphocytes. 
The thymus is a specialized primary lymphoid organ of the immune system. Within the thymus, T cells or T lymphocytes mature. T cells are critical to the adaptive immune system, where the body adapts specifically to foreign invaders. The thymus is composed of two identical lobes and is located anatomically in the anterior superior mediastinum, in front of the heart and behind the sternum. Histologically, each lobe of the thymus can be divided into a central medulla and a peripheral cortex which is surrounded by an outer capsule. As the thymus is the organ of T-cell development, any congenital defect in thymic genesis or a defect in thymocyte development can lead to a profound T cell deficiency in primary immunodeficiency disease.
T cells defend the body from potentially deadly pathogens such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi. The thymus is a soft, roughly triangular organ located in the mediastinum of the thoracic cavity anterior and superior to the heart and posterior to the sternum.... Click to read more below. The thymus gland, despite containing glandular tissue and producing several hormones, is much more closely associated with the immune system than with the endocrine system. The thymus serves a vital role in the training and development of T-lymphocytes or T cells, an extremely important type of white blood cell
1. A lymphoid organ that is located in the superior mediastinum and lower part of the neck and is necessary in early life for the normal development of immunological function. 2. The thymus of a calf or lamb.
1 Thymoma, which is a tumor of the thymus gland. 2  The thymus gland is part of the lymphatic system and is located behind your breastbone. 3  Thymic carcinoma (also called C thymoma), which is a rare type of cancer of the thymus gland. 4  Germ cell, which is a tumor that forms from embryologically immature cells. 1 The thymus gland is part of the lymphatic system and is located behind your breastbone. 2  Thymic carcinoma (also called C thymoma), which is a rare type of cancer of the thymus gland. 3
Thymus. The thymus is a lymphoid gland comprised of two identically sized lobes, located behind the sternum (breastbone) but in front of the heart. It derives its name from a resemblance it bears to the bud of the thyme plant (thymus in Latin). At puberty, the thymus reaches the height of its use, becoming its largest. After this age, the size of the thymus declines as the lymphoid tissue disappears and fat and fibrous tissue appears. T-cells have derived their name from the thymus, because this is where they are produced in the human body. Lymphoid stem cells are delivered to the outer cortex, or layer, of the thymus in blood.
The thymus is a bilobed lymphoid organ located in the superior mediastinum of the thorax, posterior to the sternum. After puberty, it begins to decrease in size; it is small and fatty in adults after degeneration. The primary function of the thymus is the processing and maturation of T lymphocytes. 
The thymus gland is an organ in the upper chest cavity that processes lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that fights infections in the body. This organ is part of both the lymphatic system, which makes up a major part of the immune system, and the endocrine system, which includes all glands that produce hormones. Two irregularly shaped parts make up the thymus, which is located directly just below the throat, behind the sternum. The gland releases a hormone that stimulates the production of a certain type of white blood cell in the bone marrow; these cells, called thymocytes are transported by the bloodstream to the thymus.