3. Install the throttle grip. Apply the glue to the grip meant for the throttle side as well as the handlebar. Quickly slide the grip onto the handlebar, raised edge first, until it is flush against the inside of the handlebar. Squeeze the grip to help the glue set. Method 2 of 3: Installing the New Grips. 1. Sort out which grip goes on which side. The two grips that come in a package have slightly different-sized holes. The one that is slightly larger is meant to be installed on the side of the throttle, which is usually the right side.
How To: Install ATV Hand Grips. Replacement grips offer many advantages over their stock counterparts, the biggest of which is added rider control. Hard compound stock grips become slick and ones hand can slip off the bars over rough terrain or when attempting to tackle a motocross jump. Softer compounds add differing grip patterns offer major advantages over stock and while they tend to wear faster, they are inexpensive and as you will see a snap to install.
Here is how to put new hand grips on your bike. To make bike handgrips easy to slide onto the handlebars, use rubbing alcohol. It will make the hand grips slide on easily, and then it evaporates so the rubber can grip to the handlebars without slipping. In this video I show how to install new hand grips on my son's BMX bicycl
Cold, numb hand do not move quickly or have good feel of the controls. This can spell disaster for the cool weather rider. Today's lesson is how to install a heated grip kit on your bike for only $27, and a few hours work... The heated grip kit allows you to continue to use your stock hand grips. The heating elements fit under your grips. 
J&P Cycles shows you how to replace grips on a Harley Davidson motorcycle. From removing your old grips and adding new grips watch the entire process take place. 
I really wanted any biker to be able to watch this video and install heated grips right from you garage on the kickstand. For this reason you will not find a better quality video or instructions on installing Harley Davidson Brand heated hand grips on your Harley Davidson. You can install heated grips with your Harley Davidson right on the kickstand and we show you how!Just prop this video up somewhere in your work space and work right alongside us while you install your heated grips.
Try not to scratch your chrome. If you want to save the grips without cutting, spray WD-40 between grip and handlebar. It WILL penetrate all the way down. Twist to spread WD-40 inside, and pull off. Stick a screwdriver between the bar and the grip if you cannot get under the grip well. 3. You can also use compressed air from a compressor or can to remove a grip. Place a needle/nozzle between the grip and the handlebar, and the air will allow the grip to slide off the bar. Since you won't be placing a lubricant on the bar, you will not need to clean it off. Use the proper precautions whenever you use compressed air tools or products to prevent explosions or other injuries
2. Install the non-throttle grip. Apply a grip glue, such as E-6000, inside the hand grip opening and along the handlebar. The edge of one side of the grip is raised, while the other edge is not. Slide the grip onto the handlebar, raised edge first, before the glue begins to dry. Method 2 of 3: Installing the New Grips. 1. Sort out which grip goes on which side. The two grips that come in a package have slightly different-sized holes. The one that is slightly larger is meant to be installed on the side of the throttle, which is usually the right side.