Husky /ˈhʌski/ is a general name for a type of dog used to pull sleds in northern regions, differentiated from other sled-dog types by their fast pulling style.
In the beginning, there were basically two main types of huskies: the Malamute and the Siberian Husky. The first one was small, agile, and by far the fastest of the two; but the other was large and powerful (in fact it is still the largest sled dog).
There is only one breed of Siberian Husky, but there are several coat types that are acceptable by the American Kennel Club and Siberian Husky Breed clubs. As a result of this acceptable coat variety, Siberian Huskies are commonly mistaken as either a different breed of dog, or a relative of similar-looking breeds.
There are also Alaskan Huskies, but that's no really a breed its a type of working dog.. bred for a thick coat, pull drive, and the endurance and ability to survive in the cold. Several breeds, or mixes of those breeds could be classified as an Alaskan.
no. the Siberian husky, is the Siberian husky. but there are other types of huskies. there is the Siberian, the Alaskan, the Mackenzie river husky. some people would also incl … ude the Alaskan malamute.
there are two main types of huskies, the Malamute (pronounced mal-a-moo) and the Siberian husky. The Malamute is much larger, males can weigh anywhere from 50- 100 kgs. Siberians are much smaller, still tall but weigh far less, a male can weigh about 25kgs. Siberians were bred by using malamutes and wolves (I believe).
A Siberian Husky is a breed or type of husky. A husky is a breed of dog. There are several breeds or types of huskies living today. They are:: Siberian Huskies Malamutes … Samoyeds Alaskan huskies Mackenzie River Husky And I think a few others.
Husky type dogs originally were landrace breeds kept by Arctic indigenous peoples. Examples of these landraces in modern times have been selectively bred and registered with various kennel clubs as modern purebred breeds, including the Siberian Husky from Russia (Siberia) and Greenland Dog from Greenland.