Medical Definition of OLIGOSACCHARIDE. : a saccharide (as a disaccharide) that contains a known small number of monosaccharide units. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary. 
A fructooligosaccharide (also written fructo-oligosaccharide) is a carbohydrate, which is made out of a short chain of fructose molecules. It is also classed as an oligosaccharide; oligo meaning few and saccharide, sugar. Fructooligosaccharides are also sometimes called oligofructose. Often the term is abbreviated to the letters FOS. Together with inulin fiber, fructooligosaccharides are probably most recognized for their prebiotic qualities. You will also find that fructo-oligosaccharide or oligofructose, as it is also known, is added to many processed foods, mainly as a prebiotic or fiber supplement but also as a sweetener. This type of FOS is not natural.
Oligosaccharide is a carbohydrate polymers comprise three to ten monosaccharides, or, simple sugars. They were linked together mostly by O-glycosidic bond through condensation reaction between an anomeric carbon of a monosaccharide and the other. They can also form N-glycosidic linkages under certain atmosphere. 
The Sialyl-Lewis x Oligosaccharide identified in a 2011 study, seems to be the most abundant carbohydrate receptor present in the outer coating (zona pellucida (ZP)) of the human ova, and is implicated as a large factor of Sperm-ZP binding leading to fertilization. Oligosaccharides can have many functions; for example, they are commonly found on the plasma membrane of animal cells where they can play a role in cell-to-cell recognition. In general, they are found either O-or 'N-linked to compatible amino acid side-chains in proteins or to lipid moieties (see glycans).
Fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS), which are found in many vegetables, consist of short chains of fructose molecules. (Inulin has a much higher degree of polymerization than FOS and is a polysaccharide.) Galactooligosaccharides (GOS), which also occur naturally, consist of short chains of galactose molecules. Oligosaccharides can have many functions; for example, they are commonly found on the plasma membrane of animal cells where they can play a role in cell-to-cell recognition. In general, they are found either O-or 'N-linked to compatible amino acid side-chains in proteins or to lipid moieties (see glycans).
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Oligosaccharides are carbohydrates characterized by the simple sugars they contain. This type of saccharide polymer is located in the amino acid side chains frequently found within vegetables ranging from onions to artichokes and jicama. They are characterized by their sweet taste and unique mouth feel. 
The reducing and non-reducing ends of an oligosaccharide are conventionally drawn with the reducing-end monosaccharide residue furthest to the right and the non-reducing (or terminal) end furthest to the left. To name a polysaccharide composed of a single type of monosaccharide, that is a homopolysaccharide, the ending “-ose” of the monosaccharide is replaced with “-an”. For example, a glucose polymer is named glucan, a mannose polymer is named mannan, and a galactose polymer is named galactan.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of oligosaccharide): disaccharide (any of a variety of carbohydrates that yield two monosaccharide molecules on complete hydrolysis). tetrasaccharide (any of a variety of carbohydrates that yield four monosaccharide molecules on complete hydrolysis). 
The reducing end of an oligosaccharide is the monosaccharide residue with hemiacetal functionality, thereby capable of reducing the Tollens’ reagent, while the non-reducing end is the monosaccharide residue in acetal form, thus incapable of reducing the Tollens’ reagent. To name a polysaccharide composed of a single type of monosaccharide, that is a homopolysaccharide, the ending “-ose” of the monosaccharide is replaced with “-an”. For example, a glucose polymer is named glucan, a mannose polymer is named mannan, and a galactose polymer is named galactan.
oligosaccharide. see carbohydrate carbohydrate,any member of a large class of chemical compounds that includes sugars, starches, cellulose, and related compounds. These compounds are produced naturally by green plants from carbon dioxide and water (see photosynthesis)...... Changes or differences in oligosaccharide structures are generally the result of differences in biosynthetic pathways or of degradative pathways. An understanding of glycoconjugates in normal biological systems and in certain disease states is currently of great importance. 1  Facebook.