Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Dryer Vent! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Dryer Vent Installation project. For a basic 1 vent project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Dryer Vent ranges between $111.30 - $236.80 per vent. To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Cost of Dryer Vent or Air Duct Installation. Some reasons as to why dryer vents or air ducts need to be installed include a remodeled home, in which the construction shifts the laundry room to a new location or adds an entirely new laundry room to the home. One of the biggest concerns that homeowners have when it comes to an installation project is the cost. In general, you should expect to spend around $300 to $400 on your dryer vent installation. The actual price could be more or less based on a number of factors.
Furthermore, it is also recommended that you have dryer vents and air ducts cleaned annually, which typically costs an additional $200. This will help to ensure better air quality in your home and help keep your dryer vent from developing a potentially dangerous clog. More From around Improvenet. In general, you should expect to spend around $300 to $400 on your dryer vent installation. The actual price could be more or less based on a number of factors.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost to clean ducts & vents is $333, with most homeowners spending between $238 and $429. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. 
Additional costs: 1  Creating an opening for the dryer vent in an exterior wall or the roof. 2  Connecting the vent to the dryer and the outdoor vent at the exterior wall or roof, which may involve threading the vent through existing ductwork. 3  All materials and labor, including a metal dryer vent. 1 Dryer vent installation can be a DIY project; expect to pay about $60 for materials, including special tools. 2  Electric (not gas dryers can be vented to the inside of a home with an indoor dryer vent kit.
For this discussion, we will consider the average costs of installing an all-new dryer vent in an exterior wall of a home. This is a project with average costs of $150 to $500 including materials and labor. 1 Upgrading and installing electrical supplies adequate to the needs of a dryer: 2  Electrical wiring to code-Electricians average from $75-$250 per hour for the installation of a 220 volt receptacle. 3  This might cost a bit more if the electrical panel also needs to be upgraded.
1 Expect to pay $150-$500 for professional new dryer vent installation, says long-time vent installer Charlie Gossett of Lint Busters in New York City. 2  Owners of wood or vinyl sided homes should expect to pay on average $200, according to Bill North, of North HVAC Services in San Rafael, CA. 1 Dryer vent installation can be a DIY project; expect to pay about $60 for materials, including special tools. 2  Electric (not gas dryers can be vented to the inside of a home with an indoor dryer vent kit.
Fortunately, hiring a professional cleaning service is much more affordable than you might think. While the specific cost will vary depending on how many vents and ducts you have in addition to their size, most home and business owners can have these services performed for about $150 to $400. 
1 On average, most professional dryer vent cleaning jobs are going to cost anywhere from $60 to as much as $120 for a standard single-family home. 2  Dryer vent cleaning services at Okventcleaning.com in Tulsa, Oklahoma start at $99. 1 They also offer dryer vent transition replacement services at $19 to $39. 2  At Dryerventcleaning.com in Woodinville, WA, the cost of cleaning a vent in the Seattle/Eastside area is $95 plus sales tax. “ 3 Routine cleaning” of multi-unit apartments and condominiums is done for $15 to $30 each