Chintz (from the plural of chint) was originally glazed calico textiles, initially specifically those imported from India, printed with designs featuring flowers and other patterns in different colours, typically on a light plain background. In contemporary language the word chintz and chintzy can be used to refer to clothing or furnishings which are vulgar or florid in appearance, and commonly in informal speech, to refer to cheap, low quality, or gaudy things, including personal behavior.
The word ' Chintz ' has been taken from the Indian word ' Chint ', which means 'broad and gaudily printed fabric'. Chintz is covered in bright, colorful figures, large flower designs, birds and other designs. It also comes in plain colors, with several different types of glaze. The fabric is processed with glazed finish to give it a polish look. There are lots of varieties also like, Cotton chintz fabric has several types of glaze, Resin finish chintz is a durable glaze. It withstands washing or dry cleaning, The wax and starch glaze washes out.
Main Image: Chintz is a closely woven plain weave cotton fabric with a shiny and lustrous finish. The fabric is processed with glazed finish to give it a polish look. There are lots of varieties also like, Cotton chintz fabric has several types of glaze, Resin finish chintz is a durable glaze. It withstands washing or dry cleaning, The wax and starch glaze washes out.
Full Definition of CHINTZ. 1. : a printed calico from India. 2. : a usually glazed printed cotton fabric. See chintz defined for English-language learners. See chintz defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Chintz designs are mostly European patterns loosely derived from the style of Indian designs themselves reflecting, via Mughal art, decorative traditions in Islamic art such as the arabesque. Unglazed calico is called  cretonne . In contemporary language the word chintz and chintzy can be used to refer to clothing or furnishings which are vulgar or florid in appearance, and commonly in informal speech, to refer to cheap, low quality, or gaudy things, including personal behavior.
1 In addition, ‘Tropiques,’ a polyester/cotton printed chintz, is going into more bedding and draperies. 2  Fabrics varied, and included calendared or glazed fabrics of wool, plain or floral printed calicos and muslins, and glazed chintz monochrome or polychrome prints. Chintz was originally a painted or stained calico, imported from India. The source was the Hindi word chīmt, literally ‘spattering, stain’, which in English became chint. The plural of this unfamiliar word, being more frequently used, came over time to be mistaken for a singular and written chints and eventually chintz
Save. Chintz fabric is a glazed woven textile bearing bold printed or floral patterns. The word &ldquo;chintz&rdquo; is a Hindu derivative of the Sanskrit word &ldquo;chitra,&rdquo; meaning spotted or bright. The unique patterns and production process associated with chintz fabric have helped it endure the test of time to remain in production today. The tradition and artistry of chintz fabrics is evident in the original production process. To achieve the smooth surface, the fabric was first polished with buffalo milk and a dried fruit containing tannin, called myrobolan.. The patterns were traced on paper and then outlined with hole piercings
Chintz was originally a woodblock printed, painted or stained calico produced in India from 1600 to 1800 and popular for bed covers, quilts and draperies. Around 1600, Portuguese and Dutch traders were bringing examples of Indian chintz into Europe. These early fabrics were extremely expensive and rare. In contemporary language the word chintz and chintzy can be used to refer to clothing or furnishings which are vulgar or florid in appearance, and commonly in informal speech, to refer to cheap, low quality, or gaudy things, including personal behavior.