It's just more evidence that the Democrat Party really doesn't care about the little guy. The Democrat Party uses the little guy. The Democrat Party's policies end up harming the little guy. And this is a classic example. If you are a Democrat voter and you are a minority, the Democrats do not want you having a photo ID. They certainly don't want you having to show it at a polling place. Now, there's not a person on earth with common sense who understands the charge that a photo ID is discriminatory.
The Democratic Party traces its origins to the inspiration of the Democratic-Republican Party, founded by Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and other influential opponents of the Federalists in 1792. That party also inspired the Whigs and modern Republicans. In the early 20th century, the traditional symbol of the Democratic Party in Midwestern states such as Indiana, Kentucky, Oklahoma and Ohio was the rooster, as opposed to the Republican eagle. This symbol still appears on Oklahoma, Kentucky, Indiana, and West Virginia ballots.
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama's international trade agenda is dead in the water if he doesn't do a better job engaging with Democrats in Congress, and his administration appears to be getting that message, Democrats said Friday. If they don't, Obama's trade agenda stalls. And for Democrats, giving the White House too much authority could undercut the centerpiece of the 2014 election argument -- that they are the party that will deal with income inequality and help the middle class.
The Party of the People. The Democratic Party is the oldest existing political party in the U.S. Some scholars say that it began when Jefferson founded the Democratic-Republicans in 1792. Jefferson opposed a strong central government. The party later split. Some scholars say that the Democrat Party grew from a branch headed by Andrew Jackson. Since 1987, for example, Republican Presidents have been in the White House, while Democrats have controlled both houses of Congress. The result is what we call a divided government. Some experts say that this situation can spark trouble. Each party blames the other when things go wrong.
Today&#39s Democratic Party takes a different stand. Democrats are sometimes referred to as the Party of the People, attracting immigrants, blue-collar workers, women, and minorities. Since 1987, for example, Republican Presidents have been in the White House, while Democrats have controlled both houses of Congress. The result is what we call a divided government. Some experts say that this situation can spark trouble. Each party blames the other when things go wrong.
The Democratic-Republican Party was the American political party in the 1790s of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison formed in opposition to the centralizing policies of the new Federalist party. It came to power in 1800, and dominated national and state affairs until the 1820s, when it faded away. Historians typically use the title Republican Party. It was the second political party in the United States, and was organized by then Thomas Jefferson and his friend James Madison in 1791–93, to oppose the Federalist Party run by Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton.
Democrats tend to take a more liberal stand on important issues. They believe that the federal government should take a more active role in people&#39s lives, particularly those who are in need. One example is Franklin D. Roosevelt&#39s presidency (1933–1945). Since 1987, for example, Republican Presidents have been in the White House, while Democrats have controlled both houses of Congress. The result is what we call a divided government. Some experts say that this situation can spark trouble. Each party blames the other when things go wrong.
But most Democrats oppose the bill, and ultimately, Baucus and the administration introduced the legislation without a House Democratic co-sponsor -- a public embarrassment that prompted House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) to declare Obama needs to get his act together on trade policy. If they don't, Obama's trade agenda stalls. And for Democrats, giving the White House too much authority could undercut the centerpiece of the 2014 election argument -- that they are the party that will deal with income inequality and help the middle class.
Simply, Democrats and civil rights groups spend millions of dollars opposing voter ID because they are trying to scare minority voters into thinking that Jim Crow is back. If Jim Crow is back, then they better go vote in November. This column by ACRU Policy Board Member and former Justice Department attorney J. Christian Adams was published October 19, 2014 on PJ Media. Lots of folks think Democrats oppose voter ID laws because they want to cheat and such laws interfere with their plans. That’s an attractive explanation, but it ignores the far more complex architecture of voter ID opposition