Interestingly, there is an example of a symbolic resurrection in the Old Testament. The consideration of this passage helps us to understand that this word resurrection can be and was used as a symbol for something other than a literal raising from the dead. In this passage it is very obvious that the EARTH symbol is being used to refer to the Jewish nation. Only a remnant of the old chosen people would be saved from the coming destruction. Only those who accepted the Christ would be saved. The Lord did carry out his sentence with speed and finality.
This passage is a prophecy of the coming attack and conquest by the Assyrians over the Jewish people. It should be obvious that the word EARTH is used as a symbol here, representing the place of the peoples or nation involved. In this passage it is very obvious that the EARTH symbol is being used to refer to the Jewish nation. Only a remnant of the old chosen people would be saved from the coming destruction. Only those who accepted the Christ would be saved. The Lord did carry out his sentence with speed and finality.
In Acts, we are told that this is that of which the prophet Joel spoke. It was the destruction of the Jewish nation in AD. 70, and the symbols are used in the same way as before. This DARKNESS would be terrible, indeed, for this would be a final destruction of the old Jewish nation. In this passage it is very obvious that the EARTH symbol is being used to refer to the Jewish nation. Only a remnant of the old chosen people would be saved from the coming destruction. Only those who accepted the Christ would be saved. The Lord did carry out his sentence with speed and finality.
Muhammad's successors, the caliphs, used the Prophet's Minbar as a symbol of their authority. During the first century of Islam, provincial governors came to use the Minbar primarily in their capacity as rulers, making speeches and hearing petitions from it. Religious symbolism is the use of symbols, including archetypes, acts, artworks, events, or natural phenomena by religion. Religions view religious texts, rituals of worship, and works of art as symbols of compelling ideas or ideals.
To understand prophecy, it is important to understand the symbols used. The meaning of the symbols can be found in the covenant, the sanctuary, the feasts and the exodus. The symbols used in prophecy are consistent. God does not use a symbol in one place and then change its meaning in another. The written message of God. This could be a prophecy or the testimony in the ark or the ten commandments or Jesus (the word of God). This symbolism is also an action symbol. Eating the book is learning the message from God so that you digest it in your body and mind to understand it.
Based on this history, many Muslims reject using the crescent moon as a symbol of Islam. The faith of Islam has historically had no symbol, and many refuse to accept what is essentially an ancient pagan icon. It is certainly not in uniform use among Muslims. This leads to the question of alternatives. 
Question: What was a prophet in the Old Testament?. Answer: A prophet in the Old Testament was someone who was used by God to communicate His message to the world. Prophets were also called “seers” because they could “see,” spiritually speaking, as God gave them insight (1 Samuel 9:9)
For instance, a beast which grows several horns signifies a power followed by several other powers. The symbol of heads is also used in various places in the Bible to represent kings and kingdoms. One of the best illustrations of this symbol will be discussed in the following chapter. Jeremiah 25:32,33 shows that winds represent war and strife. The use of codes and symbols is one of the methods God has chosen to preserve the Bible, for if certain powers which have existed had been aware that the Bible was talking about them, they would have done their best to destroy every trace of the Word of God.
Based on this history, many Muslims reject using the crescent moon as a symbol of Islam. The faith of Islam has historically had no symbol, and many refuse to accept what is essentially an ancient pagan icon. It is certainly not in uniform use among Muslims. This leads to the question of alternatives. 