Although the finding of lymphadenopathy sometimes raises fears about serious illness, it is, in patients seen in primary care settings, usually a result of benign infectious causes. Most patients can be diagnosed on the basis of a careful history and physical examination. In other cases, the diagnosis is less clear. Lymphadenopathy may be the only clinical finding or one of several nonspecific findings, and the discovery of swollen lymph nodes will often raise the specter of serious illness such as lymphoma, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or metastatic cancer.
Introduction. Sarcoidosis is a systemic granulomatous disease of unknown origin and can involve many tissues and organs in the body. The disease most commonly presents with bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, lung infiltrations, and skin and ophthalmic lesions [ 1 ]. Loefgren’löfgren s (SYNDROME) ls is an acute sarcoidosis presentation characterized by/arthritis, arthralgia erythema (NODOSUM), en and bilateral hilar [ lymphadenopathy ]. 2 
Causes of cervical (neck) lymph node enlargement. Localized cervical lymphadenopathy (disease of the lymph nodes) presents with lymph node enlargement that is restricted to the cervical (neck) area. 
1 Catscratch disease, caused by Bartonella henselae, presents with subacute lymphadenopathy often in the cervical region. 2  The disease develops after the infected pet (usually a kitten) inoculates the host, usually through a scratch. 1 Kawasaki disease is an important cause of cervical adenopathy. 2  These children have fever for at least 5 days, and cervical lymphadenopathy is one of the 5 diagnostic criteria (of which 4 are necessary to establish the diagnosis).
Seek a focus of infection or inflammation in the territory drained by the lymph nodes. For example, the classic manifestation of group A streptococcal pharyngitis is sore throat, fever, and anterior cervical lymphadenopathy (tonsillar node). When examining the oropharynx, pay special attention to the dentition. Cervical lymphadenopathy: Cervical lymphadenopathy is a common problem in children. Cervical nodes drain the tongue, external ear, parotid gland, and deeper structures of the neck, including the larynx, thyroid, and trachea.
UCD presents with lymphadenopathy confined to one lymph node region, and many patients are asymptomatic. Symptoms are usually due to compression of vital structures such as the trachea, blood vessels, or nerves. UCD occurs most frequently in younger females. Castleman disease (CD) describes a group of heterogeneous lymphoproliferative disorders that share common histopathological lymph node changes. CD can present with localized (unicentric CD or UCD) or generalized lymphadenopathy (multicentric CD or MCD).
LYMPHADENOPATHY ON CT. Bilateral symmetric hilar and right paratracheal mediastinal adenopathy, as in this patient, is the most common pattern of lymphadenopathy in sarcoidosis. Computed tomography shows para-aortic and retrocaval lymphadenopathy. CT can demostrate enlarged lymph nodes which are not visible on radiographs. There is an enlarged ... Hilar lymphadenopathy has not been found to develop or increase after a patient has presented with Stage III sarcoidosis. If a patient with only parenchymal lung disease on a chest radiograph developes or has an increase in lymphadenopathy, the patient either has an incorrect diagnosis or a second disease.
A 19 Year Old Male With HIV Presents With Diffuse Lymphadenopathy Brian Curtis, MD, Subhashini Sellers, MD, Jay Sellers, MD, Jack Bruminhent, MD Figure 1. CT of the chest with IV contrast demonstrates ground glass opacity in the right upper lobe and bulky enhancing adenopathy in the bilateral axilla. 
A common finding in the primary care outpatient setting, lymphadenopathy is typically explained by identifiable regional injury or infection. Among the serious illnesses that can present with lymphadenopathy, perhaps the most concerning to the patient and physician alike is the possibility of underlying malignancy. ASSOCIATED SYMPTOMS. A thorough review of systems is important in the evaluation of peripheral lymphadenopathy. Constitutional symptoms such as fatigue, malaise, and fever, often associated with impressive cervical lymphadenopathy and atypical lymphocytosis, are seen most commonly with mononucleosis syndromes.
Background. Kimura disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology that most commonly presents as painless lymphadenopathy or subcutaneous masses in the head and neck region. 