Eilean Donan Castle is a medieval castle on the small island of Eilean Donan in Loch Duich in the western Highlands of Scotland. The island is dominated by its famous picturesque castle. 
Eilean Donan Castle is situated in Loch Duich near Dornie about 8 miles from Kyle of Lochalsh on the A87 road on the west coast of Scotland near the Isle of Skye. Loch Long and Loch Alsh are close by. 1 The Hebridean Explorer offers a day trip from Inverness to Eilean Donan Castle and then on to Portree and the Trotternish mountains in the north of Skye. 2  For small groups of up to 8 people. 3  Contact John Macdonald-Tel: 07943 863292 or 01456 450595.
Things to do. Eilean Donan Castle is on the north west coast of Scotland and is the most photographed of castles in Scotland. As a consequence, it is recognised as one of the most iconic images of Scotland
Eilean Donan (Scottish Gaelic: Eilean Donnain) is a small tidal island where three lochs meet, Loch Duich, Loch Long and Loch Alsh, in the western Highlands of Scotland. Eilean Donan is part of the Kintail National Scenic Area, one of 40 in Scotland. In 2001, the island had a recorded population of just one person, but there were no usual residents at the time of the 2011 census
The name of the 'Eilean Donan Castle' comes from the Gaelic meaning 'Island of Donan' ('Eilean' being 'Island' and the 'Donan' believed to be named after the 6th Century Irish Saint, Bishop Donan, who was in Scotland during the later part of the 6th century AD). 1 It's believed that Robert the Bruce took refuge in Eilean Donan Castle (while being hunted by the British) during the 14th century. 2  Said to be haunted by the ghost of a Spanish soldier, who may have been during a battle which took place at the castle in 1719.
The story of Eilean Donan Castle and of Eilean Donan, the island on which it stands, is an ancient one. Until the 1920s traces remained of what was probably an Iron Age fort and settlement on the island. This is perhaps no surprise. Eilean Donan stands in a strategically important location. Eilean Donan Castle is one of the most easily recognised castles in Scotland and probably appears on more calendars than any other. It is, without any exaggeration, a Scottish ic
Eilean Donan Castle. Eilean Donan Castle is on the north west coast of Scotland and is the most photographed of castles in Scotland. As a consequence, it is recognised as one of the most iconic images of Scotland
Description. Eilean Donan Castle is situated on a small island in Loch Duich in the western Highlands of Scotland about half a mile from the village of Dornie. It is connected to the mainland by a footbridge. Eilean Donan is named after St. Donan, a Celtic saint. Eilean Donan is one of the most recognised Scottish castles and one of the most visited attractions in the Scottish highlands. Most of the castle can be explored. The Castle now has its own visitor centre with Coffee Shop, Gift Shop and toilets.