You can evaluate any statement already in the Command Window. Select the statement, right-click, and then select Evaluate Selection. In the Command Window, you also can execute only a portion of the code currently at the command prompt. To evaluate a portion of the entered code, select the code, and then press Enter.
A command prompt is an entry point for typing computer commands in the Command Prompt window. By typing commands at the command prompt, you can perform tasks on your computer without using the Windows graphical interface. This tutorial will show you how to boot to an elevated command prompt at startup in Windows 8. EXAMPLE: Command Prompt at Boot in Windows 8 Here's How: 1.
If you are attempting to get into an MS-DOS prompt to troubleshoot the computer, boot the computer into Safe Mode. Tip: Windows 2000 and XP users who are unable to boot the computer into Normal Windows mode or Safe mode, can also enter and use the recovery console to manage their computer from a prompt.
Do step 2 or 3 below for how you would like to open a command prompt at boot. 2. Boot from your Windows 8 installation DVD or USB thumb drive, or ISO file if in a virtual machine. A) Press Shift + F10 when you are at the Install Windows screen, and go to step 4 below. OR 3. Boot to the System Recovery Options screen.
Section 3: Windows XP. To enter in Safe Mode with Command Prompt in Windows XP, you need to restart your computer. While computer is restarting, keep pressed F8 key (right at the beginning, before Windows logo appear). If you miss it, repeat the operation (restart computer and press F8).
Click Apply, then Ok and then click Restart. You are now in Safe mode with command prompt. If you want to exit from command prompt and restart Windows 8 normally, type again msconfig, then hit Enter. Uncheck Safe boot and now you will start Windows normally, instead Safe mode.
At the Windows log in prompt I hit the “Windows”+”U” key and open pops a system level command prompt. From here you can type any windows command, add users, etc. The funny part is you can type “explorer.exe”, hit enter and a you get a System level desktop. From here you can open Internet Explorer, and surf the web.