​HeartSmart CT Scan. Every year, millions of Americans suffer a sudden heart attack, and nearly one-third of them die. HeartSmart CT Scan is a simple, 15-minute, non-invasive scan that can detect coronary artery disease in its early stages. No injections, special preparations, or pain are involved in this test
A heart CT scan is a common test for those experiencing heart problems, since it allows your doctor to explore the structure of the heart and the adjacent blood vessels, without making any incisions. The dye is then viewed under a special camera in a hospital or testing facility. A heart CT scan may also be called a coronary CT angiogram, if it is meant to view the arteries that bring blood to your heart. It may be called a coronary calcium scan if it meant to determine whether there is a build-up of calcium in your heart
Calcium score. Measures the amount of calcium in the coronary artery walls and provides a numeric score that evaluates the risk of heart disease relative to your age and gender. A CT coronary angiogram. This non-invasive CT coronary angiogram visualizes the arterial channel or lumen. 
A MUGA scan (Multi Gated Acquisition Scan) is a time-proven nuclear medicine test designed to evaluate the function of the right and left ventricles of the heart, thus allowing informed diagnostic intervention in heart failure. 
During the CT scan of your heart: 1  You will change into a hospital gown. 2  The nurse will record your height, weight, and blood pressure. During the CT scan of your heart: 1  You will change into a hospital gown. 2  You will lie on a special scanning table. 3  The technologist will clean three small areas of your chest and place small, sticky electrode patches on these areas.
Because there are certain forms of coronary disease, such as soft plaque atherosclerosis, that escape detection during this CT scan, it is important to remember that this test is not absolute in predicting your risk for a life-threatening event, such as a heart attack. In this article. A heart computerized tomography (CT) scan, also called calcium-score screening heart scan, is a test used to detect calcium deposits found in atherosclerotic plaque in the coronary arteries of heart disease patients.
Cardiac computed tomography (to-MOG-rah-fee), or cardiac CT, is a painless test that uses an x-ray machine to take clear, detailed pictures of the heart. Doctors use this test to look for heart problems. During a cardiac CT scan, an x-ray machine will move around your body in a circle. The machine will take a picture of each part of your heart. A computer will put the pictures together to make a three-dimensional (3D) picture of the whole heart. 1 This type of CT scan is called a coronary calcium scan. 2  Calcium in the coronary arteries may be an early sign of CHD. 3  Problems with the aorta. 4  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body. 5  Cardiac CT can detect two serious problems in the aorta: 6  Aneurysm (AN-u-rism).
A computed tomography scan—commonly called a CT scan—is a test that uses X-rays to view your heart and blood vessels. These scans use safe amounts of radiation to create detailed images of the body, which can help your doctor to detect any problems. The dye is then viewed under a special camera in a hospital or testing facility. A heart CT scan may also be called a coronary CT angiogram, if it is meant to view the arteries that bring blood to your heart. It may be called a coronary calcium scan if it meant to determine whether there is a build-up of calcium in your heart