Refunds for all types of financial aid will begin 30 days after the start of the semester. 1  You will receive loan funds in two disbursements each semester. 2  First disbursement will occur approximately 30 days after the beginning of the semester. 1 Second disbursement of loans will be made after the mid-point of the semester. 2  Because all financial aid funds will not be released until several weeks into the semester, you will need to plan ahead for non-educational expenses such as rent, transportation and child care.
Step 5: Financial aid refunds. Financial Aid in excess of your bill will be refunded to you by direct deposit the first week of classes. * For the summer term, there are several start dates. Click here for more information on setting up your Direct Deposit account or contact the MT One Stop at 615-898-2111. Follow the instructions in the Financial Aid Eligibility section of your RaiderNet account to complete any outstanding loan requirements. You must apply for your loans and complete requirements by July 1 (November 1 for Spring term) for the funds to be available when your tuition is due.
PLEASE NOTE: Before entering your direct deposit information, be sure to verify with your bank or credit union the routing number and account number you should enter for ACH transactions. Be aware that not all accounts allow ACH transactions. DO NOT enter the account number from your debit/bank card. The number printed on your card is not a valid bank account number. To create your direct deposit account, you must do the following: 1  Access your RaiderNet account. 2  Select the Student tab. 3  Select Student Account.
1 First disbursement will occur approximately 30 days after the beginning of the semester. 2  If tutition, fees and bookstore charges are greater than the first disbursement, the student will not receive a refund until the second disbursement of financial aid is received. 1 Second disbursement of loans will be made after the mid-point of the semester. 2  Because all financial aid funds will not be released until several weeks into the semester, you will need to plan ahead for non-educational expenses such as rent, transportation and child care.
Requirements for Receiving Your Aid. Financial aid is disbursed to students no earlier than 10 days prior to the first day of instruction. Before your aid can be disbursed to you, you must complete the requirements below. Having your financial aid refund deposited directly to your account is the best way to ensure you receive your funds in a timely manner. If you do not have direct deposit, you will be issued a refund check that will need to be picked up at the Cashier's Office.
General Financial Aid Disbursement Information. If a student receives financial aid in excess of their tuition and fees for a given term, a disbursement (sometimes referred to as a refund) will be issued from Santa Fe Community College. Each semester, disbursements will be issued approximately four weeks after the start of classes. Eligible refunds for amounts paid by the third party will be refunded to that party. If a student owes any accounts receivable to the College and is eligible to receive a refund, the refund will first be applied to the receivable. Any uncommitted balance will then be refunded.
1 If tutition, fees and bookstore charges are greater than the first disbursement, the student will not receive a refund until the second disbursement of financial aid is received. 2  Second disbursement of loans will be made after the mid-point of the semester. 1 Second disbursement of loans will be made after the mid-point of the semester. 2  Because all financial aid funds will not be released until several weeks into the semester, you will need to plan ahead for non-educational expenses such as rent, transportation and child care.
All students receiving a financial aid refund need to sign up for direct deposit via RaiderNet using your personal checking or savings account. DO NOT enter the account number from your debit/bank card. The number printed on your card is not a valid bank account number. To create your direct deposit account, you must do the following: 1  Access your RaiderNet account. 2  Select the Student tab. 3  Select Student Account.
You are here. Financial aid is paid (disbursed) to students no sooner than 10 days prior to the beginning of the first day of instruction each term. Read the information on this page carefully to find out how and when different types of financial aid are disbursed and what you must do to receive your funds. Having your financial aid refund deposited directly to your account is the best way to ensure you receive your funds in a timely manner. If you do not have direct deposit, you will be issued a refund check that will need to be picked up at the Cashier's Office.