Please try again later. 32 years experience... This is a video on how to change a flapper in a toilet and the different types that are made.If water is going into your toilet bowl when you have not flushed it there are only 2 ways for it to get there and the flapper is a simple item to replace. Getting the correct one is important.Please subscribe...Thanks. 
The most likely problem is that water is leaking around the flapper in the bottom of the toilet tank. When the water in the tank drops to a certain level, the intake valve thinks Duh... somebody musta flushed, so I better turn on and fill da tank!. Put the replacement back in the same place. The chain of the new flapper should connect in the same place as the old one. Of course, life isn't always that simple. There are a few types of flappers, and each one requires a slightly different installation procedure.
Rubber. Rubber flappers are the most common type of toilet flapper in recently made toilets. Rubber flappers are a simple cap that is attached directly to the overflow pipe. When toilets with this kind of flapper are flushed, the mechanism pulls a chain attached to the flapper, which lifts it. Seat disk toilet flappers can either be snap-on or threaded. This particular type of toilet flapper has a few down sides. It is relatively large, taking up a disproportionate amount of space in your toilet tank. This can make it difficult to repair, and give you fewer options when modifying your toilet.
There are many reasons to want to know about the different types of toilet flappers. Whether you are installing a new toilet, or making changes to an existing one to make it more efficient or powerful, understanding the mechanisms and how they work will help you evaluate your options. Seat disk toilet flappers can either be snap-on or threaded. This particular type of toilet flapper has a few down sides. It is relatively large, taking up a disproportionate amount of space in your toilet tank. This can make it difficult to repair, and give you fewer options when modifying your toilet.
Seat Disk. Seat disk toilet flappers are the oldest variety of toilet flappers. This particular variety of toilet flapper has a small circular disk that covers the overflow pipe, preventing water from traveling through it. Below this is a plastic tube, which is attached to the overflow tube by a hinge. Seat disk toilet flappers can either be snap-on or threaded. This particular type of toilet flapper has a few down sides. It is relatively large, taking up a disproportionate amount of space in your toilet tank. This can make it difficult to repair, and give you fewer options when modifying your toilet.
Brand Differences. Different brand flappers use different ways of attaching to the fill valve in the toilet. Some brands use a rubber ring on the end of the flapper, which fits around the fill valve's tube. Other brands use a tab that inserts into the fill valve, while others have ears that fit over a hinge piece on the fill valve. Traditional. Many toilets that have a flapper valve have a traditional type. The flapper itself may be made of plastic with a rubber seal on the bottom, or it may be made entirely of rubber. The flapper sits over the drain opening in the bottom of the tank, and the back side of the flapper attaches to the fill valve tub
A flapper is a rubber mechanism in your toilet tank that is the moving part of the flush valve, sealing water into the tank and allowing water to exit the tank when you flush. Flappers deteriorate over time as a result of in-tank cleaning products and chemicals used by utilities. 
Toilet Flappers. Fluidmaster is the #1 selling brand of toilet repair products in the world.... The toilet flapper is a rubber mechanism in your toilet that opens to let water out of the toilet tank when you flush and closes to allow it to refill.