Man's best friend gets wheat allergies too. Dogs react to food allergies by generally suffering with skin and coat problems. Itchy, red, flaky skin, and a dull coat are common symptoms of food allergies in dogs, and it's not like your dog can point out that a particular food is causing the problem.
Canine wheat allergy is one cause of food allergies in dogs. Food allergies account for about 10 percent of all canine allergy problems, and wheat is frequently targeted as a cause of the allergic reaction.
Wheat Allergies and Dogs. Wheat is often seen as a food allergen in canines, according to the ASPCA. If a dog is allergic to wheat, it's important for his owner to ensure that he never consumes the grain in any capacity, whether in his wet food, dry food or treats.
Just like humans, canine companions can develop allergies to different food products. Although food allergies only account for a small percentage of allergy problems in dogs, the symptoms of food allergy -- specifically wheat allergy or wheat intolerance -- can be quite severe and should be addressed immediately.
Common Wheat Allergy Symptoms. Some symptoms associated with wheat intolerance and wheat allergy in dogs are quite pronounced, while others can be subtle. If you witness your puppy shaking his head, licking his front paws, rubbing his face on the carpet or sneezing excessively, he may be allergic to wheat.
Many dog owners never suspect that a wheat allergy could be the cause of their dog's health problems, usually because the dog has been fed the same food all its life and the symptoms have only recently appeared. But dogs are no different from humans in the respect that food allergies can develop over a period of time.
Several studies have shown that some ingredients are more likely to cause food allergies than others. In order of the most common offenders in dogs are beef, dairy products, chicken, lamb, fish, chicken eggs, corn, wheat, and soy.
1 Ask your doctor about other grains. 2  When you have a wheat allergy, you may or may not be allergic to some other grains, too. 3  Gluten, one of the wheat proteins that can cause a reaction, is also in barley, rye, and oats.