The above statements are two examples of what a panic attack might feel like. Panic attacks may be symptoms of an anxiety disorder. These attacks are a serious health problem in the U.S. At least 20% of adult Americans, or about 60 million people, will suffer from panic attacks at some point in their lives. The peak age at which people have their first panic attack (onset) is 15-19 years of age. Panic attacks are strikingly different from other types of anxiety; panic attacks are so very sudden and often unexpected, appear to be unprovoked, and are often disabling.
Many of those with panic disorder also develop agoraphobia. Agoraphobia presents itself in roughly 25% of those with panic disorder, or about 0.8% of the population overall. Only half of those with agoraphobia seek treatment, and very few seek any effective treatment (less than 21%). 44% of those cases are considered severe. Anywhere from 6% to 9% of the population will experience panic disorder at some point in their life, and far more will have panic attacks but not qualify for the disorder. 65% of those with panic disorder are currently in treatment, and only about half of those people are receiving minimally adequate treatment
A. Panic disorder is different from the normal fear and anxiety reactions to stressful events. Panic disorder is a serious condition that strikes without reason or warning. Symptoms of panic disorder include sudden attacks of fear and nervousness, as well as physical symptoms such as sweating and a racing heart. 
About 30% of people with panic disorder use alcohol and 17% use other psychoactive drugs. This is in comparison with 61% (alcohol) and 7.9% (other psychoactive drugs) of the general population who use alcohol and psychoactive drugs, respectively. Panic disorder is an anxiety disorder characterized by recurring panic attacks, causing a series of intense episodes of extreme anxiety during panic attacks. It may also include significant behavioral changes lasting at least a month and of ongoing worry about the implications or concern about having other attacks.
Social Anxiety Disorder. 15 million, 6.8%. Equally common among men and women, typically beginning around age 13. According to a 2007 ADAA survey, 36% of people with social anxiety disorder report experiencing symptoms for 10 or more years before seeking help. 1 Anxiety disorders are the most common mental illness in the U.S. , affecting 40 million adults in the United States age 18 and older, or 18% of the population. ( 2 Source: National Institute of Mental Health).
This disorder may be a precursor for adult anxiety disorders. Anxiety. Age of onset for anxiety disorders based on specific anxiety disorder type. Panic disorder demonstrates a bimodal age of onset in the NCS study in the age groups of 15-24 years and 45-54 years. The age of onset for OCD appears to be in the mid 20s to early 30s. Most social phobias begin before age 20 years (median age at illness onset, 16 years
United States statistics. Social phobia is the most common anxiety disorder; it has an early age of onset—by age 11 years in about 50% and by age 20 years in about 80% of individuals that have the diagnosis—and it is a risk factor for subsequent depressive illness and substance abuse. Panic disorder demonstrates a bimodal age of onset in the NCS study in the age groups of 15-24 years and 45-54 years. The age of onset for OCD appears to be in the mid 20s to early 30s.