Endometrial hyperplasia is a thickening of the lining of the womb, caused by overgrowth of the cells that line the womb. It is not cancer. But in some women it can develop into womb cancer. The following information gives an outline of the causes, risks and treatment of endometrial hyperplasia. 
Endometrial Cancer Overview. The endometrium is the tissue lining the inner cavity of the uterus (or womb). The uterus, a hollow organ about the size and shape of a pear, is found in a woman's pelvic region and is the organ where the fetus grows until birth.
Endometrial hyperplasia is an abnormal thickening or growth of the lining of the uterus. There are several varieties: Simple hyperplasia. Complex hyperplasia without atypia-this type is a little thicker than simple hyperplasia, and has more crowding and abnormal architecture to the glands. The uterus has three layers: the endometrium (or inner lining), the myometrium (muscle), and the serosa (outer surface lining, the same as the lining of the abdominal cavity).
The endometrium is the innermost glandular layer and functions as a lining for the uterus, preventing adhesions between the opposed walls of the myometrium, thereby maintaining the patency of the uterine cavity. These two layers occur only in endometrium lining the cavity of the uterus, not in the lining of the uterine (Fallopian) tubes: 1  The functional layer is adjacent to the uterine cavity. 2  This layer is built up after the end of menstruation during the first part of the previous menstrual cycle.
Endometrial hyperplasia occurs when the endometrium, the lining of the uterus, becomes too thick. It is not cancer, but in some cases, it can lead to cancer of the uterus. Transvaginal ultrasound may be done to measure the thickness of the endometrium. For this test, a small device is placed in your vagina. Sound waves from the device are converted into images of the pelvic organs. If the endometrium is thick, it may mean that endometrial hyperplasia is present. The only way to tell for certain that cancer is present is to take a small sample of tissue from the endometrium and study it under a microscope
Endometrial hyperplasia is an excessive or abnormal thickening of the lining of the uterus. This lining, called the endometrium, thickens every month in preparation for pregnancy. If pregnancy does not occur, the lining is shed. 
If the endometrium is thick, it may mean that endometrial hyperplasia is present. The only way to tell for certain that cancer is present is to take a small sample of tissue from the endometrium and study it under a microscope. This can be done with an endometrial biopsy, dilation and curettage, or hysteroscopy. 
Print. Print. Endometrial hyperplasia is the abnormal thickening of the lining of the uterus due to an increase in the number of endometrial glands. This disorder most often affects young women who are just beginning to menstruate and older women approaching menopause. 1 An ultrasound assessment of the thickness of the lining of the uterus may be used as a screening tool. 2  Hysteroscopy may be performed to detect abnormal areas in the endometrial lining and remove cells for examination in a laboratory.
The endometrium consists of a single layer of columnar epithelium plus the stroma on which it rests. The stroma is a layer of connective tissue that varies in thickness according to hormonal influences. These two layers occur only in endometrium lining the cavity of the uterus, not in the lining of the uterine (Fallopian) tubes: 1  The functional layer is adjacent to the uterine cavity. 2  This layer is built up after the end of menstruation during the first part of the previous menstrual cycle.