IDVault.exe is known as Constant Guard Protection Suite, it also has the following name ID Vault or Constant Guard Protection Suite or AOL OnePoint or COX Secure Browsing or and it is developed by White Sky, Inc. , it is also developed by. We have seen about 100 different instances of IDVault.exe in different location. 
file is a software component of ID Vault by White Sky. IDVaultSvc.exe is a part of the ID Vault program, an application designed to safeguard user account passwords for everything from Facebook to online banking. Users can login to any account with a single click.
Recommended: Identify IDVault.exe related errors. Important: Some malware camouflages itself as IDVault.exe, particularly when located in the C:\Windows or C:\Windows\System32 folder. Therefore, you should check the IDVault.exe process on your PC to see if it is a threat. We recommend Security Task Manager for verifying your computer's security. IDVault.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Program Files. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 2,276,656 bytes (15% of all occurrences), 6,038,128 bytes and 12 more variants. The file is certified by a trustworthy company. IDVault.exe is not a Windows core file.
The process known as Constant Guard Protection Suite or Fast Connect or Protection Suite or ID Vault belongs to software Constant Guard Protection Suite or Fast Connect or ID Vault by White Sky. Description: IDVault.exe is not essential for the Windows OS and causes relatively few problems. IDVault.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Program Files. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 2,276,656 bytes (15% of all occurrences), 6,038,128 bytes and 12 more variants. The file is certified by a trustworthy company. IDVault.exe is not a Windows core file.
idvault.exe is a dangerous exe file. idvault.exe is a IDVault.exe part of ID Vault from GuardID Systems, Inc. You can usually find the dangerous exe file idvault.exe in the Program Filesguardid systemsid vault folder.We suggest you to delete the file. Check your PC with an advanced antivirus program to ensure it is deleted completely. The advanced antivirus program has spyware, adware, trojans and worms removal engines
idvault.exe is a IDVault.exe belonging to ID Vault from GuardID Systems, Inc. Non-system processes like idvault.exe originate from software you installed on your system. Process related issues are usually related to problems encountered by the application that runs it. A safe way to stop these errors is to uninstall the application and run a system scan to automatically identify any PC issues.
Most non-system processes that are running can be stopped because they are not involved in running your operating system. Scan your system now to identify unused processes that are using up valuable resources. idvault.exe is used by 'ID Vault'.This is an application created by 'GuardID Systems, Inc.'. Process related issues are usually related to problems encountered by the application that runs it. A safe way to stop these errors is to uninstall the application and run a system scan to automatically identify any PC issues.
Process-idvault.exe is an instance of a running program. This 64-bit program executes with the privileges as the currently logged in user account. idvault.exe is executed by the process idvaultsvc.exe (Constant Guard Protection Suite by Comcast). 
Overview. ID Vault is a program developed by White Sky. The most used version is 5.9.721.1, with over 98% of all installations currently using this version. It adds a background controller service that is set to automatically run. Delaying the start of this service is possible through the service manager. ID Vault ensures that users log in to legitimate web site, establish an SSL connection with the Web site and are protected from browser-based threats by ID Vault SecureView, a hardened browser. ID Vault checks each time users submit stored credentials to a Web site