Typically, Koi should be in ponds that are at least 1,000 gallons. Avoid Overstocking the Pond To maintain healthy fish and clear water, do not overload the ecosystem with too many fish. For a new pond, a good rule of thumb is one inch of fish per square foot of surface area. Because Koi grow larger, place one Koi for every 10 square feet of surface area. Typically, Koi should be in ponds that are at least 1,000 gallons. Avoid Overstocking the Pond.
Return to “20 Questions” page. A serious koi pond should be at least 3 feet deep and no areas should be shallower than 2 feet. Any areas shallower than 2 feet is an open invitation to dinner for both blue herons and raccoons. If you don’t think you have predators in your neighborhood just build a shallow pond and watch what happens! Even a single safety step to help you get out of the pond, that is less than 2 feet deep, can cost you most of your fish. Also, all sides should go almost straight down, not tapered. Aquascape type ponds where the sides of the pond gently taper in toward the bottom will not work for koi.
Report Abuse. Goldfish and carp are pretty hardy in the winter if the pond is deep enough so it does freeze solid. For koi the pond will have to be be both large and deep. Koi have to have a pond over 3 feet deep and have 1000 gallons each. You could get goldfish and place them in the pond during the spring and summer and then take them out during the fall but you would need another large tank inside.
Ice by itself is not dangerous to koi, as long as your pond is deep enough not to freeze completely (3-5 feet or more). The danger to fish comes with the reduced oxygen and increased toxic gases caused by the sealed over water surface. 
A small garden pond with a waterfall should be deep enough that the bog and aquatic plants' soil are under 3 to 6 inches of water. Generally, garden ponds are 18 to 24 inches deep. With the addition of a filter, the waterfall will clean and aerate the pond water, allowing small aquatic creatures, such as turtles, frogs and fish, to thrive amid your water garden plants.
The ideal set-up for koi is a pond of at least 1,000 gallons with a smooth gravel substrate, rocks, and hearty plants. In addition to adequate surface size, a good pond for koi will be at least three to four feet deep. Here koi will find the cooler water they need during the warm summer months. Koi can remain outdoors so long as the pond does not freeze too deep. A 6-8 inch thick ice cover over a 3-4 foot deep pond is acceptable so long as a substantial area of surface water is open at all times to allow for gas exchange.
1 A pond for goldfish or water lilies need be only about 2 feet deep for zones 5 or greater. 2  Ponds built in colder areas may need more depth to keep the pond from freezing solid. 3  Ponds built for koi should be close to three feet or deeper to allow these larger fish enough space. 1 It also needs to have an area of the pond at least 3 feet deep, 4 - 5 may be better. 2  WATER GARDEN. 3  A water garden typically contains both goldfish and a variety of aquatic plants. 4  Water gardens in moderate climates usually need for an area of the pond to be at least 2 feet deep.
Koi Pond. While humans enjoy their ponds for swimming, large fish like koi prefer a pond at least 4 feet deep under the waterfall, with shallower shelves for bog and aquatic plants. A deeper pond allows the koi to hide from predators, like cats, raccoons, egrets and cranes. Generally, garden ponds are 18 to 24 inches deep. With the addition of a filter, the waterfall will clean and aerate the pond water, allowing small aquatic creatures, such as turtles, frogs and fish, to thrive amid your water garden plants.
1 A koi pond should also be larger because koi get quite large despite the size of the pond, it is recommended that a koi pond be no less than 1000 gallons in volume, the bigger the better. 2  It also needs to have an area of the pond at least 3 feet deep, 4 - 5 may be better. 1 It also needs to have an area of the pond at least 3 feet deep, 4 - 5 may be better. 2  WATER GARDEN. 3  A water garden typically contains both goldfish and a variety of aquatic plants. 4  Water gardens in moderate climates usually need for an area of the pond to be at least 2 feet deep.