Best Answer: as temperature increases, the speed of the substrate and the enzyme increase. This increases the enzyme activity-its simply more probable that that the enzyme and the substrate will meet and bond. 
Temperature and enzymes. As the temperature increases, so does the rate of reaction. But very high temperatures denature denature: disable by changing the normal qualities or nature of something enzymes. The graph shows the typical change in an enzyme's activity with increasing temperature.
Temperature in the range of 40–50°C did not affect enzyme activity. T. polysporum was found as the most promising strain to produce chitosanase with maximal enzyme activity of about 1.4 IU/gds, followed by T. viride (~1.2 IU/gds) and T. harzianum (1.06 IU/gds). 
Effect of temperature on enzyme activity. The temperture of a system is to some extent a measure of the kinetic energy of the molecules in the system. Thus the lower the kinetic energy, the lower the temperature of the system and, likewise, the higher the kinetic energy, the greater the temperature of the system. As the temperature of a system is increased it is possible that more molecules per unit time will reach the activation energy. Thus the rate of the reaction may increase. 2) The number of collisions per unit time will increase.
The enzyme activity gradually increases with temperature up to around 37ºC, or body temperature. Then, as the temperature continues to rise, the rate of reaction falls rapidly as heat energy denatures the enzyme. Graph of enzyme activity against temperature. As the temperature increases, so does the rate of reaction. But very high temperatures denature denature: disable by changing the normal qualities or nature of something enzymes. The graph shows the typical change in an enzyme's activity with increasing
Increasing temperature increases the rate of enzyme activity up to a point when it become too hot, when the enzyme is denatured and so activity stops. Increasing temperature increases the rate because the substrate has more kinetic energy, so is more likely to collide with the enzyme for the reaction to take place. Too much heat causes the bonds which hold the enzyme in its very specific shape to break, meaning it can no longer function (is denatured).
Best Answer: An increase in temperature results in more kinetic energy of the enzyme and the substrate. More kinetic energy results in more collisions between the enzyme and the substrate. In turn, the number of successful collisions increases and more enzyme-substrate complexes form. Therefore an increase in temperature increases the rate at which enzyme substrate complexes form. However, all enzymes have an optimum temperature at which it will work best and favour the activity. Eg. pepsin, an enzyme which works in the stomach has an optimum temperature of between 30-40oC, which is around the human body temperature.
Temperature Effects. Like most chemical reactions, the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction increases as the temperature is raised. A ten degree Centigrade rise in temperature will increase the activity of most enzymes by 50 to 100%. Variations in reaction temperature as small as 1 or 2 degrees may introduce changes of 10 to 20% in the results. In the case of enzymatic reactions, this is complicated by the fact that many enzymes are adversely affected by high temperatures. As shown in Figure 13, the reaction rate increases with temperature to a maximum level, then abruptly declines with further increase of temperature
As the enzyme concentration increases the rate of enzyme activity increases up to a level where it becomes constant. This is because the more the enzymes are available, the m … ore substrates are broken in less time. Increasing temperature increases the rate because the substrate has more kinetic energy, so is more likely to collide with the enzyme for the reaction to take place. Too much heat causes the bonds which hold the enzyme in its very specific shape to break, meaning it can no longer function (is denatured).
As the enzyme concentration increases the rate of enzyme activity increases up to a level where it becomes constant. This is because the more the enzymes are available, the … more substrates are broken in less time. Increasing temperature increases the rate because the substrate has more kinetic energy, so is more likely to collide with the enzyme for the reaction to take place. Too much heat causes the bonds which hold the enzyme in its very specific shape to break, meaning it can no longer function (is denatured).