Raccoon. Raccoons are adaptable, nocturnal animals that often live in urban environments in their native North America. They are great climbers and have slim, dexterous forepaws that aid agility. They also don’t mind a spot of swimming, but since their fur is not waterproof, it's by no means their preferred travelling mode
While it is true that a rabid raccoon will exhibit a variety of unusual behaviors, activity during daytime is most definitely not a guaranteed indicator of rabies. You see, although raccoons are primarily nocturnal, they do often get some stuff done during the day. It is not at all unusual for a raccoon to be active in the middle of the day. They can't just sleep from dawn to dusk without doing anything. They may go off in search of food or drink. There are many reasons why this nocturnal animal might be out and about. If you live in an urban setting, or if the year has been bad for food, raccoons will change their habits to fit when food is most available. If you always put your garbage out at 1:00 in the afternoon, the raccoons in the area will learn that.
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years. The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40% invertebrates, 33% plant foods, and 27% vertebrates. 
1. Are strictly nocturnal so a raccoon out in the daytime is rabid. 1. No, while they are usually more active at night, many will venture out during the day ~ particularly females foraging for food who may have a litter of babies back in the den. Top 10 Raccoon Myths. MYTHS: Raccoons... FACTS: 1. Are strictly nocturnal so a raccoon out in the daytime is rabid 1. No, while they are usually more active at night, many will venture out during the day ~ particularly females foraging for food who may have a litter of babies back in the den. But respect the fact that they're a wild animal and could be rabid
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Raccoons are nocturnal because some of there prey are also. In the night they also have less predators and can find food easier in the night without lights and people seeing them. They have extreme night vision. 
Raccoon Behavior. Activity: Nocturnal in nature, raccoons are mostly active at nighttime. They are most active in spring, summer and fall, and will sleep in their dens for most of the winter. Reproduction: Reproduction begins in late winter. Females, or sows, usually give birth to 1-6 baby kits in April or May
Raccoons are nocturnal because some of there prey are also.  In the night they also have less predators and can find food easier in the night without lights and people seeing … them. They have extreme night vision. 8 people found this useful. Yes, raccoons are nocturnal. They sleep or remain in their home area during the day and come out at night in search for food. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
Answer by scresci (23). Raccoons are strictly nocturnal or night time animals. Occasionally you will see them out and about during the day but this is or could be for terriortial purposes. They only come out at night to search for food (they are known to be very sneaky animals). 
Never try to feed it or approach it. Seeing a raccoon out in the day isn’t an immediate cause for alarm. There are many reasons why this nocturnal animal might be out and about. If you live in an urban setting, or if the year has been bad for food, raccoons will change their habits to fit when food is most available. If you always put your garbage out at 1:00 in the afternoon, the raccoons in the area will learn that.