1 Buckley TR, Bradler S 2010. 2  Tepakiphasma ngatikuri, a new genus and species of stick insect (Phasmatodea) from the Far North of New Zealand. 3  New Zealand entomologist 33: 118-126. 4  http://www.ento.org.nz/nzentomologist/new_issues/NZEnto33_1_2010/Volume_33_118-126.pdf. The New Zealand stick insect fauna contains 21 valid species in eight genera, but much taxonomic work remains to be done. Recent fieldwork and data analyses have revealed the presence of undescribed species, particularly in the South Island. Furthermore, several described species are of dubious validity.
Of the 6000 species of stick insect in the world, hundreds of different species are being kept in captivity in zoos and as pets. Every species is different in its colors, body structure, behavior, natural habitat and preferred temperature and humidity. On the previous pages, General introduction, Care, Breeding and FAQ you could read all about the general care and quirks of stick insects.
Every stick insect species is given a number by the Phasmid Study Group. This is because the Latin species names of stick insects are prone to changes because of new phylogenic insights in the genus of the stick insects. This means it can be very confusing to work with species that keep changing names. The PSG numbers never change even though the Latin names of the species change
Species. Of the 6000 species of stick insect in the world, hundreds of different species are being kept in captivity in zoos and as pets. Every species is different in its colors, body structure, behavior, natural habitat and preferred temperature and humidity. On the previous pages, General introduction, Care, Breeding and FAQ you could read all about the general care and quirks of stick insects.
Each phylum is subdivided in classes, for example the class Hexapoda (= insects). Classes are subdivided into orders, for example the order Coleoptera (= beetles). Orders are divided into families, families into genera (singular: genus), and genera are divided into species (See Table 1). Within the class Hexapoda there are over 750,000 different species of insects. The scientific name of a species is always a double name (the genus name, and a specific name). 
The Phasmatodea (sometimes called Phasmida or Phasmatoptera) are an order of insects, whose members are variously known as stick insects (in Europe and Australasia), stick-bugs or walking sticks (in the United States and Canada), phasmids, ghost insects and leaf insects (generally the family Phylliidae). The best known of the stick insects is the Indian or laboratory stick insect (Carausius morosus). This insect grows to roughly 10 cm (4 in) and reproduces parthenogenically, and although males have been recorded, they are rare.
The following pages each will introduce you to specific species of stick insects, and will tell you about their looks (with many pictures), their behavior and their specific needs. The following species are described on this website: These pictures will give you a face behind the name: Every species is different in its colors, body structure, behavior, natural habitat and preferred temperature and humidity. On the previous pages, General introduction, Care, Breeding and FAQ you could read all about the general care and quirks of stick insects.
The most common stick insect in Florida is Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stoll), the so-called twostriped walkingstick. Other names applied to it and to stick insects in general include devil's riding horse, prairie alligator, stick bug, witch's horse, devil's darning needle, scorpion, and musk mare (Caudell 1903). 
1 Tepakiphasma ngatikuri, a new genus and species of stick insect (Phasmatodea) from the Far North of New Zealand. 2  New Zealand entomologist 33: 118-126. 3  http://www.ento.org.nz/nzentomologist/new_issues/NZEnto33_1_2010/Volume_33_118-126.pdf. The New Zealand stick insect fauna contains 21 valid species in eight genera, but much taxonomic work remains to be done. Recent fieldwork and data analyses have revealed the presence of undescribed species, particularly in the South Island. Furthermore, several described species are of dubious validity.
An alternative is to divide the Phasmatodea into three suborders Agathemerodea (1 genus and 8 species), Timematodea (1 genus and 21 species) and Verophasmatodea for the remaining taxa. Over 3,000 species have been described, with many more yet to be described both in museum collections and in the wild. The best known of the stick insects is the Indian or laboratory stick insect (Carausius morosus). This insect grows to roughly 10 cm (4 in) and reproduces parthenogenically, and although males have been recorded, they are rare.