The small intestine is the main area of the GI tract for absorption. The small intestine has three separate sections, the duodenum, jejunum and ileum. The majority of nutrient absorption occurs in the duodenum and jejunum. The duodenum absorbs carbohydrates, proteins, and minerals including calcium, magnesium, iron, chloride, sodium and zinc.
Once these materials have been broken down, nutrient absorption can occur. As food is processed along the digestive tract, most of the nutrients are absorbed through the walls of the small intestines. The nutrients are carried into the bloodstream where they can travel to all parts of the body. 
When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood. 95% of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine. Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon (large intestine) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion.
Absorption occurs in the digestive system when the nutrients move from the gastrointestinal tract to the blood or lymph. Defecation is the process of expelling what the body couldn't use. vitamin c). Once the chyme leaves the small intestine, most of the nutrients have been absorbed and only waste products and water remain; this is called liquid stool.   The small intestine is where the majority of food digestion occurs.
Small intestine. The stomach is basically a holding area that feeds food gradually into the small intestine, where most of the digestive process and almost all of the absorption occur. The large intestine hold primarily waste, though some water absorption occurs there. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Most of the digestion and all of the absorption(Except water) takes part in the Small Intestine... Water is absorbed in the Large intestine... Other places of digestion include, the mouth(Carbohydrates, by Amylase enzymes) and stomach(Proteins by Pepsin enzymes). Hope this helps :) !
Digestion occurs in the stomach and the absorption of the nutrients occurs in your small intestine. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. vitamin c). Once the chyme leaves the small intestine, most of the nutrients have been absorbed and only waste products and water remain; this is called liquid stool.   The small intestine is where the majority of food digestion occurs.
Digestion is the breakdown of food into smaller particles or individual nutrients. It is accomplished through six basic processes, with the help of several body fluids—particularly digestive juices that are made up of compounds such as saliva, mucus, enzymes, hydrochloric acid, bicarbonate, and bile. Most of the end-products of digestion, along with vitamins, minerals, and water, are absorbed in the small intestinal lumen by four mechanisms for absorption: (1) active transport, (2) passive diffusion, (3) endocytosis, and (4) facilitative diffusion. Active transport requires energy.
The small intestine is where most digestion takes place. A pyloric sphincter controls the rate of flow of chyme from the stomach into the small intestine. Most digestion occurs in the upper portion of the small intestine, called the duodenum. Below the duodenum is the jejunum, and then there is the last segment, called the ileum. About 5 percent of undigested food products are broken down in the ileum. Most of the end-products of digestion, along with vitamins, minerals, and water, are absorbed in the small intestinal lumen by four mechanisms for absorption: (1) active transport, (2) passive diffusion, (3) endocytosis, and (4) facilitative diffusion. Active transport requires energy.
Most food absorption takes place in the small intestine. Of the  three sections of the small intestine, the duodenum and jejunum  absorb the most nutrients. Some nutrients a … re absorbed in the  stomach, but nutrients are absorbed mainly in the small intestine,  where the small, soluble molecules are diffused or actively  transported from the ileum/duodenum, into the capillaries on the  other side of the intestine. + 10 others found this useful. Milagros Maldonado.