If you’re able to open Excel 2007 files within the Excel application then save the file in XLSX file format and check if that resolves the issue. If the issue occurs with all the Excel files even with Excel 2013 files then repair Office 2013 installation and verify the status. When I try to open any spreadsheet that I created with Excel 2007 on a Windows 7 machine with the new Excel 2013 I immediately get an error message saying Excel has stopped working and Windows will close the program and notify if a solution is found.
To find out which version of Excel you are using, on the Excel menu, click About Excel. If you work with both Office 2004 for Mac and Office for Mac 2011 for Mac, you can download a converter for Office 2004 so that you can open, edit, and save files that were created in the Office for Mac 2011 file format. If you work with any version of Word 2000 through Word 2003 for Windows and Word for Mac 2011, you can download the Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint File Formats from the Microsoft Download Center area on the Microsoft Web site (http://www.microsoft.com/download).
In Excel 2010, you can use other formats such as PDF and XPS.Read an article or try Office 365! You can save a Microsoft Office Excel 2007 file in another file format by clicking the Microsoft Office Button, and then clicking Save As. Excel 4.0 Workbook. .xlw. An Excel 4.0 file format that saves only worksheets, chart sheets, and macro sheets. You can open a workbook in this file format in Office Excel 2007, but you cannot save an Excel file to this file format.
Tips. To find out which version of Word you are using, on the Word menu, click About Word. If you work with both Office 2004 for Mac and Office for Mac 2011 for Mac, you can download a converter for Office 2004 so that you can open, edit, and save files that were created in the Office for Mac 2011 file format. If you work with any version of Word 2000 through Word 2003 for Windows and Word for Mac 2011, you can download the Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint File Formats from the Microsoft Download Center area on the Microsoft Web site (http://www.microsoft.com/download).
If you'd like to determine the date and time that the file was saved on your computer, you can use the routines listed below. The result is the same date and time that is displayed in the General tab of the Properties dialog box. You'll need to copy all of the code below to a module. If you're in Excel, you can determine the creation date of the active workbook by selecting. roperties from the. ile menu. The file creation date appears twice in the Properties dialog box: on the General tab, and on the Statistics tab.
Category: VBA Functions | [Item URL]. You probably know that you find out when a file was created by right-clicking the file name in the Windows Explorer, clicking Properties on the context menu. If you're in Excel, you can determine the creation date of the active workbook by selecting. roperties from the. ile menu. The file creation date appears twice in the Properties dialog box: on the General tab, and on the Statistics tab.
You can open a file that was created in another file format (in an earlier version of Microsoft Office Excel or in another program) by clicking the Microsoft Office Button, and then clicking Open. You will be prompted to save it to an Office Excel 2007 format, unless you open a workbook that is shared. Excel 4.0 Workbook. .xlw. An Excel 4.0 file format that saves only worksheets, chart sheets, and macro sheets. You can open a workbook in this file format in Office Excel 2007, but you cannot save an Excel file to this file format.
How to Create a Computer File. This will teach you to create any kind of file. We can't guarantee, though, that your programs will open it properly (for example, this file wouldn't be a Word document or an Excel spreadsheet). 
Instructions. Click on the Windows “Start” button then on “Computer” to open Windows Explorer. Browse your computer to find the Excel file. Check the file extension. If it is .xlsx then the file was created with Excel 2007. The extension .xls indicates older program versions. Right-click on the Excel file and choose “Properties” from the pop-up menu. Select the tab “Details” (in Windows Vista or 7) or “Summary” then “Advanced” (in Windows XP). 
Someone created an excel spreadsheet that was anonymously emailed to me. It contains confidential information. How can I check the file to see who created the file-therefore giving me a better idea of who is responsible for this. it is a .xlsx file. Update: I found who last modified it and who created it. Someone created an excel spreadsheet that was anonymously emailed to me. It contains confidential information. How can I check the file to see who created the file-therefore giving me a better idea of who is responsible for this. it is a .xlsx file. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.