For all intensive purposes, a zine is a cheaply-made, cheaply-priced publication, often in black and white, which is mass-produced via photocopier and bound with staples. Most zines revolve around a music scene of some sort, but others are dedicated to artwork, poetry, cartoons, editorials and short stories. 
A fanzine (blend of fan and magazine or-zine) is a nonprofessional and nonofficial publication produced by fans of a particular cultural phenomenon (such as a literary or musical genre) for the pleasure of others who share their interest. 
and a zine is that zines are not out there to make a profit but, rather, to add. other, often unheard voices into the mix. Zines are usually made out of. interest and passion and are often self-published by the writer/artist/creator. 
Rhymes with Bean: A Do-It-Yourself Zine Definition. The task of defining zines is at once both challenging and inspiring. Zines are difficult to pin down and it seems that it is for this very reason that so many people are drawn to them in study, collection and creation: they are limitless, ephemeral and ever-changing. I try to stress that zines can be anything that their creator wants them to be and that usually they are made to reflect what the author sees as a void in their current media consumption or to honor themselves and their own views and daily lives as important expressions.
In a way similar to the definition of zines, the lineage is also difficult to trace and un-collated. Some experts site that zines are short for fanzines, a creation of 1930’s science fiction fans. others believe that the medium was more influenced by the punk rock movement of the 1970’s. I try to stress that zines can be anything that their creator wants them to be and that usually they are made to reflect what the author sees as a void in their current media consumption or to honor themselves and their own views and daily lives as important expressions.
Zine-making isn’t about rules or knowledge; it’s about freedom and POWER. Zines are self-published, small-circulation, often nonprofit books, papers, or websites. They usually deal with topics too controversial or niche for mainstream media, presented in an unpolished layout and unusual design. There are tons of ways to make a zine, of course. But the one I’m going to show you is one of the cheapest, quickest, and easiest—perfect for spreading your message widely! You will need only three items (that you certainly own) to make it, plus a one-sided printer to make copies.
Zines are self published materials with short print runs. Zines can be about anything from your favorite band to what you did on your summer vacation. The world of Zine making is a largely underground. Zines are a perfect way to express ideas or feelings that are not fit for the main stream due to their personal content or unpopular ideas. Zines are the fastest way for writers and artists to produce self published works
Print | Email This | Bookmark | Subscribe. An ezine (a.k.a. e-zine, email newsletter, e-mail newsletter, or e-newsletter) is a newsletter that is delivered via email that you can subscribe or opt-in to it. 
The exact origins of the word zine are uncertain, but it was widely in use in the early 1970s, and most likely is a shortened version of the word magazine, with at least one zine lamenting the abbreviation. The earliest citation known is from 1946, in Startling Stories. While zines are generally self-published, there are a few independent publishers who specialise in making art zines. One such 'art-zine' publisher (who also publishes books) is Nieves Books in Zurich, founded by Benjamin Sommerhalder. Another is Cafe Café Royal, BOOKS uk based and founded By Craig atkinson in. 2005
A zine (/ˈziːn/ ZEEN; an abbreviation of fanzine or magazine) is most commonly a small circulation self-published work of original or appropriated texts and images usually reproduced via photocopier. While zines are generally self-published, there are a few independent publishers who specialise in making art zines. One such 'art-zine' publisher (who also publishes books) is Nieves Books in Zurich, founded by Benjamin Sommerhalder. Another is Cafe Café Royal, BOOKS uk based and founded By Craig atkinson in. 2005