The total cost of lip reduction can range from $1,500 to $4,000. This cost includes the surgeon's fee, anesthesia fee, operating facility fee, medications, bandages and other incidental expenses. Be sure to get a complete breakdown of all costs before you schedule your surgery. Lip reduction surgery can permanently reduce lip size. This plastic surgery procedure may be performed alone or in combination with other facial cosmetic plastic surgery procedures, such as chin augmentation, jaw augmentation or rhinoplasty.
Lip augmentation Surgery Costs*. The American Society of Plastic Surgeons quoted the national average of 2007 surgeon fees for lip augmentation at $1,604; however lip augmentation prices vary widely due to the number of different procedures and the complexity involved. Lip augmentation costs can range from $300 to $5,000. Typically, a collagen injection costs $333 and upwards. Lip augmentation surgery (i.e. not including Injectables) costs $1,570 and upwards. There are also other costs to consider, including the surgeon’s fee, anesthesia fees and facility fees.
Lip augmentation is a procedure to enhance and to improve the fullness of lips. This operation can plump and volumize your lips by injection of a soft tissue filler, such as collagen or by the placement of synthetic or grafted material in order to achieve results that both look and feel natural, soft and smooth. 
Lip augmentation can be achieved by injecting or surgically implanting materials into the lips. Some procedures are temporary, others are permanent. According to The American Society of Plastic Surgeons, surgical lip augmentation (not including lip augmentation by injectables) was performed 17,143 times in 2010. Lip Augmentation costs between $300 and $5,000 depending on the techniques used. 
The cost of lip augmentation varies depending on the plastic surgeon’s region, the type of procedure performed, and other expenses included therein. According to national statistics from 2003, the average cost of lip augmentation ranges from $300 to $500. The average cost of lip augmentation for injectables is a little over $300 per session. The average cost of lip augmentation for surgical implants is approximately $1,325 per lip. The list of elements doesn’t stop there. There are many types of lip augmentation procedures that a patient can choose from. This will largely determine the cost of lip augmentation. The cost of lip augmentation for collagen, autologen, dermalogen, hylaform, alloderm and similar injectables may be $600 per injection or may cost up to $1,000 per lip.
Related articles: Rhinoplasty, Facelift, Eyelid Surgery, Lip Reduction. 1  Lip augmentation typically costs about $1,500 to $3,000 per lip for a total of $3,000 to $6,000 for both lips. 1 The cost depends on the doctor, geographic location and type of implant; the cost of synthetic implants is at the lower end, while the cost of fat grafts (not injections) from the patient's own face is at the higher end. 2  For example, Dr. William K. Boss Jr. in New Jersey charges $2,000 to $5,000 for synthetic implants.
1 The Swan Center for Plastic Surgery in Georgia charges $3,500 to $4,000. 2  And Dr. Brooke Seckel in Massachusetts quotes the cost of lip implants at $1,500 to $5,000, as does Dr. Brent Moelleken in California. 3  Lip augmentation is considered cosmetic surgery, so it typically is not covered by health insurance. 1 The cost depends on the doctor, geographic location and type of implant; the cost of synthetic implants is at the lower end, while the cost of fat grafts (not injections) from the patient's own face is at the higher end. 2  For example, Dr. William K. Boss Jr. in New Jersey charges $2,000 to $5,000 for synthetic implants.
Lip Augmentation. Lip augmentation is a cosmetic procedure that can give you fuller, plumper lips. These days, an injectable dermal filler is the most commonly used method of lip augmentation. There are many types of dermal fillers that can be injected in your lips and around your mouth. Find out about the latest methods of lip augmentation, including what to expect during the procedure, side effects and risks, and costs.
1 And Dr. Brooke Seckel in Massachusetts quotes the cost of lip implants at $1,500 to $5,000, as does Dr. Brent Moelleken in California. 2  Lip augmentation is considered cosmetic surgery, so it typically is not covered by health insurance. 1 The cost depends on the doctor, geographic location and type of implant; the cost of synthetic implants is at the lower end, while the cost of fat grafts (not injections) from the patient's own face is at the higher end. 2  For example, Dr. William K. Boss Jr. in New Jersey charges $2,000 to $5,000 for synthetic implants.