The Mediterranean: A Geographic Region, a Climate, and a CuisineUnlike many other ethnic cuisines, Mediterranean cuisine is not the product of a specific ethnic group or culture. Rather, it is a label referring to the culinary trends shared by a diverse array of peoples that live in the region around the Mediterranean Sea. The most universally used and prevalent ingredient in the cuisines of the Mediterranean is olive oil. Olive trees are prevalent throughout the region, and the distinctive oil is a major export of many Mediterranean countries.
The Mediterranean: A Geographic Region, a Climate, and a Cuisine. Unlike many other ethnic cuisines, Mediterranean cuisine is not the product of a specific ethnic group or culture. Rather, it is a label referring to the culinary trends shared by a diverse array of peoples that live in the region around the Mediterranean Sea. The most universally used and prevalent ingredient in the cuisines of the Mediterranean is olive oil. Olive trees are prevalent throughout the region, and the distinctive oil is a major export of many Mediterranean countries.
Regional meats, seafood and produce provide the potent flavor combinations that comprise the main characteristics of Mediterranean cuisine. What Makes a Dish Mediterranean? Mediterranean food consists of entrees like fish and white meat paired with combinations of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes and nuts. Olive oil is an integral part of traditional Mediterranean dishes, and it takes the place of butter or vegetable oil in the cooking process. The tannins in red wine also contains a compound called resveratrol, which is believed to improve the health of blood vessels. The Mediterranean Diet. Most healthy diets include a combination of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fish and other white meats, and limit unhealthy saturated and trans fats.
“. The idea of the standard Mediterranean ... is a modern construction of food writers and publicists in Europe and North America earnestly preaching what is now thought to be a healthy diet to their audiences by invoking a stereotype of the healthy other on the shores of the Mediterranean. However, the concept of a Mediterranean cuisine is very recent, probably dating from the publication of Elizabeth David 's 1950 book Book of Mediterranean Food, though David herself spoke of Mediterranean food, cookery, or cooking.
Seafood meat is used instead as a protein source and is a common ingredient to a Mediterranean diet. The prominence of fruits and vegetables in the Mediterranean cuisine is what makes it healthier than any other type of cuisine. They can be widely present in any Mediterranean menu predominantly in forms of salads. But what is unique about Mediterranean cuisine is the fact that they can be prepared easily by any person especially those who are conscious of what they are eating. It consistently has the best of the ingredients, the great taste, and the simplicity to create them
The Mediterranean can be divided into three culinary regions: Eastern Mediterranean, Southern Europe, and North Africa.Eastern Mediterranean cuisine, which encompasses some Middle Eastern cuisine, describes the culinary traditions of Greece, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Palestine, and Egypt. The most universally used and prevalent ingredient in the cuisines of the Mediterranean is olive oil. Olive trees are prevalent throughout the region, and the distinctive oil is a major export of many Mediterranean countries.
1 The best thing about Mediterranean cuisine is that it uses olive oil as the main component of cooking. 2  Olive oil is not only used for cooking; it is also used as a dressing for salad. 3  Sometimes fresh olives are added to the dishes to enhance their flavor. Calling in a caterer makes a lot more sense. Caterers will know what is the most filling when it comes to Mediterranean catering and the most fancy, yet inexpensive, food that your guests will love.
Mediterrano Restaurant in Ann Arbor. From the south of France to Greece and from Spain to North Africa, at Mediterrano we are inspired by flavors from over 14 countries within the Mediterranean region. 
• Parkinson’s disease. Other Types of Mediterranean Cuisine. Many countries border the Mediterranean Sea in addition to Greece and Italy. Gibraltar is famous for its seafood, while Turkey is known for its simple eastern Mediterranean recipes that use high-quality local ingredients like honey, olives, yogurt and cheese. The tannins in red wine also contains a compound called resveratrol, which is believed to improve the health of blood vessels. The Mediterranean Diet. Most healthy diets include a combination of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fish and other white meats, and limit unhealthy saturated and trans fats.