CT scan. A CT scan uses a series of X-rays and a computer to create detailed images of the inside of the body. This test can confirm a diagnosis of kidney cancer. During the test, you lie still on a table as it slides into a CT scanner. Angiography is very much like an IVP. It uses dye and X-rays to look at the kidneys. With angiography, the dye is injected directly into an artery that goes to your kidney. The test helps show the blood vessels and lets your health care provider see which blood vessels are sending blood to tumors.
Urine test. The most common sign of kidney cancer is blood in the urine (haematuria). Doctors will sometimes request a urine test so they can look for traces of blood and other abnormalities, such as proteins, that can't be seen with the naked eye. A urine test can also look for cancer cells in the urine. 
One or more may form within the kidneys. Simple cysts are the most common type of kidney cyst. They are not the same thing as polycystic kidney disease, which is a progressive disease that can lead to kidney failure. Simple kidney cysts most often do not cause harm. The cause of simple kidney cysts is not fully understood, but they do not appear to be inherited. Being male is a risk factor, however, as is age: Almost half of all people age 50 or older have one or more simple cysts in the kidneys. The size of these cysts may also increase with age and may double over 10 years.
Sonogram (Definition). The sonogram is a test that looks at body organs with no radiation. It uses sound waves and can give us a 2 dimensional view of organs such as the kidney, liver, heart, and lungs. It can define spaces that are either solid or full of fluid. I can also guide large needles into an organ or near the spine, and can help define the area being cut open. Its a cheap, but useful test. 1. Bright spots: Kidney stones show up on ultrasound as bright echogenic foci (white spots) within the substance of the kidney. If the stones are larger than 3 or 4 mm there will be a darker area behind the stone representing an acoustical shadow.
1 Symptoms of kidney cancer include blood in the urine, pain in the side or flank that is constant, a lump or mass in the abdomen or side, fever, weight loss, and fatigue. 
Test Overview. An abdominal ultrasound uses reflected sound waves to produce a picture of the organs and other structures in the upper abdomen. Sometimes a specialized ultrasound is ordered for a detailed evaluation of a specific organ, such as a kidney ultrasound. An abdominal ultrasound can evaluate the: 1 Check the size, shape, and position of the liver. 2  An ultrasound may be done to evaluate jaundice and other problems of the liver, including liver masses, cirrhosis, fat deposits in the liver (called fatty liver), or abnormal liver function tests.
Abdominal Ultrasound. Guide. An abdominal ultrasound takes pictures of the organs and other structures in your upper belly. It uses sound waves to show images on a screen. Areas that can be checked include the: 1  Abdominal aorta. 2  This large blood vessel passes down the back of the chest and belly. 
There is no blood test that can diagnose kidney cancer. But a complete blood count (CBC) and blood chemistry test can show signs in the blood that are linked with kidney cancer. For example: Too few red blood cells. This condition is called anemia. It is common in many kinds of cancer. Too many red blood cells. Angiography is very much like an IVP. It uses dye and X-rays to look at the kidneys. With angiography, the dye is injected directly into an artery that goes to your kidney. The test helps show the blood vessels and lets your health care provider see which blood vessels are sending blood to tumors.
Kidney Cancer. Several types of cancer can develop in the kidney. The most common is renal cell cancer (RCC) which develops from the tubules within the cortex. The other variety is transitional cell cancer which develops in the pelvis. In childhood, a different type called Wilms tumour can occur. This article will deal with RCC only. 