Collagen is structural, fibrous protein found in humans and animals, particularly in areas such as tendons, bones, skin, and cartilage. It serves as a connective tissue which makes up roughly 30% of the human body’s protein content, making it the most abundant source of protein in our bodies.
Hydrolyzed collagen, in the dried powder form, can be reconstituted, and is still used as a gelatin food product. It is an edible food product and can be consumed in amounts recommended for daily protein intake. It is also often used in the capsule coating of many medications for easier consumption.
Hydrolyzed Collagen is unique in its amino acid structure because of its high amounts of glycine, lysine and proline, which are found in lower amounts in other protein food supplements.
Hydrolyzed collagen is collagen that is derived from bovine bone and cartilage. Usually, the bone is crushed, ground, defatted, soaked in acid to remove the calcium, soaked again to break the collagen bonds and then dehydrated.
Hydrolyzed Collagen is beneficial in replacing the synovial fluids between the joints and secondly, to repair and build cartilage weakened by overuse through impact and stress. Our bodies are made up of 30% collagen of which 70% of these proteins are connective tissue made of collagen.
Joint Relief. Hydrolyzed collagen, also often known as collagen protein, has hydroxyproline, an amino acid that helps to keep bones and connective tissue strong and flexible. It is believed that the hydroxyproline leads to an ease of joint pain by its ability to strengthen the connective tissue.
This 100% pure collagen protein supplement provides the major building materials for growth and maintenance of nails, hair and skin. Collagen is also an essential component of muscles, tendons, cartilage and teeth.**.
Hydrolyzed Collagen (also known as Collagen Peptides) is becoming a very popular protein substitute. It is naturally found in humans & animals and is revolutionizing the way people consume and utilize protein. It is fat-free, cholesterol free and easily digestible in liquid form.
Hydrolyzed Fish Collagen contains much larger amounts of the amino acids glycine and proline than many other proteins. These amino acids are necessary for promoting healthy tissue growth of hair, skin and nails. A recommended dose of 10 grams (2 tablespoons) a day in the diet is optimum.