If we take the average of the sampling distribution -- the average of the averages of an infinite number of samples -- we would be much closer to the true population average -- the parameter of interest. So the average of the sampling distribution is essentially equivalent to the parameter.
We want 95% confidence thatthe sample mean is within 2 hr of the population mean, and the population standard devia-tion is known to be 18.6 hours. Interpreting Results. In Exercises 17–20, refer to the accompanying TI-83 84Plus calculator display of a 95% confidence interval.
A census is the only sample that perfectly represents the population, because it is the whole population. If you can take a census, you’ve reduced a problem of inferential statistics to one of descriptive statistics. But even today, only a minority of situations are subject to a census.
The sample is usually a subgroup of the population, but in a census the whole population is the sample. Example 1: You want to know what proportion of likely voters will vote for your candidate, so you poll 850 people. The people you actually ask are your sample, and the likely voters are the population.
For instance, in the figure, the mean of the distribution is 3.75 and the standard unit is .25 (If this was a distribution of raw data, we would be talking in standard deviation units. If it's a sampling distribution, we'd be talking in standard error units).
The Census Bureau expanded the American Community Survey (ACS) to full sample size for housing units in 2005 and for group quarters in 2006. The ACS estimates from 2005 to present are available in American FactFinder.
T of F If the population average gasoline purchase is for 10.4 gallons and the variance is known to be 16 gallons, then in a random sample of 36 purchases the standard error of the mean would be 2/3. True, The standard error is sqrt(16/36) = 4/6 = 2/3.   .
Addresses selected for the American Community Survey (ACS) come from the Census Bureau s Master Address File (MAF). The MAF is the Census Bureau s official inventory of known living quarters and selected nonresidential units in the United States and Puerto Rico.
For example, if you were to conduct a survey on work environments for a population where the income varies from $30,000 to $50,000, you would use a smaller sample size to achieve the same level of reliability than you would use for a population of equal size for which income varies from $5,000 to $1,000,000.