STONEHENGE AND THE GREAT PYRAMID. The standard Egyptian unit of area was known as the aroura. It was equal to 10,000 square royal cubits. This would be the same as the area of a square whose sides measured 100 royal cubits each (100 X 100 = 10,000). 
The earliest known Egyptian pyramids are found at Saqqara, northwest of Memphis. The earliest among these is the Pyramid of Djoser (constructed 2630 BC–2611 BC) which was built during the third dynasty. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu at Giza is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence.
A great many more have since been discovered. As of November 2008, 118 Egyptian pyramids have been identified. The location of Pyramid 29, which Lepsius called the Headless Pyramid, was lost for a second time when the structure was buried by desert sands subsequent to Lepsius' survey. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu at Giza is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence.
The Egyptian pyramids are ancient pyramid-shaped masonry structures located in Egypt. As of November 2008, there are sources citing both 118 and 138 as the number of identified Egyptian pyramids. Most were built as tombs for the country's pharaohs and their consorts during the Old and Middle Kingdom periods. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu at Giza is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence.
Structures During the Neothlithic era, many different cultures were beginning to create different yet similar structures for their cities. In England, humans built Stonehenge, in Egypt, humans began to build pyramids, and in Mesopotamia, Sumerians built ziggurats. All of these structures were used to either worship gods, or had some sort of religious belief behind them. In England, Stonehenge, the most famous megalithic structure, was built
Sneferu’s Pyramids. The fourth-dynasty king, Sneferu 2686 – 2667 BC, was the first to create the pyramid shape that we all recognize and associate with Egyptian architecture. He built three pyramids in all—but the first two were glorious failures. Medum pyramid surrounded by rubble – The Bent Pyramid – The Red Pyramid. Khafre’s pyramid retains some of its original limestone casing at the apex, and so it is possible to imagine how the pyramids might have ap¬peared in antiquity. Khafre also built the Great Sphinx, which is 66 feet high (20 m) and 240 feet long (73 m) and is part of Khafre’s pyramid complex.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Stonehenge-Built circa 2500 BC Great Pyramids-Built circa 2560 BC Chichen Itza-Built circa 1000 BC Since the exact dates of the Great Pyramid's and Stonehenge's building are not know, it is a toss up between the two. Inner circle of Stonehenge..dated.. 5,000-3,100 BCE Age of pyramid..if built by Khufu...2,540 BCE isis1037@yahoo.com owner/mod. Egypt and Beyond author: Tombs, Temples and Thrones. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Pyram... http://www.uwosh.edu/programs/cambridge/...
Photograph by Robert Clark, National Geographic The temple of Angkor Wat, the Egyptian pyramids, Stonehenge, and the famous statues on Easter Island were all built without the conveniences of modern technology. Ancient peoples didn't have access to forklifts, hydraulic cranes, or flatbed trucks.
The Giza Pyramids, built to endure an eternity, have done just that. The monumental tombs are relics of Egypt's Old Kingdom era and were constructed some 4,500 years ago. Egypt's pharaohs expected to become gods in the afterlife. All three of Giza's famed pyramids and their elaborate burial complexes were built during a frenetic period of construction, from roughly 2550 to 2490 B.C. The pyramids were built by Pharaohs Khufu (tallest), Khafre (background), and Menkaure (front)