See Quito photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Quito in Ecuador. Quito hotels map is available on the target page linked above. small | medium | large. This map is informational only. 3D map of Quito in Ecuador. You can also dive right into Quito on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Quito 3D map within your web browser.
[ekwaˈðor]), officially the Republic of Ecuador (Spanish: Republica república Del, ecuador which literally translates As republic of The ), equator is a representative democratic republic in Northwestern South, america bordered By colombia on the, North peru on the east and, south and The Pacific ocean to the. west Since Ecuador's separation from Colombia in May 13, 1830, its first President, General Juan Jose José, flores laid claim to the territory that was called The Real audiencia Of, quito also referred to as The presidencia Of. quito
More Ecuador Maps. 1  Ecuador's official currency is the US dollar. 2  In 2008, Ecuador became the first country in the world to declare that nature has constitutional rights. 3  The Panama hat actually originated from Ecuador. 1 Ecuador's official currency is the US dollar. 2  In 2008, Ecuador became the first country in the world to declare that nature has constitutional rights. 3  The Panama hat actually originated from Ecuador.
Print this map. Before the great Inca Empire began its conquest of this land called Ecuador in 1463, it was populated by a number of indigenous Indian tribes that were often at war with one another. In the early 16th century the Spanish discovered and subsequently conquered Ecuador. Quito, the capital, is the political center, while Guayaquil is the commercial hub. The world-famous Galapagos Islands (a territory of Ecuador) are positioned about 600 miles to its west.
Ecuador Map and Area Guide. To make finding your way around Ecuador a little easier, we are including a map showing the regions and largest cities throughout the country. Our quick reference map of Ecuador displays the country's major regions. Our editors have added many hundreds of pages of articles and blogs about local sites and attractions such as Art Galleries, Museums and Protected Areas and other places of interest in each region. 
The Republic of Ecuador is situated at the northwest part of South America bordered by Peru in the south and the east, Colombia in the north and the Pacific Ocean in the west. The Galapagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean are part of Ecuador’s territory. 
detailed map of Quito and near places. Welcome to the Quito google satellite map! This place is situated in Quito, Pichincha, Ecuador, its geographical coordinates are 0° 13' 0 South, 78° 30' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Quito. 3D map of Quito in Ecuador. You can also dive right into Quito on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Quito 3D map within your web browser.
Ecuador is located in western South America. Ecuador is bordered by the Pacific Ocean, Colombia to the north, Peru to the east and south. 
Geography. Ecuador is located in the northwestern region of South America. It is bordered by the Pacific Ocean to the west, Colombia to the north, and Peru to the east and south. The territory of Ecuador consists of the mainland and the Galapagos Islands located 1000km to its west in the Pacific. 1 Ecuador's official currency is the US dollar. 2  In 2008, Ecuador became the first country in the world to declare that nature has constitutional rights. 3  The Panama hat actually originated from Ecuador.