About DIHYDROXYACETONE: Dihydroxyacetone is an aliphatic ketone. This ingredient may be derived from animals. From PETA's Caring Consumer: Pigments from animal, plant, and synthetic sources used to color foods, cosmetics, and other products. 
The tan produced by DHA takes approximately 2-4 hours to appear on skin and will not wash away due to sweat, water, or soap. The tan will fade gradually over the course of 3-10 days. (Wiki). What: Dihydroxyacetone (DHA) is derived from sugar beets or cane sugar and is a key active ingredient for natural self-tanners. 
In most sunless tanning products, dihydroxyacetone is used as the primary ingredient. It can be used alone for the desired effect. Other tanning additives, such as erythrulose, may also be used in conjunction with DHA for more specific results. A simple carbohydrate, dihydroxyacetone is crated from sugar beets or sugar cane and the glycerin fermentation process. It can also be used in wine making.
Medical Definition of DIHYDROXYACETONE. : a glyceraldehyde isomer C3H6O3 that is used especially to stain the skin to simulate a tan. Definition of DIHYDROXYACETONE. : a glyceraldehyde isomer C3H6O3 used especially to stain the skin to simulate a tan. ADVERTISEMENT.
According to the American Academy of Dermatology, the most effective sunless tanning products contain dihydroxyacetone (DHA) as the active ingredient. DHA is a colorless chemical (it is derived from glycerin) that interacts with the amino acids in dead skin cells to produce a brown color change. 
Dihydroxyacetone phosphate lies in the glycolysis metabolic pathway, and is one of the two products of breakdown of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, along with glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. It is rapidly and reversibly isomerised to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP, also glycerone phosphate in older texts) is a biochemical compound involved in many metabolic pathways, including the Calvin cycle in plants and glycolysis.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Dihydroxyacetone, also known as DHA or glycerone, is a common active ingredient in tanning lotions or sprays designed for sunless use. A simple carbohydrate, dihydroxyacetone is crated from sugar beets or sugar cane and the glycerin fermentation process. It can also be used in wine making. Though colorless, DHA stains the skin on contact
Dihydroxyacetone /ˌdaɪhaɪˌdrɒksiˈaesɨtoʊn/ , ˌdaɪhaɪˌdrɒksiˈæsɨtoʊn OR, dha also known as, glycerone is a simple (carbohydrate a) triose with Formula C 3H 6o. 3 DHA is a hygroscopic white crystalline powder. It has a sweet cooling taste and a characteristic odor. It is the simplest of all ketoses and has no chiral center or optical activity. The normal form is a dimer which is slowly soluble in one part water and 15 parts ethanol.
Dihydroxyacetone. Fake tanners, sunless tanners or preparations used to imitate a tan are becoming much more popular as people are becoming more aware of the dangers of long term sun exposure and sunburn. There are now several ways of achieving a tan without having to expose your skin to the sun, these include: The sunless tanner dihydroxyacetone (DHA) is currently the most popular way of gaining a tan-like appearance without sun exposure as it carries less health risks than any of the other available methods. To date, it is the only active ingredient approved by the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) for sunless tanning.