Planting a variety of berries will ensure sweet treats all summer and delicious preserves in winter.... Raspberries and blackberries are the leading bramble fruits. They grow on thorny canes that every kid knows as “sticker bushes.” They like warm sun and well-drained soil, with a pH 5.6 to 6.2. Preferred soil pH for raspberries and blackberries is 5.6 to 6.2. View the raspberry and blackberry types chart for details on the best varieties of blueberries, plus pros and cons of each, as well as information on where they grow best. Find raspberry and blackberry seeds and plants with our Seed and Plant Finder.
If you want to know how to grow raspberries, you should first know that raspberries ripen shortly after strawberries do. They prefer a sandy loam soil that is rich in organic matter. After that, you can fertilize your growing raspberry bushes annually. You will use two to three pounds of 10-10-10 fertilizer per 100 foot of row. Scale that down if you are only planting a couple of bushes. You will also need to prune raspberries as part of their care.
Raspberries grow best when some type of support is provided for the canes. Plants may be planted in hills or hedgerows. Red raspberries will readily spread by root suckers while purple and black do not. If using the hill system, plants are grouped around a strong stake or pole, and then trained to grow on the support. 
Raspberries grow in a moist, temperate climate; they are native to Western Europe and the Eastern United States. Wild raspberries will naturally bloom through the summer … but the fruit is now commercially produced year-round. 
Due to soil borne diseases, do not plant raspberries where raspberries, strawberries, tomatoes, peppers, eggplant, potatoes, or vine crops (cucumbers, squash and melons) have been grown in the past four years. To reduce virus potential, do not plant raspberries next to blackberries. Fall-bearing (primocane-fruiting) red raspberry cultivars are typically more hardy than summer crop cultivars. Suggested cultivars include Autumn Britten, Polana, Jaclyn, Caroline, and Heritage. Joan-J and Himbo-Top have not performed well in Colorado trials.
You have to pick often to keep up with everbearing raspberries, though it's a welcome task. The author's canes grow to more than 7 feet tall every year. You may think the sheer gustatory pleasure of wolfing down ripe, juicy raspberries, whose flavor explodes in your mouth, is reason enough to grow them. Well, think again. Raspberries are not just another tasty berry; they are loaded with healthful attributes
How to Plant Raspberries. If you want to know how to grow raspberries, you should first know that raspberries ripen shortly after strawberries do. They prefer a sandy loam soil that is rich in organic matter. The soil should be well drained and have a pH of about 5.8 to 6.5. After that, you can fertilize your growing raspberry bushes annually. You will use two to three pounds of 10-10-10 fertilizer per 100 foot of row. Scale that down if you are only planting a couple of bushes. You will also need to prune raspberries as part of their care.
The raspberry plants will do better if you plant them in the ground. They need to go dormant over the winter. Plant them as soon as possible so that they may have a chance to start growing some roots before the ground freezes. Add a layer of mulch around them for protection. Find out what type of raspberries you have (summer-bearing or ever-bearing) before pruning. See our pruning advice on this page. For best growing conditions it is recommended for rows to be 1½ to 2 feet wide and to have about 3 canes per linear foot. Wait until early spring to prune and to remove suckers.
How to grow raspberries. Articles :: Design :: Links to plants :: Raspberries. Most raspberries bear red fruit but a few have white or yellow berries. Most ripen in July, some in September or October, and some in either season according to when they are pruned.
One of the things to remember when thinking about how to grow raspberries is that you should not plant them within 300 feet of any wild blackberry bushes. You should also stay away from ground that has had tomatoes or potatoes growing in it within the past year or so. After that, you can fertilize your growing raspberry bushes annually. You will use two to three pounds of 10-10-10 fertilizer per 100 foot of row. Scale that down if you are only planting a couple of bushes. You will also need to prune raspberries as part of their care.