Background. A Seed Discussion is a two-part strategy used to teach students how to engage in discussions about assigned readings. In the first part, students read selected text and identify seeds or key concepts of a passage which may need additional explanation. In the second part, students work in small groups to present their seeds to one another. Each seed should be thoroughly discussed before moving on to the next. Introduce students to the seed discussion strategy. Each student should be assigned to a group composed of varying skill levels and a role within the group. Seed Discussions usually include the following four roles played by students: 1  Leader: responsible for calling on each person to share his/her discussion seeds.
The Seed Discussion strategy is a two-step process to encourage in-depth discussions of reading selections. First, individual readers identify seeds for discussionkey concepts or questions that require further elaboration. Second, these students present their seeds to initiate group discussion. This strategy encourages both critical thinking skills (required to isolate and articulate the seeds) and communication skills (required to adequately develop and discuss the seeds within the group). Steps to Seed Discussions: Explain the dynamics of a seed discussion. Focus specifically on the four roles played by students. Provide a series of questions about a reading selection that will assist students to identify possible seeds for
A seed is an embryonic plant enclosed in a protective outer covering known as the seed coat. It is a characteristic of spermatophytes (gymnosperm and angiosperm plants) and the product of the ripened ovule which occurs after fertilization and some growth within the mother plant. Seed viability is the ability of the embryo to germinate and is affected by a number of different conditions. Some plants do not produce seeds that have functional complete embryos, or the seed may have no embryo at all, often called empty seeds.
A Seed Discussion is a two-part strategy used to teach students how to engage in discussions about assigned readings. Introduce students to the seed discussion strategy. Each student should be assigned to a group composed of varying skill levels and a role within the group. Seed Discussions usually include the following four roles played by students: 1  Leader: responsible for calling on each person to share his/her discussion seeds.
seed potatoes, seeds of corn or sunflower seeds . In the case of sunflower and corn seeds, what is sown is the seed enclosed in a shell or husk, whereas the potato is a tuber. Many structures commonly referred to as seeds are actually dry fruits. Seed viability is the ability of the embryo to germinate and is affected by a number of different conditions. Some plants do not produce seeds that have functional complete embryos, or the seed may have no embryo at all, often called empty seeds.
Answers. Best Answer: If your science fair topic is the Effects of Radiation on Seed Germination then you need to involve radiation in at least one question if not in all three. Now, you should already know what germination is, no need to ask that-state what germination is. Several factors could effect seed germination-state what the factors are that you know could effect seed germination-no need to ask that.
You're not alone. It's easy to get confused about grass seed. What kind of seed to use, how to plant it, and even weather conditions can all add up to one big question mark for many people. That's why we had our experts answer some of the most commonly asked questions about planting grass seed. 
The major service at the lab is seed testing, which is used to determine the quality of seed. This is used for compliance with federal seed labeling laws, seed certification, Sod quality labeling, ISTA certificates, and other uses. In addition, the lab conducts applied research to improve testing methods and to assist industry customers.
It may depend on what type of seeds you have. The next question might be to compare a large seed like a bean, with a small seed like a lettuce, and see if they can both germinate without light. You might have to count the number of seeds that germinate to assess what the effect of light is on germination. Now, you should already know what germination is, no need to ask that-state what germination is. Several factors could effect seed germination-state what the factors are that you know could effect seed germination-no need to ask that.