The XVIII Congress of the International Society of Electrophysiology and Kinesiology (ISEK 2010), which took place in Aalborg, Denmark on 16–19 June 2010, had a dedicated session on the subject: Electrical stimulation for testing and training in exercise and sports. 1 It is compiled to serve as a practical guide to understanding electrical muscle stimulation for sport training, and is supplemented by material taught by the author during workshops, and by appendices written by professional trainers.
The best documented effects of electrical stimulation on skeletal muscle are those that occur after chronic, low-frequency stimulation (similar to the activity of a slow muscle) is imposed upon a predominantly fast muscle. In fact, even the physical appearance of the stimulated muscle approaches that of the more postural muscles by taking on a deep red appearance. Time course of muscle fiber transformation: If low frequency stimulation is applied 8-24 hours per day, the total transformation process requires about 8 weeks.
Abstract — Changes in tissue health were monitored in a group of spinal cord injury (SCI) individuals with the use of an implanted neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) system to provide standing and to facilitate standing transfers. Abbreviations: ASIA = American Spinal Injuries Association, NMES = neuromuscular electrical stimulation, Pi = pí ischial interface, Pressure = poe pö overall, INTERFACE = pressure sci spinal, CORD = injury sts standing, Transfer = study toe tö. unloaded tissue oxygen
Functional electrical stimulation (FES) is a technique that uses electrical currents to activate nerves innervating extremities affected by paralysis resulting from spinal cord injury (SCI), head injury, stroke and other neurological disorders. FES is primarily used to restore function in people with disabilities. The presence of an electric field in nervous tissue may lead to the depolarization of neural cell membranes and thereby induce firing of action potentials. FES devices take advantage of this property to electrically activate nerve cells, which then may go on to activate muscles or other nerves.
Chronic electrical stimulation provides one of the cleanest views of muscle adaptation to increased use. This model has long been used by basic scientists to study skeletal muscle adaptation since it induces a repeatable, quantifiable amount of exercise.. In fact, even the physical appearance of the stimulated muscle approaches that of the more postural muscles by taking on a deep red appearance. Time course of muscle fiber transformation: If low frequency stimulation is applied 8-24 hours per day, the total transformation process requires about 8 weeks.
Electrical stimulation is electrical current applied to the human body transdermally by the use of an electrode and a transmission medium that creates a physiological response. 
Electrical stimulation is a treatment modality utilized by physical therapists that uses an electrical current to cause a single muscle or a group of muscles to contract. This contraction helps strengthen injured muscles and promotes healing. See patients taking Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation. 
During the 19th and 20th centuries, researchers studied and documented the exact electrical properties that generate muscle movement. It was discovered that the body functions induced by electrical stimulation caused long-term changes in the muscles. In the 1960s, Soviet sport scientists applied EMS in the training of elite athletes, claiming 40% force gains. 1 It is compiled to serve as a practical guide to understanding electrical muscle stimulation for sport training, and is supplemented by material taught by the author during workshops, and by appendices written by professional trainers.
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. Some muscles (skeletal muscles) will not contract unless stimulated by neurons; other muscles (smooth & cardiac) will contract without nervous stimulation but their contraction can be influenced by the nervous system.
Thus, we demonstrate that long-term electrical stimulation of C2C12 myotubes with the ESCC results in contractility and metabolic changes, as seen in exercising muscle. Introduction. Excitation of muscle or neural cells may be evoked by electrical stimulation. Continuous electrical stimulation of isolated cells in culture provides an excellent model for the study of the ensuing biochemical and molecular changes, excluding the complex set of factors participating in vivo.