Volcanoes are grouped into four types: cinder cones, composite volcanoes, shield volcanoes and lava volcanoes. They are: Cinder Cones: They are circular or oval cones made up of small fragments of lava from a single vent. They have been blown into the air, cooled, and fallen around the vent. There are many types of volcanoes, but these are the main ones: Composite/Strato-These are formed by alternating layers of lava and rock fragments. They are the large, colo … ssal volcanoes that usually pop into your mind first when thinking of volcanoes. Mt. Hood and Mt. Rainier are examples of this.
S ome of the Earth's grandest mountains are composite volcanoes--sometimes called stratovolcanoes. They are typically steep-sided, symmetrical cones of large dimension built of alternating layers of lava flows, volcanic ash, cinders, blocks, and bombs and may rise as much as 8,000 feet above their bases. Geologists generally group volcanoes into four main kinds--cinder cones, composite volcanoes, shield volcanoes, and lava domes.
Layers of rock and lava form composite volcanoes. Composite volcanoes release lava and rock when they erupt. Identifying a type of volcano helps predict the kind of eruption to expect from it. The lava of a spatter cone volcano has a continuous flow. Lava, ash, and gases are ejected through a volcano vent. The different types of volcanoes are: composite (or stratovolcanoes), shield, cinder cones and spatter cones. Throughout the world, one can see pictures of the four types of volcanoes, each type indicative of the active underground world we often view as static.
There are three main types of volcano-composite or strato, shield and dome. Composite Volcanoes. Composite volcanoes, sometimes known as strato volcanoes, are steep sided cones formed from layers of ash and [lava] flows. The eruptions from these volcanoes may be a pyroclastic flow rather than a flow of lava. A pyroclastic flow is a superheated mixture of hot steam, ash, rock and dust
There are four different types of volcanoes. A volcano is categorized both by formation and appearance. Different types of volcanoes also indicate the types of expected eruptions. The different types of volcanoes are: composite (or stratovolcanoes), shield, cinder cones and spatter cones. Throughout the world, one can see pictures of the four types of volcanoes, each type indicative of the active underground world we often view as static.
C inder cones are the simplest type of volcano. They are built from particles and blobs of congealed lava ejected from a single vent. As the gas-charged lava is blown violently into the air, it breaks into small fragments that solidify and fall as cinders around the vent to form a circular or oval cone. Geologists generally group volcanoes into four main kinds--cinder cones, composite volcanoes, shield volcanoes, and lava domes.
There are 4 major types of volcanoes: Cinder Cone Volcanoes. These are the simplest type of volcano. They occur when particles and blobs of lava are ejected from a volcanic vent. The lava is blown violently into the air, and the pieces rain down around the vent. Over time, this builds up a circular or oval-shaped cone, with a bowl-shaped crater at the top. 
The difference between the three volcanoes, shield, cinder cone, and composite, are shield volcanoes are built almost entirely of fuluid lava flow, cinder cone volcanoes … are the most common volcanoes in Iceland, they created the island of Surtsey. There are many types of volcanoes, but these are the main ones: Composite/Strato-These are formed by alternating layers of lava and rock fragments. They are the large, colo … ssal volcanoes that usually pop into your mind first when thinking of volcanoes. Mt. Hood and Mt. Rainier are examples of this.
Let's review. Volcanoes are vents in the earth's crust through which lava, rock fragments, hot vapor and gases are ejected. There are different types of volcanoes based on their size, shape, composition and eruptive style. Composite cone volcanoes are cone-shaped volcanoes composed of layers of lava, ash and rock debris. More correctly, volcanoes are vents in the earth's crust through which lava, rock fragments, hot vapor and gases are ejected. And while they are all natural events in the life of earth, there are different types of volcanoes.