Nova is a very prominent first name for women (#1600 out of 4276, Top 37%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#13153 out of 150436, Top 9%). (2000 U.S. Census). Astronomy: a nova is a star that releases a tremendous burst of energy, becoming temporarily extraordinarily bright. Chevrolet used to make a small car called a Nova. Novia is also Spanish for girlfriend.
In latin the name nova means new.. That's true. BUT. the name nova in Native American language does NOT mean butterfly chaser. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Nova is a baby girl name. The name Nova comes from the Native American origin. In Native American The meaning of the name Nova is: Chases butterfly (Hopi).
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Nova is a name that has the feel of both newness, from his meaning, and great energy from being an astronomical term for a star that suddenly increases in brightness, then fades. Now making something of a comeback (it climbed almost 100 spots between 2012 and 2013), and is now at 287.
Latin Meaning: The name Nova is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Nova is: New; young. American Meaning: The name Nova is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Nova is: New; young. Native American Meaning: The name Nova is a Native American baby name. In Native American the meaning of the name Nova is: Chases butterfly.
What does Nova mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Nova is of Latin and English origin. The meaning of Nova is new. It is also of Hopi origin, where its meaning is chases butterflies. View the Nova Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nova has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nova to other names. The name Novus is a form of Nova. Nova falls into the celestial name category.
Nova is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced No-va. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 287 in baby name popularity for girls with 1121 occurrences. It ranked 1553 in popular baby names for boys with 102 occurrences. View the Nova Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nova has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nova to other names. The name Novus is a form of Nova. Nova falls into the celestial name category.
Nova /no-va/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced NOH-vah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Nova is new. Astronomy: a nova is a star that releases a tremendous burst of energy, becoming temporarily extraordinarily bright. Chevrolet used to make a small car called a Nova. Novia is also Spanish for girlfriend.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. View the Nova Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nova has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nova to other names. The name Novus is a form of Nova. Nova falls into the celestial name category.