The term organic is tightly regulated and means food was produced under approved methods and is free of synthetic fertilizers. The Food and Drug Administration, however, has no definition for the use of the word natural.. And although a lot of products use natural, that doesn't mean there aren't a lot of non-natural ingredients in them. It's one of those buzz words you put on a product, Jacobson said. More people will grab it. 
Organic farmers, ranchers, and food processors follow a defined set of standards to produce organic food and fiber. Congress described general organic principles in the Organic Foods Production Act, and the USDA defines specific organic standards. 
Compare organic food. The term “natural” is applied to many foods, but does not have a consistent meaning. “ Natural foods ” and “ all natural foods ” are widely used terms in food labeling and marketing with a variety of definitions, most of which are vague.
Organic vegetables at a farmers' market in Argentina. Organic foods are foods produced by organic farming. While the standards differ worldwide, organic farming in general features cultural, biological, and mechanical practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity. Processed organic food usually contains only organic ingredients. If non-organic ingredients are present, at least a certain percentage of the food's total plant and animal ingredients must be organic (95% in the United States, Canada, and Australia).
Tracing organic products from start to finish is part of the USDA organic promise. Amidst nutrition facts, ingredients lists, and dietary claims on food packages, “organic” might appear as one more piece of information to decipher when shopping for foods. So understanding what “organic” really means can help shoppers make informed choices during their next visit to the store or farmers’ market. This is the third installment of the Organic 101 series that explores different aspects of the USDA organic regulations. Organic certification requires that farmers and handlers document their processes and get inspected every year.
“What is organic food? Organic food is produced by farmers who emphasize the use of renewable resources and the conservation of soil and water to enhance environmental quality for future generations. Organic meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products come from animals that are given no antibiotics or growth hormones. Organic food is produced without using most conventional pesticides; fertilizers made with synthetic ingredients or sewage sludge; bioengineering; or ionizing radiation.
Well, when it sits on a food label in the US, the word “natural” has no regulated definition.*. Natural can mean any number of different things, depending on where in the US you are, who the food manufacturer is and what store is carrying the product. In fact, the FDA has said it’s okay to call high-fructose corn syrup natural.. But federal regulations strictly define the term organic.. When you see “organic on the label, you know that food was made with a set of farming and production practices defined and regulated, in great detail, by the USDA
From a food science perspective, it is difficult to define a food product that is 'natural' because the food has probably been processed and is no longer the product of the earth. That said, FDA has not developed a definition for use of the term natural or its derivatives. 
In addition to the differences between “organic” and “conventional,” some people want to know what the difference is between “organic” and “natural.” Unlike the word “organic” the word “natural” does not have a specific meaning and can mean many different things. 
“Made with organic” products will not bear the USDA organic seal, but, as with all other organic products, must still identify the USDA-accredited certifier. You can look for the identity of the certifier on a packaged product for verification that the organic product meets USDA’s organic standards. This is the third installment of the Organic 101 series that explores different aspects of the USDA organic regulations. Organic certification requires that farmers and handlers document their processes and get inspected every year.