Hemoglobin Levels for Children. Children need optimal oxygenation for normal growth and development. According to the World Health Organization, a normal hemoglobin level for children age 6 months to 4 years is at or above 11 g/dL. A normal levels for children ages 5 to 12 years is at or above 11.5 g/dL. A normal level for adolescents ages 12 to 15 is at or above 12.0 g/dL. Any hemoglobin values below these cut-points can indicate anemia, a disorder characterized by a low red blood cell count, as well as low hemoglobin and hemocrit
If it gets more severe and causes symptoms, your low hemoglobin count may indicate you have anemia. A low hemoglobin count is generally defined as less than 13.5 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter (135 grams per liter) of blood for men and less than 12 grams per deciliter (120 grams per liter) for women. In children, the definition varies with age and sex. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
As discussed earlier, if you have low hemoglobin levels, then you may face the risk of several diseases. Normal hemoglobin levels will be maintained by consuming a balanced diet, which is rich in vitamin B12, folate and of course, iron. Consume foods that are rich in these nutrients, so that you will not will not suffer from a low hemoglobin level. Everyone wants to know what the normal hemoglobin levels in blood are. This is because the hemoglobin serves a very important purpose in the body and hence, it is important to maintain the normal levels. Advertisement. People are always worried whether they have a sufficient hemoglobin count
Normal hemoglobin levels are different in women and in men. In non-pregnant women, normal hemoglobin ranges from 120 g/L to 160 g/L. In men, normal hemoglobin levels range from 140 g/L to 180 g/L. Canadian Blood Services tests each donor’s hemoglobin at the clinic and requires a minimum of 125 g/L for donation.
For people without diabetes, the normal range for the hemoglobin A1c test is between 4% and 5.6%. Hemoglobin A1c levels between 5.7% and 6.4% indicate increased risk of diabetes, and levels of 6.5% or higher indicate diabetes. The hemoglobin A1c test, also called HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin test, or glycohemoglobin, is an important blood test that shows how well your diabetes is being controlled.
A low hemoglobin count is a commonly seen blood test result. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
A. The hemoglobin level is expressed as the amount of hemoglobin in grams (gm) per deciliter (dL) of whole blood, a deciliter being 100 milliliters. The normal ranges for hemoglobin depend on the age and, beginning in adolescence, the gender of the person. The normal ranges are: 1  Newborns: 17-22 gm/dL. 
Normal hemoglobin values are related to the person's age and sex. Normal values may vary slightly between test systems, and which groups of doctors have determined normal values for their group of patients; however, the value ranges are close (vary by about 0.5 g/dl) for almost every group. 
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Each globulin chain contains an important central structure called the heme molecule. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood.