Death of a dependent. If a dependent dies during the year, you can still claim an exemption for him or her on your return. Dependency exemption. Each child or other dependent you claim on your 2010 return will knock $3,650 off your taxable income. Adoption credit. You can claim a tax credit for up to $13,170 of adoption expenses paid in 2010. If you adopt a child with special needs, you get the full credit even if the adoption cost less. The credit starts to phase out once your adjusted gross income exceeds $182,520.
Standard deduction amounts. The amount of your standard deduction depends on the filing status you qualify for. In 2014 for example, single taxpayers and married taxpayers who file separate returns can claim a $6,200 standard deduction. Some taxpayers cannot take the federal standard deduction. If you are married but file taxes separately and your spouse itemizes deductions on his or her return, then you can't claim the
If a taxpayer or taxpayer's spouse is claimed as a dependent on someone else's return, the standard deduction on the taxpayer's return is generally reduced and calculated according to the worksheet on page 39 of the instructions for IRS Form 1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return. 
However, if you are filing a return for 2013 and earlier Tax Years, you may be able to deduct your child's school fees and tuition if you don't claim either student tax credit. You may be able to claim a tax deduction of up to $4,000 for qualifying tuition and fees you paid for you, your spouse, or a dependent. You may deduct any qualified expenses up to $4,000, even if you paid the tuition and fees with a loan. 
You may not qualify for a full standard deduction if your parents can claim you as a dependent on their return. In that case, your standard deduction is limited to the greater of $1,000 or your earned income for the year plus $350, but not more than the regular standard deduction amount. 
The standard deduction for an individual who can be claimed as a dependent on another person's tax return is generally limited to the greater of: $1,000, or. The individual's earned income for the year plus $350 (but not more than the regular standard deduction amount, generally $6,200). How to file. If you file a separate return, you generally report only your own income, exemptions, credits, and deductions. You can claim an exemption for your spouse only if your spouse had no gross income, is not filing a return, and was not the dependent of another person.
$7,984. Note: The California standard deduction amounts are less than the federal standard deduction amounts. California Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents. Use this worksheet only if your parent, or someone else, can claim you (or your spouse if married) as a dependent on his or her tax return.
You can take the higher standard deduction if your spouse is age 65 or older or blind and: You file a joint return, or. You file a separate return and can claim an exemption for your spouse because your spouse had no gross income and cannot be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer. How to file. If you file a separate return, you generally report only your own income, exemptions, credits, and deductions. You can claim an exemption for your spouse only if your spouse had no gross income, is not filing a return, and was not the dependent of another person.
You can also itemize state and local income taxes you paid during the tax year. However, some of these deductions are limited to a percentage of your income. For example, if you qualify as your boyfriend's or girlfriend's dependent, this means you earned a maximum of $3,700. The standard deduction is a blanket number that applies to everyone in a certain category. If you're someone's dependent, your standard deduction is limited. It's either $950, or your earned income for the year plus $300, whichever amounts to more. But there's a catch. As of the 2011 tax year, the standard deduction for a single filer is $5,800, and your deduction can't exceed this amount. If you earned $5,600 and added $300, you can't deduct $5,900. You're limited to a $5,800 deduction