Most of the film was shot at their Thanksgiving Day, 1976 concert at the Winterland Ballroom in San Francisco, but their performance of The Weight was done in a studio with The Band joined by The Staple Singers, a Gospel group who wrung out the spirituality of the song. The vocals are shared by Richard Manuel, Rick Danko, and Levon Helm. One of the distinctive characteristics of The Band was their three lead vocalists. Nazareth, where the story takes place, refers to the town in Pennsylvania about 70 miles north of Philadelphia.
On August 17, 1969, The Band performed The Weight as the tenth song in their set at Woodstock. The Woodstock arrangement was more elaborate than the comparatively elemental and spare studio recording. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, who were honoring a fan's sign request, performed The Weight at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey on May 2, 2012, as a tribute to Levon Helm, who had died two weeks before. It was the first time the band had ever performed the song.
Written by Band member Robbie Robertson, the song is about a visitor's experiences in a town mentioned in the lyric's first line as Nazareth. The Weight has significantly influenced American popular music, having been listed as #41 on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time published in 2004. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, who were honoring a fan's sign request, performed The Weight at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey on May 2, 2012, as a tribute to Levon Helm, who had died two weeks before. It was the first time the band had ever performed the song.
The Weight is one of The Band's best known songs though it was not a significant mainstream hit for the group in the U.S., peaking at only #63. The Band's recording fared much better in Canada and the UK – in those countries, the single was a top 40 hit, peaking at #35 in Canada and #21 in the UK in 1968. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, who were honoring a fan's sign request, performed The Weight at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey on May 2, 2012, as a tribute to Levon Helm, who had died two weeks before. It was the first time the band had ever performed the song.
The Weight is a 1968 song by The Band. The song appears originally on The Band's first album, Music from Big Pink. The Weight is one of the group's best known songs and among the most popular songs of the late 1960s counterculture. However, the song was not a significant mainstream hit for The Band in the US, peaking at only #63. The Band's record fared much better in Canada and the UK – in those countries, the….
The original members of The Band performed The Weight as an American Southern folk song with country music (vocals, guitars and drums) and gospel music (piano and organ) elements. The lyrics, written in the first-person, are about a traveler's experiences arriving, visiting, and departing a town called Nazareth. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, who were honoring a fan's sign request, performed The Weight at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey on May 2, 2012, as a tribute to Levon Helm, who had died two weeks before. It was the first time the band had ever performed the song.
Before The Band, Robertson wrote no songs of any enduring interest. Most of the songs that made The Band famous were influenced or written by Bob Dylan, Richard Manuel, Garth Hudson and Levon Helm, although Robertson claimed ownership in most cases. The songs may have been written his band mates without attribution or compensation. By Stephen Pate – “The music business is a cruel and shallow money trench, a long plastic hallway where thieves and pimps run free, and good men die like dogs.
The song was also recorded by: A Group Called Smith, The Black Crowes, Bob Dylan, Grateful Dead, The Allman Brothers, Joan Osborne, Keller Williams, King Curtis & Duane Allman, Otis & Travis, Rotary Connection, Spooky Tooth, and The Ventures. The vocals are shared by Richard Manuel, Rick Danko, and Levon Helm. One of the distinctive characteristics of The Band was their three lead vocalists. Nazareth, where the story takes place, refers to the town in Pennsylvania about 70 miles north of Philadelphia.
In celebration of Band drummer Levon Helm, who died in 2012, The Weight was performed at the Grammy Awards the next year with Mavis Staples joining Elton John, Mumford & Sons, the Zac Brown Band and Brittany Howard of Alabama Shakes. The vocals are shared by Richard Manuel, Rick Danko, and Levon Helm. One of the distinctive characteristics of The Band was their three lead vocalists. Nazareth, where the story takes place, refers to the town in Pennsylvania about 70 miles north of Philadelphia.