Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Kittens should be spayed/neutered by 3-4 months old. They are capable of getting pregnant at 4 months old and that would kill her-she would not be able to safely deliver kittens. You mom should call her and get her done in the next few weeks. Do NOT let her outside or she will end up pregnant!
Cats can be spayed or neutered at 4 months. By this age, cats should have received their immunizations and been treated for common parasites, thus making them good candidates for elective procedures. Declawing can be done as early as 3 months of age. 
One can spay a mother as soon as the kittens or pups are weaned, (5 to 6 weeks for kittens and 4 to 5 weeks for puppies) and because of the risk of pregnancy this should be done. When estrus occurs, animals are said to be in heat or in season.. 1  Cats: Cats normally have their first estrous cycle between 4 and 6 months of age, with the average age around 5 months. 2  The female cat has 2-4 estrous periods every year, each lasting 15-22 days. 3  If she is bred, estrus seldom lasts more than 4 days.
Today some vets will spay/neuter at eight weeks of age, while other adhere to the old practice of six months of age. The average age at which pets are spayed or neutered is four months. Adolescent cats and dogs as young as five months can get pregnant. When estrus occurs, animals are said to be in heat or in season.. 1  Cats: Cats normally have their first estrous cycle between 4 and 6 months of age, with the average age around 5 months. 2  The female cat has 2-4 estrous periods every year, each lasting 15-22 days. 3  If she is bred, estrus seldom lasts more than 4 days.
The Best Age to Spay a Female Cat. Even young kittens can be spayed. While you can have your kitty spayed at any age, the best time to do so is before she goes into heat for the first time. This will prevent not only any unwanted litters but also some possible health issues for your little girl later in life. The youngest a kitty should be before she's spayed is 8 weeks old. Little ones this young need to be at least 2.2 pounds before surgery, recommends the Ohio Alleycat Resource. Young kittens tend to bounce back after surgery pretty quickly.
When to Spay. To prevent your little one from going into heat, ideally she should be spayed prior to or right around 5 months of age. The youngest a kitty should be before she's spayed is 8 weeks old. Little ones this young need to be at least 2.2 pounds before surgery, recommends the Ohio Alleycat Resource. Young kittens tend to bounce back after surgery pretty quickly.
However a cat can be safely spayed or neutered at any age, so even older adopted cats should have this procedure. Some rescue organizations participate in a “catch and release” program where homeless cats are captured, neutered or spayed and released. This is considered more humane than euthanizing strays. Sterilizing a cat is known as neutering for males and spaying for females. Neutering a male cat is a fairly simple procedure performed by a professional veterinarian. The cat is placed under general anesthesia, and the testes are removed through an incision in the scrotum.
For many years, veterinarians were taught that cats and dogs had to be a year old to be spayed or neutered. Later, they were taught that six months was appropriate. Today we know that kittens and pups can be spayed or neutered at the age of two months (or two pounds). When estrus occurs, animals are said to be in heat or in season.. 1  Cats: Cats normally have their first estrous cycle between 4 and 6 months of age, with the average age around 5 months. 2  The female cat has 2-4 estrous periods every year, each lasting 15-22 days. 3  If she is bred, estrus seldom lasts more than 4 days.
Spaying (ovario-hysterectomy) The surgical removal of the reproductive organs (ovaries, uterus, and fallopian tubes) of a female animal. Puppies and kittens of both sexes should be spayed or neutered by 6 months of age. Female cats can go into estrus ('heat') at as young as 4 months. More and more veterinarians are performing early-age spay/ neuter procedures on animals as young as 8 weeks of age, to ensure the animal will never be at risk of accidental pregnancy or able to impregnate. Myth: It's healthier for a female to have one litter before she is spayed. Fact: A female should ideally be spayed before her first estrus cycle. Early-age spaying (as young as 8 weeks) greatly reduces the likelihood of mammary tumors, uterine infections, and of course, unplanned pregnancy.
All cats and kittens should be either spayed or neutered unless the owner is in the business of raising purebred cats. The days of letting the family cat have a litter of kittens so that kids could observe the miracle of birth are long gone. Sterilizing a cat is known as neutering for males and spaying for females. Neutering a male cat is a fairly simple procedure performed by a professional veterinarian. The cat is placed under general anesthesia, and the testes are removed through an incision in the scrotum.