Your red, white, and blue Medicare card is proof that you are enrolled in Original Medicare. It is the most important piece of identification you own as a Medicare beneficiary, and you will generally need your Medicare card in order to receive Medicare-covered services.
You can apply for Medicare Part A and/or Part B through Social Security (if you worked for a railroad, you need to apply through the Railroad Retirement Board). The start of your coverage will depend on which month you sign up during your IEP, and you should receive your Medicare card within 30 days of being approved.
When to expect your Medicare card. If you are already receiving retirement benefits: If you are already receiving Social Security or Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) benefits, you should automatically receive your Medicare card in the mail about three months before you turn 65.
If you have your own Medicare Card (not a duplicate), then your parents will not have access to any of your Medicare records. If you have a question about going to the doctor or your health that we haven’t answered here, please send us a Lawmail ! This page was last updated on the 12 August 2015.
If you have end-stage renal disease, you can apply for Medicare at any time. Otherwise, you’re first eligible to enroll during your seven-month Initial Enrollment Period, which starts three months before you turn 65, includes the month of your 65th birthday, and ends three months later.
you can get a medicare card now, you dont have to wait until you are 18, Once u turned 16 u are allowed to have one. All you need to do is go to your closest medicare and ask for a form, they will help you fill it out. Then it will take up to 14 days to arrive. Source(s): Got my own at 17.
You’ll then be automatically enrolled in Original Medicare, Part A and Part B, when you turn 65. Your Medicare card should arrive about three months before your 65th birthday, and your Medicare coverage starts the first day of the month you turn 65. If you retire before 65. You can apply for Medicare at the same time as you apply for retirement benefits.
A) If you or your spouse is disabled, contact Social Security about Medicare eligibility. If eligible for Medicare for Part A for free, enroll in Part A and B and contact the GIC at 617-727-2310 Ext 6 to begin the enrollment process.
To be eligible to apply for their own Medicare card, young people need to be at least 15 years old. A young person would then need to complete a Medicare Copy/Transfer Application form. These are available at Medicare Offices or you can phone toll free: 132 011.