Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein. Lipoprotein analysis (lipoprotein profile or lipid profile) measures blood levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides. 1  Cholesterol. 1 A high HDL level is linked with a lower risk of heart disease. 2  LDL (low-density lipoprotein) carries mostly fat and only a small amount of protein from the liver to other parts of the body. 3  A certain level of LDL in your blood is normal and healthy because LDL moves cholesterol to the parts of your body that need it.
What cholesterol is: Cholesterol is a fat (lipid) in your blood. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) (good cholesterol) helps protect your heart, but low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (bad cholesterol) can clog the arteries of your heart. Some cholesterol tests also measure triglycerides, another type of fat in the blood. What type of test this is: This is a quantitative test—you find out the amount of total cholesterol present in your sample. Why you should do this test: You should do this test to find out if you have high total cholesterol
The fasting cholesterol test is the traditional way to measure the level of LDL, but it doesn't measure LDL directly. Instead, your LDL is computed by plugging the measurements for total cholesterol, HDL, and triglycerides into a formula called the Friedewald equation (named for William Friedewald, who developed it). The test doesn't require any sophisticated lab work, either. The simple, do-it-yourself home cholesterol tests measure total cholesterol. A reading of 200* or below puts you in the desirable category; 200-239 is borderline high; and 240 or more is high.
These tests usually measure total cholesterol only, but some also can measure HDL, LDL and cholesterol. If you use one of the home kits, it is wise to discuss the results with your health-care professional. The purpose of the cholesterol blood test is to determine whether treatment is needed for high cholesterol. Cholesterol tests are blood tests that measure the amount of cholesterol in the body. The health-care professional may order only a cholesterol test with results showing: 1  The total cholesterol, 2  HDL, and. 3  LDL levels
A complete cholesterol test measures four types of lipids (fats) in your blood. 1  Total cholesterol: this is the total amount of cholesterol in your blood. 2  Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol: this is referred to as “bad” cholesterol and too much of it can lead to heart attack, stroke, and atherosclerosis. Overview. A complete cholesterol test (also called a lipid panel or lipid profile) measures the amount of “good” and “bad” cholesterol and the level of triglycerides in your blood. Cholesterol is a soft, waxy fat that your body needs to function properly
A standard lipid panel is a blood test that measures total cholesterol, HDL (high-density lipoprotein) and triglycerides. LDL (low-density lipoprotein) is then calculated according to a formula. It can help assess a person’s risk for heart disease. A American Diabetes Association answered. A complete cholesterol test, referred to as a lipid panel or lipid profile, includes the measurement of four types of fats (lipids) in your blood, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol
Fasting blood tests can measure cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the blood. This test, also called a lipoprotein profile or lipoprotein analysis, measures: 1  total cholesterol (the total amount of cholesterol in your blood). 2  HDL, high density lipoprotein (good cholesterol). 3  LDL, low density lipoprotein (bad cholesterol).