Hapkido is a Korean martial art practiced the world over. Characterized by joint locks, throws, and dynamic kicking techniques, it is unique among Korean martial arts (Taekwondo, Tang Soo Do) in its emphasis on deflecting an opponent’s attacks instead of forceful blocking. Hapkido is the “anti-martial art”
Hapkido contains both long-and close-range fighting techniques, utilizing jumping kicks and percussive hand strikes at longer ranges and pressure point strikes, joint locks, or throws at closer fighting distances. Hapkido emphasizes circular motion, redirection of force, and control of the opponent. Practitioners seek to gain advantage through footwork and body positioning to incorporate the use of leverage, avoiding the use of strength against strength. Hapkido students practice throws and joint manipulation in a dojang. In addition to throws which are achieved by unbalancing one's opponent through the twisting of their joints, hapkido also contains techniques of pure throwing which do not require the assistance of jointlocks.
What is Hapkido. Hapkido is one of the most complete martial arts. Hapkido is a combat martial art which emphasizes practical self defense with the hard and soft techniques of disciplines such as TaeKwonDo, Akido, Jiu-Jitsu, and Judo. Hapkido is a kicking and punching martial art, very much like other karate styles; but, Hapkido also teaches: • 1  How to overcome a heavier opponent. • 2  Joint locks, holds and take downs. • 3  Flipping and throwing.
Hapkido is a Korean martial art. Although it is most well known for its use of joint locks, it also utilizes throws, hand strikes, kicks, ground fighting, and weapons techniques. 
Hapkido is a type of Korean martial art which focuses on defense rather than offense, and is designed to neutralize an opponent through a range of techniques. It is a discipline that is also designed to clarify and calm the spirit, and those who practice hapkido are also attempting to develop themselves as individuals. 
The Korean Art of Self Defense, Hapkido is considered a soft style of Martial Art, as opposed to hard styles that practice the use of force against force, making the outcome a simple matter of size and strength. 
What is Hapkido. ﻿﻿Hapkido is a complete art of self-defense, employing the philosophy of using minimal force to overcome a stronger opponent. Therefore, great strength is not needed to apply techniques effectively. In addition, Hapkido uses pressure points to assist in controlling the opponent