Tigers eye is often used in feng shui jewelry for its protective properties. Tigers eye can also help clear confusion and attract a more clear and balanced state of mind. Bill Bachman/Getty Images. Tigers eye is a very protective stone. It has a powerful, dynamic energy with a watchful quality to it. After all, there is a reason this stone is called tigers eye! Specific colours of your tigers eye stone-from golden yellow to deep reds-will express, in different degrees, a strengthening and grounding energy. Tigers eye is a favourite when it comes to protective stones. Much like with the dzi beads, the watchful eye energy of the tigers stone has long been used in various forms of jewelry and protective home decor.
Tigers Eye (also known as Tiger Eye) draws upon the best qualities of a Tiger allowing you to absorb them into your being to get the most benefit from them. 1) Patience: A tiger can wait patiently for hours or even days until the right opportunity presents itself. In business and in life, patience is a virtue. 
Tiger Eye (Cat's Eye, Falcon's Eye or Hawk's Eye) gemstone meaning. Tiger Eye lets you see everything. Use it for insight and you can be a very lucky person. When used in jewelry the tiger eye may bring good luck and protection from the evil eye to the wearer. It also known to bring clear thinking and insight.
In nature, tiger eye stone meaning refers to a type of silica stone that has fibrous quality, and that is why the stone was considered as chatoyant (has cat eye’s like brilliance thanks to fibrous quality). This makes tiger-eye stone unique looking and captivates gem lovers. If you see tiger’s-eye stone that has such brilliant color, it means that the gem has been gone through special treatments, and these treatments are varied depending on the color. For example, the deep red stone is usually treated using gentle heating.
There is also tiger-eye stone variant called tiger iron. Tiger’s eye stone meaning for this variant refers to stone that is compose of tiger eye stone, black hematite and red jasper, which creates unique patterns that really look like tiger’ skin after being polished. If you see tiger’s-eye stone that has such brilliant color, it means that the gem has been gone through special treatments, and these treatments are varied depending on the color. For example, the deep red stone is usually treated using gentle heating.
With a fierce, dynamic energy, the tiger eye stone is a protective stone, thus called the tiger’s eye! All tiger eye stones represent strength and grounding energy in different degrees, depending on the color—golden yellow, deep red, and anything in-between. Tiger eye stones are also believed to have mystical qualities. 
Tiger's eye (also called Tigers eye or Tiger eye) is a chatoyant gemstone that is usually a metamorphic rock that is a golden to red-brown colour, with a silky luster. A member of the quartz group, it is a classic example of pseudomorphous replacement by silica of fibrous crocidolite (blue asbestos). 
Tiger's Eye is a stone of protection that is also very stabilizing and grounding. It enhances integrity, willpower, self-confidence, practicality and correct use of power. It is a stone that enhances good luck, and brings prosperity, often in the form of money. Tiger's eye is also a very protective stone which is especially protective during travel. It can also help one see clearly without illusion. Tiger's eye brings a special boost to the solar plexus chakra and to one's personal power
Tiger eye stone meaning is relate to earthy power. It means that it is great as a balancing power. In addition, its red, golden and brown colors really represent earth element, which symbolizes grounding and stabilizing power. If you see tiger’s-eye stone that has such brilliant color, it means that the gem has been gone through special treatments, and these treatments are varied depending on the color. For example, the deep red stone is usually treated using gentle heating.
Tiger Eye or Tiger’s Eye is an iridescent gemstone. The name itself means a significance characteristic of a tiger. A tiger is known to be focused, has strong determination and it is patient. A tiger concentrates on its desires. 