In vascular plants, phloem is the living tissue that carries organic nutrients (known as photosynthate), in particular, sucrose, a sugar, to all parts of the plant where needed. In trees, the phloem is the innermost layer of the bark, hence the name, derived from the Greek word φλοιός (phloios) meaning bark. 
Also, sugars may be stored in the roots and stem. The sugar and other organic molecules are transported through the plant by means of a special layer of tissue called phloem. Phloem is composed of living cells that transport a water solution of sugars that we commonly call sap. Plants are classified as autotrophs because they manufacture their needed nutrients by photosynthesis, converting carbon dioxide and water to sugar fuels with the addition of energy from the Sun. In times of rapid photosynthesis, the main product is glucose, but it is usually converted to the larger sugar sucrose.
Photo by: Anette Linnea Rasmus. Translocation is the movement of materials from leaves to other tissues throughout the plant. Plants produce carbohydrates (sugars) in their leaves by photosynthesis, but nonphotosynthetic parts of the plant also require carbohydrates and other organic and nonorganic materials. Phloem Structure and Function. The tissue in which nutrients move is the phloem. The phloem is arranged in long, continuous strands called vascular bundles that extend through the roots and stem and reach into the leaves as veins.
Phloem, the Medium for Plant Energy Transfer. In the stems of plants is a layer of living tissue called phloem that forms a medium for the movement of a sugar-rich fluid (sap) and which is therefore a key part of the energy transport within vascular plants. Plants are classified as autotrophs because they manufacture their needed nutrients by photosynthesis, converting carbon dioxide and water to sugar fuels with the addition of energy from the Sun. In times of rapid photosynthesis, the main product is glucose, but it is usually converted to the larger sugar sucrose.
Xylem. Xylem is tough, woody tissue that transports water and minerals from the roots of the plant to the stem and leaves. Flowering plants develop xylem vessels, cylindrical cells stacked end-to-end. When the plant matures, the ends of the cells disintegrate and the cell contents die, leaving long non-living tubes. Plants turn sunlight into sugar in their leaves, while their roots extract water and minerals from the soil. But these valuable products must be transported throughout the plant in order for it to survive.
Its basic function is to transport water to know more aboutxylem go with pictures go to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xylem In vascular plants, phloem is the living tissue that carries organic nutrients (known as photosynthate), particularly sucrose, a sugar, to all parts of the plant where needed. The cells in differentiated vascular tissue are typically long and slender. Since the xylem and phloem function in the conduction of water, minerals, and nutrients throughout the plant, it is not surprising that their form should be similar to pipes.
Name two types of vascular tissue and identify their functions. Xylem provides support and conducts water from a plant's roots through its stem to its leaves. Phloem conducts organic compounds and some mineral nutrients throughout a plant's body. 
Best Answer: Vascular tissue is a complex tissue found in vascular plants, meaning that it is composed of more than one cell type. The primary components of vascular tissue are the xylem and phloem. These two tissues transport fluid and nutrients internally. The cells in differentiated vascular tissue are typically long and slender. Since the xylem and phloem function in the conduction of water, minerals, and nutrients throughout the plant, it is not surprising that their form should be similar to pipes.
The mechanism by which sugars are transported through the phloem, from sources to sinks, is called pressure flow. At the sources (usually the leaves), sugar molecules are moved into the sieve elements (phloem cells) through active transport. Sources. The nutrient-rich regions that supply sugars for the rest of the plant are called the sources. Sources include the leaves, where sugar is generated through photosynthesis. When they are high in supplies, the nutrient storage areas, such as the roots and stems, can also function as sources.