Starting salary. £23,000 + per year. Agricultural inspectors are responsible for the standards and regulations in farming. In this role you will visit farms, dairies and other agricultural workplaces to check that rules for animal welfare, production methods and health and safety are being followed.
Agricultural Inspector Salary. Agricultural Inspector average salary is $34,894, median salary is $33,280 with a salary range from $25,000 to $70,000. Agricultural Inspector salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Agricultural Inspector salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Income. If you are starting out as an agricultural inspector, you can expect to earn between £23,000 and £26,000 a year depending on your employer. Once you have experience, you could earn between £30,000 and £50,000 depending on your specialism. Figures are intended as a guideline only.​. £23,000 + per year. Agricultural inspectors are responsible for the standards and regulations in farming. In this role you will visit farms, dairies and other agricultural workplaces to check that rules for animal welfare, production methods and health and safety are being followed.
An Agricultural Inspector can get an average pay level of between 24000 and 36000 depending on education and experience. Agricultural Inspectors usually receive a compensation of Thirty Eight Thousand dollars on an annual basis. Agricultural Inspectors can expect the highest salaries in Connecticut, where they can get average compensation of near $66290. Inspectors must make regular visits to a facility to determine the findings for a report. Additionally inspectors must ensure that the health and wellness of the livestock is up to par. It is necessary to have a 2-year college degree to work as an Agriculture inspector, though a 4-year degree is preferred.
The percentile wage estimate is the value of a wage below which a certain percent of workers fall. The median wage is the 50th percentile wage estimate--50 percent of workers earn less than the median and 50 percent of workers earn more than the median. More about percentile wages. 45-2011 Agricultural Inspectors. Inspect agricultural commodities, processing equipment, and facilities, and fish and logging operations, to ensure compliance with regulations and laws governing health, quality, and safety.
Agricultural Inspector Job Description The following is a full job description for Agricultural Inspector. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Agricultural Inspector along with statistics. Inspects and ensures conformance to quality standards using written specifications. May require 5 years experience in Agricultural Inspection and a high school degree or its equivalent. Applies wide range of concepts, practices, and procedures within a specific field of specialization.
People in this career are compensated highest in Wholesale Trade, where they earn normal pay levels of $50820. The national wage distribution is shown below. To overlay local salaries for an Agricultural Inspector, please select your state. Inspectors must make regular visits to a facility to determine the findings for a report. Additionally inspectors must ensure that the health and wellness of the livestock is up to par. It is necessary to have a 2-year college degree to work as an Agriculture inspector, though a 4-year degree is preferred.