The first-person narration of the story suggests that the narrator is the original William, who is hounded by his alter ego. According to this interpretation, the other Wilson is the magnet for the narrator's paranoia and the catalyst that draws out the narrator's innate evil. Drunken, he is about to declare a toast when a servant alerts him that someone wishes to speak with him. Curious, William goes to the entrance only to find a youth dressed in the same clothes who seizes his arm and whispers, William Wilson! in William's ear. The narrator is shocked into alertness, but the visitor leaves before he can recover
He taught at the University of Chicago from 1972 to 1996 before moving to Harvard University. Wilson is Lewis P. and Linda L. Geyser University Professor at Harvard University. He is one of 24 University Professors, the highest professional distinction for a Harvard faculty member. After receiving a Ph.D. from Washington State University in 1966, Wilson taught sociology at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1972.
Wilson was an original board member of the progressive Century Institute, and a current board member at Philadelphia-based Public/Private Ventures as well as PolicyLink and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. After receiving a Ph.D. from Washington State University in 1966, Wilson taught sociology at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1972.
The setting of William Wilson is semi-autobiographical and relates to Poe's residence in England as a boy. The misty-looking village of England of the story is Stoke Newington, now a suburb of north London. The school is based on the Manor House School in Stoke Newington which Poe attended from 1817 to 1820. It would also form the basis for the Smithereens ' song of the same name, from their 1989 album  11 . There are strains of the story of William Wilson in Andrew Taylor's The American Boy, in which Edgar Allan-Poe is a character. In 1968, Editora Taika (publisher) in Brazil published a comic adaptation in an issue of Album Classicos De Terror. Art was by Osvaldo Talo
William Wilson  is a short story by Edgar Allan Poe, first published in 1839, with a setting inspired by Poe's formative years on the outskirts of London. It would also form the basis for the Smithereens ' song of the same name, from their 1989 album  11 . There are strains of the story of William Wilson in Andrew Taylor's The American Boy, in which Edgar Allan-Poe is a character. In 1968, Editora Taika (publisher) in Brazil published a comic adaptation in an issue of Album Classicos De Terror. Art was by Osvaldo Talo
The story follows a man of a noble descent who calls himself William Wilson because, although denouncing his profligate past, he does not accept blame for his actions, saying that man was never thus [...] tempted before. It would also form the basis for the Smithereens ' song of the same name, from their 1989 album  11 . There are strains of the story of William Wilson in Andrew Taylor's The American Boy, in which Edgar Allan-Poe is a character. In 1968, Editora Taika (publisher) in Brazil published a comic adaptation in an issue of Album Classicos De Terror. Art was by Osvaldo Talo
He was designated a Walter Channing Cabot Fellow at Harvard University for 2009-10. And in 2012 the Inequality, Poverty, and Mobility Section of the American Sociological Association renamed its Early Career Award as the William Julius Wilson Early Career Award. After receiving a Ph.D. from Washington State University in 1966, Wilson taught sociology at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1972.
In William Wilson, Poe explores the idea of a split identity, where the main character is shadowed from his early school years by his doppelganger, who shares his name and birth date and who challenges him from the outset by achieving as much as the narrator, but seemingly without effort. Drunken, he is about to declare a toast when a servant alerts him that someone wishes to speak with him. Curious, William goes to the entrance only to find a youth dressed in the same clothes who seizes his arm and whispers, William Wilson! in William's ear. The narrator is shocked into alertness, but the visitor leaves before he can recover