1 YouTube also has a free editor with basic features. 2  As you edit your video, be sure you don’t use copyrighted music. 3  If you do, your videos won’t be eligible for YouTube advertising. 4  Upload to YouTube and Configure for SEO. 5  Now that your video is complete, it is time to upload your video to the YouTube servers. We are Canadian so we probably don't get the selection of ads that the top American YouTube creators get but then again PSY is Korean so he may get even less ads than we do. If we go with $1.57 per thousand then that's $1,570 per million or $1,570,000 for a billion video views.
The best thing to do is talk to us. With 17 years worth of award-winning video and multimedia experience, we can help you define your goals, advise you on how to achieve your vision within your budget, and help you maximize every dollar you spend so it shows up on the screen in a quality production. It would be great if there were a simple formula stating X minutes of video = Y dollars. But video production, just like home construction, involves far too many variables for that. And we need a lot more information before we can give you a meaningful estimate.
Depends on the video content and ads displayed, but usually $1.50-$4 per 1000 views. So with 300M views, $450K to $1.2M assuming linear scaling. Another confounding factor affecting this is mobile views-which currently aren't monetized in the (old) iOS app-so I'd wager on the lower end of this. We are Canadian so we probably don't get the selection of ads that the top American YouTube creators get but then again PSY is Korean so he may get even less ads than we do. If we go with $1.57 per thousand then that's $1,570 per million or $1,570,000 for a billion video views.
The typical animated promo video costs anywhere from $3K to $10K a minute. $3K will get you a very simple animated promo video as it will barely cover the costs of producing the script, storyboard, voiceover and hiring an animator. A good animator charges between $300 to $500 a day. If the animation is very simple a good animator can produce about one minute of content a week. At $400 a day that is $2K just to animate a simple project not counting any revisions. Even at $100K that is about $3,000 per second of video compared to $170 per second for a one minute $10K promo video. The difference is a whopping 18 times cheaper! Again that is considering a cheap TV ad versus an expensive animated
Oh, about apparently about 20 months and apparently by 4 people. In Silicon Valley salaries that would be at least $500k. how much would u thank it would cost to make a real game with real people in the game and can do just about anything. Minecraft is a indie game developed by Notch, it was inexepensive to start. My last game (FPS) had 100 minutes of music but it varies depending on the type of game you’re doing. In-house composers start at ~45k and go up to 75-80k in general. There are exceptions though.
“In the world we live in today, you can make $2,000 go a long way — much farther than previously. Back in the day, it would cost you $2,000 just for recording quality tapes to get you in the front door. We cater to budget projects here. For example, a rap demo can be made for as little as $200. One song could cost from $50 to $500 – but at a project-based rate, an entire album could start at around $2000. “This is rough question. I have seen demo records get made for $100 and then become huge hits. And I have seen people spend multiple thousands and not get anywhere.
“A demo’s cost is approximately $1000 minimum. The price includes putting the songs onto a physical disc (the increasingly popular hard drive or traditional CD format). It takes roughly two hours per song to lay the track; each song would cost a minimum of $150 each for that time. One song could cost from $50 to $500 – but at a project-based rate, an entire album could start at around $2000. “This is rough question. I have seen demo records get made for $100 and then become huge hits. And I have seen people spend multiple thousands and not get anywhere.
Whether your ballpark is $2,500 or $50,000 or $250,000 (and we’ve produced plenty of videos at each of those levels) it’s best to communicate that up front so we can help you create a concept and a production plan that suits your needs and achieves your goals in the most cost-effective way possible. It would be great if there were a simple formula stating X minutes of video = Y dollars. But video production, just like home construction, involves far too many variables for that. And we need a lot more information before we can give you a meaningful estimate.
Multimedia like Flash and video can be difficult to integrate with a website. And if you’re having the design firm create the multimedia devices the you should be prepared to pay more. You should budget $750 to get some basic Flash or video on the site and another $750 or more to create the multimedia. 
1 Depending on the size of your video and your Internet connection, uploading could last anywhere from a few seconds to a few hours. 2  You can upload multiple videos at a time as long as you do not close the upload page in your browser. We are Canadian so we probably don't get the selection of ads that the top American YouTube creators get but then again PSY is Korean so he may get even less ads than we do. If we go with $1.57 per thousand then that's $1,570 per million or $1,570,000 for a billion video views.