A legal guardian is a person who has the legal authority (and the corresponding duty) to care for the personal and property interests of another person, called a ward. A guardianship for an incapacitated senior will typically arise where someone determines that a senior has become unable to care for their own person or property. Usually there is a belief that the senior is being financially exploited or about to be exploited.
Legal guardians for minors are the most common guardianship. A legal guardian acts as the primary caretaker of a child or minor. This person may be personally selected by the child’s biological parents, or appointed by the court. Legal guardians are individuals that have legal authority to care for another person. The individual being cared for is called a ward. Legal guardians must take care of their ward's personal and property interests. Legal guardianship is commonly used for: 1  Incapacitated seniors. 2  Developmentally disabled adults. 3  Minors.
Guardianship is when a court orders someone other than the child’s parent to: 1  Have custody of the child; or. 2  Manage the child's property (called estate); or. 3  Both. A legal guardian can care for a child when the parents are unable to. Guardianship of the estate. A guardianship of the estate is set up to manage a child's income, money, or other property until the child turns 18. A child may need a guardian of the estate if he or she inherits money or assets.
A legal guardianship is a relationship established by the court where one person acts for the benefit and protection of another person. A person receiving the services of a legal guardian is called a “ward”. In many cases, a legal guardianship does not end an existing parent-child relationship. That is, the parent can request the court to end a guardianship if it is in the child’s best interest. Adoption is similar to legal guardianship, but adoption is more permanent.
Conservatorship is similar to guardianship in that it is a legal relationship between a protected person and one or more individuals appointed by the court to make decisions on behalf of the protected person. 
The traditional distinction between guardians and conservators is as follows: Guardians-A guardianship is a legal right given to a person to be responsible for the food, health care, housing, and other necessities of a person deemed fully or partially incapable of providing these necessities for himself or herself. 
A legal guardian is someone appointed, usually by a court of law, to care for another person and their property. Parents should select a legal guardian for their children in the event of their death. Legal guardians are often a relative of the children. 
A legal guardian, called a conservator in some states, is someone with the legal authority to care and make decisions for a minor child or incapacitated adult. Becoming a legal guardian over someone else involves filling out a number of forms and going through one or more court proceedings. 
A guardianship is a legal relationship created when a person or institution named in a will or assigned by the court to take care of minor children or incompetent adults. Sometimes called a conservatorship. 