Best Answer: Air China is a part of the Star Alliance-the group that includes United: http://www.staralliance.com/en/about/air... and China Airlines is a Sky Miles Delta partner http://skymilesoffers.delta.com/airline_...
We give you more globe by aligning with the stars. We're excited to align with the Star Alliance member airlines. Together with our other worldwide and regional partners, plus the Star Alliance network, we keep you connected.
Alliances built around your needs. You can earn and use MileagePlus miles on more than 35 airlines worldwide. Select a Star Alliance™ or MileagePlus partner airline below for more information about earning miles on flights operated by that airline.
Star Alliance member airlines. Earn and use MileagePlus miles on any Star Alliance member airline. United Club members and customers with qualifying tickets can access eligible airport lounges around the globe.
You can redeem United miles for flights on United Airlines, but you can also redeem miles on other airlines which are part of the Star Alliance and other airlines that have partnered with United.
To further expand your travel options, you can use award miles with our other airline partners. Say goodbye to geographic limits, and use your miles to turn challenging itineraries into convenient travel plans.
Delta has partnered with top airlines around the world to give you more choices when it comes to earning miles in the air. And we all know-choice is a good thing. When you are a SkyMiles member, your loyalty is rewarded when you fly with our airline partners too. Just remember, not all partner airlines follow the same earning rules as Delta-marketed or Delta-ticketed flights.
Find out how you can earn miles with Delta's airline partners, like Aeromexico, Air France, China Southern, GOL, Virgin Atlantic and more.
Star Alliance And Other Airline Partners. You can redeem United miles for flights on United Airlines, but you can also redeem miles on other airlines which are part of the Star Alliance and other airlines that have partnered with United. You Can Fly on All These Airlines With Your United Miles!