The US continues whaling using the International Whaling Commission (IWC) exception for Aboriginal Subsistence Whaling. Catches have increased from 18 whales in 1985 to over 70 whales in 2010. The latest IWC whaling quota allows for a total of up to 336 bowhead whales can be killed in the period 2013 - 2018.
The International Whaling Commission (IWC) banned commercial whaling in 1986, and most countries participating in the IWC, including Japan, have said they will follow that ban. Japan is disappointed and regrets today's ruling, according to a statement by the chief cabinet secretary of Japan. Crew members hoist a minke whale, captured near Kushiro, Japan, aboard a ship. PHOTOGRAOH BY KYODO VIA AP Japan says it will abide by a Monday ruling from the United Nations' International Court of Justice ordering the nation to stop hunting whales off Antarctica.
In 1986, the International Whaling Commission (IWC) enacted a moratorium on all commercial whaling. Since then, three nations-Iceland, Norway, and Japan-have brutally slaughtered over 25,000 whales under the guise of scientific research and for commercial purposes. 
Not only do whales continue to be hunted by Japan, Norway and Iceland, they are also increasingly falling victim to ship strikes and being caught in nets as bycatch. Hundreds of thousands of whale and dolphins die each year in this way. Pollution, plastic trash in the ocean and overfishing are taking a heavy toll. “Save the Whales” is the famous shout out that brought millions of people together and produced a worldwide ban on commercial whaling in 1986.
The origins of whaling in the United States of America date to the 17th century in New England and peaked in 1846-52. The latest IWC whaling quota allows for a total of up to 336 bowhead whales can be killed in the period 2013 - 2018.
Contemporary whaling is subject to intense debate. Pro-whaling countries, notably Japan, Norway, and Iceland, wish to lift the ban on certain whale stocks for hunting. Anti-whaling countries and environmental groups oppose lifting the ban. Whaling is the hunting of whales primarily for meat, oil, and blubber. Its earliest forms date to at least circa 3000 BC. Various coastal communities have long histories of subsistence whaling and harvesting beached whales
A whaling ban, or moratorium, was then introduced in 1986. Even today, no one really knows how many whales are left. Unfortunately, some countries like Japan, Iceland and Norway have refused to stop whaling. They still kill thousands of whales each year between them. Japan. Japan says it is killing whales for ‘scientific research’ to discover how many whales are left and if their numbers are increasing or not. 
However, Japan is allowed to hunt whales annually under Article VIII of the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The Japanese government says it's studying whale populations. Activist groups accuse the Japanese of hunting whales to sell the meat in their country. Norway objected to the commercial whaling moratorium and filed an objection with the IWC. At the time, they imposed a quota of minke whales they are allowed to kill each year; however, they often fall short of meeting that number.
Japanese Culture and Pride. This history is an important part of why the Japanese continue to hunt whales. Attempts to stop the nation's whaling are perceived by many as a threat to Japanese culture. According to its defenders, eating whale meat is an old and impenetrable Japanese tradition. No one has the right to criticize the food culture of another people, said Matayuki Komatsu of Japan's Fisheries Agency. Japanese Whaling History. Japan has a long history of whaling. Half a dozen towns can trace their whaling history back hundreds of years, to when whales were driven into nets, harpooned repeatedly and then dispatched with either a long sword or a wooden plug driven into the blowhole.