1 In order to recertify, an EMT must possess a current EMT card and have obtained either 24 hours of approved EMS continuing education or an approved 24 hour refresher course within the past two years. 2  Any refresher course or CE must be through an approved training program. 1 How to renew an EMT certification. 2  In order to recertify, an EMT must possess a current EMT card and have obtained either 24 hours of approved EMS continuing education or an approved 24 hour refresher course within the past two years. 3
Becoming an emergency medical technician (EMT) or paramedic can take anywhere from one to three years, depending on a student’s choice of career and educational path. EMT training focuses on life support techniques in first-response situations, including CPR, tourniquet application, and treatment of wounds. start your Paramedic career. 1  What Paramedics/EMTs Do. 2  Becoming a Paramedic/EMT. 3  Paramedic Career Tools. 4  Skills. 5  Credentials. 6  Tools & Technology. 7  Paramedic Hot Jobs. 8  Spotlight Careers. 9  EMT/Emergency Services Salaries. 10  Job Prospects & Outlook. 11  Related Occupations.
For those of you who are in the process of becoming an Emergency Medical Technician and will be taking a certification test, please check our website periodically at the EMT/Paramedic Review link. We periodically update our examination questions database to help you pass this examination. 
1. Complete EMT Basic Training. EMT basic training (EMT-B) takes anywhere from six months to two years to complete, depending on the institution. These programs are offered at technical institutes and community colleges and typically include 120 to 150 hours of coursework. start your Paramedic career. 1  What Paramedics/EMTs Do. 2  Becoming a Paramedic/EMT. 3  Paramedic Career Tools. 4  Skills. 5  Credentials. 6  Tools & Technology. 7  Paramedic Hot Jobs. 8  Spotlight Careers. 9  EMT/Emergency Services Salaries. 10  Job Prospects & Outlook. 11  Related Occupations.
How to Become EMT Certified. The process for becoming an Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) differs from state to state, but the overall trajectory is similar. You must become a certified EMT before you can move on to learning advanced life support skills in paramedic courses. 1 Just find someone who wants you to ride along. 2  Becoming a volunteer EMT at a fire station is a great use of your time. 3  Also consider how you can turn this into a job at a hospital, resident camp, nursing home, or factory.
Find the class or classes right for you. Some employers are looking for certified paramedics to fill EMT slots, but the Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) designation may be right for you if you're just looking for an entry level certification to test the waters. 1 Just find someone who wants you to ride along. 2  Becoming a volunteer EMT at a fire station is a great use of your time. 3  Also consider how you can turn this into a job at a hospital, resident camp, nursing home, or factory.
By EMS1 Contributors. The requirements to be a paramedic are extremely rigorous, so it’s not an undertaking or a career choice to be taken lightly. A paramedic is the highest level of EMT (Emergency Medical Technician) certification. Related content sponsored by. The first of the training requirements to be a paramedic is to get certified as an EMT-B, which is the first and most basic level of EMT training. The EMT-B training is available through many community colleges and other institutions. It usually takes about six months to complete the 120 to 150 hours of training. After that, you take a state certification test. As an EMT, you can be employed providing emergency treatment in ambulances and many other venues
To earn certification from the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians (NREMT), the curriculum for the EMT-Basic program must comply with the U.S. Department of Transportation EMT-Basic National Standard Curriculum. Programs often offer classroom study and hands-on training in medical facilities. Continuing education is required to keep the certification valid. EMT-Intermediate and paramedic certificate programs are also available, and the EMT-Basic is typically the prerequisite for these programs. Some schools offer associate degree programs at the paramedic level.