A Letter of Agency (LOA) is a document authorizing a telecommunications provider to act on a consumer's behalf. Some vendors may also call this a Letter of Authorization This is generally required in the United States when switching a telephone service provider while keeping the current telephone number or any other service which requires transfer of information from one provider to another.
LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION (LOA). Notes are in bold font. Information to be filled in is in italics. Date: Enter the Submission date of the LOA. DMF#: Enter the DMF number. Holder: Enter the Name of Holder. Subject (Title): Enter the Subject (Title)of the DMF as it appears on the DMF Web site. A copy of the LOA MUST be sent to the Authorized Party. Submission of an LOA does NOT permit the Authorized Party to examine the DMF. The FDA does not have open and closed parts of DMFs. All LOAs must have a
To generate the letter and letterhead information from a simple form: Simply complete this online form (opens in new browser window) and press the  Generate LOA!  button. Once you do this, a cutomized Letter of Authority document will be created in a new browser window. Before any telecommunications vendor or carrier will speak with — let alone work with — TeleAdvice Incorporated (or with any third-party entity, for that matter) on your behalf, they require that you submit a properly executed Letter of Authority (LOA) document.
h) [Health Care Provider Name] certifies that [ name of person authorized to sign LOA ] is authorized to sign this Letter of Agency and is authorized to act on behalf of [ Health Care Provider Name] in matters related to the Pilot Program. 
1 CenturyLink requires you obtain a LOA when a Lease Arrangement is in effect. 2  For example: when the Access Customer Terminal Location (ACTL) or Connecting Facility Assignment (CFA) provided on the Customer Service Record (CSR) is a different customer of record than the ordering customer (CCNA). 1 This is indicated on the ASR form in the Agency Authorization (AGAUTH) field. 2  The LOA must be received prior to the initiation of the work requested. 3  An unsigned LOA can be provided and is considered confirmation that you have the actual signed and legal LOA in your possession.
LOA-CFA (also called CFA-LOA) is an abbreviation of two related terms. The LOA-CFA document typically includes who issued the document, who it is provided to, and what specific facilities have been reserved for use by the new carrier. The document may include legal conditions that both parties agree to concerning cancellation, reciprocation of information or other issue
These terms are: Letter Of Authority and Customer Facility Assignment. An LOA-CFA typically refers to the document issued by a Telecommunications carrier to another carrier giving them permission to use a specified facility assignment for interconnection. The LOA-CFA document typically includes who issued the document, who it is provided to, and what specific facilities have been reserved for use by the new carrier. The document may include legal conditions that both parties agree to concerning cancellation, reciprocation of information or other issues
Introduction This site is provided as a gathering place for Telecom resources that you would commonly find in any other library. There will be reference materials listed for Telecommunications industry use, as well as links to related areas and sites on the internet. 