Veneer Peeling Lathe Machine is mainly used in the plywood and veneer making companies for producing veneer from the wood (log). For making plywood this machine is first step to manufacturing veneer and plywood.
Then you have a veneer saw. This is a much more versatile machine for use in a custom shop. The veneer is first cut with a saw blade. This roughly sizes the veneer and leaves the bundle about 2mm oversize.
We have manufacturing following types of veneer peeling lathe machines such as: Spindle veneer peeling machines. Veneer peeling machine 56” (1400mm), 1350mm, 2600mm and Face veneer peeling lathe 108” (2750mm) and other models according to our customer’s specific requirements.
It is a thin slice of wood cut from a log with a slicing, peeling, or sawing machine. It is used on plywood, fine furniture, and laminated shapes for decorative and architectural purposes. Before a log is cut into veneer, it is often steamed or soaked in a bath of very hot water.
We are also leading manufacturers, exporters and suppliers of veneer cutting machines. These machines are widely used in the all kind of plywood & veneer making industries for cutting core veneers & face veneers.
Veneer-Cutting Machinery A thumbnail description of the various types of machinery for producing wood veneer. July 13, 2006 Question I have been looking into veneer cutting equipment and I am trying to figure out the differences between a veneer crosscut clipper, a veneer jointer, or a guillotine.
Some of our machine includes Roller Veneer Dryer, Veneer Dryer, Hot Press, Guillotine Jointer, Automatic DD Saw and Glue Spreader. These machines are used in furniture and wood craft industry for cutting veneer & plywood and to remove the extra moisture of the veneer. We design these machines at our state of the art manufacturing unit by using quality approved materials and modern techniques.
Burls veneers will show any one of three orientations in grain. 1  The most common is frequently referred to as cat's paw because of the circles of grain which sit side by side. 2  This figure is the result of slicing the veneer from the outside face of the veneer on a rotary slicing machine.
Veneer application is both an art and a science, but machine technology has made precision application far easier, with a minimum of wasted time and materials. Each piece of veneer is a natural product, costly to produce, so it’s important that you’re confident and comfortable with the various machines used to apply it.