THE CAUCASUS, ITS PEOPLES, AND ITS HISTORY. THE history of Russia has been a series of expansions to the west, the south, and the east, towards the open sea. Each territory occupied was, sooner or later, absorbed into the Empire of which it became in every way an integral part. Caucasia is a broad isthmus between the Black Sea and the Caspian, traversed by a great chain of mountains rising to a height of 18,000 feet. North of the range is a region of interminable plains, known as the Northern Caucasus, or Ciscaucasia, merging imperceptibly into the steppes of the Don and the Volga.
Caucasus. The Caucasus region is a mountain range lying between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, considered part of the natural boundary between Europe and Asia. Geographically it is usually considered part of Western Asia, adjacent to northeastern Turkey and northwestern Iran. 
Most governments advise against all travel to these regions. If you must go, please see War zone safety and the Stay Safe section below. The North Caucasus is a region of the Caucasus located in Southern Russia, bordering Georgia to the south and Krasnodar Krai, Stavropol Krai, and Kalmykia to the north.
The Caucasus /ˈkɔːkəsəs/ or Caucasia /kɔːˈkeɪʒə/ is a region at the border of Europe and Asia, situated between the Black and the Caspian seas. The highest peak in the Caucasus is Mount Elbrus (5,642 m) in the western Ciscaucasus in Russia, and is generally considered as the highest point in Europe. The Caucasus is one of the most linguistically and culturally diverse regions on Earth.
Russia mountains are spread across the country, as its vast expanse is home to many ranges. The Ural Mountains and the Caucasus Mountains are the most famous, and all contribute to the variety of landscapes that makes up the diverse country. Russia Map. The border of Mongolia is home to another set of Russia mountains: the Sayan mountains located in southern Siberia. Bordering Lake Baikal, the largest freshwater lake in the world, these mountains provide a beautiful backdrop for travelers visiting the region.
I found it interesting that the Caucasus Mountains are technically considered to be a continuation of the Himalayas. The entire Caucasus region is prone to strong earthquakes. The highest peak is Mount Elbrus (18,510 ft.) which is considered the highest point in Europe. 
The highest peak in the Caucasus range is Mount Elbrus in the Greater Caucasus, which rises to a height of 5,642 metres (18,510 ft) above sea level. Mountains near Sochi hosted part of the 2014 Winter Olympics. The northeastern regions (Dagestan) and the southern portions of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are the driest. The absolute minimum annual precipitation is 250 mm (9.84 in) in the northeastern Caspian Depression.
Understand [edit]. The Northern Caucasus is one of Russia's most beautiful regions and is most certainly its most mountainous. Its peaks are Europe 's and Russia 's highest. In the west, near the Black Sea, the climate is subtropical, while the eastern areas near the Caspian Sea are more arid. If you must go, please see War zone safety and the Stay Safe section below. The North Caucasus is a region of the Caucasus located in Southern Russia, bordering Georgia to the south and Krasnodar Krai, Stavropol Krai, and Kalmykia to the north.
The Caucasus Mountains is defined as the continental divide between Asia and Europe for the region between the Black and Caspian Seas. The table below lists some of the highest peaks of the Caucasus. With the exception of Shkhara, the heights are taken from Soviet 1:50,000 mapping. The northeastern regions (Dagestan) and the southern portions of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are the driest. The absolute minimum annual precipitation is 250 mm (9.84 in) in the northeastern Caspian Depression.