Essential Information. A physical therapy assistant (PTA) is not required to hold a license. However, many states regulate physical therapy assistants by ensuring that they complete some form of credentialing, whether that's certification, licensure or registration. Those states that do require a license to practice also ensure that a minimum number of continuing education courses be completed to keep the license valid. State licensing boards are the best source of information on requirements governing physical therapy assistants.
Physical therapist aides work under the direct supervision of a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant. They usually are responsible for keeping the treatment area clean and organized, and preparing for each patient's therapy. They also help patients who need assistance moving to or from a treatment area. Physical therapist assistants (sometimes called PTAs) and physical therapist aides work under the direction and supervision of physical therapists. They help patients who are recovering from injuries and illnesses regain movement and manage pain.
Many states regulate the physical therapy assistant occupation, but a license is not required to work. However, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (www.bls.gov) mentions that most states regulate the profession by requiring physical therapy assistants to hold either a license, certificate or registration. Those states that do require a license to practice also ensure that a minimum number of continuing education courses be completed to keep the license valid. State licensing boards are the best source of information on requirements governing physical therapy assistants.
Licensure. APTA does not license physical therapists (PTs) or physical therapist assistants (PTAs); licensure is managed by the individual state regulatory boards. APTA also doesn't administer the licensure exams for PTs and PTAs as this is handled by the Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy (FSBPT) . Physical therapist assistants (PTAs) are licensed or certified in 50 states and DC (Hawaii enacted licensure for PTAs in 2013 and should begin licensing PTAs in 2014.).
Question: What examinations do I have to take? Answer: For licensure as a Physical Therapist or Physical Therapist Assistant, you must pass the National Physical Therapy Examination (NPTE). The passing score is 600, the criterion-referenced score set by the Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy. 
Licensure is required in each state in which a physical therapist practices and must be renewed on a regular basis, with a majority of states requiring continuing education as a requirement for renewal. Physical therapist assistants (PTAs) are licensed or certified in 50 states and DC (Hawaii enacted licensure for PTAs in 2013 and should begin licensing PTAs in 2014.).
Licensure or certification is required in each state in which a PTA works and must be renewed on a regular basis, with a majority of states requiring continuing education as a requirement for renewal. PTAs' scope of work and supervision requirements are defined by the physical therapy practice act in each state. Physical therapist assistants (PTAs) are licensed or certified in 50 states and DC (Hawaii enacted licensure for PTAs in 2013 and should begin licensing PTAs in 2014.).
Continuing education is required for license renewal of physical therapists and physical therapist assistants in order to ensure that New Mexico licensees are providing the highest quality professional services. 1  Thirty (30) hours of continuing education will be required biennially. Licensure By Endorsement: A license may be issued to a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant who provides verification of all licenses from other U.S. jurisdictions, and meets all the requirements in 16.20.3.8 NMAC. The board will accept verifications via regular mail, electronic mail, or facsimile.