Noun [edit]. myth ‎(plural myths). 1  A traditional story which embodies a belief regarding some fact or phenomenon of experience, and in which often the forces of nature and of the soul are personified; a sacred narrative regarding a god, a hero, the origin of the world or of a people, etc. ( 2 uncountable) Such stories as a genre. 
The word mythology, exposition of myths, comes from Middle French mythologie, from Late Latin mythologia, from Greek μυθολογία mythologia legendary lore, a telling of mythic legends; a legend, story, tale, from μῦθος mythos myth and -λογία -logia study.. Historically, the important approaches to the study of mythology have been those of Vico, Schelling, Schiller, Jung, Freud, Levy-Lévy, Bruhl-Levi, Lévi, strauss Frye the, soviet school And the Myth And. ritual school
Mythology is a collection of myths, especially one belonging to a particular religious or cultural tradition of a group of people–their collection of stories they tell to explain nature, history, and customs –or the study of such myths. As a collection of such stories, mythology is a vital feature of every culture. Historically, the important approaches to the study of mythology have been those of Vico, Schelling, Schiller, Jung, Freud, Levy-Lévy, Bruhl-Levi, Lévi, strauss Frye the, soviet school And the Myth And. ritual school
1,202 pages on this wiki. This category is for Mythology categories. To add a category to this category, add [[Category:Mythology]] to the bottom of the category page. “The term Mythology can refer to the study of myths or to a body or collection of myths. In... Mythology. “ The term Mythology can refer to the study of myths or to a body or collection of myths. In... 
mythologer. a narrator of myths and legends. mythology. 1. a body of stories relating the traditional origins and causes of the world, natural forces and phenomena, and cultural developments, as that of a particular people or relating to a particular person. 2. a collection of myths. 3. the science of myths.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in Greek representational arts, such as vase-paintings and votive gifts. Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language.
Full Definition of MYTHOLOGY. 1. : an allegorical narrative. 2. : a body of myths: as a: the myths dealing with the gods, demigods, and legendary heroes of a particular people. 3. : a branch of knowledge that deals with myth. 4. — my·thol·o·ger \-jər\ noun. 
Definition of MYTH for Kids. 1. : a story often describing the adventures of beings with more than human powers that attempts to explain mysterious events (as the changing of the seasons) or that explains a religious belief or practice. 2. : such stories as a group. Full Definition of MYTH. 1. a: a usually traditional story of ostensibly historical events that serves to unfold part of the world view of a people or explain a practice, belief, or natural phenomenon b: parable, allegory. 2. b: an unfounded or false notion.
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks, concerning their gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices. Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language.
n. 1. a. A traditional, typically ancient story dealing with supernatural beings, ancestors, or heroes that serves as a fundamental type in the worldview of a people, as by explaining aspects of the natural world or delineating the psychology, customs, or ideals of society: the myth of Eros and Psyche; a creation myth. myth. 1. a traditional or legendary story, esp. one that involves gods and heroes and explains a cultural practice or natural phenomenon. 2. stories of this kind collectively. 3. an invented story, fictitious person, etc.: His account of the event is pure myth.