Blacktop (Asphalt) Driveway Sealing-How to Video. For optimum performance (and warranty purposes) apply two coats at an application rate of no more than 350 square feet per 5-gallon pail per coat. Allow first coat to dry completely before applying second coat. Allow sealer to cure 24-48 hours before opening to vehicle traffic.
Pavement sealer will not adhere properly to a dirty driveway. It's important to clean the entire driveway with a garden hose. Extremely dirty areas may also require the use of brooms. Then, use a driveway edger to trim grass and weeds. For optimum performance (and warranty purposes) apply two coats at an application rate of no more than 350 square feet per 5-gallon pail per coat. Allow first coat to dry completely before applying second coat. Allow sealer to cure 24-48 hours before opening to vehicle traffic.
1 Asphalt sealers cure in just a few hours, but the driveway cannot be used for vehicle traffic for 24-48 hours. 2  The ambient temperature outside must be a minimum of 60°F or more within a 24 hour period before and after making your repair. This includes concrete surfaces, brick, gutters, or anything that might come in contact with the sealer. For neater edges, you can use a dry brush to apply driveway sealer. Step 3 Open the bucket and begin to pour the sealer from one side of the pavement to the other pouring a six-inch wide bead of sealer.
Application temperature must be a minimum of 60°F and rising. Do not apply when temperature is expected to drop below 60°F within a 24 hour period. In areas where dew or fog accumulates in the early evening, it is best to coat in the morning. For optimum performance (and warranty purposes) apply two coats at an application rate of no more than 350 square feet per 5-gallon pail per coat. Allow first coat to dry completely before applying second coat. Allow sealer to cure 24-48 hours before opening to vehicle traffic.
Temperature plays a critical role in how fast or even whether this reaction occurs. The best temperature range for applying sealers is 50 to 90 degrees F. That 40-degree window is really not very big, especially when you're working outside. This is why monitoring weather conditions and looking at a thermometer should be mandatory before every sealer application. As the temperature increases, so does the reactivity of the sealer. Increased reactivity decreases the working time, or pot life, of the sealer. The faster the reactivity, the less time the sealer has to wet out the surface, de-gas, and form its film.
1 Apply your asphalt driveway sealer in thin, overlapping coats with a long-handled application brush or squeegee. 2  Drying time is a minimum of 24 hours, during which time you should not allow traffic of any kind on the surface, but especially automobile traffic. 1 Avoid the more is better pitfall and follow the asphalt driveway sealer manufacturer's instructions. 2  Asphalt driveway sealer should be applied within 6 months of installation and every one to three years thereafter.
Preparing Your Driveway for Asphalt Sealing. No-mix driveway sealer is used directly out of the pail with no blending or mixing required. Before applying driveway sealer, get familiar with your product and how to use it. In general: 1  Asphalt sealers cure in just a few hours, but the driveway cannot be used for vehicle traffic for 24-48 hours. This includes concrete surfaces, brick, gutters, or anything that might come in contact with the sealer. For neater edges, you can use a dry brush to apply driveway sealer. Step 3 Open the bucket and begin to pour the sealer from one side of the pavement to the other pouring a six-inch wide bead of sealer.
Prepare the Area. Sealer should be applied only in hot, summer months and when rain is not expected for at least 36 hours. Do not apply the sealer unless the temperature will be above 60 degrees for the next 24 hours. Start by barricading the driveway against traffic and power-washing the surface. Before applying sealer, put on old clothes and tie up your feet with plastic bags to protect your shoes. Step 2. Sealer should be applied only in hot, summer months and when rain is not expected for at least 36 hours. Do not apply the sealer unless the temperature will be above 60 degrees for the next 24 hours.
Allow crack filler to dry 24 hours. If desired, a second application may be applied to compensate for shrinkage of the first application. Allow crack sealant to dry for 24 hours prior to appling driveway sealer. For optimum performance (and warranty purposes) apply two coats at an application rate of no more than 350 square feet per 5-gallon pail per coat. Allow first coat to dry completely before applying second coat. Allow sealer to cure 24-48 hours before opening to vehicle traffic.