The solution for step throat is antibiotics. The strep throat incubation period is 3 day but in some people it can last for more than 8 days. Well, going further with the question how long is strep throat contagious after antibiotics, the answer is only till 24 hours after the intake of antibiotic. If strep throat is left untreated then it may be contagious for more than 10 - 15 days.
In trying to find out how long is your strep throat contagious, you must remember when the symptoms first appeared. Usually there is a 2 to 5 day asymptomatic period after exposure to the bacteria. During this period, you will inevitably spread the strep throat to the people you come in contact with. If you are not sure you have strep throat, consult your physician and get tested. [Not a valid template]. Although this disease is most contagious when the symptoms are present, it can be contagious for up to 3-4 weeks if left untreated, even if the individual feels fine.
Strep throat is a contagious bacterial infection caused by Group A Streptococcus bacteria. It is treated with antibiotics to prevent a serious but rare complication called rheumatic fever. Strep throat occurs most often in children ages 5 to 15 years and spreads easily through coughing and sneezing. 
In the past, when people had signs of strep -- the red, raw throat, spikes in fever, and white spots on the tongue and tonsils -- doctors would culture a specimen from the patient's throat and wait 24 hours to 48 hours for the results. If the test indicated streptococcus, the patient could then start taking antibiotics. The contagious period is over after being on antibiotics for 24 hours. Relief from the sore throat should come within 24 hours to 36 hours after you start taking antibiotics. Doctors recommend throat lozenges, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen and gargling with warm salt water to ease the pain for the first few hour
Within 3 days after exposure to the germ that causes strep's painful sore throat, you may get sick. Once infected with strep, you are contagious for up to 2 to 3 weeks, even without symptoms. However, taking antibiotics you will no longer spread the bacteria to others after about 24 hours. 
Strep throat is contagious but the question is how long does strep throat lasts. Strep throat can spread from one person to another. It is found specially in children because they come in contact with so many children who are infected. They play, study, fight and do all kinds of activity together. Well, going further with the question how long is strep throat contagious after antibiotics, the answer is only till 24 hours after the intake of antibiotic. If strep throat is left untreated then it may be contagious for more than 10 - 15 days.
Advertisement. Strep throat is a contagious disease caused due to Streptococcus bacteria. It is commonly found in children between the age group of 5 to 16 years. Strep throat can be contagious for 2 to 3 days if treated and more than a week if left untreated. Well, going further with the question how long is strep throat contagious after antibiotics, the answer is only till 24 hours after the intake of antibiotic. If strep throat is left untreated then it may be contagious for more than 10 - 15 days.
Get help from a doctor now ›. 2 - 5 Days:  Strep throat  is caused by a bacterial infection with Group A Streptococcus. The period between intial infection with bacteria and appearance of symptoms is 2 to 5 days. 
Strep throat can be passed from person to person. When a person who has strep throat breathes, coughs, or sneezes, tiny droplets with the strep bacteria go into the air. These droplets can be breathed in by other people. If you come into contact with strep, it will take 2 to 5 days before you start to have symptoms. 