Bennche Bighorn 700X Crew. I teamed up with Joey from UTVUnderground.com and Troy from UTV Off-Road Magazine to cover the 2011 Mud Nationals in Texas. Since we drove all the way out from California, we really did not want to have to tow anything. Think of the 700X Crew is a value-based people mover that comes with some nice features right out of the box. For instance, if you are in a state where you can make a UTV street-legal, the 700X comes ready to go with windshield, mirrors, horn and blinkers.
After reviewing what Bennche has and is doing, Texas Rangers has decided to team up with Bennche and made Bennche the official ATV & UTV of the Texas Rangers. Moreover, fans now have chance to join Rangers Captain for a ride of Bennche UTV around the ballpark warning track during each home game. Bennche Named Official ATV & UTV of the Texas Rangers. Bennche is now the official ATV & UTV of the Texas Rangers. Founded in Texas, Bennche has been building its ATV & UTV (Side by Side ATV) in Carrollton Texas. Not only we want to make Texas our home and headquarters, but also we want to be proud of being part of Texas
Bennche is a newly formed factory-direct distributor of ATVs, UTVs and motorcycles. Though based out of Texas, Bennche products are made by top manufacturers in China. Bennche stands by its off-road vehicles with an unlimited 12-month warranty on the engine and drive system. 1  Email a friend. Overall User Rating 3 of 16 2015 Bennche ATV Tweet Performance Ride & Comfort Quality & Reliability Value 2015 Bennche Spire 250 Reviews View All 2015 Bennche Spire 250 Reviews View All Photos & Videos MSRP $4,599.00 Specs Get a Quote.
2012 Bennche Prices, Values and Specs. Read more Read less. An American manufacturer with a diverse line, Bennche products include neighborhood vehicles, road bikes, off-road motorcycles, ATVs, side-by-side vehicles, and even street legal side-by-side utility vehicles. Bennche products are known for their quality and affordability. 
UTV Side x Side ATV Built in USA. This photo is not taken in China or any other countries. It is taken in USA! Yes, Bennche is in the process of constructing a production line here in the good ole USA to make its UTVs and ATVs. While many companies are sending jobs to overseas, Bennche is thinking the opposite way to bring its production back to USA.
Bennche is a newly formed factory-direct distributor of motorcycles and other powersports products. Though based out of Texas, Bennche products are made by top manufacturers in China. Bennche stands by its motorcycles with an 18-month limited warranty with unlimited mileage on the engine and drive system.
Bennche is also honored to be recognized as the Official ATV & UTV of the Texas Rangers. The partnership with the Texas Rangers has further established Bennche as a trustworthy brand and company. Don’t miss Captain, the Rangers’ mascot, cruising the field in a Bennche! Bennche Tops Dallas 100™Awards. Bennche-The Official ATV & UTV of the Dallas Cowboys. The Dallas Cowboys are known as America’s Team and Bennche is beyond proud to be named the Official ATV & UTV of the Dallas Cowboys. Bennche is delighted to team up with this dynamic franchise to showcase our American-built vehicles and our beaming Texas pride
Bennche is proudly recognized as one of the elite Dallas-based businesses selected for the 2013 Dallas 100™ Awards. The Dallas 100™ Awards is an annual event that identifies and honors the 100 fastest-growing, privately held companies in the Dallas area. Bennche-The Official ATV & UTV of the Dallas Cowboys. The Dallas Cowboys are known as America’s Team and Bennche is beyond proud to be named the Official ATV & UTV of the Dallas Cowboys. Bennche is delighted to team up with this dynamic franchise to showcase our American-built vehicles and our beaming Texas pride