A test for B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) is primarily used to help detect, diagnose, and evaluate the severity of heart failure. 
A brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test measures the amount of the BNP hormone in your blood. BNP is made by your heart and shows how well your heart is working. Normally, only a low amount of BNP is found in your blood. Why It Is Done. The brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test is used to: 1  Check for heart failure. 2  A doctor may think you have heart failure if you are having problems such as trouble breathing and swelling (edema) in the arms or legs. 3  Find out how severe heart failure is. 4  Check the response to treatment for heart failure
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Brain natriuretic peptide or B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) (also ventricular natriuretic peptide) is a 32-amino acid polypeptide secreted by the ventricles of the heart in response to excessive stretching of heart muscle cells (cardiomyocytes). 
The B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) Test is a blood test for heart failure. It measures the level of B-type natriuretic peptide in your blood. Your heart 's ventricles produce extra B-type natriuretic peptide when they can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs. So if your B-type natriuretic peptide level is high, you probably have heart failure. The higher the levels are at diagnosis, the worse your heart failure is likely to be.
Quantity: * Whole number only. The B-Type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) blood test measures the level of BNP, an amino acid polypeptide secreted by the heart. BNP is produced by the ventricles in response to excessive stretching of heart muscle cells
B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) Blood Test. BNP is a substance secreted from the ventricles or lower chambers of the heart in response to changes in pressure that occur when heart failure develops and worsens. The level of BNP in the blood increases when heart failure symptoms worsen, and decreases when the heart failure condition is stable. Preparation. To test the BNP level, a small amount of blood is taken and placed in a machine that detects the level of BNP in your blood. The test takes about 15 minutes. The BNP level helps to determine if you have heart failure, rather than another condition that may cause similar symptoms
When heart failure develops or worsens, the ventricles or lower chambers of the heart produce a substance that breaks down to form two proteins: B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal-pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP). Both substances are secreted in response to changes in pressure that occur with heart failure. During a BNP blood test, a small amount of blood is taken and placed in a machine that detects the level of BNP and NT-pro-BNP. The test takes about 15 minutes. In some places, the blood sample needs to be sent off site to a lab to be tested.