Carbohydrates are basically sugar and starch. They break down into glucose molecules in the body in digestion. When used as energy (glucose), carbohydrates become fuel f … or your muscles and brain. If your body does not have any use for the glucose, it is converted into glycogen and stored it in the liver and muscles as an energy reserve.
Comparison of Starch and Cellulose. Both starches and cellulose are carbohydrates which are classified as polysaccharides since they are composed of chains of glucose molecules. While they are similar, starches can be used as energy sources by the human body while cellulose cannot. Enzymes are important in the metabolism of foods, and these enzymes are very specific. They are somewhat like keys which will fit the geometry of the starch bonds, but not those of the cellulose bonds. Foods such as potatoes, rice, corn and wheat contain starch granules which are important energy sources for humans. The human digestive process breaks down the starches into glucose units with the aid of enzymes, and those glucose molecules can circulate in the blood stream as an energy source.
Function of Starch. The only function of starch in the human diet is to convert into glucose for energy. Starch begins breaking down in your mouth, where saliva surrounds complex starch molecules. As you chew, saliva breaks up starch into simpler carbohydrates called maltose. Eventually starch is broken down into glucose, which is the main source of fuel for all cells. Since carbohydrates, like starch, play such a big role in providing energy, most of your caloric intake should come from this macronutrient.
If what you mean by starch, is carbohydrates, then it turns to sugar in the body, which acts as an energy boost that is short lived. If you are diabetic it is best to stay away carbohydrates in large amounts as this will cause your blood sugar to rise and fall in extremes. Not good for us. 
Starch is a carbohydrate, the kind of macronutrient that should make up the bulk of your diet. When you digest starch, it is broken down into its simplest form and the excess is stored for later use. However, unlike plants, the human body stores starch in a different form. Glycogen. Glycogen is the body's storage form of starch, though it is technically glucose. To understand this, you must understand that starch is a plant's storage form of glucose. However, as humans, we store the same glucose as glycogen.
The nutrients in the foods you eat keep your body healthy. The sugar, fat, protein and starches in the foods you eat each day are critical in maintaining your health. Your body uses them for energy and movement, and they provide the building blocks for biological molecules in your cells and tissues.