Comparing Quotes. The total cost of air ambulance flights can range widely, from five digits all the way up to six in some rare cases. In general, a flight will be at least $10,000, but can cost more depending on the distance of the transport as well as any specialized staff and equipment that must be on board. Because air ambulance flights can cost so much, compare quotes from different air ambulances if you can. There exist a lot of variables that can affect the total price of an air ambulance flight. Nevertheless, while it is an important consideration for many people, price alone shouldn’t be the ultimate decision-maker when it comes to which air ambulance service you choose.
Life Flight Network (LFN) is the nation’s largest not-for-profit air medical service and has provided residents across the Northwest and Intermountain West with the finest air medical transport for more than 36 years. 
1 Arranging an air ambulance flight through a broker can add hundreds or thousands of dollars to the final cost due to commissions paid to the broker. 2  Or, a service such as AirAmbulanceBroker.com provides price quotes from various companies for free. 1 Air ambulance service typically is covered by health insurance in certain types of emergencies or if a doctor certifies that air transport is medically necessary, and if a patient is going to the nearest appropriate facility.
Life Flight. Intermountain Life Flight is committed to providing excellence in air transport services to hospitals and EMS agencies in the Intermountain West. With medical teams that include adult, pediatric, neonatal, and respiratory specialists, Life Flight delivers extraordinary patient care utilizing the safest, quickest, and most appropriate means of transport by helicopter, fixed wing, or ground ambulance.
Memorial Hermann Life Flight is a critical care air medical transport service based in Houston, Texas. We serve the community within a 150-mile radius of the Texas Medical Center with helicopters and worldwide using fixed-wing transport. 
1 For a flight from Arizona to Australia, Air Ambulance 1 charges about $155,000 on a light jet, if staffed by paramedics (about $160,000 if staffed by a doctor and nurse) or about $177,000 on a mid-sized jet (about $182,000 if staffed by a doctor and nurse). 1 Air ambulance service typically is covered by health insurance in certain types of emergencies or if a doctor certifies that air transport is medically necessary, and if a patient is going to the nearest appropriate facility.
Costs range from $12,000 to $25,000 per flight Every year, an estimated 550,000 patients in the United States are flown by medical helicopters and small airplanes for emergencies that include car wrecks, hiking accidents and heart attacks, according to the Association of Air Medical Services. After facing one air flight tab of more than $11,000 and paying the more than $8,000 that their health insurance didn't cover, Bob and Denise Wisener wanted to find a way to ward off any future big bills.
Air Ambulance & Medevac Services. AeroCare is a nationally recognized and accredited provider of worldwide air ambulance and medevac services. AeroCare’s air medical transport services also include commercial flight nurse escorts throughout the world. AeroCare offers 24 hour emergency and non-emergency medevac and medical transport services throughout the world. With aircraft bases in Illinois and Arizona, our aircraft are strategically located to provide optimal response times and cost effective air ambulance pricing.
1 For example, Air Ambulance 1 charges about $2,500 for a 55-mile flight on a twin-engine propeller plane, staffed by paramedics, from Saint Joseph, MO, to Kansas City, MO. 2  Air Ambulance 1 charges about $25,000 for a flight on a light jet, staffed by paramedics, from Kansas City to Los Angeles. 1 Air ambulance service typically is covered by health insurance in certain types of emergencies or if a doctor certifies that air transport is medically necessary, and if a patient is going to the nearest appropriate facility.
Air Ambulance Flight Costs. If you or a family member will be needing an air ambulance flight in the near future, it’s a good time to do a little research and quote-gathering. It’s important to begin compiling a list of air ambulance services that will be capable of meeting the patient’s needs. There exist a lot of variables that can affect the total price of an air ambulance flight. Nevertheless, while it is an important consideration for many people, price alone shouldn’t be the ultimate decision-maker when it comes to which air ambulance service you choose.