In writing the titles of newspapers, do not italicize the word the, even when it is part of the title (the New York Times), and do not italicize the name of the city in which the newspaper is published unless that name is part of the title: the Hartford Courant, but the London Times. It is still a good idea to ask your instructor before using italics. (The APA Publication Manual continues to insist on underlining.) In this section, we will use italics only, but they should be considered interchangeable with underlined text.
Italics and underlining are like flashers on road signs. They make you take notice. Italics and underlining can be used interchangeably, although usually underlining is used when something is either hand written or typed; if using a computer you can italicize. Italics or underlining are used most often: for titles of longer works: books, magazines, newspapers, films, TV shows, a complete symphony, plays, long poems, albums:
Italic type was first used by Aldus Manutius and the Aldine Press in 1500, in the frontispiece of an edition of Catherine of Siena 's letters (although the first complete book in italic was an edition of Virgil dedicated to Italy, published the following year). Unlike the italic type of today, the capital letters were upright roman capitals which were shorter than the ascending lower-case italic letters and used about 65 tied letters (ligatures) in the Aldine Dante and Virgil of 1501.
If you start using italics, don't switch to underlining within the same document. Italics or underlining are used most often: for titles of longer works: books, magazines, newspapers, films, TV shows, a complete symphony, plays, long poems, albums: Albert Borgmann's book, Crossing the Postmodern Divide
Italics and Underlining. Italics and underlining generally serve similar purposes. However, the context for their use is different. When handwriting a document--or in other situations where italics aren't an option--use underlining. When you are word processing a document on a computer, use italics. The important thing is to stay consistent in how you use italics and underlining. Italicize the titles of magazines, books, newspapers, academic journals, films, television shows, long poems, plays, operas, musical albums, works of art, websites
Guidelines for Using Italics. 1. As a general rule, italicize the titles of complete works: The titles of comparatively short works--songs, poems, short stories, essays, and episodes of TV programs--should be enclosed in quotation marks. As a general rule, italicize the names of aircraft, ships, and trains; foreign words used in an English sentence; and words and letters discussed as words and letters:  1 These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise 2  .. (title sequence of the original Star Trek TV series).
Italics can be useful for denoting titles in your text, setting off foreign words, and providing emphasis for your readers. But there are many different rules for using italics that can make it confusing to know how to use them the right way. If you need to use italics in a paper or just want to know how to use them for your own personal knowledge, this article can help.
When you really need to emphasize a word in writing, italics are the best way to do it. Italics can be used to ensure readers recognize the word requires emphasis. The effective use of italics in this manner can add flare to writing and indicate more poignant text: Susan yelled, I hate microeconomics!. 
Use italics to denote the titles of long creative works. You should italicize the titles of long creative works in your paper. These include books, long poems, plays, television shows and films, artworks, or musical compositions. If you need to use italics in a paper or just want to know how to use them for your own personal knowledge, this article can help.
Definition: A style of typeface in which letters are slanted to the right. This is printed in italics. In handwriting, the equivalent of italics is underlining. As shown below, italics are most commonly used for the titles of works that stand by themselves, such as the names of books, films, and video games. It is important to get italics right in formal, academic and published writing, says Jesse Karjalainen. As a general rule, italicize the names of aircraft, ships, and trains; foreign words used in an English sentence; and words and letters discussed as words and letters:  1 These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise 2  .. (title sequence of the original Star Trek TV series).