It can take a torn ACL about 7-9 months to heal. You will need to go through the rehabilitation process for a period of time before you become 100%. Most of these conditions c … omes from playing sports, which is most common with athlete players. + 4 others found this useful. 
a hamstring reconstruction will take 45-60 mins depending on the surgeon. recovery will be quick as the incisions are small. your hamtring and knee will be slightly sore, but rehab will get you back to full fitness within a few weeks. Source(s): i'm a senior physiotherapist (physical therapist) with 13 years experience. Best Answer: I'm pretty sure my acl surgery was at least 2 hours. And I was in recovery for 5, mostly because I was in a lot of pain. I also had a hamstring graft, so my hamstrings were extremely sore when I came out of surgery, because I guess the nerve block didn't block the pain from the hamstrings. Source(s):
A. It depends on your occupation. It is never a mistake to take more time off in the beginning of your recovery, as it will give you time to focus on your surgery. I recommend taking at least 7 days off of work after ACL surgery if you have a sedentary job. If your meniscus does not need to be repaired, I typically remove the brace when I see you for your first follow up 10-14 days after the surgery. I recommend that you use the crutches until you can walk without a limp.
To care for your incision while it heals, you need to keep it clean and dry and watch for signs of infection. Physical rehabilitation after ACL surgery may take several months to a year. The length of time until you can return to normal activities or sports is different for every person. It may range from 4 to 6 months. 
A. Patients go home with crutches and a brace. If your meniscus does not need to be repaired, I typically remove the brace when I see you for your first follow up 10-14 days after the surgery. I recommend that you use the crutches until you can walk without a limp. This usually takes approximately 1 month from the time of surgery
The goal is for the graft to heal to the bone and at one year, will be as strong as your original ACL. To decrease the amount of pain you have after surgery, a femoral nerve block will be offered to you. Immediately after surgery your leg will be weak as a result of this nerve block. Commonly asked questions about ACL reconstruction. 1  How long does the surgery take? 2  This is an outpatient procedure. 3  How long will I be off work? 4  This depends on the demands of your job. 5  What if I have a meniscus cartilage tear or other injuries in addition to the torn ACL? 6  Other injuries will be addressed at the same time as the ACL reconstruction.
A typical ACL surgery, you are often in the operating room for a couple of hours, but the actual surgery time, the time the surgeon is there operating on you and the anesthesiologist is not doing what they do, and the nurses aren’t doing what they do, but the actual surgery only lasts 60 to 90 minutes most of the time. Dr. Johnson explains how long anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) surgery takes.
Report Abuse. I can tell you that my acl replacement took approximately an hour in the operating room and two hours in recovery. I also used a hamstring from the same leg for the replacement. The smartest thing I ever did was to have this surgery. Follow your doctor's instructions and do the Physical Therapy follow ups. Best Answer: I'm pretty sure my acl surgery was at least 2 hours. And I was in recovery for 5, mostly because I was in a lot of pain. I also had a hamstring graft, so my hamstrings were extremely sore when I came out of surgery, because I guess the nerve block didn't block the pain from the hamstrings. Source(s):