“Tomorrow Belongs to Me” (film lyrics). The sun on the meadow is summery warm. The stag in the forest runs free. But gather together to greet the storm. Tomorrow belongs to me. The branch of the linden is leafy and green. The Rhine gives its gold to the sea. When the world is mine. Tomorrow belongs. Tomorrow belongs. Tomorrow belongs. To me! Tomorrow belongs. To me! As presented in the film, the song is supposed to be unappealing due to distasteful elements and heavily propagandistic presentation as it proceeds from lyrical innocence to stridency.
Enjoy! Tomorrow Belongs to Me was written by John Kander and Fred Ebb in the style of a traditional German song, sung by the Nazi youth in the movie, to stir up patriotism for the fatherland. It has often been mistaken for a genuine Nazi anthem and has led to the songwriters being accused of anti-Semitism. Tomorrow belongs to me... Post by Helly Angel » 03 Oct 2007, 01:21. Tomorrow Belongs to Me was written by John Kander and Fred Ebb in the style of a traditional German song, sung by the Nazi youth in the movie, to stir up patriotism for the fatherland.
In other words: Saying one thing, but meaning the opposite. Over at Harry’s Place they are making fun of Swedish Neo Nazi folkstress Saga, because she sings the song Tomorrow Belongs To Me – from the musical Cabaret. And they are right to consider themselves surrounded by enemies. At least we do our very best. Tomorrow do definitely not belong to them. But the real irony of the story, I guess, is that the man who adopted Tomorrow Belongs To Me as a Neo Nazi hymn, in all probability knew exactly what he was doing. He was the skinmeister himself, Ian Stuart Donaldson of Skrewdriver, who recorded the song for their 1984 album Hail The New Dawn
Tomorrow Belongs To Me. 10,020 pages on this wiki. Tomorrow Belongs To Me is a song originally performed in the 1966 Broadway production of Cabaret and later included in the 1972 film version. The track was used as an introduction to Duran Duran 's first show featuring Simon Le Bon as lead singer in 1980. 
Tomorrow Belongs to Me was written by John Kander and Fred Ebb in the style of a traditional German song, sung by the Nazi youth in the movie, to stir up patriotism for the fatherland. It has often been mistaken for a genuine Nazi anthem and has led to the songwriters being accused of anti-Semitism. There is much speculation about the identity of the singer of Tomorrow Belongs to Me. Apparently, Bob Fosse 's biography states that the song was recorded for the film by Broadway actor/singer called Mark Lambert.
Songwriter John Kander and lyricist Fred Ebb wrote “Tomorrow Belongs to Me.”. For 40 years Kander and Ebb were famous for their stage musicals, though they also scored several movies. Notable Kander-Ebb hits include “All That Jazz,” “Cabaret,” and “New York, New York.”. When the world is mine. Tomorrow belongs. Tomorrow belongs. Tomorrow belongs. To me! Tomorrow belongs. To me! As presented in the film, the song is supposed to be unappealing due to distasteful elements and heavily propagandistic presentation as it proceeds from lyrical innocence to stridency.
It was written for the 1966 musical Cabaret by composer John Kander with lyrics by Fred Ebb. As Ebb was Jewish, one might suppose it was intended to be anti-Nazi, but it soon became popular with anti-Semitic and neo-Nazi types; it was even recorded by Ian Stuart. 
Cabaret is a musical based on a book written by Christopher Isherwood, music by John Kander and lyrics by Fred Ebb. The 1966 Broadway production became a hit, inspiring numerous subsequent productions in London and New York, as well as the 1972 film by the same name. It is based on John Van Druten 's 1951 play I Am a Camera, which was adapted from the short novel Goodbye to Berlin (1939) by Christopher Isherwood.