Methamphetamine, also known as “meth,” “speed,” “crank,” “crystal” and “ice,” is a very powerful man-made drug that affects the central nervous system. It is made in clandestine (illegal) laboratories in houses, apartments, hotel rooms, vehicles, and outdoor locations. Most processes include the use of volatile organic chemicals (VOCs), acids, bases, metals and chemical salts. Many steps are involved in making meth, and other harmful chemicals can be formed during the process. As a result, hundreds of different chemicals can contribute to the contamination of a property.
The term clandestine lab is generally used in any situation involving the production of illicit compounds, regardless of whether the facilities being used qualify as a true laboratory. Gross chemical removal: This is the process in which law enforcement or a Drug Enforcement Administration contractors removes the obvious dangers from the site. Obvious dangers include containers of chemicals, equipment, and apparatus that could be used to make illegal drugs, drug paraphernalia, and other illegal items.
1 Controlling the sale and distribution of essential and precursor chemicals used in clandestine methamphetamine labs. 2  Controlling the sale and distribution of essential and precursor chemicals is widely considered one of the most effective responses to clandestine methamphetamine labs and drug trafficking. 
A clandestine laboratory is simply defined as a place where preparation of illegal substances takes place. These ‘labs’ are used to manufacture drugs, explosives and even biological or chemical weapons. Most often, the labs are used to manufacture methamphetamine, a potent illegal stimulant drug. How should a person removed from a clandestine laboratory be decontaminated? The answer to this question depends entirely upon the exposure history of the involved persons. For example, a police officer involved in warrant service in a lab may only need decontamination of his/her boots with a soap and water solution.
Meth (methamphetamine) labs, used to make the illegal drug methamphetamine, turn up in houses, apartments, motel rooms, sheds, trailers and even motor vehicles. In 2000, federal, state and local authorities seized more than 940 labs in Oklahoma alone. The number of lab seizures by law enforcement increases each year. Properties used to produce meth will usually have containers of chemicals such as solvents, ether, paint thinners, phosphorus, acids and bases, or anhydrous ammonia. Other lab equipment, cooking or storage containers, or heat sources may also be present.
Meth can be made using many different chemical recipes, but most require over-the-counter medications that contain pseudoephedrine or ephedrine. Most processes include the use of volatile organic chemicals (VOCs), acids, bases, metals and chemical salts. Many steps are involved in making meth, and other harmful chemicals can be formed during the process. As a result, hundreds of different chemicals can contribute to the contamination of a property.
The DEA examined clandestine laboratory seizure reports for information regarding: (1) Illicit drug production methods; (2) chemicals actually used in clandestine production of controlled substances and listed chemicals; and (3) the role and importance of chemicals used in the syntheses. The MCA defines laboratory supply as a listed chemical or any chemical, substance, or item on a special surveillance list published by the Attorney General which contains chemicals, products, materials, or equipment used in the manufacture of controlled substances and listed chemicals. 21 U.S.C. 842(a).
There are many different chemical recipes for “cooking” meth. Each uses different ingredients. Many chemicals used in meth labs are also common in homes. However, the poor handling and disposal of these chemicals, as well as mixing incompatible compounds, can create hazards. Residues of methamphetamine and other chemicals remaining at a former meth lab are a concern for people who later use the property. For this reason, local health departments should thoroughly assess the property for hazards prior to allowing it to be re-inhabited, especially if by children.
Although offenders manufacture a variety of illicit drugs in clandestine labs [e.g., amphetamines, MDMA (ecstasy), methcathinone, PCP, LSD, and fentanyl], methamphetamine accounts for 80 to 90 percent of the clandestine labs’ total drug production. Types of Clandestine Methamphetamine Labs. There are two main types of clandestine methamphetamine labs. One is the “super” lab—a large, highly organized lab that can manufacture 10 or more pounds of methamphetamine per production cycle.
Clandestine chemistry is chemistry carried out in secret, and particularly in illegal drug laboratories. Larger labs are usually run by gangs or organized crime intending to produce for distribution on the black market. Gross chemical removal: This is the process in which law enforcement or a Drug Enforcement Administration contractors removes the obvious dangers from the site. Obvious dangers include containers of chemicals, equipment, and apparatus that could be used to make illegal drugs, drug paraphernalia, and other illegal items.