The optic nerve (also known as cranial nerve II) is a continuation of the axons of the ganglion cells in the retina. There are approximately 1.1 million nerve cells in each optic nerve. The optic nerve, which acts like a cable connecting the eye with the brain, actually is more like brain tissue than it is nerve tissue. blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each ey
The optic nerve is made of ganglionic cells or nerve cells. It consists of over one million nerve fibers. Our blind spot is caused by the absence of specialized photosensitive (light-sensitive) cells, or photoreceptors, in the part of the retina where the optic nerve exits the eye. Optic nerve. The optic nerve is located in the back of the eye. It is also called the second cranial nerve or cranial nerve II. It is the second of several pairs of cranial nerves.
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases causing optic nerve damage. The optic nerve carries images from the retina, which is the specialized light sensing tissue, to the brain so we can see. In glaucoma, eye pressure plays a role in damaging the delicate nerve fibers of the optic nerve. When a significant number of nerve fibers are damaged, blind spots develop in the field of vision. Once nerve damage and visual loss occur, it is permanent.
Optic nerve: The optic nerve connects the eye to the brain. The optic nerve carries the impulses formed by the retina, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye and senses light and creates impulses. These impulses are dispatched through the optic nerve to the brain, which interprets them as images. Using an ophthalmoscope, the head of the optic nerve can be easily seen. The lens is the transparent structure inside the eye that focuses light rays onto the retina. The retina is, as mentioned, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye, senses light and creates impulses that go through the optic nerve to the brain.
Glaucoma causes damage to the optic nerve, which can result in an eventual loss of vision. The optic nerve is a cable of nerve fibers that carry electrical impulses from the retina to the brain. 
1 Damage to the optic nerve anterior to the optic chiasm causes loss of vision in the eye on the same side as the damage. 2  Damage at the optic chiasm typically causes loss of vision laterally in both visual fields (bitemporal hemianopsia). 
Glaucoma is one of the most common illnesses affecting the optic nerve. Glaucoma is caused by high intraocular pressure, or high pressure in the fluid that is inside the eye (vitreous fluid). This high pressure compresses the optic nerve and causes cells to die. It is referred to as atrophy of the optic nerve. Optic nerve. The optic nerve is located in the back of the eye. It is also called the second cranial nerve or cranial nerve II. It is the second of several pairs of cranial nerves.