An opioid antagonist, or opioid receptor antagonist, is a receptor antagonist that acts on opioid receptors. Naloxone and naltrexone are commonly used opioid antagonist drugs which are competitive antagonists that bind to the opioid receptors with higher affinity than agonists but do not activate the receptors. This effectively blocks the receptor, preventing the body from responding to opioids and endorphins. Naloxone on the other hand has no partial agonist effects, and is in fact a partial inverse agonist at mu opioid receptors, and so is the preferred antidote drug for treating opioid overdose.
A receptor antagonist is a drug that binds to a receptor but does not send any signal. A receptor antagonist can block other ligands from binding. In this way, an antagonist can block the effects of agonists, whether those agonists are drugs or neurotransmitters. Some alcohol antagonists are receptor antagonists, but many are not. Do not be confused. A receptor antagonist can block other ligands from. binding. In this way, an antagonist can block the effects of agonists, whether those agonists are.
A receptor antagonist is a type of receptor ligand or drug that blocks or dampens agonist-mediated responses rather than provoking a biological response itself upon binding to a receptor. They are sometimes called blockers; examples include alpha blockers, beta blockers, and calcium channel blockers. An antagonist that binds to the active site of a receptor is said to be non-competitive if the bond between the active site and the antagonist is irreversible or nearly so.
The interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, IL-1Ra is an example of a competitive antagonist. The effects of a competitive antagonist may be overcome by increasing the concentration of agonist. Often (though not always) these antagonists possess a very similar chemical structure to that of the agonist. An antagonist that binds to the active site of a receptor is said to be non-competitive if the bond between the active site and the antagonist is irreversible or nearly so.
antagonist: a compound that blocks or inhibits the action of a neurotransmitter. direct-acting antagonist (aka receptor blocker): binds to the same receptor population as an agonist but fails to activate the target receptors. competitive antagonist: competes with an agonist for the same receptor population. 
A drug antagonist is any drug that binds with a specific chemical receptor within the body, and in doing so, precludes another drug from binding to such a receptor and therefore stops the original drug from having an affect on the body. For competitiveness antagonist have: Drug + antagonist + receptor = D and R + A and R. For a fixed total amount of receptors, the two ligands D and A compete for binding at the receptor. These two ligands compete for the same site on
IRBESARTAN. Irbesartan is a safe and effective angiotensin-II receptor antagonist with an affinity for the AT 1 receptor that is more than 8,500 times greater than its affinity for the AT 2 receptor. 7 This agent has a higher bioavailability (60 to 80 percent) than other drugs in its class 12 (Table 1). 
Receptor antagonist responds when it itself is bound to the receptor biological, but it is a type of drug, and receptor ligands that do not delay the agonist-mediated response induce or block. Any substance that binds to the receptor known as ligands: By preventing the action of an agonist called agonists and antagonists, without activating them, their ligands that activate receptors, receptor I occupy the body.
antagonist. 1. a muscle that counteracts the action of another muscle, its agonist. 2. a drug that binds to a cellular receptor for a hormone, neurotransmitter, or another drug blocking the action of that substance without producing any physiological effect itself. 