Monarch development from egg to adult is completed in about 30 days. Monarchs usually lay a single egg on a plant, often on the bottom of a leaf near the top of the plant. It is difficult to tell just how many eggs each female lays during her life, but the average is probably from 100 to 300. The eggs hatch about four days after they are laid
Egg (3-4 days). Monarchs usually lay a single egg on a plant, often on the bottom of a leaf near the top of the plant. It is difficult to tell just how many eggs each female lays during her life, but the average is probably from 100 to 300. The eggs hatch about four days after they are laid
Butterflies may lay as few as several dozen eggs, or as many as several hundred, depending on the species. The number that hatch depend on the weather, the location in which t … hey are laid, and the condition of the eggs themselves. 6 people found this useful. A monarch butterfly can actually lay up to several hundred eggs.
Butterflies lay a few to hundreds of eggs in their life span. The huge majority of them will not make it to become a butterfly. There are many predators and hazards in all stages of the life cycle of a butterfly. Most caterpillars hatch out of the eggs in 3-7 days. It can vary depending on species and other conditions. Some butterflies lay their eggs on the top of leaves and others lay them on the underside. In my experience, Black Swallowtails and Gulf Fritillaries tend to lay eggs singularly on the top of the leaves.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. How many eggs a female butterfly lays can vary slightly by species. On average a female butterfly lays 100 eggs at one time. Butterflies may lay as few as several dozen eggs, or as many as several hundred, depending on the species. The number that hatch depend on the weather, the location in which t … hey are laid, and the condition of the eggs themselves. 6 people found this useful. Eddie Christensen.
Answers. Best Answer: Butterflies lay their eggs from their abdomen and attach them to-or near to-the appropriate food plant for the caterpillars. The eggs are frequently attached to the underside of leaves to protect them from the elements. Butterfly eggs do not come out of the stomach. 
Female monarch butterflies lay their eggs only on milkweed plants because they are the only plants monarch caterpillars can feed on. Find science explorations and other good stuff for kids, parents, and teachers here: http://totallybuggin.com/ and here https://www.facebook.com/#!/pages/Bac... 
How many eggs a female butterfly lays can vary slightly by species.  On average a female butterfly lays 100 eggs at one time. A monarch butterfly can actually lay up to several hundred eggs.