For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Psychologist in the United States is $88,776, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Psychologist in the United States are expected to make less than $88,776. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 4  Purchase Full Report. 
Location. CHE Psychological Services provides quality psychological services to residents in long-term care settings – primarily skilled nursing facilities, rehabilitation centers, and assisted living residences. 
A Psychologist earns an average salary of $69,562 per year. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Neuropsychology, Forensic Psychology, and Clinical Research. Psychologists must have either a clinical or counseling doctorate in psychology, although some positions may accept a master’s degree. Many positions may require the degree to be from an American Psychological Association (APA)-accredited school.
1 View all CHE Psychological services jobs in Syracuse, NY-Syracuse jobs. 2  Salary Search: Licensed Psychologist salaries in Syracuse, NY. 3  Related forums: Syracuse, New York-CHE Psychological Services - -. Licensed Psychologist Queens NY. I am pleased to call to your attention to available Career opportunities for licensed psychologists (part or full time) with CHE Senior Psychological Services.... CareerBuilder - 11 days ago-save job-email-more...
$128,000. Average Che Psychological Services salaries for job postings nationwide are 122% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
1 Salary Search: Licensed Psychologist Lower Westchester salaries in New Rochelle, NY. 2  Related forums: CHE Psychological Services-New Rochelle, New York - -. Licensed Psychologist Queens NY. I am pleased to call to your attention to available Career opportunities for licensed psychologists (part or full time) with CHE Senior Psychological Services.... CareerBuilder - 11 days ago-save job-email-more...
Welcome. CHE Senior Psychological Services is a leading provider of mental health services since 1995. Licensed psychologists employed by CHE are assigned to over 375 skilled nursing facilities in NY,NJ,PA, and CT, community-based adult homes, assisted-living settings, adult day care, and rehabilitation centers. The frail and elderly as well as the younger sub acute populations create a host of hard challenges that require advanced staff skills. Over eighty-five percent of nursing home residents have a psychiatric diagnosis. Over fifty percent are clinically depressed.
Licensed Psychologist. CHE is one of the largest providers of on-site psychological services to seniors in the country. For the past sixteen years our group has been providing... CareerBuilder - 25 days ago-save job-email-more... Licensed Psychologist Queens NY. I am pleased to call to your attention to available Career opportunities for licensed psychologists (part or full time) with CHE Senior Psychological Services.... CareerBuilder - 11 days ago-save job-email-more...
1 View all CHE Psychological services jobs in New York, NY-New York jobs. 2  Salary Search: Licensed Psychologist Manhattan salaries in New York, NY. 3  Related forums: New York, New York-CHE Psychological Services - -. Licensed Psychologist Queens NY. I am pleased to call to your attention to available Career opportunities for licensed psychologists (part or full time) with CHE Senior Psychological Services.... CareerBuilder - 11 days ago-save job-email-more...