Please do not try milk or toothpaste these are silly ideas that will leave sticky residues on the surface which will help to break down the finish on your leather. Magic erasers usually remove finish and pigment along with the ink. We have just tested these and they really do a lot of damage on leather. If the ink is on a pigmented leather then the first thing you should try is an ink stick (find one that is a professional product used in the industry-LTT do one). The fresher the ink the more chance you have of removing it.
Most leather cleaners will not remove ink unless a very good leather protector has been used on a regular basis. Magic sponges or erasers Aniline Style Leather As aniline style leathers are largely absorbent it means that the ink will have soaked straight into the leather itself. This makes it impossible to remove. No product will successfully remove the ink. DO NOT try ink removing products on aniline style leathers as most will leave a greasy residue which will then cause another problem. Because aniline style leathers are absorbent the ink will carry on moving through the leather and may become less obvious over time.
If the finish is unstable this would remove pigment form the leather. Nail varnish remover or any other solvents will also remove the finish and pigment which will need replacing. DO NOT USE Baby wipes as they are about the worst thing you can use on a leather as they break down the finish and will eventually ruin it. If the ink is on a pigmented leather then the first thing you should try is an ink stick (find one that is a professional product used in the industry-LTT do one). The fresher the ink the more chance you have of removing it.
1 Simply apply and rub gently with a soft cloth. 2  Rinse and allow the area to dry. 3  Mr. Clean Magic Eraser is also great for removing ink. 4  Test a small hidden area first to ensure it does not cause any discolorations. 1 Gently wipe with a soft cloth. 2  Avoid applying too much pressure. 3  Repeat if needed. 4  Rinse the area completely. 5  If the stain remains, moisten a clean cloth with a small amount of ammonia. 6  Place the cloth on the stain and allow it to sit for a few minutes. 7  Use the cloth to gently wipe the area until the ink is removed.
It will remove the stain of the leather as well as the ink!!! Also, the chux magic eraser is a gamble, however I have used it very lightly on occasion on my cream leather lounge where DS has found something he shouldn't, and it does work, however you do need to use a degree of caution! If you have a dark leather lounge, I wouldn't try it.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Mr Magic Erasers should never be used to remove ink or do any kind of clening on leather. They act like a very fine sandpaper and in removing the ink they will also remove the finish on the leather which if not replaced will leave the leather in a very vulnerable state. No product will successfully remove the ink. DO NOT try ink removing products on aniline style leathers as most will leave a greasy residue which will then cause another problem. Because aniline style leathers are absorbent the ink will carry on moving through the leather and may become less obvious over time.
Posted. Don't use the Chux magic eraser on leather! If it is an ink pen, try some nail polish remover. Test it in an inconspicuous spot first. I'd contact professionals for their suggestions, and do it quickly before the ink has a chance to set and seep into the leather. Also, the chux magic eraser is a gamble, however I have used it very lightly on occasion on my cream leather lounge where DS has found something he shouldn't, and it does work, however you do need to use a degree of caution! If you have a dark leather lounge, I wouldn't try it.
Removing Ink from Leather. Whether its a jacket, purse, or other item, ink stains on leather can ruin an items appearance. It is important to not further damage the leather when trying to remove the ink. This is a guide about removing ink from leather. Ad. 
This will depend on what type of leather you have. If the ink is on a pigmented leather then the first thing you should try is an ink stick (find one that is a professional product used in the industry-LTT do one). The fresher the ink the more chance you have of removing it.