PRESCRIBED FOR: Sulfamethoxazole is used for the treatment of malaria (in combination with quinine sulfate and pyrimethamine), conjunctivitis (inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye) due to chlamydia, toxoplasmosis (in combination with pyrimethamine), and urinary tract infections (UTI). Sulfamethoxazole is now used primarily in combination with trimethoprim, a combination product known as Bactrim or Septra. Sulfamethoxazole was approved by the FDA in 1961. According to the FDA database, all brand and generic formulations of sulfamethoxazole have been discontinued.
Bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) DS is a combination of two antibiotics, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Bactrim is available as a generic drug under assorted names (for example, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, co-trimoxazole). 
Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim are both antibiotics that treat different types of infection caused by bacteria. The combination of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used to treat ear infections, urinary tract infections, bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, shigellosis, and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor.
Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim are both antibiotics that treat different types of infection caused by bacteria. The combination of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used to treat ear infections, urinary tract infections, bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, shigellosis, and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor.
Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim is used for treating various types of bacterial infections, including urinary tract infections, acute worsening of chronic bronchitis, and ear infections. 
USES: This medication is a combination of two antibiotics: sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. It is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections (such as middle ear, urine, respiratory, and intestinal infections). 
13 Reviews. Bactrim is the brand name of the generic antibiotic sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim (sometimes called co-trimoxazole). The drug is a combination of two antibiotics: It's one part trimethoprim (a synthetic drug), and five parts sulfamethoxazole (a sulfonamide drug). Bactrim works against bacteria in the following types of infections: 1  Urinary tract infections (UTIs) caused by E. coli, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Morganella morganii, Proteus mirabilis, and Proteus vulgaris.
Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim is an antibacterial prescription combination medicine approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat certain infections, such as: 1  Acute exacerbations (worsening) of chronic bronchitis; 2  Urinary tract and acute ear infections; 3  Shigellosis; 4  Diarrhea; Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim can also be used “off-label” to prevent and treat other opportunistic infections of HIV infection. “Off-label” use refers to use of an FDA-approved medicine in a manner different from that described on the medicine label.
Descriptions. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim combination is used to treat infections such as urinary tract infections, middle ear infections (otitis media), bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, and shigellosis (bacillary dysentery). 
Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim are both antibiotics that treat different types of infection caused by bacteria. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used a combination antibiotic used to treat ear infections, urinary tract infections, bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, shigellosis, and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia.