Polymers are molecules that consist of a long, repeating chain of smaller units called monomers. They have the highest molecular weight among any molecules, and may consist of billions of atoms. Human DNA is a polymer with over 20 billion constituent atoms. Proteins, made up of amino acids, and many other molecules that make up life are polymers. They are the largest and most diverse class of known molecules and even include plastics. 
I know that DNA and RNA are polymers made of nucleotides. What I need to know is what polymer DNA or RNA make up. Thanks. 2 following. 2 answers 2. I know that DNA and RNA are polymers made of nucleotides. What I need to know is what polymer DNA or RNA make up. Thanks. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
Nucleotides. Both DNA and RNA are nucleic acids, and are polymers of nucleotides. A nucleotide has three components: a pentose (five-carbon sugar), and attached to dif … ferent parts of it a phosphate group and a nitrogenous base (either a purine or a pyrimidine). The monomers (units) of RNA are ribonucleotides, meaning that the pentose is ribose. The monomers of DNA are deoxyribonucleotides, because their sugar is deoxyribose. The nucleotides in a nucleic acid are not all identical. There are four kinds in each nucleic acid, differing only in their bases.
Nucleotides. Both DNA and RNA are nucleic acids, and are polymers of nucleotides. A nucleotide has three components: a pentose (five-carbon sugar), and attached to different parts of it a phosphate group and a nitrogenous base (either a purine or a pyrimidine). The monomers of DNA are deoxyribonucleotides, because their sugar is deoxyribose. The nucleotides in a nucleic acid are not all identical. There are four kinds in each nucleic acid, differing only in their bases. The bases in the nucleotides of RNA are cytosine, uracil, adenine, and guanine.
A polymer is something that has a molecular structure made up of a large chain of similar bonded units. Yes, DNA is a polymer. The monomers (units) of RNA are ribonucleotides, meaning that the pentose is ribose. The monomers of DNA are deoxyribonucleotides, because their sugar is deoxyribose. The nucleotides in a nucleic acid are not all identical. There are four kinds in each nucleic acid, differing only in their bases.
A monomer of a nucleic acid is called a nucleotide which consists of a sugar, phosphate group and nitrogen containing base. many nucleotides put together forms a polymer nucleotides which is call nucleic acids. Thus the polymer of DNA and/or RNA is a nucleic acid. I know that DNA and RNA are polymers made of nucleotides. What I need to know is what polymer DNA or RNA make up. Thanks. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
Nucleotide-Polymer Formation. DNA and RNA polymers are constructed by forming phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides. In this arrangement, a phosphate group acts as a bridge between the 5′ position of one sugar and the 3′ position of the next. This arrangement is called the sugar-phosphate backbone of DNA or RNA; the bases hang off to the side. genetic chains acid individual nucleotides. Nucleotides are the building blocks of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). Individual nucleotide monomers (single units) are linked together to form polymers, or long chains. DNA chains store genetic information, while RNA chains perform a variety of roles integral to protein synthesis. Individual nucleotides also play important roles in cell metabolism
DNA and RNA are polymers consisting of monomres called nucleotides, which are composed of a sugar (deoxyribose for DNA and ribose for RNA), a phosphate group, and a nitrogeno … us base (Adenine, Thymine, Cytosine, and Guanine for DNA, and Adenine, Uracil, Cytosine and Guanine for RNA). The monomers of DNA are deoxyribonucleotides, because their sugar is deoxyribose. The nucleotides in a nucleic acid are not all identical. There are four kinds in each nucleic acid, differing only in their bases. The bases in the nucleotides of RNA are cytosine, uracil, adenine, and guanine.
The monomers (units) of RNA are ribonucleotides, meaning that the pentose is ribose. The monomers of DNA are deoxyribonucleotides, because their sugar is deoxyribose. The nucleotides in a nucleic acid are not all identical. There are four kinds in each nucleic acid, differing only in their bases. The bases in the nucleotides of RNA are cytosine, uracil, adenine, and guanine.