Ingram will carry Lightning Source print-on-demand books on a short-discount basis, a discount less than 55%. Foner Books assigned a 35% discount on the $14.95 cover price of Start Your Own Computer Business so the book is sold by Lightning Source to Ingram, Amazon, and other wholesale customers, for $9.72.
If your book printing cost is $2.77 and you price your book in the bookstore to sell at $12.77 the buyer will pay us the $12.77 + shipping and handling, we keep the $2.77 printing price and pay you your $10.00 profit. We write our authors a check around the 15th of every month for all their sales in the previous month.
Self-Publishing. The key difference between self-publishing and a traditional publisher is that the self-publisher does all of the work that a typical publishing house would perform. Self-publishing has seen dramatic growth over the last five years.
The delivered cost for short run of 25 books is $93.66 or $3.74 each. Our 20% off mail order price of $11.95 leaves a profit of $8.21 per book, and customers pay a $2.25 shipping and handling fee which covers the average cost of a mailer and postage.
We will teach you about self-publishing, book printing, how to publish a book, and our printing services. We are both a self-publishing resource and book printing company for authors wanting to publish a book. There is no need to spend thousands of dollars on a publishing package. A do-it-yourself author can do the same work that these book publishing packages offer for a fraction of the cost.
We work hard to make self-publishing a breeze. With our easy to use tools you can have your book printed and shipped in just a few days. From the time you place your book order-be it a single copy or a thousand books-your print on demand order will be printed in 2 - 3 business days.
It's important to get an overview of the whole process and costs at the outset. If you have trouble following the discussion the first time through, just keep an eye on the dollars. This case study appears in my book about print-on-demand publishing, available for $14.95 through Amazon. Start Your Own Computer Business was published by Foner Books in December 2002. The book is a 6 x 9 paperback at 168 pages, and Lightning Source charges Foner Books $3.09 for each copy printed for distribution.