Almost any type of insulation can be used to insulate a wall. If cavity insulation is installed—for example, fiberglass batts, sprayed fiberglass, cellulose, or spray polyurethane foam—the maximum R-value Measure of resistance to heat flow; the higher the R-value, the lower the heat loss. Under no circumstances should fiberglass batts be used to insulate basement walls. Because fiberglass batts are air-permeable, they are unable to prevent moist interior air from contacting colder basement walls. That's why fiberglass-insulated basement walls can easily become damp and moldy.
Insulation level are specified by R-Value. R-Value is a measure of insulation’s ability to resist heat traveling through it. The higher the R-Value the better the thermal performance of the insulation. The table below shows what levels of insulation are cost-effective for different climates and locations in the home.
For the sake of comfort, energy efficiency and home value, it's better to insulate basement walls than to insulate the basement ceiling. Rigid foam insulation, installed against basement walls, protects your basement space from outdoor temperatures that are too cold or too hot. 
When choosing insulation, one of the most important qualities to note is the R-value, which indicates how well insulation resists heat transfer. R-values vary based on the type, thickness and density of the material being used. Insulation with a higher R-value will perform better than insulation with a lower rating. To determine the amount of insulation you need in each area, see Insulation R-Values.
When insulating your home, you can choose from many types of insulation. To choose the best type of insulation, you should first determine the following: 1  Where you want or need to install/add insulation. 2  The recommended R-values for areas you want to insulate. Blanket insulation -- the most common and widely available type of insulation -- comes in the form of batts or rolls. It consists of flexible fibers, most commonly fiberglass. You also can find batts and rolls made from mineral (rock and slag) wool, plastic fibers, and natural fibers, such as cotton and sheep's wool.
Choosing the best type of insulation for your home can be a real challenge, but the goal is always the same. An even layer of insulation that completely fills every space between the framing. Front to back, top to bottom and every little nook and cranny in between. The blower forces the insulation through a large hose. As the insulation flies out of the hose, the installer directs the flow of insulation into place. The main benefit to using blown in insulation is how perfectly and completely it fills the space in between the walls, floors and ceilings of your home.
Blow-in Insulation or loose fill insulation is usually made of fiberglass or cellulose (recycled paper fiber). It is blown or sprayed into place with pneumatic equipment and is ideal for use in hard-to-reach areas, such as attics. R-values vary based on the type, thickness and density of the material being used. Insulation with a higher R-value will perform better than insulation with a lower rating. To determine the amount of insulation you need in each area, see Insulation R-Values.
The most common types of materials used for loose-fill insulation include cellulose, fiberglass, and mineral (rock or slag) wool. All of these materials are produced using recycled waste materials. Cellulose is primarily made from recycled newsprint. Most fiberglass contains 20% to 30% recycled glass. Blanket insulation -- the most common and widely available type of insulation -- comes in the form of batts or rolls. It consists of flexible fibers, most commonly fiberglass. You also can find batts and rolls made from mineral (rock and slag) wool, plastic fibers, and natural fibers, such as cotton and sheep's wool.
Blankets of Insulation-Fiberglass and Rockwool-R-3+ per inch. This is the most common type of insulation available in the large home improvement stores. It's sold in large compressed bundles of varying widths and thicknesses because the space between the framing and the depth of the framing are always different. The blower forces the insulation through a large hose. As the insulation flies out of the hose, the installer directs the flow of insulation into place. The main benefit to using blown in insulation is how perfectly and completely it fills the space in between the walls, floors and ceilings of your home.
This prevents condensation and water from building up in the roof joist area. Fiberglass is a commonly used attic ceiling insulation. This insulation is sold in large bundles that are wrapped into large circles. This type of insulation is installed by simply unrolling the wrapped circles between the trusses of an attic. Ad. 