Rutin is a naturally occuring antioxidant that also has anti-inflammatory properties. Found in many foods, rutin protects the health of blood vessels and helps improve circulation and overall cardiovascular health.
Rutin. Rutin belongs to a class of plant secondary metabolites called flavonoids that are also known as rutoside, sophorin and quercetin-3-rutinoside. Rutin is a bioflavonoid, at times mentioned as vitamin P, which comprises citron, hesperidin and eriodictyl and is essential for assimilating vitamin C.
Rutin is LIKELY SAFE when taken by mouth in amounts found in fruits and vegetables. Rutin is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth appropriately in medicinal amounts for a short period of time. It can cause some side effects including headache, flushing, rashes, or stomach upset.
Along with the rind of citrus fruits, rutin can be found in dark berries such as blueberries and blackberries, apricots, cherries, rose hips, the core of green peppers, buckwheat, and millet. Rutin is not found in some of the more common grains, such as wheat and rice.
Some people believe that rutin can strengthen blood vessels, so they use it for varicose veins, internal bleeding, hemorrhoids, and to prevent strokes due to broken veins or arteries (hemorrhagic strokes). Rutin is also used to prevent a side effect of cancer treatment called mucositis.
Rutin is present is numerous plants, particularly buckwheat, while black tea and apple peels also have rich contents of this nutrient. In fact, the flavonoid called rutin is actually a flavonol glycoside including flavonol quercetin as well as the disaccharide called rutinose.
Rutin is a bioflavonoid and antioxidant found in a variety of plants including the rind of citrus fruits.
Rutin (also called rutoside) is found in fruits and fruit rinds (especially citrus fruits), berries such as mulberry and cranberries, buckwheat, asparagus, and a few other plants. Rutin is a flavonoid glycoside.
In fact, rutin contributes much to vegetables and fruits. This bioflavonoid is responsible for endowing fruits and vegetables with color and flavor. In addition, it does a lot more positive things to the plants.