Legend of the Superstition Mountains Full Episode Guide. Season 1 (6 full episodes). Episode 6 - The Climb. Closer than ever to the $200 million payday, Wayne and the team head into the heart of darkness where a cryptic find weaves an even bigger mystery. People have been trying to conquer the mountains since the 1500's, and this is a look at a brave bunch of prospectors who won't stop until they find the treasure and make themselves wealthy. It's an action-fueled tale with a lot of drama behind it.
The Superstition Mountains are bounded roughly by U.S. Route 60 on the south, State Route 88 on the northwest, and State Route 188 on the northeast. Weavers Needle, a prominent landmark and rock climbing destination set behind and to the east of Superstition Mountain, is a tall eroded remnant that plays a significant role in the legend of the Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine.
The Superstition Mountains (Yavapai: Wi:kchsawa), popularly called The Superstitions, are a range of mountains in Arizona located to the east of the Phoenix metropolitan area. Weavers Needle, a prominent landmark and rock climbing destination set behind and to the east of Superstition Mountain, is a tall eroded remnant that plays a significant role in the legend of the Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine.
We're sorry, we do not currently have episodes of Legend of the Superstition Mountains. Add this series to your Watchlist to track when it becomes available. 
As with most of the terrain surrounding the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Superstition Mountains have a desert climate, with high summer temperatures and a handful of perennial sources of water. Weavers Needle, a prominent landmark and rock climbing destination set behind and to the east of Superstition Mountain, is a tall eroded remnant that plays a significant role in the legend of the Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine.
They are anchored by Superstition Mountain, a large mountain that is a popular recreation destination for residents of the Phoenix, Arizona area. The mountain range is in the federally designated Superstition Wilderness Area, and includes a variety of natural features in addition to its namesake mountain. Weavers Needle, a prominent landmark and rock climbing destination set behind and to the east of Superstition Mountain, is a tall eroded remnant that plays a significant role in the legend of the Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine.
Armed with a new clue that could unearth the location of the famed Lost Dutchman Mine, lifelong Dutch Hunter Wayne Tuttle, leads a team into Arizona's Superstition Mountains in search of America's deadliest treasure. What they discover may have finally put Wayne on the right path to solving this 150 year old mystery. Description. On Legend of the Superstition Mountains, an alliance of fearless hunters venture into an area in the Arizona desert – called by the Apache “a portal to hell” – to pursue legendary riches.
Secrets of the Lost Map. Armed with a new clue that could unearth the location of the famed Lost Dutchman Mine, lifelong Dutch Hunter Wayne Tuttle, leads a team into Arizona's Superstition Mountains in search of America's deadliest treasure. What they discover may have finally put Wayne on the right path to solving this 150 year old mystery. 
Legend of the Superstition Mountains. 19 Fans. - Add to My Shows. The Superstition Mountains are an enigmatic land with a cursed history. Stretching across 160,000 acres of unforgiving Arizona desert may reside a $200 million fortune – lost gold that is the epicenter of a 500-year-old mystery.