Best Answer: Just one. DNA has two strands-hence, double stranded helix. DNA and RNA differ by the extra presence of a hydroxyl molecule on the 2' position of the pentose in ribose. The names say it: DNA = DEoxyribonucleic acid, whereas RNA = ribonucleic acid. This extra hydroxyl group prevents a double helix from forming in RNA because the hydroxyl is prone to attacking the other strand in a hydrolysis reaction. Don't be confused with the secondary structure of RNA.
DNA is double stranded. There are many types of RNA including mRNA, tRNA, and rRNA. mRNA and tRNA are involved in protein synthesis and the process of … translation. mRNA and tRNA bind to the ribosome and form polypeptides or proteins that are released into the cell.
DNA and RNA molecules are polymers (like polysaccharides and proteins). The building blocks (monomers) of nucleic acids are nucleotides. Each nucleotide is made up of a five-c … arbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. During transcription, DNA is used as a template to make a copy of single-stranded RNA. only one of the two DNA strands is used as a template for RNA synthesis. therefore only … one complementary strand of RNA is usually mad
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The RNA molecule is usually made up of a single strand. This is unlike the DNA molecule which has double strands. During transcription, DNA is used as a template to make a copy of single-stranded RNA. only one of the two DNA strands is used as a template for RNA synthesis. therefore only … one complementary strand of RNA is usually made
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. 
Best Answer: it's actually thymine that is not present in rna... guanine pairs with cytosine by 3 hydrogen bonds and adenine pairs with uracil by 2 hydrogen bonds. 
1 The RNA molecule is built up from the four ribose nucleotides (A, C, G and U) in the nucleoplasm. 2  The nucleotides attach themselves to the bases on the DNA by complementary base pairing, just as in DNA replication. 3  However, only one strand of RNA is made. 
DNA and RNA are strands of nucleotides. DNA is a double-stranded  nucleotide, and RNA is a single-stranded nucleotide.    Both DNA and RNA are known as nucleic acids. … DNA in most cases has  control on the genetic information of the cell where as RNA is  produced by DNA strands to perform specific functions. There are many types of RNA including mRNA, tRNA, and rRNA. mRNA and tRNA are involved in protein synthesis and the process of … translation. mRNA and tRNA bind to the ribosome and form polypeptides or proteins that are released into the cell.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) is the RNA that carries information from DNA to the ribosome, the sites of protein synthesis (translation) in the cell. The coding sequence of the mRNA determines the amino acid sequence in the protein that is produced. Eukaryotic ribosomes contain four different rRNA molecules: 18S, 5.8S, 28S and 5S rRNA. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere. In the cytoplasm, ribosomal RNA and protein combine to form a nucleoprotein called a ribosome.