The Stafford Hospital scandal concerns poor care and high mortality rates amongst patients at the Stafford Hospital, Stafford, England, in the late 2000s. The hospital was run by the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust, and supervised by the West Midlands Strategic Health Authority. It has been renamed County Hospital. The scandal came to national attention because of an investigation by the Healthcare Commission in 2008 into the operation of Stafford Hospital in Stafford, England.
The Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust was a NHS foundation trust which managed two hospitals in Staffordshire, England 1  : Stafford Hospital-acute hospital with approximately 350 inpatient beds, opened in 1983, Now renamed County Hospital. 
Figures show that NHS care has changed for the better just one year on from the Francis Inquiry into Mid Staffordshire, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said at a conference in London. This news article was published under the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government. ‘Francis Effect’ on NHS care one year on from Mid Staffs Inquiry with 2,400 more nurses hired in the last year. Most weeks I join staff in different parts of the country on a shift, and I have seen first-hand how hospitals are using the Francis report as a catalyst to improve care
‘Francis Effect’ on NHS care one year on from Mid Staffs Inquiry. ‘Francis Effect’ on NHS care one year on from Mid Staffs Inquiry with 2,400 more nurses hired in the last year. Most weeks I join staff in different parts of the country on a shift, and I have seen first-hand how hospitals are using the Francis report as a catalyst to improve care. This news article was published under the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government. ‘Francis Effect’ on NHS care one year on from Mid Staffs Inquiry with 2,400 more nurses hired in the last year.
Almost half of NHS hospitals expect to end the year in deficit Getty Images. The NHS is recruiting more nurses to make care safer and encouraging honesty and openness about mistakes, one year on from a landmark report into the Mid Staffordshire hospital scandal, health experts have said. 
Image caption Mid Staffordshire has been at the centre of one of the worst scandals of recent years. The scandal-hit Mid Staffordshire NHS Trust faces being dissolved after regulators announced the administration process was to begin. The trust has been at the centre of one of the worst scandals in NHS history after neglect and abuse led to hundreds of needless deaths from 2005 to 2008. Not sustainable. It is the second time an NHS trust has faced such a process-earlier this year the decision to break up South London Healthcare was agreed. Mid Staffordshire looks after Stafford and Cannock Chase hospitals. It was at the Stafford site that appalling care led to the deaths of more than 400 patients.
The inquiry identified failures of care at every level of the trust. Most of the UK media has reported on the Francis inquiry into significant failures in care at the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust. The report suggests a raft of radical changes to help improve patient safety. These include proposals to make serious but avoidable medical mistakes a criminal offence.
Scandal-hit Mid Staffordshire NHS Trust has been fined £200,000 for the 'avoidable' death of a 66-year-old diabetic who was not given insulin due to poor record-keeping. Gillian Astbury lapsed into a fatal diabetic coma while being treated for a fractured arm and pelvis at Stafford Hospital in April 2007. 
Director of nursing to leave post. It's announced that the director of nursing at Stafford Hospital is to leave and take up a similar role at another hospital trust. Colin Ovington was recruited in 2010 to help improve quality of care at Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust. The board of Mid Staffordshire NHS Trust says it is essential that acute services stay at Stafford Hospital. Responding to the Contingency Planning Team Report by the regulator Monitor, it said the proposed downgrading of service provision is dramatic.