The trigeminal nerve (the fifth cranial nerve, or simply CN V) is a nerve responsible for sensation in the face and motor functions such as biting and chewing. The sensory function of the trigeminal nerve is to provide tactile, proprioceptive, and nociceptive afference to the face and mouth. Its motor function activates the muscles of mastication, the tensor tympani, tensor veli palatini, mylohyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric.
The trigeminal nerve, CN V, is the fifth paired cranial nerve. It is also the largest cranial nerve. In this article, we shall look at the anatomical course of the nerve, and the motor, sensory and parasympathetic functions of its terminal branches. The trigeminal nerve is associated with derivatives of the 1st pharyngeal arch.
In this chapter, the functions of the trigeminal (CN V) and facial (CN VII) nerves will be discussed. Symptoms of damage to the trigeminal system are mainly loss of sensation in the face, although the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve also controls jaw motion. 
The trigeminal nerve originates from three sensory nuclei (mesencephalic, principal sensory, spinal nuclei of trigeminal nerve) and one motor nucleus (motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve) extending from the midbrain to the medulla. A nucleus (pl. In this article, we shall look at the anatomical course of the nerve, and the motor, sensory and parasympathetic functions of its terminal branches. The trigeminal nerve is associated with derivatives of the 1st pharyngeal arch.
Trigeminal nerve. The trigeminal nerve is the fifth cranial nerve located within the brain, and is primarily responsible for transmitting sensations from the face to the brain. It is composed of three branches: the ophthalmic, maxillary, and mandibular. Each branch connects nerves from the brain to different parts of the face. The trigeminal nerve is responsible for transmitting sensations to the mouth, teeth, face, and nasal cavity. It is also the nerve that controls the muscles used for chewing. Trigeminal neuralgia occurs when a blood vessel, either a vein or artery, puts pressure on the nerve at the base of
It is located in the pons, near the entrance for the fifth nerve. Fibers carrying touch-position information from the face and mouth via cranial nerves V, VII, IX, and X are sent to this nucleus when they enter the brainstem. The sensory function of the trigeminal nerve is to provide tactile, proprioceptive, and nociceptive afference to the face and mouth. Its motor function activates the muscles of mastication, the tensor tympani, tensor veli palatini, mylohyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric.
The largest of the cranial nerves, its name (trigeminal = tri- , or three and-geminus, or twin; thrice-twinned) derives from the fact that each trigeminal nerve (one on each side of the pons) has three major branches: the ophthalmic nerve (V 1), the maxillary nerve (V 2), and the mandibular nerve (V 3). The sensory function of the trigeminal nerve is to provide tactile, proprioceptive, and nociceptive afference to the face and mouth. Its motor function activates the muscles of mastication, the tensor tympani, tensor veli palatini, mylohyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric.
The semilunar (gasserian or trigeminal) ganglion is the great sensory ganglion of CN V. It contains the sensory cell bodies of the 3 branches of the trigeminal nerve (the ophthalmic, mandibular, and maxillary divisions). The ophthalmic and maxillary nerves are purely sensory. Diagram of the third branch (mandibular) of the trigeminal nerve with its branches. The mandibular nerve carries sensory information from the lower lip, the lower teeth, gums, the chin and jaw (except the angle of the mandible, which is supplied by C2-C3), parts of the external ear, and parts of the meninges.
In middle cranial fossa, the sensory root expands into the trigeminal ganglion. A ganglion (pl. ganglia) refers to a collection of the nerve cell bodies outside the central nervous system. The trigeminal ganglion is located lateral to the cavernous sinus, in a depression of the temporal bone. In this article, we shall look at the anatomical course of the nerve, and the motor, sensory and parasympathetic functions of its terminal branches. The trigeminal nerve is associated with derivatives of the 1st pharyngeal arch.