» Networking » Wireless Networking. Two factors affecting Wi-Fi strength could be the amount of metal construction or the number of electronic devices between the antenna and the computer. by Leo A. Notenboom, © 2012. I'm at work on their Linksys Wi-Fi. Some days, the signal reaches down one floor and 20 feet.
A number of factors can affect the quality of wireless connections at Indiana University, including signal strength, possible problems that can degrade even a strong signal, and factors that can affect the data transmission rate (throughput). 
There are many factors that affect your Wireless Networking Performance that are dependent on various areas within the network itself from the technology of the devices used, the local environment the signals will travel through, the fundamental physics behind wireless transmission and more. 
The performance of a Wi-Fi wireless network connection depends in part on signal strength. Between a computer and wireless access point, the signal strength in each direction determines the data rate available on that connection. Answer: To determine the signal strength of your Wi-Fi connection at any point in time, use one or more of the following methods: 1  Operating system utilities-Microsoft Windows (and other network operating systems) contain a built in utility to monitor wireless network connection status. 1 Wi-Fi locator devices-Resembling a keychain, a Wi-Fi locator device is designed to detect signal strength of nearby wireless access points. 2  Most Wi-Fi locators use a set of between four and six LEDs to indicate signal strength in units of bars similar to the Microsoft Windows utility.
1 Wireless router. 2  Wi-Fi enabled device like a smartphone, tablet, laptop, or desktop with Wi-Fi adapter. 3  Program to analyze the strength of the wireless signal (preferably in dBm). 4  You will need to find a program that works with your wireless device and operating system. 1 For a Macintosh running OS X 10.9 or higher, you can use WiFi Strength Indicator. 2  For other operating systems, you will have to search for an app or program that measures Wi-Fi signal strength in dBm.
Aim of this article: This article will describe why you may see reduced wireless (Wi-Fi) signal in different parts of your home or office, and how to improve it. Internal walls: The biggests factors which reduce Wi-Fi performance are the effect distance and internal walls have on signal strength. The following diagrams will show the effect on the wireless signal to devices using your Wi-Fi network in different situations. Even though the data transmitted over Wi-Fi is digital, the actual signal uses analogue radio waves.
Wireless signal strength refers to the intensity of the radio frequency that a wireless receiver is able to pick up. A weak wireless signal can cause connectivity and performance problems with wireless devices. For example, weak signals can cause cell phones to cut in and out during conversations, or laptop computers to lose wireless Internet connections. Several factors influence the strength of wireless signals; unfortunately, many of these factors are out of a user's control. In some instances poor wireless signal strength is the result of inadequate or dysfunctional hardware. For example, if a laptop computer has an outdated or damaged wireless network adapter card, it may struggle to receive a signal from a wireless router.
1 Wi-Fi enabled device like a smartphone, tablet, laptop, or desktop with Wi-Fi adapter. 2  Program to analyze the strength of the wireless signal (preferably in dBm). 3  You will need to find a program that works with your wireless device and operating system. 1 For a Macintosh running OS X 10.9 or higher, you can use WiFi Strength Indicator. 2  For other operating systems, you will have to search for an app or program that measures Wi-Fi signal strength in dBm.
Collect This Project. When wireless signals leave a WiFi hotspot and travel to a computer or other wireless device, the wifi signal strength decays as it passes through air or solid objects. This is why a computer may be unable to pick up the signal from a hotspot that is more than a couple of rooms away. 
This can dramatically affect the radio signals between your router and Wi-Fi device, and can cause slow or intermittent connection problems. Varying signal: In some situations you may find the Wi-Fi signal is better in different parts of the room. The following diagrams will show the effect on the wireless signal to devices using your Wi-Fi network in different situations. Even though the data transmitted over Wi-Fi is digital, the actual signal uses analogue radio waves.