The $180 cost to change your flight is that $150 change fee, plus the fare difference of $30. This is clearly noted in the fare rules that you agreed to when you bought the ticket, whether you are happy with it now or not. Next. I booked a flight on American weeks ago and would like to change or cancel it, but AA is telling me that its 150 to cancel the flight or 180 additinal charge to get on another flight.
We've touched on American Airlines award fees in Maximizing Awards Using American AAdvantage Miles and Comparing Airline Award Ticketing Fees and How to Avoid Them but I still get questions on AAdvantage award fees and how to avoid them, so figured it was time for a dedicated post. Telephone Booking Fee: $25. Change to a Different Class of Service: $150 Redeposit if Downgrade. For some reason this isn't clearly clearly spelled out on the American Airlines site, but the way it works is that if you downgrade your class of service, you would have to pay the $150 redeposit fee and rebook.
But the above-linked offer also gives... American AAdvantage Award Ticket Change Fees Explained. American AAdvantage award ticket change fees are different from most other frequent flyer programs, so I often get questions about AAdvantage award changes by readers and my Award Booking Service clients. Now I'll be able to just send folks a link :). 
Redeposit Fee: $150. Although there's no cancellation fee, American does charge a steep redeposit fee of $150 per ticket, or $150 for the first ticket and $25 for additional rewards booked from the same AAdvantage account and redeposited at the same time. Change to a Different Class of Service: $150 Redeposit if Downgrade. For some reason this isn't clearly clearly spelled out on the American Airlines site, but the way it works is that if you downgrade your class of service, you would have to pay the $150 redeposit fee and rebook.
A little catch – “American doesn’t charge any fees to change award tickets as long as the origin and destination and award type remains the same. You can change the routing, dates, times, airlines, etc.” The airline has to be within oneworld. Over the past few years we’ve seen airline award tickets not only get more restrictive, but also come with increased fees for changes and cancellation. One of the more generous programs when it comes to award ticket change and cancellation fees is American AAdvantage. American AAdvantage cancellation/redeposit fees. In order to redeposit an AAdvantage award ticket, American charges $150 for the first passenger, and $25 for each additional passenger on the same record locator
One exception — American doesn’t charge you to upgrade AAdvantage award tickets. There’s one really cool exception to this rule, though, that most people don’t know. You can upgrade your award type to a higher class of service without paying a change fee — you’d just pay the difference in miles. Over the past few years we’ve seen airline award tickets not only get more restrictive, but also come with increased fees for changes and cancellation. One of the more generous programs when it comes to award ticket change and cancellation fees is American AAdvantage. American AAdvantage cancellation/redeposit fees. In order to redeposit an AAdvantage award ticket, American charges $150 for the first passenger, and $25 for each additional passenger on the same record locator
For award tickets on Singapore Airlines, KrisFlyer allows you to make changes to the date of your award travel at no charge, but there are different charges associated with making changes to the route, class or award type. Making a change to the date of your travel is permitted and there is no fee. If you want to make a change to the route, cabin class or award type there is a $12 fee. For travel on Star Alliance partners, changing the flight, date, route or carrier results in a $20 fee. Airline Award Ticket Change Fees. by lucky 142 Comments. I am fortunate to have nearly unlimited flexibility in my schedule – as long as I can be “connected” to the internet 10-12 hours a day it doesn’t really matter what continent or time zone I’m in.
To switch to that flight, United would charge a $200 change fee, plus another $200 for the fare difference ($500 minus $300). So the change would cost $400 overall—or more than the original ticket cost! And that’s on top of the $300 spent on the initial booking. 
It now costs $200 to change or cancel a non-refundable airfare on the remaining legacy U.S. airlines (American, Delta, United, and US Airways), and a bit less on some other carriers. Changing or canceling an international airfare can cost much more. But there are ways of avoiding the fee. If you pay for the fare rather than holding it, you will be hit with a change/cancel fee on American! Also, American sells fare add-ons starting at $68 round-trip that allow you to change your flight for free at any time, and the add-on includes a checked bag round-trip and priority boarding. Something to consider.