Bacterial DNA – a circular chromosome plus plasmids. The DNA of most bacteria is contained in a single circular molecule, called the bacterial chromosome. The chromosome, along with several proteins and RNA molecules, forms an irregularly shaped structure called the nucleoid. This sits in the cytoplasm of the bacterial cell. In addition to the chromosome, bacteria often contain plasmids – small circular DNA molecules. Bacteria can pick up new plasmids from other bacterial cells (during conjugation) or from the environment
Bacteria carry plasmids which is a double stranded DNA. It is how their extra chromosomal DNA is stored, they also have chromosomal DNA.    Plasmids are extra-chromoso … mal DNA in Bacterial cells that replicate independently in cell. Plasmids are ubiquitous-means significant number of bacteria have plasmid and can have more that one plasmids. But Plasmids do not occur in all bacterial isolates. 1 F-plasmids (fertility factor or sex factors): Bacterial cells with F plasmids are called F+ cells and acts as donor cells or +strain during bacterial conjugation.
You've already chosen the best response. C would be the correct answer. Plasmids are infamous for antibiotic resistance in particular and for fertility or allowing transfer of genetic material between bacteria (see fertility F plasmid).
In their simplest form, plasmids require a bacterial origin of replication, an antibiotic resistance gene, and at least one unique restriction enzyme recognition site. These elements allow for the propagation of the plasmid within bacteria, while allowing for selection against any bacteria not carrying the plasmid. Types of Plasmids. The combination of elements often determines the type of plasmid. Below are some common plasmid types: 1  Cloning Plasmids-Used to facilitate the cloning of DNA fragments. 2  Cloning vectors tend to be very simple, often containing only a bacterial resistance gene, origin and MCS. 3  They are small and optimized to help in the initial cloning of a DNA fragment
Plasmids are extra chromosomal, double stranded, circular DNA molecules present in bacteria. Different kinds of bacterial plasmids based on encoded genes (their roles). 1 F-plasmids (fertility factor or sex factors): Bacterial cells with F plasmids are called F+ cells and acts as donor cells or +strain during bacterial conjugation.
The bacteria may pass on the the plasmid to another bacteria via transformation. This is why an entire colony of bacteria may become immune to penicillin. Many scientists take advantage of this by inserting a gene that they want replicated into a plasmid and then inserting it into a bacteria. This is an effective way to have a large amount of a gene of interest (this method is commonly used in biotechnology)
A plasmid is an extra-chromosomal element, often a circular DNA. The plasmids we will use in this class typically have three important elements: An origin of replication A selectable marker gene (e.g. resistance to ampicillin) A cloning site (a place to insert foreign DNAs). We screen the individual bacterial colonies to find one that contains a plasmid of the correct structure. Transformation is natural. Bacteria naturally take up DNA from their environment, and we call that process transformation. Efficiency of transformation in the lab.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A plasmid is a circle of DNA that bacteria can absorb into the cell. Many times, these new genes may help a bacteria adapt to its surrounding (i.e. the bacteria lives in an acidic environment, the new genes included in a plasmid may help the bacteria adapt to the environment). This is why an entire colony of bacteria may become immune to penicillin. Many scientists take advantage of this by inserting a gene that they want replicated into a plasmid and then inserting it into a bacteria.