Name, Position in exporting company, company stamp, signature. A commercial invoice is a document used in foreign trade. It is used as a customs declaration provided by the person or corporation that is exporting an item across international borders. A commercial invoice must also include a statement certifying that the invoice is true, and a signature. A commercial invoice is used to calculate tariffs, international commercial terms (like the Cost in a CIF) and is commonly used for customs purposes. Commercial invoices are in European countries not normally for payment. The definitive invoice for payment usually has only the words invoice
In general, a commercial invoice should contain enough information for a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer to determine if the goods being imported are admissible, and if so, what the correct Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) classification and rate of duty should be. 
A commercial invoice is typically required when selling and shipping products internationally to be used as a customs declaration. 
Commonly used documents for customs clearance. Commercial Invoice. What it's about. The Commercial Invoice is the basic statement of the seller to the buyer for goods shipped; it ideally represents a complete record of the business transaction between the exporter and the importer with regard to the goods sold.
About the Commercial Invoice. A commercial invoice form is used for all shipments containing non-documents. The commercial invoice is the primary document used for importation control, valuation, and duty determination. This document identifies the products being shipped. The form should include: A nominal or fair market value must be stated for items of no commercial value.
Commercial Invoice. The Commercial Invoice is important for the clearance process used by customs officials to classify merchandise so that duties & taxes can be correctly assessed. The sample Commercial Invoice shown below is a generic form. 
The Difference Between a Commercial Invoice and a Shipping Invoice. Both shipping and commercial invoices are used as standard documents in the accounting process. Jupiterimages/Polka Dot/Getty Images. Invoices -- the documents included with the shipment of goods to customers -- come in a variety of forms. The type of invoice depends on a number of factors, primary among them is the shipping destination. For domestic shipments within the United States, a standard shipping invoice is the customary document. For goods shipped across borders, a commercial invoice is required. Each type of invoice includes basic information used in the sale of the shipped items and are important piece
Three copies of the commercial invoice or pro forma invoice (if a commercial invoice is not available) are required for all your non-document shipments. Business or personal stationery may be used for these invoices if it contains all the required shipment information that is on your invoice. Items that are required on your commercial invoice include: 1  Name and address of shipper (seller) as shown on the address label, including a contact person and telephone number. 2  Name and address of consignee (ship to), including destination country and postal code, as shown on the address label