Angiotensin II also stimulates the secretion of the hormone aldosterone from the adrenal cortex. Aldosterone causes the tubules of the kidneys to increase the reabsorption of sodium and water into the blood, while at the same time causing the excretion of potassium (to maintain electrochemical balance). 
• Aldosterone is produced in the cortex of the adrenal gland, whereas ADH is secreted by the hypothalamus. • Aldosterone is the main regulator of water and electrolytes such as Sodium and Potassium in the body, but ADH is released when water level of the blood stream is lower. As a result, posterior pituitary regulates the release of Aldosterone and reduce the reabsorbing of water. Aldosterone. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone that is produced in the cortex of the adrenal gland, and it is stored in the posterior pituitary gland.
[al′dōstərōn′, aldos′tərōn]. a mineralocorticoid steroid hormone produced by the adrenal cortex with action in the renal tubule to retain sodium, conserve water by reabsorption, and increase urinary excretion of potassium. A hormone secreted by the adrenal glands that is important for maintaining salt and water balance in the body. Mentioned in: Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia. hormone secreted by the adrenal glands, at a rate regulated by the level of sodium in body fluids.
Aldosterone is secreted by the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland  - more specifically, in the zona glomerulosa. The adrenal gland is  located right above your kidneys. It' … s normally depicted in most  images by a yellow triangular shaped object that sits atop both the  left and right kidneys. 
Aldosterone is part of the renin–angiotensin system. Drugs that interfere with the secretion or action of aldosterone are in use as antihypertensives, like lisinopril, which lowers blood pressure by blocking the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), leading to lower aldosterone secretion. 1 (The increased potassium level works to regulate aldosterone synthesis by depolarizing the cells in the zona glomerulosa, which opens the voltage-dependent calcium channels .) The level of angiotensin II is regulated by angiotensin I, which is in turn regulated by renin, a hormone secreted in the kidneys.
A Riverside Health System answered. Aldosterone belongs to a class of hormones called mineral corticoids, also produced by the adrenal glands. Aldosterone helps maintain blood pressure (BP) and water and salt balance in the body by helping the kidneys retain sodium and excrete potassium. Aldosterone affects sodium, potassium, total fluid in the body, and blood pressure. Aldosterone causes the kidneys to hold onto more sodium, which leads to more water staying in the body. The more fluid the body holds onto, the higher the blood pressure may become.
The aldosterone hormone is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland. The hormone acts mainly in the functional unit of the kidneys to aid in the conservation of sodium, secretion of potassium, water retention and to stabilize blood pressure. Aldosterone affects sodium, potassium, total fluid in the body, and blood pressure. Aldosterone causes the kidneys to hold onto more sodium, which leads to more water staying in the body. The more fluid the body holds onto, the higher the blood pressure may become.
*Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) -Minor role in aldosterone release-Secreted by anterior pituitary *Renin causes aldosterone to be produced *Renin released in response to: -Low blood sodium (hyponatremia) -High blood potassium (hyperkalemia) -Decreased blood volume/blood pressure-Sympathetic stimulation. *Primary aldosteronism-Conn's syndrome-Characterized by high aldosterone and low renin-Renin levels are low due to negative feedback-Caused by adrenal cortex tumor *Secondary aldosteronism-Characterized by high aldosterone and high renin-Caused by high renin production in the kidney.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Aldosterone is a mineralocorticoid hormone that is essential to life because it regulates the amounts of electrolytes in the body. It's secreted by the adrenal cortex, part of the adrenal gland, and is responsible for the reabsorption of sodium into the bloodstream. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone (mineralocorticoid family) produced by the outer section (zona glomerulosa) of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland. 1 (The increased potassium level works to regulate aldosterone synthesis by depolarizing the cells in the zona glomerulosa, which opens the voltage-dependent calcium channels .) The level of angiotensin II is regulated by angiotensin I, which is in turn regulated by renin, a hormone secreted in the kidneys.