Tiromel is an weight loss drug, it is also known as Cytomel. This drug is manufactured by Abdi Ibrahim. Tiromel is not an anabolic/androgenic steroid but a thyroid hormone. Generally one 25 mcg tablet is taken on the first day, and the dosage is thereafter increased by one tablet every three of four days for a maximum dosage of 100 mcg. This will help the body adjust to the increased thyroid hormone, hopefully avoiding any sudden shock to the system.
Before that I was on synthroid for 6 years with again what seemed like normal thyroid levels but I still had meny of the symptoms of hypothyroid, fatigue, weakness, weight gain, increased difficulty losing weight, coarse, dry hair, dry, rough pale skin, hair loss and major cold intolerance. Please tell me that the Cytomel. Read More. It’s is just that I never got relief from hypothyroid symptoms on just 75 mcg of T4 Levoxyl – fatigue, brain fog, weight gain, coarse, dry hair, hair loss, constipation, depression, increased cholesterol, and constant sweating.
Read More. Hi Free Bird82 Can't answer about Cytomel but about the weight loss, after 1 week of exercising and watching what you eat. Many people won't lose the pounds straight away as the exercise is building muscle and muscle weighs more than fat (some people even put on weight to begin with!). Please tell me that the Cytomel. Read More. It’s is just that I never got relief from hypothyroid symptoms on just 75 mcg of T4 Levoxyl – fatigue, brain fog, weight gain, coarse, dry hair, hair loss, constipation, depression, increased cholesterol, and constant sweating.
Cytomel. Cytomel, a brand name for liothyronine, is used to treat hypothyroidism, and sometimes to diagnose hyperthyroidism. Each pill contains either 5, 10 or 25 mcg or liothyronine. The typical starting dose is usually 25 mcg, with a gradual increase until you are taking 75 mcg to 125 mcg daily. Cytomel does not have any reported side effects aside from hyperthyoidism symptoms, which only occur if you are taking too much of it. While they do cause weight loss, these drugs should not be used to help you lose weight if you have normal thyroid function. This is because your risk of developing adverse effects is greater than any weight loss benefits you may receive.
I take 88 mcg Synthroid every day and 5 mcg Cytomel 3x per day (15 mcg a day.) My endo told me to space the dosage of Cytomel every 5 hours-EX: 8:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m. I take 88 mcg of Synthroid every day and 5 mcg Cytomel 3x a day (15 mcg a day.) I space my doses out as follows: Synthroid - 6:00 a.m. Cytomel - 8:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m., 6:00 p.m. This is perfect for me. I began taking 5 mcg a day and slowly moved up to 15 after about 5 months. I didn't do well on Synthroid alone
by reviewsfat Leave a Comment. Cytomel is a trademark for Liothyronine Sodium, a thyroid gland hormone which is used to help individuals with thyroid problems in which can result in weight problems,chronic tiredness, and troubles with metabolic process. Cytomel dosage should be kept in control and really should never be used over long time period. The product generally is available in bottles of one hundred pills at 25 mcgs each. A lot of people start by having one 25mcg pill every day and slowly increasing Cytomel dosage every 3 to 4 days by one additional pill. Cytomel is really a thyroid medicament and must never be taken for weight loss needs, because it could cause hyperthyroidism that could be extremely risky
Save. Cytomel is a synthetic thyroid hormone used medically to treat hypothyroidism. It is not recommended for weight loss or to treat obesity, and its use may cause a number of detrimental side effects. 1  The Best Thyroid Medication for Weight Loss.
Read More. About 5 weeks ago my doctor added 5mcg of Cytomel twice a day. My anxiety, lethargy, ADD, depression, and hair loss have really calmed down but I still have a low body temperature-normally in the 96-97 range and my weight hasn't budged at all. Please tell me that the Cytomel. Read More. It’s is just that I never got relief from hypothyroid symptoms on just 75 mcg of T4 Levoxyl – fatigue, brain fog, weight gain, coarse, dry hair, hair loss, constipation, depression, increased cholesterol, and constant sweating.