1. A dense growth of shrubs or underbrush; a copse. 2. Something suggestive of a dense growth of plants, as in impenetrability or thickness: the thicket of unreality which stands between us and the facts of life (Daniel J. Boorstin).
Full Definition of MEAN. 1. a (1) : something intervening or intermediate (2) : a middle point between extremes b: a value that lies within a range of values and is computed according to a prescribed law: as (1) : arithmetic mean (2) : expected value c: either of the middle two terms of a proportion. 2. Synonym Discussion of MEAN. average, mean, median, norm mean something that represents a middle point. average is the quotient obtained by dividing the sum total of a set of figures by the number of figures.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Example Sentences Including 'thicket'. Where she could see it, between the interlaced branches of the thicket, it was growing increasingly black. He watched for five minutes, then the man was gone, his slight noises audible as he brushed through a hidden thicket. Todd caught glimpses of her mottled back as she slid through the thicket
thicket-a dense growth of bushes. brush, coppice, copse, brushwood. botany, flora, vegetation-all the plant life in a particular region or period; Pleistocene vegetation; the flora of southern California; the botany of China. A dense growth of shrubs or underbrush; a copse. 2. Something suggestive of a dense growth of plants, as in impenetrability or thickness: the thicket of unreality which stands between us and the facts of life (Daniel J. Boorstin).
Synonyms. 1  They rode down a dirt path in the forest amid the thickets of bushes and trees. 2  The birds love the dense thickets and scrub and clumps of bushes like blackthorn that grow in the older sites of the park. 3  Barely 20 feet below us was a dense thicket of bushes, and there the car lay on its side, undamaged. 1 They rode down a dirt path in the forest amid the thickets of bushes and trees. 2  The birds love the dense thickets and scrub and clumps of bushes like blackthorn that grow in the older sites of the park.
Learn More About THICKET. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for thicket. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of thicket. Nglish: Translation of thicket for Spanish speakers. Full Definition of THICKET. 1. : a dense growth of shrubbery or small trees: coppice.
› a ​quality or way of doing something that is in the middle of two completely different ​qualities or ways of doing something: a mean between sth and sth This description doesn't give enough ​information, and this one is too ​long – we need to ​find a mean between the two. 1 Shortages mean that ​ even ​ staples like ​ bread are ​ difficult to ​ find. 2  In a way I'd ​ prefer it if they didn't come, because it would mean ​ extra ​ work. 3  Let's say that the ​ journey ​ takes three ​ hours, that means you'll ​ arrive at two o'clock.