cohesion means the water molecules stick to other water molecules, adhesion is when the water molecules stick to other things like the inside of a stem of a plant. Adhesion is the force of attraction between molecules of different substances while cohesion is the force of attraction between molecules of the same substance. + 178 others found this useful.
Cohesion concerns the flow of sentences and paragraphs from one to another. It involves the tying together of old information and new. When we write academic essays, particularly in the humanities, we work hard to foster cohesion structurally, which enhances a reader's understanding of our ideas. 
The cohesive character of water is clearly noticeable. Cohesion (n. lat. cohaerere stick or stay together) or cohesive attraction or cohesive force is the action or property of like molecules sticking together, being mutually attractive. Because of its high cohesion and low adhesion to the glass, mercury does not spread out to cover the top of the flask, and if enough is placed in the flask to cover the bottom, it exhibits a strongly convex meniscus, whereas the meniscus of water is concave.
Cohesion is the attraction within a substance or between the parts of a group (as opposed to adhesion which refers to attraction to other substances). The cohesiveness of molecules is what makes rocks and steel hard and makes rubber able to stretch without breaking. Adhesion is the force of attraction between molecules of different substances while cohesion is the force of attraction between molecules of the same substance. + 178 others found this useful.
Cohesion: Water is attracted to water. Adhesion: Water is attracted to other substances. Adhesion and cohesion are water properties that affect every water molecule on earth and also the interaction of water molecules with molecules of other substances. Essentially, cohesion and adhesion are the stickiness that water molecules have for each other and for other substances. You can see this in the picture to the right. The water drop is composed of water molecules that like to stick together, an example of the property of cohesion. The water drop is stuck to the end of the pine needles, which is an example of the property of adhesion.
1. the state of cohering or sticking together. 2. (botany) the process in some plants of parts growing together that are usually separate (such as petals). 3. (physics) the intermolecular force that holds together the molecules in a solid or liquid. Familiarity information: COHESION used as a noun is uncommon. Dictionary entry details. 
Water, for example, is strongly cohesive as each molecule may make four hydrogen bonds to other water molecules in a tetrahedral configuration. This results in a relatively strong Coulomb force between molecules. Because of its high cohesion and low adhesion to the glass, mercury does not spread out to cover the top of the flask, and if enough is placed in the flask to cover the bottom, it exhibits a strongly convex meniscus, whereas the meniscus of water is concave.
1 British English: cohesive Something that is cohesive consists of parts that fit together well and form a united whole. 2  ADJECTIVEThe band's second album is a far more cohesive and successful album. Translations for 'cohesive'. 1 
Cohesion. In computer programming, cohesion refers to the degree to which the elements of a module belong together. Thus, it is a measure of how strongly-related each piece of functionality expressed by the source code of a software module is. Wiktionary (4.87 / 8 votes) Rate this definition: cohesion (Noun). State of cohering, or of working together. Unit cohesion is important in the military. cohesion (Noun). Various intermolecular forces that hold solids and liquids together.