Medical Definition of VERTIGO. 1. : a sensation of motion which is associated with various disorders (as of the inner ear) and in which the individual or the individual's surroundings seem to whirl dizzily—see objective vertigo, subjective vertigo; compare dizziness. 2.
Vertigo is usually due to a problem with the inner ear. Vertigo can also be caused by vision problems. The word vertigo comes from the Latin vertere, to turn + the suffix -igo, a condition = a condition of turning about). Vertigo is medically distinct from dizziness, lightheadedness, and unsteadiness. See: Dizziness, Lightheadedness, and Unsteadiness. 
Full Definition of VERTIGO. 1. a: a sensation of motion in which the individual or the individual's surroundings seem to whirl dizzily b: a dizzy confused state of mind. 2. : a sensation of motion which is associated with various disorders (as of the inner ear) and in which the individual or the individual's surroundings seem to whirl dizzily—see objective vertigo, subjective vertigo; compare dizziness. 2.
A. Vertigo is most commonly caused by a problem with the balancing mechanism in the inner ear. This is a coiled tube of fluid that lies behind the eardrum called the labyrinth. Viral infections such as a common cold or flu can spread to the labyrinth (labyrinthitis). A. Vertigo is a term that means there is a feeling as if in a spin. Dizziness describes any lack of stableness, not necessarily a true spinning sensation. There are two types of vertigo: subjective and objective. Subjective vertigo is when a person feels a false sensation of movement.
Medical Definition of DIZZINESS. : the condition of being dizzy; especially: a sensation of unsteadiness accompanied by a feeling of movement within the head—compare vertigo 1. Dictionary: Definition of dizziness. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of dizziness
vertigo. Definitions: 1. A sensation of spinning or whirling motion. Vertigo implies a definite sensation of rotation of the subject (subjective vertigo) or of objects about the subject (objective vertigo) in any plane. 2. Imprecisely used as a general term to describe dizziness. The definition information for vertigo is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
vertigo. a sensation of rotation or movement of one's self (subjective vertigo) or of one's surroundings (objective vertigo) in any plane. The term is sometimes used erroneously as a synonym for dizziness. Vertigo may result from diseases of the inner ear or may be due to disturbances of the vestibular centers or pathways in the central nervous system. A. Vertigo is a term that means there is a feeling as if in a spin. Dizziness describes any lack of stableness, not necessarily a true spinning sensation. There are two types of vertigo: subjective and objective. Subjective vertigo is when a person feels a false sensation of movement.
Definition. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo — the sudden sensation that you're spinning or that the inside of your head is spinning. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo causes brief episodes of mild to intense dizziness. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is usually triggered by specific changes in the position of your head. This might occur when you tip your head up or down, when you lie down, or when you turn over or sit up in bed.