3 Heat a large cast iron frying pan on high heat. Sprinkle both side of the steak with salt (unless you have used salted butter, then you can skip the salt.) Place steak in hot pan. Let sear for 2 to 3 minutes until well browned. Use tongs to lift up to see if nicely browned. If so, flip to the other side and let sear for 2 to 3 minutes. Flank steak should be served rare or medium rare, otherwise it may be too dry. Remove the steak from the pan to a cutting board and let rest for 10 minutes, covered with aluminum foil. 5 Cut the meat in very thin slices, at an angle, against the grain of the meat.
About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). 
Place the pan on the stovetop and turn the heat to high. 3. Immediately place steaks in the middle of the hot, dry pan. Cook 1 to 2 minutes without moving; turn steaks with tongs, and cook another 1 to 2 minutes. 4. Transfer the pan with the seared steaks to the hot oven. Roast in the center of the oven until the steaks are cooked to your liking, about 3 to 5 minutes. 
1 2 Season the steak on both sides with the salt and pepper. 2  Rub both sides with the olive oil and set aside. 3  3 Heat a medium heavy-bottomed frying pan (not nonstick!) over high heat until very hot but not smoking, about 3 to 4 minutes. Instructions. 1  1 Remove the steak from the refrigerator and let it come to room temperature, about 30 to 45 minutes. 2  2 Season the steak on both sides with the salt and pepper. 3
1. Choose a thick cut of steak over a thin one. Thick cuts of steak (1 in/2.5 cm or more) can develop a beautiful outer crust without drying out the insides unnecessarily. This task is a lot more difficult with thin cuts: You risk overcooking the inside right when the outside has finished browning
A homemade rub, made with cumin and salt and pepper seasons the steak before it goes on the grill, and fresh lime juice and minced fresh garlic are used in the post-grill marinade. Red and yellow peppers are grilled at the same time as the beef. 
1 4 Flip the steak using tongs or a spatula and cook until it’s medium rare, about 3 to 4 minutes more. 2  To check for doneness, use your finger to press on the steak: It should be firm around the edges but still give in the center. Instructions. 1  1 Remove the steak from the refrigerator and let it come to room temperature, about 30 to 45 minutes. 2  2 Season the steak on both sides with the salt and pepper. 3  Rub both sides with the olive oil and set aside.
Before Cooking: – Season the steak with salt and pepper just before cooking. If you salt it earlier and leave it for a while, the salt will draw out the juices. – Bring the steak to room temperature before cooking. – 1 serving of steak (I’m using the ribeye cut here). – olive oil. – sea salt and freshly cracked black pepper. – herbs of your choice (optional). Directions. 1. Brush the steak with some oil and season with salt, pepper and herbs (optional) to taste just before cooking. 2. Heat the griddle pan on high heat till very hot. Place the steak onto the hot pan (you should hear a sizzling sound if the pan is hot enough) and reduce the heat to medium high. 3. Cook the meat based on the cooking times reference above