Best Answer: Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Brush the basa fillets with about 1 tablespoon olive oil, and roll in the crushed Melba toast to coat. Season with salt and pepper. Use a kitchen sprayer to lightly spray the coated fish with remaining olive oil. Arrange the fish in a baking dish and top with garlic and lemon slices. I am cooking Basa fish for the first time and have no idea how long to bake it for. Actually I am making fish for the first time. I am trying to add it to a better eating style due to health program.
1 Place in a baking dish. 2  Combine the garlic and lemon juice with the melted butter. 3  Pour the butter mix over the fillets, the sprinkle with parsley, salt and pepper to taste. 4  Bake the basa in the oven for 15 minutes, or until the fish flakes easily with a fork. 
1 Arrange the fish in a baking dish and top with garlic and lemon slices. 2  Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven, or until fish is easily flaked with a fork and coating is lightly browned. 3  Serve with the mayonnaise sauce mixture. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  In a bowl, thoroughly blend the mayonnaise, mustard, capers, ketchup, paprika, and hot pepper sauce. 3  Brush the basa fillets with about 1 tablespoon olive oil, and roll in the crushed Melba toast to coat. 4  Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven, or until fish is easily flaked with a fork and ...
Baked Basa Fillets in Garlic and Butter Ingredients:2 fillet slabs of basa fish (mine was 1.4 lb in total), or any white fish of your preference3 tbsp butter, melted1/4 tsp salt1/8 tsp fresh ground pepper2 tbsp chopped garlic1/2 a lemon, cut in 1/2a handful of cilantro, roughly chopped, for garnishPreparation1. In a baking dish, mix the butter, garlic, salt and pepper. Place the fish fillets into the mixture, and then turn them so both sides are coated. Cover the dish with aluminum foil.3. Bake for 10 minutes, then take out of the oven and turn off the heat. Squeeze the lemon, a quarter lemon for each fillet.
1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 2  Pat fish fillets dry and place in a baking dish sprayed with cooking spray. 3  Pour lemon juice and melted butter over fish. 4  Sprinkle remaining ingredients over fish. 5  Bake uncovered for 10-12 minutes or until fish flakes with a fork. 1 Pat fish fillets dry and place in a baking dish sprayed with cooking spray. 2  Pour lemon juice and melted butter over fish. 3  Sprinkle remaining ingredients over fish. 4
1 Season with salt and pepper. 2  Use a kitchen sprayer to lightly spray the coated fish with remaining olive oil. 3  Arrange the fish in a baking dish and top with garlic and lemon slices. 4  Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven, or until fish is easily flaked with a fork and coating is lightly browned. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  In a bowl, thoroughly blend the mayonnaise, mustard, capers, ketchup, paprika, and hot pepper sauce. 3  Brush the basa fillets with about 1 tablespoon olive oil, and roll in the crushed Melba toast to coat. 4  Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven, or until fish is easily flaked with a fork and ...
Cover the baking dish with aluminum foil. Place the fish into the oven and bake for 10 minutes. Uncover the fish, squeeze additional lemon juice and a sprinkling of finely chopped cilantro. Cover the fish with the foil and bake for 5 minutes more until the fish is opaque in color and flakes easily with a fork. Step 2. Place the fillet into the pan and cook for 4 minutes, until the edges of the fish start to brown slightly. Carefully flip the fillet over, using a fish spatula so that it does not fall apart. Cook another 3 minutes until the flesh is opaque and cooked through.
Season the basa fillet with smoked paprika, salt and pepper. Place the fillet into the pan and cook for 4 minutes, until the edges of the fish start to brown slightly. Carefully flip the fillet over, using a fish spatula so that it does not fall apart. Cook another 3 minutes until the flesh is opaque and cooked through. Step 2. Place the fillet into the pan and cook for 4 minutes, until the edges of the fish start to brown slightly. Carefully flip the fillet over, using a fish spatula so that it does not fall apart. Cook another 3 minutes until the flesh is opaque and cooked through.