Although the breed had existed long before, the name Cairn Terrier was a compromise suggestion after the breed was originally brought to official shows in the United Kingdom in 1909 under the name Short-haired Skye terriers. 1 In the Maximum Ride book series Total, the talking dog, is a Cairn Terrier. 2  In the first edition of L. Frank Baum 's book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1899), though Baum did not specify in the text what breed Toto was, illustrator W. W. Denslow drew him a
Feeding Fido. As a small dog expected to live 15 years or more, the Cairn Terrier will need approximately 1/2 to 1 cup of dry dog food daily. Proper nutrition is necessary for the dog to grow and thrive. Find and compare options below. The Cairn Terrier ranks 25th as most expensive breed in medical costs. Average total amount claimed per year from 2011 to 2013 for this particular breed was $953. Data sourced from Veterinary Pet Insurance. Each breed has a sample size of at least 2,000 insured pets
The Cairn Terrier, which has an average lifespan of 12 to 14 years, may suffer from major health concerns such as Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GCL), or minor issues like glaucoma, portacaval shunt, and Craniomandibular osteopathy (CMO). Though a dog of small size, the Cairn Terrier requires daily outdoor exercises; this may be in the form of a game, an on-leash walk, or an expedition in a secure area.
They would wedge their way inside and bark at their prey until the farmer came to claim it. The Cairn Terrier male will reach heights between 10-13 inches and an average weight of 14-18 pounds. The female Cairn Terrier is slightly smaller, reaching heights between 9-12 inches and an average weight of 13-17 pounds. The Cairn Terrier has a weather resistant double coat. The top coat will feel rough to the touch, however the undercoat is quite soft. The Cairn Terrier is considered to be one of the oldest terrier breeds. They originated in the Scottish Highlands and the Isle of Skye. Cairn Terriers were originally lumped in with the Scottish Terrier and the West Highland White Terrier as one breed.
The Cairn Terrier is one of the oldest of the terrier breeds, originating in the Scottish Highlands and recognized as one of Scotland's earliest working dogs. The breed was given the name cairn, because the breed's function was to hunt and chase quarry between the cairns in the Scottish highlands. 1 In the Maximum Ride book series Total, the talking dog, is a Cairn Terrier. 2  In the first edition of L. Frank Baum 's book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1899), though Baum did not specify in the text what breed Toto was, illustrator W. W. Denslow drew him a
Male Cairn Terriers weigh 14 to 18 pounds, while females weigh 13 to 17 pounds. Just a few characteristics of the Cairn Terrier are loyal, spirited, lovable, merry small dog that is friendly but also independent. 
The Cairn Terrier is a sensible, confident little dog, independent but friendly. He may be found in an apartment, suburban home, or on a farm. Alert, intelligent and long-lived, the Cairn tends to remain active and playful well into his teen years, endearing him to children. Cairn Terrier Appearance. The Cairn Terrier may be any color but white. The breed is double coated with a hard weather resistant outer coat and a soft, short undercoat. The outer coat should be striped out once a year to promote a new coat.
Health. The Cairn Terrier, which has an average lifespan of 12 to 14 years, may suffer from major health concerns such as Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GCL), or minor issues like glaucoma, portacaval shunt, and Craniomandibular osteopathy (CMO). Veterinarian often recommend tests to confirm GCL in Cairn Terriers. Though a dog of small size, the Cairn Terrier requires daily outdoor exercises; this may be in the form of a game, an on-leash walk, or an expedition in a secure area.