The main difference between the symptoms of a cold and sinus infection is how long they linger. Dr. Bhattacharyya says cold sufferers typically have a runny nose for two to three days, followed by a stuffy nose for two to three days. After that, most people begin to feel better. 
It can be hard to differentiate between a common cold and a sinus infection. Sinusitis is often preceded by a common colds. This progression is more common in certain people. Allergies and narrow sinus drainage are two common factors associated with sinus infections. Sinusitis, or more properly termed rhinosinusitis, is an inflammation of the mucosal lining of the nose and sinuses. The infection can begin with inflammation from a viral cold, which can lead to narrowing of the drainage passages of the sinuses. This narrowing can also be related to swelling from an allergy flare up
Cold vs Sinus Infection. Cold or common cold (acute coryza, acute viral rhinopharyngitis, and upper respiratory infection) is a viral infection that is contagious. This infection is caused by the coronavirus or the rhinovirus. Cold is one of the most common conditions of infection amongst humans. 2. The coronavirus or the rhinovirus causes cold whereas sinus infection can be caused by viral, fungal, bacterial and allergic stimuli. 3. Common cold persists for 5 days whereas sinus infection can lead to 7-10 days of suffering. 4. Common cold doesn’t cause fever whereas sinus infection causes fever.
Because the symptoms can be quite similar, it can be hard to tell the difference between a sinus infection and a cold. To make matters even more confusing, sinus infections and colds frequently occur together. 
Another common point of distinction between a common cold infection and a sinus infection is that, common colds produce clear mucus in the form of nasal discharge. But bacterial sinus infections cause the discharge of yellowish or greenish mucus and may at times also contain traces of pus. Summary: 1. Common cold is a contagious viral infection whereas sinus infection is a condition of infection and inflammation of paranasal sinuses. 2. The coronavirus or the rhinovirus causes cold whereas sinus infection can be caused by viral, fungal, bacterial and allergic stimuli. 3. Common cold persists for 5 days whereas sinus infection can lead to 7-10 days of suffering. 4. Common cold doesn’t cause fever whereas sinus infection causes fever.
The symptoms of a cold and a sinus infection can be quite similar to each other. This is because the same viruses often cause both conditions. Also, because the nose and sinuses are connected, it is possible for viruses to move easily between the nasal passages and the sinuses. 
Article Body. It is often difficult to tell if an illness is just a viral cold or if it is complicated by a bacterial infection of the sinuses. Sinusitis is an inflammation of the lining of the nose and sinuses. It is a very common infection in children. 1  Viral sinusitis usually accompanies a cold. 2  Allergic sinusitis may accompany allergies such as hay fever. 3  Bacterial sinusitis is a secondary infection caused by the trapping of bacteria in the sinuses during the course of a cold or allergy. 
• Sinus infection involves the sinus cavities of the skull, whereas the cold only involves the mucous membranes. • Sinus infection is mainly due to bacterial, whereas the cold is due to viral agents. • The headache in sinus infection is much heavier than in the cold, with the heaviness aggravating when bending forward. A sinus infection may be acute or chronic. It will present with fever, heaviness in the head and face, aggravated on bending forward. Headache, post nasal drip with production of yellowish sputum indicates that this condition is most probably due to a bacterial infection.
Common Cold Facts. The common cold is a virus of the upper respiratory tract. Symptoms include runny nose, sore throat, slight body ache, cough, congestion, sneezing, itchy or watery eyes and a mild fever. Sinus infections occur when the sinuses become swollen or inflamed as the result of a common cold, bacteria, allergies or fungal infections. Symptoms include swelling and possibly pain in the face, thick discharge in the nose and throat, aching in teeth and jaws, reduced sense of smell and taste and a persistent cough.