A cofactor is a non-protein chemical compound that is required for the protein's biological activity. These proteins are commonly enzymes, and cofactors can be considered helper molecules that assist in biochemical transformations. Cofactors can be divided into two broad groups: organic cofactors, such as flavin or heme, and inorganic cofactors, such as the metal ions Mg 2+ , Cu + , Mn 2+ , or iron-sulfur clusters. Organic cofactors are sometimes further divided into coenzymes and prosthetic groups.
Cofactor. Definition. noun, plural: cofactors. (biochemistry) An inorganic complement of an enzyme reaction. Supplement. Cofactors pertain to the inorganic substances that are needed by certain enzymes to carry out catalysis of a particular chemical reaction. Cofactors are non-protein compounds. However, they are involved in catalysis by binding to enzymes at their specific binding sites in order to activate them.
Cofactors, mostly metal ions or coenzymes, are inorganic and organic chemicals that assist enzymes during the catalysis of reactions. Coenzymes are non-protein organic molecules that are mostly derivatives of vitamins soluble in water by phosphorylation; they bind apoenzyme to proteins to produce an active holoenzyme. Coenzyme [edit]. A coenzyme is a small, organic, non-protein molecules that carries chemical groups between enzymes. It is the cofactor for the enzyme and does not form a permanent part in the enzyme's structure. Sometimes, they are called cosubstrates and are considered substrates that are loosely bound to the enzyme.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Coenzyme Definition: A coenzyme is a substance that works with an enzyme to initiate or aid the function of the enzyme. Coenzymes cannot function on their own and require the presence of an enzyme. Examples: The B vitamins serve as coenzymes essential for enzymes to form fats, carbohydrates and proteins
Definition of Cofactor. An organic molecule or ion (usually a metal ion) that is required by an enzyme for its activity. It may be attached either loosely (coenzyme) or tightly (prosthetic gro. Search the Dictionary.
Cofactors can be subdivided into either one or more inorganic ions, or a complex organic or metalloorganic molecule called a coenzyme; most of which are derived from vitamins and from required organic nutrients in small amounts. A cofactor that is tightly or even covalently bound is termed a prosthetic group. Some sources also limit the use of the term cofactor to inorganic substances. An inactive enzyme without the cofactor is called an apoenzyme, while the complete enzyme with cofactor is called a holoenzyme. Cofactors can be divided into two broad groups: organic cofactors, such as flavin or heme, and inorganic cofactors, such as the metal ions Mg 2+ , Cu + , Mn 2+ , or iron-sulfur clusters. Organic cofactors are sometimes further divided into coenzymes and prosthetic groups.
Some protein-based enzymes require small molecules called cofactors to become fully functional. The relationship between enzymes and cofactors is shown by the equation. apoenzyme + cofactor = holoenzyme. where apoenzyme refers to the nonfunctional protein and holoenzyme refers to the completely functional enzyme. There are two types of cofactors: metal ions and small organic molecules. The latter of the two are also called coenzymes. The relationship between cofactor and coenzyme and some further subclassification can be seen in the following simple outline. 
1. cofactor-a substance (as a coenzyme) that must join with another to produce a given result. chemical compound, compound - (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. 1  Facebook. 