The function of carbohydrates in pet food. The value of carbohydrates in dog foods is often debated among nutritionists. Despite the debate, most commercial dry foods contain between 30% and 70% carbohydrates. Health problems related to carbohydrates. While carbohydrates are an important part of dry commercial pet foods, they can occasionally cause medical problems in dogs including obesity and maldigestion.
Carbohydrates are present in almost all commercially available dog foods. While we often focus on the protein and fat content of a dog food, carbohydrates have an impact on the quality of your dog's diet. Carbohydrates are responsible for many health problems, if not fed correctly. Health problems related to carbohydrates. While carbohydrates are an important part of dry commercial pet foods, they can occasionally cause medical problems in dogs including obesity and maldigestion.
Starch Free™ vs. Grain free dog / cat food. Epigen™ - The Rationale For Protein Isolates. Epigen 90™ - The Evolution of Kibble Stops Here. 1  The first extruded dry diet/kibble pet food (patent pending) that is Starch Free™ (Epigen™ does what Grain Free dog food and cat foods only pretend to do). 1 The first extruded dry diet/kibble pet food (patent pending) that is Starch Free™ (Epigen™ does what Grain Free dog food and cat foods only pretend to do). 2  More closely resembles the food your pet is designed to eat. 3  Contains unprecedented and unequalled meat content, including organic.
Soluble carbohydrates are found in high concentrations in cereal grains such as rice, wheat, corn, barley, and oats. The cooked or extruded forms of carbohydrates found in most pet foods are easily and rapidly digested. It should be noted that not all forms of starch are easily digested by dogs and cats. Health problems related to carbohydrates. While carbohydrates are an important part of dry commercial pet foods, they can occasionally cause medical problems in dogs including obesity and maldigestion.
Definition. The term food starch refers to any starch made from a food source or used as an ingredient in a food. Potatoes and other vegetables are common sources of food starch, as well as corn, wheat, rice and other grains. 
Soluble carbohydrates are found in high concentrations in cereal grains such as rice, wheat, corn, barley, and oats. Your pet can easily digest the cooked or extruded forms of soluble carbohydrates found in most pet foods. However, pets cannot easily digest all forms of starch, such as those found in raw cereal grains. Cats are less able to efficiently digest carbohydrate
Carbohydrates used in dog foods. Carbohydrates used in dog foods generally include the starchy portion of a plant that can be easily broken down in the digestive tract of the dog. Health problems related to carbohydrates. While carbohydrates are an important part of dry commercial pet foods, they can occasionally cause medical problems in dogs including obesity and maldigestion.
Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet. Low-carb diets. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease.
Carbohydrates used in cat foods. Carbohydrates used in cat foods generally include the starchy portion of a plant that can be easily broken down in the digestive tract of the cat. These carbohydrates are found in high concentrations in cereal grains such as rice, wheat, corn, barley, and oats. Carbohydrates are present in almost all commercially available cat foods. While we often focus on the protein and fat content of a cat food, carbohydrates have an impact on the quality of your cat's diet. Carbohydrates are responsible for many health problems, if not fed correctly.