Most coniferous trees grow in the northern hemisphere where they form forests, which are called taiga or boreal forests. These trees grow wild across many areas in North America, Europe and Asia. Some conifers grow in the Southern Hemisphere in places such New Zealand and Chile.
Pine Trees. Pines are probably the most notable of evergreen tree types. While most of them have long, needlelike foliage and are cone bearing, not all pine trees are the same. Each has their own unique characteristics to contribute.
Physical Characteristics. Though the common image of an evergreen may look something like a Christmas tree, evergreen trees actually vary greatly in their physical characteristics. Some, like the California redwood, can grow to be more than 350 feet tall, while others are just a few feet tall.
The leaves of coniferous trees resemble needles. The needles normally stay on the tree year-round, producing evergreen color. Both larches and cypresses are the exception, being deciduous where they lose their needles each year.
Evergreen trees can be found on every continent except Antarctica. Unlike deciduous trees that shed their foliage during winter, evergreen trees keep their leaves year-round. Thousands of species are considered evergreens, including conifers, palm trees and most trees found in the rainforest. Many evergreen tree species are considered valuable resources, providing humans with everything from lumber and firewood to medicinal ingredients and food.
Olive Tree Characteristics. Growth Habits. The olive is an evergreen tree growing to 50 ft. in height with a spread of about 30 ft. The tree can be kept to about 20 ft. with regular pruning. The graceful, billowing appearance of the olive tree is very attractive.
Most evergreen trees are needle bearing while evergreen shrubs also include broadleaf varieties. In addition, their growing characteristics vary greatly among species. Therefore, it’s important to recognize the differences between them before adding these plants to the landscape.