Because of the tiny size of a Micro SD card, you can't put it in a laptop slot without an adapter. The adapter will allow you to put the Micro SD card inside of an SD card case to make it fit. This will not work if you do not have any card slots in your laptop, however. If you do, you can buy a cheap card with an adapter here: http://www.amazon.com/SanDisk-MicroSD-SDSDQ-1024-A10M-Retail-Package/dp/B000EEZCEG.
Instructions. Double-click My Computer on your desktop to open the list of available drives. Connect the SD card reader to the computer via a USB cable. If you don't intend to remove the reader, place it in one of the USB slots in the back of the computer. Wait for the computer to install the card reader. Insert the SD card into the card reader. The computer will then connect to the SD card. Double-click on the drive that appeared in My Computer.. This is the SD Card. Drag and drop files you want on the card onto the drive icon. You can also open the drive and drag the files into the window that opens. 
If you want to transfer data from a micro SD card to your laptop, the notebook must have a card reader or connect an external USB device that allows you to read and write flash memory cards. Step 1. Insert the Micro SD card into the slot of the SD card adapter. Insert the adapter card with the inserted Micro SD card into the SD card port on the laptop. If the laptop does not have a card reader with an SD card port, insert the installation disk for an external card reader into the optical drive of the laptop. 
(look up ripping) If your computer has an SD slot, you can plug your MicroSD card into the larger SD adapter that usually comes with them, then place that into the slot. If your computer doesn't have an SD slot, you will have to get a Memory Card Reader that plugs into a USB port. You put your micro SD card into the adapter, and put the adapter into anywhere that supports SD cards. Then you open the card's folder, and it should have a music folder, if a … nything.
If your computer has a an SD crad reader, when you insert a card into it, it's just like a disk drive. You can copy files from *that* disk drive to your real disk drive just as you would from any other disk drive--copy and paste, drag and drop, etc. If you don't know how to do those things, write back for more info. 
The SD memory card icon will not appear in the Computer window until you insert the card into the slot. Hint. When you insert the SD memory card into the slot for the first time, you may be prompted to install driver software. If prompted, follow the on-screen instructions to install the software. The SD memory card icon will appear in the Computer window after you insert the card into the slot. Note. Be careful not to insert an SD memory card with wrong orientation. If you force it into the slot upside down, the slot may be damaged.
If your laptop doesn’t have a card reader, you can purchase and install an external SD card reader. Step 1. Connect the card reader to an available USB port on your laptop and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for any software installation needed. Skip this step if your laptop features a built-in card reader. Step 2. Press the SD card into your card reader gently until it clicks into place. When inserting the card, the side of the card with the metal contacts should enter the port first, with the metal contacts facing down.
Slide the SD card into the card reader (either the external reader or one built into the HP laptop). You can hear a slight clicking noise, which means it has locked into place. Push the card in slightly when you are done with it. This unlocks the SD card and it pops out of the card reader. Instructions. Check the sides of your HP laptop for an SD card slot. This slot is roughly an inch wide and just a few millimeters tall. If you do not have such a card slot you need to purchase an external card reader.
Report Abuse. Some laptops have a slot where you can put the SD card directly into it. You cam also get a cheap and simple USB devise that you put the SD card into. Another way is to put the SD card into a devise like mobile phone, then connect the phone to the laptop by Bluetooth or USB cable. LondonGuy · 7 years ago