Widely available custom options for cabinets have made linear foot pricing obsolete. Some cabinet prices are advertised as per linear foot while others give an estimate for a 10-by-10-foot kitchen, and others are priced by the individual component. It can be difficult to compare these prices against each other, but understanding what a linear foot means can help. Some large retailers still price prebuilt cabinets by the linear foot, but most cabinets are now priced either by the square foot or by individual components due to the wide range of custom options now widely available.
I have a question. Why, when I look at the cabinets at HD/Lowes in the Kraftmaid/Diamond/Thomasville lines do they have pricing on the back of the doors that says between $160.00 and $200.00 per linear ft. for styles I like. The 42 cabinets add extra. The staggared height and depth cabinets add a LOT extra. Light rail alone can cost 1K in even some moderate cabinet lines. The cutlery drawer probably adds about $300. THe trash pullout
Average cost is $150-$900 per linear foot. Custom. With the most options available, custom cabinetry is designed, built, and installed to fit your space. A professional kitchen designer will help establish an efficient layout. Exotic woods, ornate details, and period styles will add cost and delivery time but result in a one-of-a-kind kitchen. Average cost is $500-$1,400 per linear foot. Your dealer might not have every unit in stock, but special orders take as little as a week. Stock cabinetry ranges from 6 to 42 inches wide, in 3-inch increments. Average cost is $75-$
I just got the final layout for my cabinets, and it's fantastic. The final cost estimate--not so much. I calculated that I am being proposed nearly $500 a linear foot (yes, that's calculating uppers and lowers separately) for semi-custom cabinets. Anyway, he said they normally charge $1000/linear ft for cabs to the ceiling (which I am doing in the kitchen -10' ceilings) and $800 ft otherwise for uppers/lowers. Still seems way high to me.
Now I have a custom cabinet price from the same place. They make their own-and frankly-I don't care for them as much, but because of the savings-that's the way I am going to go. The same kitchen comes to $860. Per LF (or $37000.00). Anyway, he said they normally charge $1000/linear ft for cabs to the ceiling (which I am doing in the kitchen -10' ceilings) and $800 ft otherwise for uppers/lowers. Still seems way high to me.
According to Kennedy, most cabinets range from $500 to $1,500 per cabinet box. Based on an estimated 30 cabinets in an average-size kitchen, you can be looking at a cost of about $15,000-$45,000, she says. Discover everything you need to know about cabinets with our free guide! Your dealer might not have every unit in stock, but special orders take as little as a week. Stock cabinetry ranges from 6 to 42 inches wide, in 3-inch increments. Average cost is $75-$400 per linear foot.
Cabinets are not bought by linear square foot despite popular opinion. They are bought more or less per box.. So a 36 basic double drawer would be less than a 4 drawer 36 unit. The door panel, finish, moldings, quality of box construction, type of hinge etc drastically change the price. 
Pricing wise, they're listed in order—stock cabinets are cheapest, at around $60 to $200 per linear foot, semi-custom cabinets will run you around $100 to $650 per linear foot, and custom cabinets usually cost between $500 and $1,200 per linear foot. More: Kitchen Remodeling Ideas, Options and Solutions. 
Linear Feet. An older method of pricing cabinets is by the linear foot. You can calculate the linear feet of your cabinets by measuring their length. Measure each section of cabinetry from wall to wall, and be sure to include both the upper and lower cabinets. Some large retailers still price prebuilt cabinets by the linear foot, but most cabinets are now priced either by the square foot or by individual components due to the wide range of custom options now widely available.
However, most homeowners spend in the $10,000 to $15,000 range for the cabinets and installation. Looked at another way, KraftMaid cabinets are generally priced between $100 and $200 per liner square foot, with some high-end products reaching $300 per linear square foot. Popular upgrades that will add to the total purchase price include glass doors, molding and accents, lighting and built-in storage. KraftMaid Cabinet Average Costs. The kitchen is the most expensive room in the home to remodel. But a quality kitchen update adds significant value to your home. Cabinets alone make up nearly half of the cost of most kitchen remodels.