• TRISOMY (noun). The noun TRISOMY has 1 sense: 1. chrosomal abnormality in which there is one more than the normal number of chromosomes in a cell. Familiarity information: TRISOMY used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (trisomy is a kind of...): chromosomal aberration; chromosomal anomaly; chromosonal disorder; chrosomal abnormality (any change in the normal structure or number of chromosomes; often results in physical or mental abnormalities). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of trisomy):
Down syndrome; Down's syndrome; mongolianism; mongolism; trisomy 21 (a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome; results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation). Hypernyms (trisomy is a kind of...): chromosomal aberration; chromosomal anomaly; chromosonal disorder; chrosomal abnormality (any change in the normal structure or number of chromosomes; often results in physical or mental abnormalities). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of trisomy):
A trisomy is a type of polysomy in which there are three instances of a particular chromosome, instead of the normal two. A trisomy is a type of aneuploidy (an abnormal number of chromosomes).
As the egg and sperm combine, this mistake is passed on to the baby. A trisomy means that the baby has an extra chromosome in some or all of the body's cells. In the case of trisomy 18, the baby has three copies of chromosome 18. This causes many of the baby's organs to develop in an abnormal way. There are three types of trisomy 18: 1  Full trisomy 18. 1 Partial trisomy 18. 2  The child has only part of an extra chromosome 18. 3  That extra part may be attached to another chromosome in the egg or sperm (called a translocation). 4  This type of trisomy 18 is very rare.
This is the presence of an extra chromosome, a third instead of a pair. Diseases associated with trisomies include Down syndrome (associated with a Trisomy of chromosome 21), Patau syndrome (Trisomy 13), Edward syndrome (Trisomy 18) , and Klinefelter syndrome (a male with an extra X chromosome – XXY instead of XY). Monosomy. This is the absence of one of the chromosomes
A small percentage of people with trisomy 13 have an extra copy of chromosome 13 in only some of the body's cells. In these people, the condition is called mosaic trisomy 13. The severity of mosaic trisomy 13 depends on the type and number of cells that have the extra chromosome. 
Trisomy 21 is also known as Down syndrome. Other examples of trisomy include trisomy 18 and trisomy 13. Again, trisomy 18 or trisomy 13 simply means there are three copies of the #18 chromosome (or of the #13 chromosome) present in each cell of the body, rather than the usual pair. The features of trisomy 18 and trisomy 13 result from having this extra copy of chromosome 18 or 13 in each of the body's cells. Occasionally, the extra chromosome 18 or 13 is attached to another chromosome in the egg or sperm; this is called a translocation.
1 *Partial trisomy means that there is an extra copy of part of a chromosome.  2 Secondary trisomy - the extra chromosome has quadruplicated arms (the arms are identical; it is an isochromosome).  3 Tertiary trisomy - the extra chromosome is made up of copies of arms from two other chromosomes. A trisomy is a type of aneuploidy (an abnormal number of chromosomes).