To use the calculator, get out your electric bill and find what your electrical company charges you for Kilowatt Hour (KWH). Enter Hours of Use per Day. Finally enter the number of hours per day that you will be using the device and press the 'Calculate Cost' button. You can also select a known device from the dropdown at right, and press Select Device and Calculate.
kWh calculator. The energy E in kilowatt-hours (kWh) per day is equal to the power P in watts (W) times number of usage hours per day t divided by 1000 watts per kilowatt: Energy consumption calculation. The energy E in kilowatt-hours (kWh) per day is equal to the power P in watts (W) times number of usage hours per day t divided by 1000 watts per kilowatt: E (kWh/day) = P (W) × t (h/day) / 1000 (W/kW).
Electricity bill calculation. The energy E in kilowatt-hours (kWh) per day is equal to the power P in watts (W) times number of usage hours per day t divided by 1000 watts per kilowatt: E (kWh/day) = P (W) × t (h/day) / 1000 (W/kW). Electricity cost calculation. The electricity cost per day in dollars is equal to the energy consumption E in kWh per day times the energy cost of 1 kWh in cents/kWh divided by 100 cents per dollar:
To estimate an appliance's energy use in kWh per year, multiply the kWh/day estimate by 365 (if you wouldn't use the appliance every day of the year, multiply by the number of days you would use it). 5. Multiply the estimated kWh use (for any time period) by the cost of energy (per kWh) in your area. Multiply the unit's kWh/day by the number of days you'd use it during the period you'd like to calculate. So to estimate an appliance's energy use in kWh per month, multiply its kWh/day by 31 (or 28, 29 or 30 depending on how many days there are in the month you want to measure).
An average CFL bulb which provides 800 lumens will use only 13 to 15 watts compared to a similar incandescent bulb which uses 60 watts. Click calculate to find out the electricity cost of a single CFL light bulb running at 14 Watts for 5 hours a day @ $0.10 per a kWh, you can also modify the calculator. Cost Per Hour: Cost Per Day: Cost Per Month: 
Divide the result by 1,000 to convert watts to kilowatts. So for example, if your large window fan is rated at 250 watts and you use it 5 hours a day, its kWh use per day is 250 (watts) * 5 (hours used per day) / 1,000 (to change watts into kilowatts) = 1.25 kWh per day. Multiply the unit's kWh/day by the number of days you'd use it during the period you'd like to calculate. So to estimate an appliance's energy use in kWh per month, multiply its kWh/day by 31 (or 28, 29 or 30 depending on how many days there are in the month you want to measure).
To continue the earlier example of the window fan, if energy costs 17 cents/kWh in your area, running the fan as estimated earlier for one year will cost you approximately 1.25 (kWh per day) * 365 (days--the time period) * .17 (cost of energy/kWh) = about $77.56 per year if you use the fan every day. Multiply the unit's kWh/day by the number of days you'd use it during the period you'd like to calculate. So to estimate an appliance's energy use in kWh per month, multiply its kWh/day by 31 (or 28, 29 or 30 depending on how many days there are in the month you want to measure).
Energy consumption calculation. The energy E in kilowatt-hours (kWh) per day is equal to the power P in watts (W) times number of usage hours per day t divided by 1000 watts per kilowatt: E (kWh/day) = P (W) × t (h/day) / 1000 (W/kW). Electricity cost calculation. The electricity cost per day in dollars is equal to the energy consumption E in kWh per day times the energy cost of 1 kWh in cents/kWh divided by 100 cents per dollar:
Electricity Usage Calculator. Use our electricity usage calculator to calculate the energy consumption cost of your various electrical appliances and devices. Enter Hours of Use per Day. Finally enter the number of hours per day that you will be using the device and press the 'Calculate Cost' button. You can also select a known device from the dropdown at right, and press Select Device and Calculate.