Full Definition of BALLAD. 1. a: a narrative composition in rhythmic verse suitable for singing b: an art song accompanying a traditional ballad. 2. : a simple song: air. 3. : a popular song; especially: a slow romantic or sentimental song. — bal·lad·ic \bə-ˈla-dik, ba-\ adjective. See ballad defined for English-language learners. Origin of BALLAD. Middle English balade ballade, song, from Middle French, from Old Occitan balada dance, song sung while dancing, from balar to dance, from Late Latin ballare. First Known Use: 14th century.
1. Understand what a ballad is. A ballad is a poem or song that focuses on a specific story. Often, ballads are about love--either lost or found-- or about an event or interaction that says something about the human condition. They are thought of as romantic and are often tragic.
ballad. n. 1. (Music, other) a narrative song with a recurrent refrain. 2. (Poetry) a narrative poem in short stanzas of popular origin, originally sung to a repeated tune. 3. (Pop Music) a slow sentimental song, esp a pop song. bal·lad. n. 1. a. A narrative poem, often of folk origin and intended to be sung, consisting of simple stanzas and usually having a refrain. b. The music for such a poem. 2. A popular song especially of a romantic or sentimental nature.
In the later 19th century the term took on the meaning of a slow form of popular love song and is now often used for any love song, particularly the pop or rock sentimental ballad. Usually, only the second and fourth line of a quatrain are rhymed (in the scheme a, b, c, b), which has been taken to suggest that, originally, ballads consisted of couplets (two lines) of rhymed verse, each of 14 syllables.
Ballad Examples. The word Ballad is of French provenance. It is a type of poetry or verse which was basically used in dance songs in the ancient France. Later on, during the late 16th and 17th century, it spread over the majority of European nations. Legends and historical events were narrated in the form of a ballad which would comprise song and dance. Ballad was a perfect substitute for our current day technology-based entertainment, albeit with more emotional appeal.
Ballad. Related to pop · rock · korean · female vocalists · k-pop. Music that's slow in tempo, usually sung or performed with a romantic or sentimental emotion, and often out of character for the band or artist performing the song. Nuelfe Byorn.
A ballad /ˈbaeləd/ ˈbæləd is a form of, verse often a narrative set to. music Usually, only the second and fourth line of a quatrain are rhymed (in the scheme a, b, c, b), which has been taken to suggest that, originally, ballads consisted of couplets (two lines) of rhymed verse, each of 14 syllables.
A ballad /ˈbaeləd/ ˈbæləd is a form of, verse often a narrative set to. Music ballads derive from the Medieval french chanson balladee balladée, or ballade which were originally. dancing songs Usually, only the second and fourth line of a quatrain are rhymed (in the scheme a, b, c, b), which has been taken to suggest that, originally, ballads consisted of couplets (two lines) of rhymed verse, each of 14 syllables.
· just now. Report Abuse. A ballad is a form of verse, often a narrative set to music. Ballads were particularly characteristic of British and Irish popular poetry and song from the later medieval period until the 19th century and used extensively across Europe and later the Americas, Australia and North Africa. In the later 19th century it took on the meaning of a slow form of popular love song and the term is now often used as synonymous with any love song, particularly the pop or rock power ballad. -Ray http://www.rayjozwiak.com. Source(s): wikipedia. Ray J · 4 years ago.