Elevations and plans for conversion of Prisoners' Barrack buildings, Moreton Bay, July 1839. The Moreton Bay penal settlement was closed in 1842 when the Moreton Bay area was opened to free settlement, with Brisbane Town as its centre. The colony of Queensland was separated from New South Wales in 1859. 
Lieutenant John Oxley, Surveyor General of NSW, received instructions from Governor Brisbane to search for new penal establishment. On the 23rd October 1823 Oxley left Sydney in search of new settlement and surveys Moreton Bay on the 25th November of that year. It was used in the free settlement from 1860 to 1868 as a Court House and home for the first Queensland Parliament. In a large fenced area in front of the Convict Barracks, convicts made their own uniforms, leather caps and boots as well as soap and candles for the whole settlement.
The remaining Aboriginals were herded on to reserves on the outskirts of Brisbane where they were forced to live under the restrictive rules imposed by white government. Brisbane was first settled by Europeans to be used as a penal settlement where Sydney offloaded its worst convicts. In late 1823 Surveyor General John Oxley explored the area and discovered the river naming it in honour of the then Governor of NSW, Sir Thomas Brisbane. The Moreton Bay Penal settlement was established first in Redcliffe and three months later in an area now known as North Quay. 
The colony of the Moreton Bay District was founded in 1824 when Oxley arrived at Redcliffe with a crew and 29 convicts. The settlement was established at Humpybong, but abandoned less than a year later when the main settlement was moved 30km away, to the Brisbane River. This became Brisbane. It was established for both convicts and free settlers.
The colony of the Moreton Bay District was founded in 1824 when explorer John Oxley arrived at Redcliffe with a crew and 29 convicts. The settlement was established at Humpybong, but abandoned less than a year later when the main settlement was moved 30km away, to the Brisbane River. This became Brisbane. It was established for both convicts and free settlers.
Prior to European colonisation, the Brisbane region was occupied by aboriginal tribes, notably the Yuggera and Turrbal aboriginal clans. Before European settlement, the land, the river and its tributaries were the source and support of life in all its dimensions. As a penal colony, Brisbane did not permit the erection of private settlements nearby for many years. As the inflow of new convicts steadily declined, the population dropped. From the early 1830s the British government questioned the suitability of Brisbane as a penal colony.
The town was conceived initially as a penal colony for British convicts sent from Sydney. Its suitability for fishing, farming, timbering, and other occupations, however, caused it to be opened to free settlement in 1838. The town became a municipality in 1859 and a consolidated metropolitan area in 1924. As a penal colony, Brisbane did not permit the erection of private settlements nearby for many years. As the inflow of new convicts steadily declined, the population dropped. From the early 1830s the British government questioned the suitability of Brisbane as a penal colony.
After the Convict Settlement closed and Brisbane was opened up for free settlement, the stone Military Barracks were used as the Registrar-General's Office. The Commandant's Residence was a prefabricated wooden cottage, constructed in Sydney and sent by ship to be erected at Redcliffe and later moved to William Street. It was used in the free settlement from 1860 to 1868 as a Court House and home for the first Queensland Parliament. In a large fenced area in front of the Convict Barracks, convicts made their own uniforms, leather caps and boots as well as soap and candles for the whole settlement.
A permanent settlement in the region was not founded until 1823, when New South Wales Governor Thomas Brisbane was petitioned by free settlers in Sydney to send their worst convicts elsewhere and the area chosen became the city of Brisbane. As a penal colony, Brisbane did not permit the erection of private settlements nearby for many years. As the inflow of new convicts steadily declined, the population dropped. From the early 1830s the British government questioned the suitability of Brisbane as a penal colony.
It was moved to the site of Brisbane the following year. By 1829 there were almost 1000 prisoners, more than 100 of whom were women, but by 1839 only 107 convicts remained. The penal era ended in 1842 when the Moreton Bay area was opened to free settlement, with Brisbane Town as its centre. Today, only the Windmill Tower and the Commissariat Store, both built by convict labour, still stand as markers of those times. Penal Colony and Early Settlement History. During some of the earliest chapters of Australian exploration, it was decided that a second penal colony should be established at Redcliffe in 1824 to house the most recalcitrant of Sydney’s convicts.