If you used a blender it would make it into smoothie and not a juice. There are quite a few differences between a juice and smoothie, or a juicer and a blender and I’ll go into detail on the two and why you must use a juicer for juicing, and a blender for blending.
I’ll say it again, no! The reason you cannot use a blender for juicing is that a blender does not separate the fiber and pulp from a juice like a juicer does. A blender simply chops up and blends whatever you decide to put into it.
Choosing a blender or juicer can be difficult, but first you need to learn the differences between a smoothie machine and a juicer machine. When you can't decide on a blender or juicer, the best thing you can do is to compare and contrast the two to make sure you get the best option for your needs.
1 Blender carrot juice: You can easily make carrot juice with your blender by adding 2-3 carrots to ¼ - 1/2 cup of juice. 2  It’s best if you cut the carrots into chunks as it’s easier on your blender. 3  If you want to add greens, add 1-2 leaves of lettuce, spinach or kale to your recipes to make it undetectable in the juice.
Shares & Saves. Save. If you've been waiting to get a juicer to make fresh orange juice or lemonade, delay no longer -- because if you happen to have a blender that you use for smoothies or soups, you already have an ideal juicer with the addition of a straining element, such as cheesecloth or a paint-straining bag.
Making juice in a blender or food processor is a little more work but in addition to the juice you get the all the nutrients from the fruits or vegetables you use.
No problem. Blenders make an excellent alternative to juicers. Blender juicing works best with soft fruits, such as peaches, apricots, pears, grapes and oranges. Bananas and avocados give your juices a thicker consistency. Juicers automatically separate the juice from the pulp in a pulp bin.
Learn how to make delicious juices with a high speed blender [I am using Vitamix 5200 blender], it is especially helpful if you do not own a good quality juicer. Juicer are rich in concentrated nutrients and are a great addition to green smoothies.