Most women with irregular periods have either very long cycles (45 to 60 days) or sometimes will skip their period every few months. You can have irregular periods when you first start menstruating, and then again at the other end of the equation, when you start to enter perimenopause. Or it can happen during other times in your life, either by stress, significant weight loss or gain, illness, travel and even certain medications. While having an irregular period can make it more challenging to get pregnant (since it’s not always quite as clear when you’re going to ovulate, and potentially conceive), the good news is that this is often a highly treatable condition.
About Irregular Periods and Pregnancy. A regular period is defined as a 25  31 day cycle from the start of one period to the next, with three to five days of bleeding. Irregular periods are considered anything that diverges from the regular menstrual cycle
Not necessarily. Fertility depends on ovulation — the release of a healthy egg from the ovary — rather than on menstruation. As long as you're ovulating normally and can determine when ovulation occurs, your chances of getting pregnant won't be affected by irregular periods. The exception to this rule is if your cycles are very long. Our article answers some pointed questions about abnormal menstrual cycles and how they might affect a woman's fertility. Your best friend can set her watch by the arrival of her period — the fourth Monday of every month, between 4 and 5 PM. You, on the other hand, bounce between four-, five-, and six-week cycles.
The chances of pregnancy before your period is relatively low. For women whose menstrual cycles are 28 to 30 days and longer; and regular, the ovulation occurs in between the days 11 and 21. Also, the egg will be alive for only 12 to 24 hours. The days right before your periods are your safe days to have sex. Chances are you won’t get pregnant during the period. The safe days before your menstrual period increase with longer cycles and reduce with shorter cycles. If you are aware of the ovulation period, you can wait for a further 36 to 48 hours. The possibilities of getting pregnant during the phase are very low. You are fertile again and you can become pregnant during your period. Some women experience sudden spotting or bleeding around the time of ovulation. And especially if you have irregular periods, there are chances you will become pregnant easily since you don’t know the right
On the other hand, an irregular period is defined as a menstrual cycle that is consistently shorter than 21 days or consistently longer than 36 days. You can also be considered irregular if your cycle length varies significantly from cycle to cycle, sometimes lasting 28 days, then 40 days, then 32 days. On the other hand, women with irregular periods may have far fewer chances to conceive each year, potentially making the path to parenthood for them a longer, more tiresome journey. If you do have irregular periods, it is certainly possible to become pregnant.
If you have irregular cycles, find out how you can increase your chances of getting pregnant. Having irregular periods can be annoying, that is for sure. But, when you are trying to conceive, having irregular periods can be downright troubling. You are not alone. The problem of having an irregular menstrual cycle is very common, and almost thirty percent of women experience irregular periods. So, take heart in the fact that you are not alone! There are a few things you can do to try to make getting pregnant a little bit easier for you.
(Note: the total length of your menstrual cycle is the number of days from the start of one period to the start of your next period.) It may be surprising to hear that you can be considered regular even if you don't have a period every 28 days. On the other hand, women with irregular periods may have far fewer chances to conceive each year, potentially making the path to parenthood for them a longer, more tiresome journey. If you do have irregular periods, it is certainly possible to become pregnant.
If your periods stop on day 6, you have sex on day 7 and ovulation occurs on day 11; there is a possibility that the sperm of day 6 is still residing in the fallopian tubes for fertilization. The chances of conceiving: Your chances of getting pregnant after period increase day by day once your period stops. You are fertile again and you can become pregnant during your period. Some women experience sudden spotting or bleeding around the time of ovulation. And especially if you have irregular periods, there are chances you will become pregnant easily since you don’t know the right
Some women can rattle off exactly which week of the month (first, second, third or fourth) they usually get their period. Others have absolutely no idea when or where their periods will strike. If you count yourself among the latter group, there’s a good chance you are someone with an irregular menstrual cycle. While having an irregular period can make it more challenging to get pregnant (since it’s not always quite as clear when you’re going to ovulate, and potentially conceive), the good news is that this is often a highly treatable condition.
Reviewed by Nivin Todd, MD. Irregular or abnormal ovulation accounts for 30% to 40% of all cases of infertility. Having irregular periods, no periods, or abnormal bleeding often indicates that you aren't ovulating, a condition known clinically as anovulation. 