1 Soda ash (Na2CO3) , or sodium carbonate, is used in the manufacture of glass, paper, rayon, soaps, and detergents. 2  It is also used as a water softener, since carbonate can precipitate the calcium and magnesium ions present in hard water. Soda ash is also used to control pH (carbonate solutions neutralize acids, producing only carbon dioxide and water). Here are just a few of their end-uses (there are hundreds!): 1 
Calcium carbonate is the active ingredient in agricultural lime, and is created when calcium ions in hard water react with carbonate ions creating limescale. It is commonly used medicinally as a calcium supplement or as an antacid, but excessive consumption can be hazardous. Calcium carbonate will react with water that is saturated with carbon dioxide to form the soluble calcium bicarbonate.
Calcium carbonate is a chemical compound with the formula Ca C O 3. It is formed by three main elements: carbon, oxygen and calcium. It is a common substance found in rocks in all parts of the world, and is the main component of shells of marine organisms, snails, coal balls, pearls, and eggshells. Calcium carbonate will react with water that is saturated with carbon dioxide to form the soluble calcium bicarbonate.
Calcium Carbonate, also called calcite, is the main component of limestone. Magnesium Carbonate, also called magnesite, is the main component of chalk used as a drying agent for hands in rock climbing, gymnastics and weight lifting. A carbonate is a salt of carbonic acid. The carbonate anion consits of one carbon atom and three oxygen atoms, and carries a negative two charge. Sodium and Potassium Carbonates are soluble in water. Other carbonate salts are not soluble in water
Although the carbonate salts of most metals are insoluble in water, the same is not true of the bicarbonate salts. In solution this equilibrium between carbonate, bicarbonate, carbon dioxide and carbonic acid changes consonant to changing temperature and pressure conditions. A carbonate salt forms when a positively charged ion, M+ , M2+ , or M3+ , attaches to the negatively charged oxygen atoms of the ion, forming an ionic compound : Most carbonate salts are insoluble in water at standard temperature and pressure, with solubility constants of less than 1×10 −8.
The chemical formula of calcium carbonate is CaCO3; calcium carbonate contain calcium, carbon and oxygen. It is made up of carbon, oxygen and calcium. A carbonate contains oxygen and carbon so you know that, and then you can see that as it is called calcium carbonate it also conta … ins calcium. :).
In chemistry, a carbonate is a salt of carbonic acid, characterized by the presence of the carbonate ion, CO2− 3. The name may also mean an ester of carbonic acid, an organic compound containing the carbonate group C(=O)(O–) 2. A carbonate salt forms when a positively charged ion, M+ , M2+ , or M3+ , attaches to the negatively charged oxygen atoms of the ion, forming an ionic compound : Most carbonate salts are insoluble in water at standard temperature and pressure, with solubility constants of less than 1×10 −8.