The protein is taken by the pore in an ATP-requires step and enters the nucleus without cleavage of the localization signal. Figure: Uptake of proteins into the mitochondrial matrix. The nucleus has an inner and an outer membrane and is perforated through 3000-4000 nuclear pores. Each pore having of a nuclear pore complex of more than 100 several proteins organized in a hexagonal array. The protein is taken by the pore in an ATP-requires step and enters the nucleus without cleavage of the localization signal. Figure: Uptake of proteins into the mitochondrial matrix. Posted Date: 4/11/2013 4:01:17 AM | Location: United States.
Related Discussions:- What is nuclear proteins, Assignment Help, Ask Question on What is nuclear proteins, Get Answer, Expert's Help, What is nuclear proteins Discussions. The protein is taken by the pore in an ATP-requires step and enters the nucleus without cleavage of the localization signal. Figure: Uptake of proteins into the mitochondrial matrix. Posted Date: 4/11/2013 4:01:17 AM | Location: United States.
Chromatin. The nucleus contains the chromosomes of the cell. Each chromosome consists of a single molecule of DNA complexed with an equal mass of proteins. Collectively, the DNA of the nucleus with its associated proteins is called chromatin. Most of the protein consists of multiple copies of 5 kinds of histones. 
Each nuclear pore is a large complex of proteins that allows small molecules and ions to freely pass, or diffuse, into or out of the nucleus. Nuclear pores also allow necessary proteins to enter the nucleus from the cytoplasm if the proteins have special sequences that indicate they belong in the nucleus. In eukaryotic cells, the nucleus is separated from the cytoplasm and surrounded by a nuclear envelope. This envelope safeguards the DNA contained in the nucleus. In spite of this barrier, there is still communication between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.
Furthermore, both active nuclear proteins and cytoplasmic proteins can be recovered from the same cell culture or tissue sample. From two million cells, the kit typically yields 200 to 500 µg cytoplasmic protein and 100 to 200 µg nuclear protein (at a concentration of 1 mg/mL). Typical cross-contamination between cytosolic and nuclear fractions is about 10%. The NE-PER Reagents efficiently solubilize and separate cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins into fractions with minimal cross-contamination or interference from genomic DNA and mRNA.
The NE-PER Kit is a nuclear protein extraction method that involves simple, stepwise lysis of cells and centrifugal isolation of nuclear and cytoplasmic protein fractions. The NE-PER Reagents efficiently solubilize and separate cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins into fractions with minimal cross-contamination or interference from genomic DNA and mRNA.
A double-layered membrane, the nuclear envelope, separates the contents of the nucleus from the cellular cytoplasm. The envelope is riddled with holes called nuclear pores that allow specific types and sizes of molecules to pass back and forth between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Packing all this material into a microscopic cell nucleus is an extraordinary feat of packaging. For DNA to function, it can't be crammed into the nucleus like a ball of string. Instead, it is combined with proteins and organized into a precise, compact structure, a dense string-like fiber called chromatin.
One of these, mAb A60, recognizes a vertebrate nervous system-and neuron-specific nuclear protein that we have named NeuN (Neuronal Nuclei). The expression of NeuN is observed in most neuronal cell types throughout the nervous system of adult mice. NeuN, a neuronal specific nuclear protein in vertebrates. Mullen RJ(1), Buck CR, Smith AM. Author information: (1)Department of Anatomy, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City 84132. A battery of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against brain cell nuclei has been generated by repeated immunizations.
NeuN is a soluble nuclear protein, appears as 3 bands (46-48 x 10(3) M(r)) on immunoblots, and binds to DNA in vitro. The mAb crossreacts immunohistochemically with nervous tissue from rats, chicks, humans, and salamanders. NeuN, a neuronal specific nuclear protein in vertebrates. Mullen RJ(1), Buck CR, Smith AM. Author information: (1)Department of Anatomy, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City 84132. A battery of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against brain cell nuclei has been generated by repeated immunizations.
The nuclear pore is a protein-lined channel in the nuclear envelope that regulates the transportation of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. In eukaryotic cells, the nucleus is separated from the cytoplasm and surrounded by a nuclear envelope. This envelope safeguards the DNA contained in the nucleus. In spite of this barrier, there is still communication between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.