Decussation within the somatosensory pathways. The second-order (2°) axons of the neospinothalamic pathway (NSTP) decussate in the spinal cord. The 2° axons of the medial lemniscal pathway (MLP), main sensory trigeminal pathway (MSTP) and spinal trigeminal pathway (STP) decussate at different levels of the brain stem.
Previous chapters described the ways in which the different somatosensory receptors respond to specific types of somatosensory stimuli and that the receptors, by virtue of their selective sensitivities, extract specific information about the somatosensory stimulus.
The somatosensory system is a 3-neuron system that relays sensations detected in the periphery and conveys them via pathways through the spinal cord, brainstem, and thalamic relay nuclei to the sensory cortex in the parietal lobe.
A striking feature of oral somatosensory awareness is the general states of affective feeling within the entire mouth, in the apparent absence of any particular stimulation. Everyone recognises, for example, that the mouth can feel fresh, clean, dirty, dry, “yucky”, and so on.
The somatosensory system is the part of the sensory system concerned with the conscious perception of touch, pressure, pain, temperature, position, movement, and vibration, which arise from the muscles, joints, skin, and fascia.
Peripheral Nerve Damage: Damage to peripheral nerves often results in sensory and motor symptoms. The sensory losses would include all somatosensory sensations if the peripheral nerve contains all the afferent axons supplying the skin, muscles and joints of a given body part (e.g., the hand or jaw).
Somatosensory receptors. The somatosensory system may be thought of as having its beginnings in receptors located in the skin, joints, ligaments, muscles, and fascia. Receptors detect either environmental changes (exteroceptive receptors located in the dermis) or changes within the body (proprioceptive receptors).
Oral somatosensory awareness refers to the somatic sensations arising within the mouth, and to the information these sensations provide about the state and structure of the mouth itself, and objects in the mouth.
The spinal nerve at each level of the cord carries somatic sensory information from a specific region of skin at that level into the cord. Each spinal nerve also sends motor commands to specific muscles at the level of the nerve.