Otherwise, not so much. Overall, Statistics Canada has us earning around $22 per hour. There's more to the story, though: As of 2012, the average wage in mining was close to $2,000 per week. If you work in forestry, you'd make half of that. If you work in retail, you'd make half that again. According to the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives, the living wage in Vancouver is $19.62 an hour. (This is not to be confused with the legal minimum wage, which is way down there at $10.25 per hour.).
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Dental Assistant in Vancouver, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Dental Assistant in Vancouver are expected to make less than the median. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Dental Assistant salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Dental Assistant in Vancouver, WA.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Vancouver, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Vancouver are expected to make less than the median. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Real Estate Sales Agent in the United States is $40,069 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in the United States are expected to make less than $40,069. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Bonus
Average LPN salaries for job postings in Vancouver, WA are 2% lower than average LPN salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Vancouver, WA Salary. Vancouver, WA average salary is $72,219, median salary is $64,480 with a salary range from $20,134 to $312,000. Vancouver, WA salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Vancouver, WA salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
The average household income in Vancouver is $81,066 and the average house price in the city is $882,00, whereas the average household income in Calgary is $125,733 and the average house price is $394 550. “This is when some couples reach a breaking point”, says Heather Tremain, an urban sustainability consultant. 
The salary for someone with the job title Dental Assistant in Vancouver, WA varies depending on a number of factors. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Dental Assistant salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Dental Assistant in Vancouver, WA.
TalentEgg-Average starting salaries for new grad accountants in Canada in 2012. Salary.com-Average salary ranges for jobs in the Accounting category. Michaelpage.ca - 2006 Finance & Accounting Salary Survey for Toronto. Managementconsulted.com - 2012 Management Consulting Salaries-Undergraduate, MBA, Interns, and More. Canadian Lawyer Potential Earnings: More than 600 lawyers in Canada responded to a 2010 Canadian Lawyer's legal fees survey. 1  $337/hour. 2  Average hourly rate for lawyers with 10 years of experience in Western Canada.