This page contains basic information on driving in Europe. Every country has different rules, laws and regulations, so click the country links below to find out all you need to know. You should always tell your insurer when taking your car abroad.
You can use your Great Britain (. ) or Northern Ireland driving licence in all EU or European Economic Area (EEA) countries, and Switzerland. For rules in other European countries check with a motoring organisation like the AA or the RAC.
Driving License. A full UK driving license is accepted in most EU countries, but the minimum age for drivers differs. In Spain, France, Italy, Germany, Malta, Norway, Sweden and Turkey, the minimum age for UK drivers is 18.
Spain has strict drink driving laws, only allowing 0.5 milligrams of alcohol per millilitre of blood-stricter than the UK where the limit is 0.8. New drivers are effectively forbidden to drink and drive, with a very low 0.1 mg/l limit.
Tips on driving abroad in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Switzerland. Motoring rules and regulations in Europe. Make sure you Drive Alive!
For full details on driving in Europe and renting with Sixt, take a look at our Sixt European Car Hire page which has comprehensive information on Sixt hire cars, services and locations in Europe or read more for handy driving checklists, laws and tips.
Driving in the European Union can be different from the roads in the UK, and failure to abide with laws and regulations can cause legal problems, as well as serious accidents. Sixt also has driving tips for other countries in Europe and Worldwide see our Abroad Driving Tips here.
Know the latest rules before you go to Europe. Even if you regularly drive to Europe, the AA is here to help you check the latest rules and requirements. There were several legal changes in 2012 affecting drivers in France though two of those new laws have subsequently been either abolished or postponed.
Regulations. Most EU countries look down on speeding and drink driving is illegal. Italy has very heavy fines for speeding, and the charges are increased by a third if you are caught between the hours of 22.00 and 07.00. In France, extreme speeding can result in on the spot license confiscation and arrest.