Maitland (including Woodville). Major city in the heart of the Hunter Valley. Maitland, located 163 km north of Sydney and 32 km north-west of Newcastle, is situated just 10 m above sea-level on flood plains adjacent the Hunter River. Consequently it has had 15 major floods during the era of European settlement (the first being recorded in 1819). Maitland Railway Station is located just past the roundabout at the southernmost end of Church St. The line arrived at East Maitland in 1857 amidst much hoopla and reached West Maitland the following year. The original station was further east. The current Italianate-style building dates from about 1880.
The City of Maitland had a population of 16,897 as of July 1, 2015. Maitland ranks in the upper quartile for Population Density when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in Florida. See peer rankings below. The primary coordinate point for Maitland is located at latitude 28.625 and longitude -81.3795 in Orange County. Maitland, FL-Peer Comparisons by Rank and Percentile. The table below compares Maitland to the other 920 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in Florida by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value.
Maitland is a suburban city in Orange County, Florida, United States, part of the Greater Metro Orlando area. The population was 15,751 at the 2010 census. The area's history is exhibited at the Maitland Historical Museum. Maitland is one of the oldest incorporated suburban municipalities in central Florida. Although the area was previously inhabited by native Americans, the town is named after Fort Maitland, which was built in 1838 on the western shore of Lake Fumecheliga (later Lake Maitland) during the Second Seminole War.
Location & Directions. The school is located on Hwy. #17-92 (South Orlando Avenue) in Maitland, just north of Orlando and Winter Park, between Lee Road and Horatio Avenue. If you are coming from I-4, take the Lee Road exit (#88). Go East on Lee Road (toward Winter Park). Lee Road will dead end at Hwy. #17-92
Map of Maitland, NSW 2320. Situated on the Hunter River, 35 kilometres upstream from the Port of Newcastle, Maitland began as two towns-West Maitland and East Maitland. 
Head East on Maitland Boulevard until it crosses Maitland Avenue. Turn right on Maitland Avenue. Turn right onto Ventris Avenue after crossing the railroad tracks. The library is located at 501 S. Maitland Ave on the corner of Ventris. From the Orlando/Winter Park area, take U.S. Hwy. 17-92 North to the intersection of Maitland Avenue. Turn Left
The city also hosts the Maitland Art Center, and example of Mayan Revival architecture and Fantasy Architecture, the Maitland Telephone Museum and the William H. Waterhouse House Museum. A SunRail station is located in Maitland on Highway 17-92. The city is named for Fort Maitland. Maitland is one of the oldest incorporated suburban municipalities in central Florida. Although the area was previously inhabited by native Americans, the town is named after Fort Maitland, which was built in 1838 on the western shore of Lake Fumecheliga (later Lake Maitland) during the Second Seminole War.
(March 2008). Maitland is a city in the Lower Hunter Valley of New South Wales, Australia and the seat of Maitland City Council, situated on the Hunter River approximately 166 kilometres (103 mi) by road north of Sydney and 35 km (22 mi) north-west of Newcastle. Maitland Airport is a general aviation airfield located beside the New England Highway in Rutherford. Construction was started in 1948 by the now-defunct Maitland Aero Club.