Population geography is a large branch of geography that contains several different topics related to the world's population. The first of these is population distribution, which is described as the study of where people live. Population geography is a branch of human geography that is focused on the scientific study of people, their spatial distributions and density.
Overpopulation occurs when a population of a species exceeds the carrying capacity of its ecological niche. Overpopulation is a function of the number of individuals compared to the relevant resources, such as the water and essential nutrients they need to survive. It can result from an increase in births, a decline in mortality rates, an increase in immigration, or an unsustainable biome and depletion of resources. 
Population distribution and density-Test. 1. Population distribution is a term that refers to: how population in a specified area changes over time. the number of people who die in relation to the number of people born in a specified area. the way in which people are spread across a given area. 2. 
(October 2009). Population geography is a division of human geography. It is the study of the ways in which spatial variations in the distribution, composition, migration, and growth of populations are related to the nature of places. Population geography involves demography in a geographical perspective. It focuses on the characteristics of population distributions that change in a spatial context. Examples can be shown through population density maps. A few types of maps that show the spatial layout of population are choropleth, isoline, and dot maps.
Overpopulation is when a given habitat no longer has the resources to maintain the population of organisms within it. Most typically this term referes to human beings as the population of organisms and the Earth as the habitat. Growth and decline can be equally troubling issues for a given population. A significant change in growth, or decline for that matter, can leave a society and ecosystem reeling. The issues of overpopulation have been previously addressed but are not to be confused with rapid population growth.
Population Geography also looks at the ideas of how many people live where and what impact it has on the world system. Population geography can essentially be split into two categories: demography and spatial demography. Growth and decline can be equally troubling issues for a given population. A significant change in growth, or decline for that matter, can leave a society and ecosystem reeling. The issues of overpopulation have been previously addressed but are not to be confused with rapid population growth.
Medical Definition of OVERPOPULATION. : the condition of having a population so dense as to cause environmental deterioration, an impaired quality of life, or a population crash. — over·pop·u·lat·ed \-ˈpaep-ˈpäp-yə-ˌlāt\ əd. adjective Full Definition of OVERPOPULATION. : the condition of having a population so dense as to cause environmental deterioration, an impaired quality of life, or a population crash. See overpopulation defined for English-language learners. See overpopulation defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Working Population: people in employment who have to support the dependent population. Youthful Population: in the population structure of LEDCs, there is often a higher proportion of young people due to high birth rates and a reduction in infant mortality due to better nutrition, education and medical care. This may create problems since the children need feeding, housing, education and eventually a job. Natural Increase or Decrease: the difference between the birth rate and the death rate. Additional effects of migration are not included. Natural Population Change: the difference in number between those who are born and those who die in a year