Erythritol is a sugar alcohol and because it is not fully absorbed like other sugar alcohols, such as xylitol, sorbitol, etc., it therefore produces digestive disorders for many people = gas, bloating, loose bowels. Erythritol is a concentrated granular fructose which contains an extremely high level of fructose = 99%. Used as a natural sweetener, erythritol is about 60 – 80% as sweet as sucrose (sugar). It is used primarily in chewing gum, baked goods and beverages and occurs naturally in pears, soy sauce, wine, sake, watermelon and grapes. In fact, erythritol has even been found to exist naturally in human tissues and body fluids.
Xylitol vs. Erythritol. When it comes to polyols (commonly referred to as sugar alcohols), erythritol is quite different than xylitol. Here are a few ways the two sweeteners compare. 
XYLITOL vs ERYTHRITOL. Xylitol and Erythritol are alcohol sugars. They are used as natural sweeteners for patients who are maintaining their blood glucose levels and for those who just want to use artificial sweeteners. They are commercially sold in the markets and found under different brand names
Erythritol ((2R,3S)-butane-1,2,3,4-tetraol) is a sugar alcohol (or polyol) that has been approved for use as a food additive in the United States and throughout much of the world. It was discovered in 1848 by British chemist John Stenhouse. It occurs naturally in some fruit and fermented foods. In the body, most erythritol is absorbed into the bloodstream in the small intestine, and then for the most part excreted unchanged in the urine. About 10% enters the colon.
Erythritol is a naturally-derived sugar substitute, produced by a fermentation process, that looks and tastes very much like sugar, yet has almost no calories. It comes in granulated and powdered forms. Erythritol has been used in Japan since 1990 in candies, chocolate, yogurt, fillings, jellies, jams, beverages, and as a sugar substitute. Erythritol is classified as a sugar alcohol. Sugar alcohols, also called polyols, are sugar substitutes that are either extracted from plants or manufactured from starches. One of the more common sugar alcohol sweeteners is Xylitol. Sugar alcohols also occur naturally in plants. Erythritol is found naturally in small amounts in grapes, melons, mushrooms, and fermented foods such as wine, beer, cheese, and soy sauce
Erythritol is not your average sugar alcohol. Used as a natural sweetener, erythritol is about 60 – 80% as sweet as sucrose (sugar). It is used primarily in chewing gum, baked goods and beverages and occurs naturally in pears, soy sauce, wine, sake, watermelon and grapes. In fact, erythritol has even been found to exist naturally in human tissues and body fluids.
Erythritol is known as a sugar alcohol. It occurs naturally in some fruits and fermented foods, but the kind you see added to low-sugar and sugar-free items is man-made. The fermentation of wheat or cornstarch creates a crystalline product that can then be added to foods, much like sugar. 
Erythritol and xylitol are sugar alcohols, with alcohol referring to a chemical structure. Sugar alcohols are modified forms of sugar and not technically an actual sugar, which is why foods containing erythritol and xylitol can be labeled sugar free.. Photo Credit bdspn/iStock/Getty Images. Stevia, erythritol and xylitol are all naturally found in plants and used as low-calorie or calorie-free sweeteners. But beyond these similarities, each one has unique characteristics, from differing levels of sweetness to a few unexpected benefits.
Erythritol, on the other hand, is a sugar alcohol made from sugar with a fermenting agent added. It is naturally found in fruits such as cantaloupe as well as in grapes. It is also a natural byproduct of the fermentation of bacteria in our digestive system. It is zero on the glycemic scale. Xylitol and Erythritol are alcohol sugars. They are used as natural sweeteners for patients who are maintaining their blood glucose levels and for those who just want to use artificial sweeteners.