Then our Solar System would have 9 planets again. Even though Pluto is a dwarf planet, and no longer officially a planet, it’ll still be a fascinating target for study. And that’s why NASA has sent their New Horizons spacecraft off to visit it. New Horizons will reach Pluto in July 2015, and capture the first close-up images of the (dwarf) planet’s surface. Any object that doesn’t meet this 3rd criteria is considered a dwarf planet. And so, Pluto is a dwarf planet. There are still many objects with similar size and mass to Pluto jostling around in its orbit. And until Pluto crashes into many of them and gains mass, it will remain a dwarf planet. Eris suffers from the same problem
About Dwarf Planets. The world was introduced to dwarf planets in 2006, when petite Pluto was stripped of its planet status and reclassified as a dwarf planet. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) currently recognizes two other dwarf planets, Eris and Ceres. Also considered by many to be an asteroid, Ceres, like Pluto, was also renamed as a dwarf planet in 2006. Ceres was discovered by Italian astronomer Giuseppe Piazzi in 1801. Ceres's shape resembles a flattened sphere with a diameter of about 590 miles (950 kilometers).
Image caption In 2006, Pluto was voted out of the planetary club by members of the International Astronomical Union. Nasa's New Horizons mission made a close pass of Pluto this week. For more than 70 years, Pluto was one of nine planets recognised in our Solar System. But in 2006, it was relegated to the status of dwarf planet by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). 
Discovered in 1930, Pluto is the second closest dwarf planet to the Sun and was at one point classified as the ninth planet. Pluto is the largest dwarf planet but only the second most massive, with Eris being the most massive. Pluto’s Moons (Size & Orbits). Pluto is the largest dwarf planet: At one point it was thought this could be Eris. Currently the most accurate measurements give Eris an average diameter of 2,326km with a margin of error of 12km, while Pluto’s diameter is 2,372km with a 2km margin of error.
In 2006, Pluto was reclassified as a dwarf planet, a change widely thought of as a demotion. The question of Pluto's planet status has attracted controversy and stirred debate in the scientific community, and among the general public, since then. Since Pluto is so far from Earth, little was known about the dwarf planet's size or surface conditions until 2015, when NASA's New Horizons space probe made a close flyby of Pluto.
Pluto (minor-planet designation: 134340 Pluto) is a dwarf planet in the Kuiper belt, a ring of bodies beyond Neptune. It was the first Kuiper belt object to be discovered. It is the largest known trans-Neptunian object by volume but is less massive than Eris, a dwarf planet in the scattered disc. Like other Kuiper belt objects, Pluto is primarily made of ice and rock and is relatively small—about one-sixth the mass of the Moon and one-third its volume.
In August 2006 the International Astronomical Union (IAU) downgraded the status of Pluto to that of dwarf planet.. This means that from now on only the rocky worlds of the inner Solar System and the gas giants of the outer system will be designated as planets. 
Pluto is considered a dwarf planet because A., it is the smallest planet (now not considered a planet anymore) in the Milky Way and B., because a larger planet was discovered … to be behind it. Therefore, Pluto is no longer officially a planet, and is now a dwarf planet, compared to the others. Pluto is the roman god of darkness and the underworld. When  discovered in 1930 the planet was named Pluto was inspired because  it was then the most distant planet with lit … tle sunlight. Pluto has  now been reclassified as a dwarf-class planet.
Pluto fails in this category. Thus it joins the other dwarf  planets, Ceres (which was called a planet longer than Pluto was),  and Eris, which is larger and more impressive than Pluto. Makemake  and Haumea are two more of our solar system's dwarf planets. Sedna,  Orcus, and Quaoar might also qualify as dwarf planets. Pluto is the roman god of darkness and the underworld. When  discovered in 1930 the planet was named Pluto was inspired because  it was then the most distant planet with lit … tle sunlight. Pluto has  now been reclassified as a dwarf-class planet.