Urushi is obtained by cutting about a dozen horizontal slashes into the trunk of a 10 year old Kiurushi tree. The slashes should run deep enough to sever the bark and bite into the sapwood, thus seeping a grayish-yellow sap. The sap is then filtered, colored and subjected to a relatively low-heat heat-treatment. Urushi lacquer is, as I ve said, essentially the sap of the Kiurushi tree and is nearly pure Urushiol, this oil itself having derived its name from the tree and its sap. Now, this exactly the same oil secreted by poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac thus causing those really unpleasant rashes.
Background. At some point in time, Urushi along with some other children and Nonō from an orphanage, found a young boy under a tree wounded. After she had healed him, Urushi assisted the young boy in getting back to the orphanage with them. Urushi is a very unreserved and outspoken individual. This is seen from him chastising Kabuto, telling him to thank the nun that had healed him. He is also a little crass, seen when he slammed a helmet on Kabuto's head telling him to wear that so he didn't hurt his head again.
Urushi is a kind of natural lacquer collected from the Urushi tree. We Japanese have a 6000 year history of the use of Urushi. Initially it was used as an adhesive, like fixing an arrowhead to the wooden shaft, applying gold foil or fixing chipped porcelain. Then it came to be used for finishing lacquer soup bowls and furniture. The Urushi tree grows in many parts of east Asia including Japan. Collecting Urushi is like collecting gum from rubber tree. We cut the bark of the tree and then the tree yeilds a milky-white sap to cure the wound.
In the west, these objects are also referred to as japaned objects. Hardened urushi is water and acid proof, and also protects the object from heat, salt, mold and mildews and all types of weathering. It has been used on wood, pottery, bone, baskets, fabric and metal. While most paints dry by the evaporation of some solvent, urushi dries or hardens by absorbing moisture from the air. The urushi sap contains an oily substance called urushiol. When exposed to warmth and humidity, an enzyme is activated and extracts oxygen from the water and supplies it to the urushiol.
• Urushi is the sap drawn from the urushi tree [ Rhus verniciﬂua ] and among all the varieties of natural lacquer, urushi has the most superlative qualities. （ The Varieties of Urushi ） • The sap which is drawn from the urushi tree is called raw urushi. When water content is evaporated from raw urushi it makes clear urushi. Mixing iron powder into clear urushi makes black urushi.
When we hear of urushi lacquerware, we think of shiny objects such as boxes and bowls covered with gold or colored maki-e decorations. However, the idea of decorating on top of urushi is a relatively new idea. Until the 18th century, urushi lacquer ware was quite plain with no decoration. Red or black urushi was used on a wide variety of objects from household necessities such as rice bowls, sake cups and combs to hunting tools. While most paints dry by the evaporation of some solvent, urushi dries or hardens by absorbing moisture from the air. The urushi sap contains an oily substance called urushiol. When exposed to warmth and humidity, an enzyme is activated and extracts oxygen from the water and supplies it to the urushiol.
Urushi is obtained by cutting about a dozen horizontal slashes into the trunk of a 10 year old Kiurushi tree. The slashes should run deep enough to sever the bark and bite into the sapwood, thus seeping a grayish-yellow sap. The sap is then filtered, colored and subjected to a relatively low-heat heat-treatment. 
URUSHI LIQUID Urushi is obtained as sap Fig. U1 from the urushi tree 'RhusVerniciflua' which originally comes from the Himalayas. The urushi tree is to be found mostly in Southeast Asia, particularly in countries such as Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, Burma, Cambodia, Bhutan and it prefers a warm climate. Mango, cashew nut and pistachio are also family of the urushi tree. Fig. U3 urushi trees and kakitori: Nihon Urushi-kakigijutu Hozonkai, Joboji, Iwate, Japan. The bark of the male tree is softer than the female tree and a male tree with a softer bark produces even more urushi liquid. In fact the urushi tree is a weak tree with a soft structure.
A caustic, toxic sap, called urushiol, is tapped from the trunk of the Chinese lacquer tree to produce lacquer. This is done by cutting 5 to 10 horizontal lines on the trunk of a 10-year-old tree, and then collecting the greyish yellow sap that exudes. The sap is then filtered, heat-treated, or coloured before applying onto a base material that is to be lacquered. Other common names include Japanese lacquer tree, Japanese Sumac, and varnish tree. The trees are cultivated and tapped for their toxic sap, which is used as a highly durable lacquer to make Chinese, Japanese, and Korean lacquerware.