Using his periodic table, Mendeleev predicted the existence and properties of new chemical elements. When these elements were discovered, his place in the history of science was assured. 
Confidence votes 3. Dmitri Mendeleev created the first periodic table of elements. Dmitri Mendeleev presented his periodic table of the elements based on increasing atomic weight on March 6, 1869, in a presentation to the Russian Chemical Society. While Mendeleev's table was the first to gain some acceptance in the scientific community, it was not the first table of its kind. Dmitri Mendeleev's major contributions was that he created the periodic law and he also created the first approved periodic table! Edit. Share to: 1  Dmitri Mendeleev: Major Contributor to Science Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev was born in a small village near Siberia in 1834.
The Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev was the first scientist to make a periodic table similar to the one used today. Mendeleev arranged the elements by atomic mass, corresponding to relative molar mass. 
Mendeleev was born in Russia, where he spent much of his scientific career teaching and studying chemistry. Dimitri Mendeleev's story begins in Tobolsk, Russia. In 1834, the Mendeleev family welcomed Dmitri, youngest of 17 children, to the world. The Mendeleevs were a relatively well-off family who valued education. Contributions to the Periodic Table. Mendeleev is often mistakenly called the inventor or the creator of the periodic table. While Mendeleev is perhaps the most important contributor to the development of the periodic table, he did not create it from scratch.
Another table in order of relative atomic mass. Dmitri Mendeleev (1834 - 1907). In 1869, just five years after John Newlands put forward his law of octaves, a Russian chemist called Dmitri Mendeleev published a periodic table.
His version of the periodic table organized elements into rows according to their atomic mass, and into columns based on chemical and physical properties. Using his table, Mendeleev was able to predict characteristics of undiscovered elements. Contributions to the Periodic Table. Mendeleev is often mistakenly called the inventor or the creator of the periodic table. While Mendeleev is perhaps the most important contributor to the development of the periodic table, he did not create it from scratch.
Dmitri Mendeleev. Dmitri Mendeleev was born at Tobolsk, Siberia in 1834 and died in 1907. Mendeleev studied science at St. Petersburg and graduated in 1856. In 1863 Mendeleev was appointed to a professorship and in 1866 he succeeded to the Chair in the University.
Russian chemist Dimitri Mendeleev, who devised the atomic mass-based Periodic Table. RUSSIAN CHEMIST 1834–1907. Dimitri Ivanovich Mendeleev (or Mendeleyev or Mendelejeff) was born in Tobolsk, Siberia, on January 27, 1834. He was the fourteenth and youngest child of the family. His father was the director of the Tobolsk Gymnasium (high school). Tragedy plagued the family in Mendeleev's early years
Mendeleev was born in the village of Verkhnie Aremzyani, near Tobolsk in Siberia, to Ivan Pavlovich Mendeleev and Maria Dmitrievna Mendeleeva (nee Née). Kornilieva his grandfather Was Pavel Maximovich, sokolov a priest of The Russian Orthodox church from The tver. region Mendeleev was born in the village of Verkhnie Aremzyani, near Tobolsk in Siberia, to Ivan Pavlovich Mendeleev and Maria Dmitrievna Mendeleeva (nee Née). kornilieva