The field developed in the United Kingdom after the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow published a joint report in 1998 emphasising the importance of appropriate care for people with acute medical problems. The establishment of acute medical units has been shown to decrease the risk of dying in hospital, length of stay in hospital, and the rate of patients for admission blocking the emergency department, all while not increasing the rate of readmissions after discharge and improving patient and staff satisfaction.
It developed in the United Kingdom in the early 2000s as a dedicated field of medicine, together with the establishment of acute medical units in numerous hospitals. The establishment of acute medical units has been shown to decrease the risk of dying in hospital, length of stay in hospital, and the rate of patients for admission blocking the emergency department, all while not increasing the rate of readmissions after discharge and improving patient and staff satisfaction.
Acute Medicine refers to the immediate and early management of adults in hospital who require urgent or emergency care. Although it is closely linked to Emergency Medicine and Critical Care, it is firmly rooted in the principles of General Internal Medicine (GiM). 
Medicine/Acute Internal Medicine. The 5th floor medical unit is a 22-bed acute medicine unit providing compassionate care to patients with diverse and complex diagnoses. Our unit is dedicated to providing the best in patient care, staff education, and patient satisfaction. As a 5th-floor acute internal medicine nurse you'll work with patients facing medical challenges that include: 1  Pancreatitis. 2  Pneumonia. 3  GI Bleed. 4  Cellulitis. 5  COPD. 6  Cirrhosis. 7  Renal Failure. 8  Overdose. 9  Pulmonary Embolism. 10  Diabetes. 11  End of Life Care
Internal medicine or general medicine (in Commonwealth nations) is the medical specialty dealing with the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of adult diseases. Physicians specializing in internal medicine are called internists, or physicians (without a modifier) in Commonwealth nations. Internists are skilled in the management of patients who have undifferentiated or multi-system disease processes.
This is the specialty specific guidance for Acute Internal Medicine Please make sure you are reading the latest version. You can find all the guidance you need at www.gmc-uk.org. Page 28 of 28 Relationships with patients Testimonials and letters from colleagues. You may include “To whom it may concern letters”. This is the specialty specific guidance for Acute Internal Medicine Please make sure you are reading the latest version. You can find all the guidance you need at www.gmc-uk.org. Page 24 of 28 • job descriptions • articles, publications. All evidence in this area must be validated.
Acute medicine is distinct from the broader field of emergency medicine, which is concerned with the management of all people attending the emergency department. The establishment of acute medical units has been shown to decrease the risk of dying in hospital, length of stay in hospital, and the rate of patients for admission blocking the emergency department, all while not increasing the rate of readmissions after discharge and improving patient and staff satisfaction.
This page contains the curricula documents for specialty training in Acute internal medicine. Curriculum for Acute internal medicine 2009 (amended 2012) (pdf). 
Internal medicine is a medical specialty which focuses on the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of nonsurgical conditions in adults. This specialty has a number of subspecialties ranging from nephrology, the study of the kidneys, to immunology, the study of allergies and immune system disorders. Although internal medicine focuses on diagnosing and treating disease, injury or other conditions related to internal organs, the practice does the same for external body parts, also.
Acute medicine is the part of general (internal) medicine concerned with the immediate and early specialist management of adult patients who present to, or from within, hospitals as urgencies or emergencies. [1]. 