Coal seam gas is simply natural gas sourced from coal deposits. Natural gas – or methane – is found in several different types of rocks, including coal seams, sandstones and shales. Coal seam gas is trapped in coal formations, typically 400-1000 metres underground, although it can be found at depths up to 1200 metres. 
Water is pulled out of the ground as part of the coal seam gas mining process, because the gas-methane-is in the coal seam and held there at great pressure by water and other sediment layers. To release the gas, the water needs to be pumped out of the coal seam and up to the surface in a process known as 'dewatering'. 
Coalbed methane (CBM or coal-bed methane), coalbed gas, coal seam gas (CSG), or coal-mine methane (CMM) is a form of natural gas extracted from coal beds. In recent decades it has become an important source of energy in United States, Canada, Australia, and other countries. The presence of this gas is well known from its occurrence in underground coal mining, where it presents a serious safety risk. Coalbed methane is distinct from a typical sandstone or other conventional gas reservoir, as the methane is stored within the coal by a process called adsorption.
Coal seam gas (CSG) mining is an invasive form of unconventional gas mining. It usually involves tens of thousands of gas wells, with roads, pipelines, compressor stations, wastewater dams, and other infrastructure. CSG is a type of unconventional natural gas. It is made up primarily of methane gas (generally 95-97%) and is found in coal seams at depths of 300m-1000m underground.
What is coal seam gas? CSG is a type of unconventional natural gas. It is made up primarily of methane gas (generally 95-97%) and is found in coal seams at depths of 300m-1000m underground. It is sometimes referred to as coal bed methane (CBM). CSG is a type of unconventional natural gas. It is made up primarily of methane gas (generally 95-97%) and is found in coal seams at depths of 300m-1000m underground.
Natural gas is found in coal seams hundreds of metres beneath the earth's surface. Just like conventional natural gas, coal seam gas (CSG) is comprised mostly of methane (CH 4) and is a type of petroleum that was formed from the compressed remains of plants over millions of years. Natural gas from coal seams forms part of the gas supply piped into more than one million homes and businesses in NSW for use in everyday cooking, heating and manufacturing. In fact over 30% of the eastern Australian gas network is fed by coal seam gas.
Methane (CH 4) is a gas formed as part of the process of coal formation – coalification. When coal is mined methane is released from the coal seam and the surrounding disturbed rock strata. Methane can also be released as a result of natural erosion or faulting. The methane content in coal seams generally increases the deeper the seam, and also with age. Coal seam gas of a high quality (typically with a concentration level of over 93%) can be fed into the existing gas pipeline network to supplement or replace conventional natural gas. The United States has been utilising vast quantities of coal seam methane in its natural gas supply since the early 1990s.
Coal seam gas (CSG) is a vast energy storehouse for Queensland. Coal seam gas and extraction. Length: 3:06 Published: 27/03/2014. CSG is natural gas, trapped in underground coal seams by water and ground pressure. Its single largest component is methane. Natural gas, including CSG, is used for home cooking and heating, to generate electricity and also for industry to make a vast range of products. CSG accounts for about 90 per cent of Queensland's natural gas supply and fuels about 17 per cent of the state's electricity generation.
Coal Seam Gas. Santos is one of the CSG industry’s most experienced operators. The Company’s Scotia-3 well in Queensland, drilled in 1996, was the first well drilled to test the late Permian CSG play. Our Scotia CSG plant commenced production in 2002. Today Santos’ acreage in Australia covers approximately 200,000km. The naturally occurring coal seam gas bonds to the surface of coal particles. A combination of water and ground pressure traps the gas in fractures of underground coal seams, typically 200 to 1,000 metres below the surface.