Foods from animal sources that are rich in saturated fats include beef, beef fat, veal, lamb, pork, lard, poultry fat, butter, cream, milk, cheeses and other dairy products made from whole and 2 percent milk. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. These fats are liquid at room temperature and found mainly in fatty fish, nuts, seeds and oils from plants. Examples of foods that contain these fats include salmon, trout, herring, avocados, olives, walnuts and liquid vegetable oils such as soybean, corn, safflower, canola, olive and sunflower.
Lipids are fats. Many foods contain fats. Most meat, poultry, seafood, and even fish. Most dairy products contain fats unless stated nonfat. In their natural state dairy contains fat. Cooking and salad oils contain fat. Eggs also contain fat-only the yolk. also junk food like chips, soda and cakes ect
Fat is also known as lipid and is mainly present in food in a form called 'triglycerides'. Butter and margarine, for example, are almost entirely made up of triglycerides. Triglycerides consist of glycerol and three ('tri') fatty acids. 
Proteins are long chains of amino acids. Most foods have some protein, but foods that are high in protein are foods that either are made from or consist of once-living material. Beans and meats are good examples of high-protein food. Lipids are molecules such as fats/oils, soaps, steroids, and some hormones. A good example of foods that contain lipids are vegetable oil, olive oil, butter, bacon grease, or anything else high in fat. Carbohydrates are chains of saccharides. These molecules are usually in the form of sugars or starches. 
Examples of foods containing a high proportion of saturated fat include animal fat products such as cream, cheese, butter, other whole milk dairy products and fatty meats which also contain dietary cholesterol. A fat is made of two kinds of smaller molecules: glycerol and fatty acids. Fats are made of long chains of carbon (C) atoms. Some carbons are linked by single bonds (-C-C-) and others are linked by double bonds (-C=C-). A saturated fat is a fat in which the fatty acids all have single bonds.
Lipids Examples. Lipids. Lipids are the fatty or waxy molecules that make up the basic structure of many cells in both plants and animals. They go by other terms depending on where they are found, including triacylglycerol, triglyceride, and glycerolipid, just to name a few. 
Sugars and starches are, in fact, not lipids, but rather carbohydrates. Of the four biological macro molecules (carbohydrates/polysaccharides, proteins, nucleic acids, and lip … ids), lipids are hydrophobic (not water soluble), less easily metabolized, and waxy or slippery to the touch. An example of a lipid bilayer is the cell membrane. It is formed by two layers of phospholipids, which have a polar head and non polar tails, providing an anfoteric environmen … t in which phospholipids arrange to form a membrane.
Lipids, a form of fat, are found highly in meat and dairy. Eggs, cheese, and olive oil are all examples of food containing lipids. An example of a lipid bilayer is the cell membrane. It is formed by two layers of phospholipids, which have a polar head and non polar tails, providing an anfoteric environmen … t in which phospholipids arrange to form a membrane.