Love how everyone is so touchy about this test. You are taking some 2 minute test that is generic and costs nothing, then you complain that it's not 100% scientific. If you want to learn about how memory works, then you are probably going to need to invest more time.(Which is very interesting btw.
The following test has been developed to measure one's photographic memory. The exercise is very easy and presents two parts. First part requires an attentive observation of an image, at the end of which the actual test will take place.
In this photographic memory quiz we are not going to ask you to recall things that you did or heard in the past. This is all about what you have seen. Some people in this field think that a photographic memory test is entirely pointless. It is such a powerful skill that you must instantly know if you have it or not.
Bang Goes the Theory invites you to take part in a short test, which will reveal for the first time just how many people have this talent. There are only 10 questions, so do please try to do all of them, even if you think you are just guessing.
If you think you have a photographic memory have a go at the following test. You will be shown a series of four images which you should look at for around 30 seconds. Depending on your screen size you may need to scroll down to see the whole image.
If you really want to test if you have a genuinely photographic memory then don’t use any method other than just looking at the images. For example if the image was of a building don’t count the windows, or make a mental note of the colour of the door. Just look at the image and take a mental “photograph” of it. Click here to go to the photographic memory test. If you feel you don't need to take the test then that is a good thing, because you have already admitted that memorising stuff requires more than just staring at it! Click here to skip the test and visit the interesting stuff on improving your memory.
We believe that you can use the photographic memory quiz to find out if you have the dormant ability within you. This will allow you to develop the full potential of your memory with nothing more than a little bit of training.