The Kootenay Rockies is a pristine region of rivers, lakes, waterfalls, beaches, mineral hot springs, alpine meadows and snow-capped mountains. Four of British Columbia's seven national parks are located here, and wildlife flourishes. During the winter, the region is home to some of the continent's finest powder. Outdoor pursuits here are epic.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning-Out in the fields with God The Kootenays region of British Columbia, Canada, marked white The Kootenays region is located in the S-E triangle of British Columbia, Canada, in-between the two majestic mountain ranges: the Monashee Mountains in the West and the Rocky Mountains in the East.
The Kootenay region is home to four National Parks; Mount Revelstoke, Glacier, Yoho, and Kootenay. Visit Yoho National Park to see the famous Spiral Tunnels, cut through the seemingly impenetrable Rocky Mountains in 1909, to make way for the railroad. Enjoy the soothing effects of the region's many natural hot springs. East Kootenays/Rockies. Traveling east on Hwy. 1 from Revelstoke, through Rogers Pass and Glacier National Park, you enter into the region of the Rockies. The town of Golden, a town of 8500, is situated between 4 National Parks: Glacier, Banff, Yoho
Kootenay Rockies. The best way to describe the Kootenay Rockies is as Canada's most stunning mountain scenery. Year after year, visitors are dazzled by the enormity of the mountains that rise up from the region's valleys. The sensation of gazing up at towering glacial peaks humbles visitors. The Kootenay Rockies region stretches from the Okanagan Valley in the west to the Alberta border in the east. The British Columbia provincial boundary is the continental divide where water to the west flows out to the Pacific, and water to the east flows all the way to the Atlantic.
The Kootenay (/ˈkuːtni/ KOOT-nee) region (in common parlance . The Kootenays ) comprises the southeastern portion of British Columbia. It takes its name from the Kootenay River, which in turn was named for the Ktunaxa (or Kootenai or Kutenai) First Nation first encountered by explorer David Thompson. 1 The usual East-West separator is the northward leg of the Kootenay River (mostly Kootenay Lake) with the Duncan River as a northern extension. 2  This places Creston and points east in the East Kootenay (or East Kootenays) and Kaslo and points west in the West Kootenay (or West Kootenays).
Creston (Ktunaxa: kxunamaʔnam) is a town of 5,306 people in the Kootenay region of southeastern British Columbia, Canada. Creston is one of the few towns in British Columbia that does not observe Daylight saving time.
Regional Geography. In the peaceful mountain splendour of the Kootenay Rockies, you'll feel a sense of awe. To the east you'll find the rugged mountains of the Rockies and to the west, the ancient, glacier-clad Purcell Mountains. 
Boasting nearly 82 per cent of the total vineyard acreage in the province, the Okanagan Valley is BC’s premier grapegrowing region. An ever-changing panorama, the valley stretches over 250 kilometers, across distinct sub-regions, each with different soil and climate conditions suited to a growing range of varietals. 
Located in the southeastern corner of British Columbia, the Kootenay region is home to a pristine stretch of rivers, lakes, waterfalls, beaches, mineral hot springs, alpine meadows and snow-capped mountains. 