Inverse Telecine. Inverse Telecine is the process where video editing tools reverse telecine process. Basically inverse telecine (or IVTC as it is also called) brings back movie's original framerate from NTSC 's 29.97fps to 24fps. Inverse Telecine involves more than shifting fields from one frame to another. 
Definition of:telecine. An umbrella term for converting movie content to TV/video. Pronounced tel-uh-sin-ee and tel-uh-scene , the process was used offline to convert countless movies to videotape for ultimate distribution via TV, cable and satellite networks.
Definition of TELECINE. : the equipment used in the process of transferring a motion picture to videotape or converting it into television images; also: such a process. ADVERTISEMENT. 
should be used instead. How telecine is used. All video intended to be displayed on an NTSC television set must be 60000/1001 fields per second. Made-for-TV movies and shows are often filmed directly at 60000/1001 fields per second, but the majority of cinema is filmed at 24 or 24000/1001 frames per second. 
In recent years, the film transfer process has transitioned from the use of traditional telecine equipment (e.g. Spirit, Cintel) that outputs only video, to modern film scanners (e.g. ScanStation, Director, ARRISCAN, etc.) that output digital files in a variety of formats. Typical telecine gate. Film scanners that directly use the perforations of the film to align each frame separately improve alignment accuracy to approximately 1/5 of one 2K pixel. This represents an improvement in stability of over 20 times compared to edge-guided telecines and telecine-like scanners.
To Use Inverse Telecine. Telecine is the process of converting film, which has 24 frames per second, to video, which has 60 fields (half frames) per second. This process puts images from each film frame in multiple video fields. When using inverse telecine, the codec reconstructs the original 24 film frames per second from the input video before encoding the content. To use inverse telecine, you must: 1  Use a profile with a video stream set to 24 frames
telecine. An umbrella term for converting movie content to TV/video. Pronounced tel-uh-sin-ee and tel-uh-scene , the process was used offline to convert countless movies to videotape for ultimate distribution via TV, cable and satellite networks. Convert to Interlaced Video. When converting to interlaced video, each movie frame is turned into two or three video fields, which creates an uneven distribution. In addition, a movie frame may get split into odd and even video frames (note red asterisks above *).
Telecine (/ˈtɛləsɪni/ or /ˌtɛləˈsɪniː/) is the process of transferring motion picture film into video and is performed in a color suite. The term is also used to refer to the equipment used in the post-production process. Telecine enables a motion picture, captured originally on film stock, to be viewed with standard video equipment, such as television sets, video cassette recorders (VCR), DVD, Blu-ray Disc or computers. Gate weave, known in this context as telecine weave or telecine wobble, caused by the movement of the film in the telecine machine gate, is a characteristic artifact of real-time telecine scanning.
The most complex part of telecine is the synchronization of the mechanical film motion and the electronic video signal. Every time the video (tele) part of the telecine samples the light electronically, the film (cine) part of the telecine must have a frame in perfect registration and ready to photograph. Gate weave, known in this context as telecine weave or telecine wobble, caused by the movement of the film in the telecine machine gate, is a characteristic artifact of real-time telecine scanning.