Landlord cannot register the tenant with Irish Water. In the event of Tenant not registering or paying water charges the charge will be levied on the house. There are no enforcement/penalty measures for Tenants who do not register or pay.
Rental properties. The tenant of a property is the occupier and is responsible for paying the water charges. Landlords can provide the names of their tenants in order to prove that they are not the occupier, and Irish Water will then contact the tenants. Read more on water.ie.
The new utility company says that a tenant is responsible for paying for their own usage, but that in the event that a tenant hasn’t registered with Irish Water, it will contact the landlord to ensure the responsible party receives the bill.
“Irish Water wishes to clarify information on responsibility for water charges in a tenant/landlord situation following a post that appeared on its Twitter account today. “Irish Water would like to clarify that the consumer of services is responsible for the water charges.
* Irish Water said that when a household is occupied the tenant is liable and when vacant the owner is liable. Both should advise Irish Water of change of status to the property-the tenant to cease liability, the landlord to take it up.
25/02/2015 - 17:30:40 Back to Ireland Home. Irish Water today advised landlords to pass on details of their tenants to the utility company.Residential landlords who fear they will be asked to pay water charges on behalf of tenants are seeking a meeting with the Environment Minister over the issue. Tenants have been urged to register their details with Irish Water, in advance of the first residential bills being sent to households next month.
Irish Water has said landlords will not be held liable for arrears of water charges built up by their tenants. The utility firm said landlords will be sent application packs in relation to their rental properties, which they must forward to the tenants. In the case of an owner occupier, the full allowances in relation to water usage are allocated in the normal way and the occupier is liable for the bill.