If you have a bladder infection, you should drink at least 64 ounces of liquids from this group, with at least half of this amount being water. You should also avoid soft drinks, concentrated fruit drinks, coffee and alcoholic beverages. Cranberry juice is particularly beneficial in the treatment of bladder infections.
If you feel burning or stabbing pain when you urinate, you might have a bladder infection. Bacteria growing in the bladder or urethra cause bladder infections. The urethra is the tube that takes urine out of your body. Anyone can get a bladder infection, but they’re more common in women than men or children.
1 Though antibiotics can treat a UTI, it's important to also take steps to help your body heal — and to prevent further bladder irritation. 2  A number of common foods and drinks can irritate your bladder, and may worsen UTI symptoms — so you should steer clear of them if you have a urinary tract infection.
You should avoid the following beverages when you have a bladder infection: 1  Alcoholic drinks, as alcohol can irritate the bladder. 2  Caffeinated drinks, such as coffee, tea and soda. 3  Soft drinks and drinks that contain citrus juices should be avoided until your infection has healed.
A urinary tract infection (UTI), also known as cystitis or a bladder infection, is a bacterial infection in the bladder or the tube that carries urine from the bladder, the urethra.
Best Answer: your bladder is very sensitive to things such as caffeine or alcohol. So if you have a UTI then yes alcohol will make it worse. Unless your bladder is really sensitive, drinking alcohol most likely won't CAUSE an infection.
Concentrated, dark urine is more acidic and is sometimes more painful to pass when you have a bladder infection. Diluted urine is lighter in color and usually doesn’t burn as much. Avoid caffeinated drinks like coffee, tea or soda. Caffeine can irritate your bladder even more when you have an
If you have a bladder infection, then you need to take action quickly before the infection spreads to your kidneys, where it can cause permanent damage. Follow these steps to treat a bladder infection.
You may know that beer, wine, and liquor can irritate your stomach if you've got reflux or an ulcer, and these beverages can irritate the bladder, too. Though you want to get plenty of fluids when you've got a UTI, it's important to avoid alcohol.