White blood cells in the urine usually indicate a urinary tract infection. The leukocyte esterase (LE) test detects esterase, an enzyme released by white blood cells. Positive test results are clinically significant. The LE test is also used to screen for gonorrhea and for amniotic fluid infections.
Leukocyte esterase (LE) is a urine test for the presence of white blood cells and other abnormalities associated with infection. The leukocyte esterase (LE) test detects esterase, an enzyme released by white blood cells. Positive test results are clinically significant. The LE test is also used to screen for gonorrhea and for amniotic fluid infections.
If the level of leukocytes esterase is very high it could affect kidneys or bladder or both. The medical term for leukocyte esterase in urine is pyuria. Pyuria means urinary tract infection and it also shows that pus is present in urine. Kidneys, bladder, ureters and urethra form the urinary system and when analysis of urine shows leukocytes (without nitrates) in urine it indicates infection in the system. To diagnose leukocytes, urinalysis has to be done in order to know the level of leukocytes esterase in urine.
A positive finding of the enzyme leukocyte esterase in urinalysis indicates the presence of white blood cells in the urine. This normally suggests inflammation of some sort, often from a urinary tract infection. Sometimes a test for leukocyte esterase produces negative results but later follow-up indicates a disease condition like a urinary tract infection. This could happen from a number of causes a simple as the laboratory technician not allowing enough time before reading the dipstick.
1 Inflammation of the urinary tract and ureters or infection in bladder could also be the cause of leukocytes esterase in urine. 2  One more reason for leukocyte esterase in urine, is sexual intercourse. 3  During sexual intercourse the bacteria may get pressed into the urethra. Kidneys, bladder, ureters and urethra form the urinary system and when analysis of urine shows leukocytes (without nitrates) in urine it indicates infection in the system. To diagnose leukocytes, urinalysis has to be done in order to know the level
Sponsored link. White blood cells protect the body but if leukocyte esterase is found in urine it means there is infection in urinary tract. Kidneys, bladder, ureters and urethra form the urinary system and when analysis of urine shows leukocytes (without nitrates) in urine it indicates infection in the system. To diagnose leukocytes, urinalysis has to be done in order to know the level of leukocytes esterase in urine.
1 Leukocyte Esterase: Leukocyte esterase is an enzyme present in your white blood cells. 2  Therefore, the presence of this substance in the urine indicates the presence of white blood cells (leukocyturia). 3  White blood cells in the urine may indicate inflammation of the kidneys or urinary tract due to bacterial infection. 
Although a urinary tract infection is the most common cause of leukocyte esterase in urinalysis some other and rarer causes for the positive result with a negative microorganism culture do exist. [2] These include: 1  Chlamydia. 2  Infection with a sexually transmitted microorganism called ureaplasma urealyticum. Sometimes a test for leukocyte esterase produces negative results but later follow-up indicates a disease condition like a urinary tract infection. This could happen from a number of causes a simple as the laboratory technician not allowing enough time before reading the dipstick.
Risk assessment value. Leukocytes in urine are detected by the action of esterase, present in granulocytes. A high number of leukocytes present in urine usually indicates inflammatory disease. Specimens that screen positive for urine leukocyte esterase are confirmed by digital imaging. 
1 When the urinary system is blocked it could result in blood in urine. 2  The urinary system could be blocked due to kidney or bladder stones, trauma, hypertrophy or pelvis tumor or unnecessary foreign particles in the urinary tract. 3  Infection in kidney could also raise the level of leukocytes esterase in urine. Kidneys, bladder, ureters and urethra form the urinary system and when analysis of urine shows leukocytes (without nitrates) in urine it indicates infection in the system. To diagnose leukocytes, urinalysis has to be done in order to know