Lizard is a collective name for the different species of lizard that are found in the warmer climates around the world. The lizard is a reptile with scaly skin, and some species of lizard can shed their tails when the are in danger, but not all species of lizard are capable of doing this. 
Pet Lizard Names. The most popular species of pet lizards include anoles, skinks, iguanas, bearded dragons, geckos, water dragons, chameleons and monitor lizards. Names for lizards often relate to mythical lizards and dragons, although there are plenty of more recent reptilian namesakes to choose from. Many types of snakes make great pets, including ball pythons, rosy boas, king snakes, corn snakes and milk snakes. Since snakes are so prominent in mythology and literature, there are a ton of great names you can pull from books. Other good snake names reflect the animal's appearance.
Reptiles of all sorts-snakes, lizards, and turtles-are popular pets, and choosing a name for pet reptiles can be a fun and imaginative part of adding a reptilian member to the family. There are many popular reptile names, so pet owners can choose any name that is meaningful for their new pet. Many types of snakes make great pets, including ball pythons, rosy boas, king snakes, corn snakes and milk snakes. Since snakes are so prominent in mythology and literature, there are a ton of great names you can pull from books. Other good snake names reflect the animal's appearance.
Lizard Names. FunPetNames.com offers many Lizard pet names to choose from when naming your own pet. You can sort these Lizard pet names by gender and you can view their full meanings by clicking on the name. You may also rate the pet names that you like dislike most. Feel free to browse all our Lizard pet names and add the ones you want to save for later to your own favorites list. Show: All Male Femal
Great Names for Any Pet Reptile. While a lot of pet owners want to choose a name specific to their reptile species, there are many names for pet reptiles that can work for either snakes, lizards, turtles or other pets. Many types of snakes make great pets, including ball pythons, rosy boas, king snakes, corn snakes and milk snakes. Since snakes are so prominent in mythology and literature, there are a ton of great names you can pull from books. Other good snake names reflect the animal's appearance.
Personality-Based Names for Your Bearded Dragon. According to the Bearded Dragon Guide, these lizards make excellent pets. They have an even temperament, and some bond closely with their owners. In groups, they form a hierarchy where the largest lizard is the leader. Here are some name ideas based on the personality and behavior traits of bearded dragons: 1  Dizzy-For the swaying. 2  Bob. 3  Huffy. 4  Billows. 5  Honey.
Below are good male and female bearded dragon names that you can use. Sometimes it can be difficult to determine the gender of your bearded dragon so we have included some unisex bearded dragon names as well. Below is a list of some cool names for bearded dragons. You can't get a pet as cool as a bearded dragon and not give him or her a cool name. So here is a list of some of the best names for bearded dragons: Below are some dragon names from popular books, movies, and songs. If you know of any other dragon names which are not on the list, please contact us so we can add it to this list