Core Muscles Involvement. When you perform a shoulder press, all of your core is active to stabilize your body so that you can lift the bar above your head. Your core muscles consist of your abdominals, obliques -- the outer edge of the stomach -- and the lower-back muscle called the latissimus dorsi. The triceps muscle is found on the rear of your upper arm; its main function is to straighten your arm. Your triceps are secondary muscles, which cause your arm to extend during the shoulder press. You use them more heavily in the downward phase to help you slowly lower the weight safely rather than dropping it.
Synergists. In most free weight strength-training exercises, the body uses muscles in addition to the primary muscle to help accomplish the movement. In the case of the shoulder press, many of the muscles of the upper body assist in the execution of the move. The lateral, or top head, of the deltoid muscle and the rotator cuff work in addition to the anterior deltoid to complete the exercise. Any thorough shoulder workout includes the shoulder press, a classic strength-training exercise performed using dumbbells or a barbell. From a seated or standing position, hold the weight, or weights, with an overhand grip, positioned at your shoulders
Primary Muscles. The main muscle targeted by the dumbbell shoulder press is the anterior deltoid, or the front shoulder. To a slightly lesser degree, the exercise also hits the remaining deltoid muscles, including the lateral deltoid, or the outside of your shoulder, and posterior deltoid, or the back of your shoulder. 
The shoulders, or deltoids, are one of the prime movers in the shoulder press. The deltoid has three aspects, or heads -- anterior, or front, lateral head or the outside of your shoulder, and posterior, or the back of your shoulder. Triceps. The triceps are the large muscles on the back of your arm and function to extend the elbow, or straighten your arm out. The triceps are active throughout the full range of motion of the shoulder press, regardless of hand spacing. The closer your hands are on the bar, the greater the activation of the triceps.
As its name implies, the shoulder press targets the shoulders, specifically the deltoids. However, this classic exercise doesn't limit itself to one muscle group; it engages numerous secondary muscles as synergists and stabilizers. The rising motion of the shoulder press also contracts the middle and lower trapezius, using the upper traps to help stabilize the motion. Shoulder presses also work the rotator cuff and the small supraspinatus muscle of the shoulder blade as secondary muscles.
While the shoulder press focuses primarily on two portions of the deltoids, or shoulders, it also works a plethora of other muscles. Your trapezius, triceps and rotary cuff muscles all have to work in conjunction with your shoulders for this exercise to be done. The deltoids are broken into three groups: anterior, lateral and posterior. The anterior and lateral deltoids are used for the shoulder press. The anterior deltoid is the front of the shoulder, and helps raise the arms in front of the body and above the head. The lateral deltoid is the top and side of the shoulder, and helps lift the arms out and press weight above the head
The Target Muscle. The primary muscle recruited in the shoulder press is the anterior deltoid, which is the front section of your shoulder muscle. The anterior deltoid originates at your clavicle and then runs down the front of your shoulder and inserts at the top of your humerus, or upper arm bone. 
When performing the shoulder press, the deltoids are the prime movers. Three individual muscles make up the deltoids divided by location: anterior -- or front; middle; and lateral -- or back. When you fully extend your arms, you mainly activate your anterior deltoid but still use the whole muscle. The triceps muscle is found on the rear of your upper arm; its main function is to straighten your arm. Your triceps are secondary muscles, which cause your arm to extend during the shoulder press. You use them more heavily in the downward phase to help you slowly lower the weight safely rather than dropping it.