Greek Meaning: The name Cassia is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cassia is: Spicy cinnamon. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Cassia for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Cassia is a girl name. The name Cassia is of Greek origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Origin of the name Cassia: Adopted from the cassia spice, a variety of cinnamon. The word is derived from the Greek kasia (a kind of cinnamon). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Cassia and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cassia and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.
[ 2 syll. cas-sia, ca-ss-ia ] The baby girl name Cassia is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced K AE-SHah in English †. Cassia is of African-Hausa, Latin, and Hebrew origin. It is used mainly in English. Latin origin: It is derived from the word cassus which is of the meaning 'empty, vain'. From the Roman family name. Cassia is a form of the English Casiah. Cassia is also a form of the English Ketzia. Cassia is also a form of the English and Hebrew Kezia in the English language.
Cassia /cas-sia/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced CA-see-ah. It is of Greek origin. From Greek kasia, a type of the spice cinnamon (see Kezia). Also a feminine form of Cassius or Cassian, the name of a fourth-century French saint. See also Kassia. Related girl name: Cinnamon.
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Cassia is one of the rare names that's truly unusual yet has a stylish feel. Cassia has the added attraction of the sweet smell of cinnamon; a cassia tree or bush, which has yellow flowers, produces a spice that can be a substitute for cinnamon.