Epiglottitis is a life-threatening condition characterized by inflamed epiglottis tissue. The epiglottis is made of cartilage and is located at the base of the tongue. It helps prevent food from entering your windpipe. The tissue of the epiglottis can swell and block your airway. This requires immediate medical attention. If you suspect that you or your child has epiglottitis, call a doctor or seek emergency medical help immediately.
It covers the entrance to the larynx during swallowing. Thus the food particles are diverted to the oesophagus and not to the respiratory system. Epiglottis has a role in speech that is it acts as an articulator in the production of vowels and pharyngeal consonants. Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis is known as epiglottitis.
Both are structurally and functionally different parts of the anatomy. The epiglottis is the cartilage flap fixed to the entrance of the larynx. Glottis is the space lying between the vocal folds and arytenoid cartilages located in the larynx. In other words, it is an opening to the larynx. Epiglottitis. This condition leads to the swelling of the Epiglottis. This inflammation is caused mainly by an infection due to Haemophilus influenza bacteria. However, it may also result from attack by other types of bacteria and viruses that can cause Upper Respiratory Infection.
Epiglottitis Overview. Epiglottitis is a medical emergency that may result in death if not treated quickly. The epiglottis is a flap of tissue that sits at the base of the tongue that keeps food from going into the trachea, or windpipe, during swallowing. When it gets infected and inflamed, it can obstruct, or close off, the windpipe, which may be fatal unless promptly treated.
Epiglottis. The epiglottis is a leaf-shaped flap of cartilage located behind the tongue, at the top of the larynx, or voice box. Swelling of the epiglottis is called epiglottitis. This condition can block airflow to the lungs and is, therefore, potentially life-threatening. Epiglottitis can have many causes, including burns from hot beverages, throat injury, or bacterial infections. Back to Head.
epiglottis. the lidlike cartilaginous structure guarding the entrance to the larynx. The muscular action of swallowing closes the opening to the trachea by placing the larynx against the epiglottis. This prevents food and drink from entering the larynx and trachea, directing it instead into the esophagus. The thin elastic cartilaginous structure located at the root of the tongue that folds over the glottis to prevent food and liquid from entering the trachea during the act of swallowing.
Epiglottis and Swallowing. The Epiglottis function in swallowing is a very important one. While swallowing food and water, it draws itself back to cover the entry point of the larynx which prevents food and drink from going into the windpipe. Epiglottitis. This condition leads to the swelling of the Epiglottis. This inflammation is caused mainly by an infection due to Haemophilus influenza bacteria. However, it may also result from attack by other types of bacteria and viruses that can cause Upper Respiratory Infection.
the lidlike cartilaginous structure overhanging the entrance to the larynx. adj., adj epiglot´tic. The muscular action of swallowing closes the opening to the trachea by placing the larynx against the epiglottis. This prevents food and drink from entering the larynx and trachea, directing it instead into the esophagus. The thin elastic cartilaginous structure located at the root of the tongue that folds over the glottis to prevent food and liquid from entering the trachea during the act of swallowing.
Epiglottitis is an inflammation of the epiglottis — the flap at the base of the tongue that keeps food from going into the trachea (windpipe). Epiglottitis involves bacterial infection of the epiglottis, most often caused by Haemophilus influenzae type B, although some cases are attributable to Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus agalactiae, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis.