The first Europeans arrived on the 22nd of April of 1606 as a part of the Spanish expedition of Pedro Fernandez fernández De. Quiros'quirós tikopia s location is. Relatively remote it is sometimes grouped With The Santa. Cruz, Islands administratively tikopia Belongs To temotu province as the southernmost Of The. solomon islands Lake Te Roto covers an old volcanic crater which is 80 metres (260 ft) deep. The first Europeans arrived on the 22nd of April of 1606 as a part of the Spanish expedition of Pedro Fernandez fernández De. Quiros'quirós tikopia s location is. Relatively remote it is sometimes grouped With The Santa. cruz islands
The Solomon Islands are a group of islands located North East of Australia in the Solomon Sea. They Sit at approximately 9deg 38min 54sec south latitude and 160deg 10min … 10sec east longitude. 5 people found this useful. Which is the site of the first allied offensive in the Pacific a savage struggle in he Solomon Islands that lasted from July 1942 to February 1943?
Guadalcanal is part of the Solomon Islands which lie to the north-eastern approaches of Australia. Though it is a humid and jungle-covered tropical island its position made it strategically important for both sides in the Pacific War. 
The Solomon Islands consist of six major and approximately 900 smaller volcanic islands, coral atolls and reefs, more than 300 of them are inhabited. They stretch about 900 miles in a south-easterly direction from Papau New Guinea toward Fiji. Site about the island of Tetepare part of the Western Province. Solomon Islands. The site provides some information on the Solomon Islands. Jane's Solomon Islands Home Page. Jane Resture's Solomon Islands culture and history site. Finding Solomon Islands. David Stanley's Solomon Islands guide.
Santa Isabel. Island, central Solomon Islands, western South Pacific Ocean. Located 50 mi (80 km) northwest of Guadalcanal, Santa Isabel is about 130 mi (209 km) long and 20 mi (32 km) wide at its widest point. Mount Marescot, rising 4,000 ft (1,219 m), is the highest peak. Istabus. The largest city of Turkey, in the northwest part of the country on both sides of the Bosporus at its entrance into the Sea of Marmara. Founded c. 660 b.c. as Byzantium, it was renamed Constantinople in a.d. 330 by Constantine the Great, who made it the capital of the Eastern Roman, or Byzantine, Empire.
Destination Solomon Islands, a virtual travel guide to this Melanesian islands state, formerly known as the British Solomon Islands. This page aims to give you a broad overview of Solomon Islands's art, culture, people, environment, geography, history, economy and government. Site about the island of Tetepare part of the Western Province. Solomon Islands. The site provides some information on the Solomon Islands. Jane's Solomon Islands Home Page. Jane Resture's Solomon Islands culture and history site. Finding Solomon Islands. David Stanley's Solomon Islands guide.
Tikopia's location is relatively remote. It is sometimes grouped with the Santa Cruz Islands. Administratively, Tikopia belongs to Temotu Province as the southernmost of the Solomon Islands. Some discussions of Tikopian society include its nearest neighbour, the even tinier island of Anuta. Lake Te Roto covers an old volcanic crater which is 80 metres (260 ft) deep. The first Europeans arrived on the 22nd of April of 1606 as a part of the Spanish expedition of Pedro Fernandez fernández De. Quiros'quirós tikopia s location is. Relatively remote it is sometimes grouped With The Santa. cruz islands
Ethnic conflicts have plagued other Pacific islands as well, especially the Solomon Islands. New Caledonia, an overseas territory of France, voted in 1998 for greater autonomy and eventual self-rule but in the meantime is dealing with militant nationalists who are dissatisfied with the slow pace of their statehood. 
Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu are members of the Commonwealth of Nations. Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu are also members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group. 1 New Caledonia-a dependency of France. 2  West Papua-The western half of the island of New Guinea (West Papua (region) is politically part of the nation state of Indonesia. 3  Europeans have always recognized it as geographically part of Melanesia. 4  An independence movement, the Free Papua Movement, is active in this area.