Confidence votes 2.2K. The kidney is made of a majority of cells called nephrons. These are the basic cellular unit of the kindey. Nephrons filter out the toxins from the blood stream and produce urine. There are various chemicals that control the actions of the kidney. Some of these cause more of less water to be retained by the kidneys. Kidneys are internal organs whose function is to filter waste (primarily uric acid) out of the blood. The kidneys are bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They … are located near the middle of the back, just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine.
Most people know that a major function of the kidneys is to remove waste products and excess fluid from the body. These waste products and excess fluid are removed through the urine. If the kidneys' ability to filter the blood is seriously damaged by disease, wastes and excess fluid may build up in the body. Although many forms of kidney disease do not produce symptoms until late in the course of the disease, there are six warning signs of kidney disease: 1  High blood pressure.
A kidney stone, also known as a renal calculus or nephrolith, is a solid piece of material which is formed in the kidneys from minerals in urine. Kidney stones typically leave the body in the urine stream, and a small stone may pass without causing symptoms. Diagnosis of kidney stones is made on the basis of information obtained from the history, physical examination, urinalysis, and radiographic studies. Clinical diagnosis is usually made on the basis of the location and severity of the pain, which is typically colicky in nature (comes and goes in spasmodic waves).
The kidneys are surrounded by a layer of adipose that holds them in place and protects them from physical damage. The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column.
Kidney stones are made of salts and minerals in the urine that  stick together to form small pebbles..   Calcium stones are the most common type of kidney stone and occ … ur  in two major forms: calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate.   Uric acid stones form when the urine is persistently acidic.   Struvite stones result from kidney infections. Kidneys are internal organs whose function is to filter waste (primarily uric acid) out of the blood. The kidneys are bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They … are located near the middle of the back, just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine.
1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3
The kidney is made of a majority of cells called nephrons. These are the basic cellular unit of the kindey. Nephrons filter out the toxins from the blood stream and produce … urine. There are various chemicals that control the actions of the kidney. Some of these cause more of less water to be retained by the kidneys. Calcium stones are the most common type of kidney stone and occ … ur  in two major forms: calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate.   Uric acid stones form when the urine is persistently acidic.   Struvite stones result from kidney infections.
Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate. 1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3
Kidney stones. Kidney stones (renal lithiasis, nephrolithiasis) are small, hard mineral deposits that form inside your kidneys. The stones are made of mineral and acid salts. Kidney stones have many causes and can affect any part of your urinary tract — from your kidneys to your bladder