1 Nucleic Acids: A group of organic macromolecules that are made of nucleotides. 2  Contain hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, and phosphorus. 3  Examples are RNA, DNA, and ATP. 4  Nucleotide: The basic building block of nucleic acids, such as DNA and RNA. 1 Polymer: A large molecule made up of many repeating structural units called monomers. 2  Polymerization: Process that forms a large molecule (polymer) from repeating subunit molecules (monomers). 3  Polypeptide: A chain of up to 100 amino acids.
Nucleic acids are made up of nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of a sugar + a phosphate + a nitrogen base. The nitrogenous bases are Adenine which pairs with Thymine and Cytosine which pairs with Guanine. Nucleotide polymers, (chains of nucleotides) are made up of nucleotides linked to the-OH group on the 3' carbon of one nucleotide and the phosphate on the 5' of the following nucleotide. The two chains in a double helix run antiparallel to one another. 8 people found this useful. Answered. A nucleotide is a monomer of a nucleic acid consisting of 3 parts.  These 3 parts include a pentose sugar, a phosphate  group, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous bases …  include purines (adenine and guanine) and pyrimidines (cytosine and  thymine).
Yes, they are. Nucleic acid polymeric subunits of ribonucleotides condense to form Rna, while polymeric subunits of 2' [two prime] -deoxy-Rna condense to form Dna. So tough t … o explain such a small difference between Rna and Dna! 2 people found this useful. 1 Basically, polymers are macromolecules made 2  …. The Definition of Macromolecules Macromolecules, by definition, are very large molecules with very high molecular masses and interesting physical properties resulting from their shapes.
A biomolecule is any molecule that is present in living organisms, including large macromolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well as small molecules such as primary metabolites, secondary metabolites, and natural products. 
There are four basic kinds of biological macromolecules. They are carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. These polymers are composed of different monomers and serve different functions. 1  Carbohydrates-composed of sugar monomers and necessary for energy storage. 2  Lipids-include fats, phospholipids and steroids. 3  Lipids help to store energy, cushion and protect organs, insulate the body and form cell membranes. 
They are typically composed of thousands or more atoms. The most common macromolecules in biochemistry are biopolymers (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates and polyphenols) and large non-polymeric molecules (such as lipids and macrocycles). DNA, RNA and proteins all consist of a repeating structure of related building blocks (nucleotides in the case of DNA and RNA, amino acids in the case of proteins). In general, they are all unbranched polymers, and so can be represented in the form of a string.
Macromolecules are Polymers that are made of many repeating units called Monomers by condensation reactions in which water is removed. Polymers are divided into three main t … ypes: 1) Polysaccharides: That are mainly composed of monosaccharides (hexose sugar) and are linked by glycosidic bonds. 1 Basically, polymers are macromolecules made 2  …. The Definition of Macromolecules Macromolecules, by definition, are very large molecules with very high molecular masses and interesting physical properties resulting from their shapes.
Lipids are macromolecules that aren't polymers, as their structure does not consist of a repeating chain of monomers. Proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids are all macromo … lecules and polymers. 1 Basically, polymers are macromolecules made 2  …. The Definition of Macromolecules Macromolecules, by definition, are very large molecules with very high molecular masses and interesting physical properties resulting from their shapes.
Nucleic acids are polymers of nucleotides, complex monomers consisting of a pentose (five carbon sugar) covalently bonded to a phosphate group and to one of five different kinds of nitrogenous bases. DNA and RNA are the only two nucleic acids found in living matter. 
1 Monomer: A small molecule that bonds to other molecules to form a polymer. 2  Nucleic Acids: A group of organic macromolecules that are made of nucleotides. 3  Contain hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, and phosphorus. 4  Examples are RNA, DNA, and ATP. 1 Polymer: A large molecule made up of many repeating structural units called monomers. 2  Polymerization: Process that forms a large molecule (polymer) from repeating subunit molecules (monomers). 3  Polypeptide: A chain of up to 100 amino acids.