For other uses, see LPN (disambiguation) . A licensed practical nurse (LPN) in much of the United States and most Canadian provinces is a nurse who cares for people who are sick, injured, convalescent, or disabled. LPNs work under the direction of registered nurses or physicians
You'll be an important part of the health care team in your role as a licensed practical or vocational nurse. Licensed practical and licensed vocational nurse (LPN or LVN) jobs are actually the same role despite the slight difference in name. The LVN title is only used in Texas and California. The job involves a variety of daily tasks ranging from dressing wounds to feeding infants
Role of an LPN. LPN s provide patient care in a variety of healthcare settings. They are most often found in nursing homes, group homes, private homes or similar locations. They often work under the supervision of an RN or doctor and may be responsible for the oversight of nursing aides. So the more options that exist to get nurses into scrubs, the better. One long-standing, popular nursing track is to become a licensed practical nurse. LPN jobs are expected to grow at 25 percent through 2022, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Career Overview. As a licensed practical nurse, also called a licensed vocational nurse (LVN), your job duties will be to provide basic care and assistance for sick, injured, disabled, and other patients in a variety of settings. To become an LPN, you need to complete a practical nursing training program and pass a licensing exam. Keep reading to find out more about what an LPN does. Schools offering Nursing degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
The acronym LPN stands for Licensed Practical Nurse. Some states refer to this job as an LVN or Licensed Vocational Nurse. What the LPN does depends on the “scope of practice” laws in the state where you work. Each state board of nursing regulates what the LPN can and cannot do. In general, LPN's provide patient care in a variety of settings within a variety of clinical specializations
Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) work with doctors and registered nurses to perform health care tasks, such as measuring vital signs and observing patients. To become an LPN, you need to complete a practical nursing training program and pass a licensing exam. Keep reading to find out more about what an LPN does. Schools offering Nursing degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
The LPN works under the supervision of a registered nurse (RN) or physician in most states; however, the LPN is often the only licensed nurse present in many facilities. LPNs also supervise nursing assistants in certain healthcare settings. LPNs can and do work in acute care hospitals, although this type of employment seems to be on the decline in many regions in the United States due to issues surrounding scope of practice.
First of all, LPN is an acronym that stands for licensed practical nurse. Forty-eight American states and most of the the Canadian provinces utilize the title of LPN. The remaining two states in the union (California and Texas) use the acronym LVN, which stands for licensed vocational nurse. LPNs can and do work in acute care hospitals, although this type of employment seems to be on the decline in many regions in the United States due to issues surrounding scope of practice.