The other main and popular use for neem oil is as a natural garden or agricultural insect spray. Neem oil very effectively deals with a huge range of garden pests. Neem spray can also be used as a preventative measure. It will stop insects from becoming a problem in the first place.
Neem oil is derived by pressing the seed kernels of the neem tree. It is very bitter with a garlic/sulfur smell. A single seed may contain up to 50 percent oil by weight. Neem oil is an excellent moisturizing oil and contains various compounds that have insecticidal and medicinal properties.
Neem oil, the oil pressed from the seeds of the neem tree, is the most widely known and used neem product. Well, at least in the western world it is. Indians, of course, have known and used all parts of the neem tree for thousands of years... Neem oil has many different uses and benefits... 1  A natural insect repellent.
Neem oil is a naturally occurring pesticide found in seeds from the neem tree. It is yellow to brown, has a bitter taste, and a garlic/sulfur smell. It has been used for hundreds of years to control pests and diseases. Components of neem oil can be found in many products today.
Neem oil, also called neem seed oil or neem tree oil, is the oil pressed from the seed kernels of the neem tree. Neem is a tropical, evergreen tree that originated in India. Neem tree fruit looks a bit like olives. It contains one seed, which in turn can have one or several kernels. Oil is produced by crushing and pressing the kernels, and then purifying the extract.
Less frequently, the root, flower, and fruit are also used. Neem leaf is used for leprosy, eye disorders, bloody nose, intestinal worms, stomach upset, loss of appetite, skin ulcers, diseases of the heart and blood vessels (cardiovascular disease), fever, diabetes, gum disease (gingivitis), and liver problems.
A lot of neem oil is used to make neem soap, lotions and shampoos. In soap and other cosmetical neem products the neem odour is masked with essential oils like rose geranium, lavender, ylang ylang or others. You can read more about the use of neem for skin care and skin disorders here and about neem hair oil here.