A second vaccination is recommended after 1 year, then boosters every 3 years. Core dog vaccine. Distemper. At least 3 doses, given between 6 and 16 weeks of age. 2 doses, given 3-4 weeks apart. Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing their initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. 2 doses, 3-4 weeks apart. Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing the initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Canine parvo is contagious, and can cause severe vomiting and bloody diarrhea.
At least 3 doses, given between 6 and 16 weeks of age. 2 doses, 3-4 weeks apart. Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing the initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Canine parvo is contagious, and can cause severe vomiting and bloody diarrhea.
Puppies are given a 1 year rabies shot. Then it depends on the laws for each state. So by law, it's either 1 or 3 years. However if you want to know whether a dog really needs it or not, Dr. Jean Dodds research shows rabies vaccine is good for 7+ years. This Site Might Help You. RE: How often dog dogs need their rabies shots? My dog just had hers last year, but we got a reminder from the vet that she needs another one My other dog only gets one every 3 years. So i&#39;m confused, how often do dogs need their rabies shot?
Most municipalities require an initial rabies vaccination after the dog is 16 weeks old. Vaccines given before that date may be considered invalid. The initial vaccine generally is valid for one year. In some places, subsequent vaccines are good for three years. In other places, annual revaccination is mandated. A recent case of rabies in a young puppy (less than 16 weeks old) in Alaska has led some vets to question the rationality of making dogs wait until they are 16 weeks old to be vaccinated. Also, many municipalities will not license a dog whose rabies vaccine was given when it was 15 weeks and six days old.
He gives the first rabies vaccine sometime after 4 months of age, re-vaccinates in a year, and then again in 3 years and every 3 years thereafter. Dr. Schultz reiterates his rabies vaccine protocol is because of the law, not because every 3 year vaccines are necessary immunologically. The law is not interested in when an animal actually needs another rabies vaccine to be protected – the law simply demands every 1, 2 or 3 year vaccinations with no consideration for whether the animal's body is already immune to the rabies virus thanks to a prior vaccine.
Best Answer: The first rabies vaccine should have been done as part of your third set of puppy vaccines. Rabies vaccines are in fact all 3yr vaccines. That being said, in puppies, the rabies vaccine needs to be piggybacked with another rabies vaccine after one year, which is where you are at right now. The vaccine you get this time will be effective for 3 years. I have a 15 months old labrador retriever and is due for having rabies shot done. i have heard people said that rabies shot can be done every 3 years if the vaccine used was a 3-year one as opposed to the 1-year. my vet told me that the one they used was 3-year, but they still recommend doing it annually.
At least 3 doses, between 6 and 16 weeks of age. 2 doses, 3-4 weeks apart. Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing the initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Canine parvo is contagious, and can cause severe vomiting and bloody diarrhea.
While it's important to vaccinate your dog against serious illnesses, in most cases an owner can opt not to provide this protection for his pet. The exception is the rabies shot, which is mandatory by law, with some exceptions. Your puppy can receive his initial rabies vaccination at the age of 3 months. He'll need a booster shot one year later. In most states, he requires another booster every three years. Some states defer to vaccine labeling for the booster timing. 
· just now. Report Abuse. I hope you misunderstood your vet, because the 3 year rabies vaccination is done EVERY 3 YEARS, not every year-that would be the 1 year vaccination, which is ridiculous to do when there is a 3 year rabies vaccination, been having that done with all my dogs for a while now. I have a 15 months old labrador retriever and is due for having rabies shot done. i have heard people said that rabies shot can be done every 3 years if the vaccine used was a 3-year one as opposed to the 1-year. my vet told me that the one they used was 3-year, but they still recommend doing it annually.