I want to use the same character name(and probably book title as well...that's less important) as William Gibson's Count Zero. I've never read it, and my story is a different genre than Sci Fi or Cyberpunk. More of a modern urban fantasy. Just the name/title. to others: it's sort of like you write a character who chooses to go by Tom Sawyer or Huck Finn when using an online handle, or within a secret-ish group. Update 2: Okay, so it's not really important to use the same BOOK title..it just seemed to me that was the obvious choice.
If a character hasn’t been named, that’s different and you do need ways to refer to him or her. But once the character gets a name, use it. There are allowances, especially in dialogue, for when a character, such as a sibling, is trying to annoy another character and uses the family connection rather than a name. A handful of other characters were given two, three, or four names. One was referred to six different ways. And the viewpoint character herself called characters multiple names, using one name in her thoughts and another in her dialogue.
However, you _really_ can't use it together with the name of the character from the same book. It's illegal to try to make people think that your work is associated with someone else's copyrighted work, and there's no way you'd get away with using the same character name and the same title. It's a character name. Just the name/title. to others: it's sort of like you write a character who chooses to go by Tom Sawyer or Huck Finn when using an online handle, or within a secret-ish group. Update 2: Okay, so it's not really important to use the same BOOK title..it just seemed to me that was the obvious choice.
“If a character has a distinctive name and well-defined personality—whether it’s Harry Potter or his sidekicks Hermione Granger or Ron Weasley—they belong to the copyright holder, and you can’t use them without permission,” says our legal expert Amy Cook. And if the character has a rather common name and isn’t particularly fleshed out, she’s up for grabs (e.g., a perky young college student named Jennifer who used to baby-sit the main character and doesn’t play much of a role in the book).
Yes and no. If you are using that figure in your novel, you have to use the name. But be careful as to how you portray him/her. For a fictional character, yes, you can borrow real names. But rather than copy a name directly (Winston Churchill, for example, or the Duke of Wellington) change it a bit. If the hero's name is Winston, don't have another character named Winthrop. And if the heroine's name is cross-gender (Jamie) don't give the hero a cross-gender (Chris) name also. You want your readers to enjoy your book, not labor over it.
In the book I’m using as an example, there are at least 17 named characters in the first two chapters. And the 17 are referred to by almost 50 different names or titles. Two chapters, 24 pages, and 50 different names and titles for 17 people. A handful of other characters were given two, three, or four names. One was referred to six different ways. And the viewpoint character herself called characters multiple names, using one name in her thoughts and another in her dialogue.
You can import paragraph styles and character styles from an InDesign or InCopy document into a stand-alone InCopy document or InCopy content that is linked to InDesign. You can determine which styles are loaded, and what should occur if a loaded style has the same name as a style in the current document. You can import paragraph and character styles from another InDesign document (any version) into the active document. During import, you can determine which styles are loaded and what should occur if a loaded style has the same name as a style in the current document. You can also import styles from an InCopy document.
ILikeFilms, yes, it’s okay to use the names of the video games. You can have your characters talk about characters in the games and use their names too. I wouldn’t use them as a basis for plot though, like fan fiction. For example, you wouldn’t want to do a story based in the Pac-Man universe, with Mr. and Mrs. Pac-man as the main characters, and the ghosts as the bad guys, etc. You just can’t use the brand in place of the name of the real item without a reason for doing so. In those books, the main character is a shopper, with a penchant for those expensive shoes and dresses and such, and so using the names of the shoes is pretty much critical to the story.
Disney protects its characters with trademark and copyright registrations. A trademark protects a brand name, while a copyright protects an original work such as a movie or book. The owner of a trademark or copyright registration for a fictional character can prevent others from using the character without permission. Transformative Use. Another way to legally use Disney characters could be to use them in what the law refers to as transformative use. Transformative use requires that you change, or transform, the character enough so that it is no longer a mere copy of the original.