Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun and the largest in the Solar System. It is a giant planet with a mass one-thousandth that of the Sun, but two and a half times that of all the other planets in the Solar System combined. Jupiter is a gas giant, along with Saturn (Uranus and Neptune are ice giants). Jupiter is primarily composed of hydrogen with a quarter of its mass being helium, although helium only comprises about a tenth of the number of molecules. It may also have a rocky core of heavier elements, but like the other giant planets, Jupiter lacks a well-defined solid surface.
Its orbit is inclined 6.09 degrees from the the Sun’s equator. Several of the planets have seasons, similar to Earth’s, but Jupiter does not. It rotates too fast for seasonal variations(Jupiter rotates every 10 hours). At its most distant point, called aphelion, Jupiter is 817 million km, or 5.46 AU from the Sun. The average between perihelion and aphelion is called the semi-major axis. Jupiter’s semi-major axis is 778 million km, or 5.2 AU.
Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system. Fittingly, it was named after the king of the gods in Roman mythology. In a similar manner, the ancient Greeks named the planet after Zeus, the king of the Greek pantheon. The four largest moons of Jupiter, now called Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto, were discovered by Galileo Galilei himself, and are appropriately known today as the Galilean satellites. Ganymede is the largest moon in our solar system, larger even than Mercury and Pluto. It is also the only moon known to have its own magnetic field. The moon has at least one thick ocean between layers of ice, although it may contain several layers of both materials
The orbits of Io, Europa, and Ganymede, some of the largest satellites in the Solar System, form a pattern known as a Laplace resonance; for every four orbits that Io makes around Jupiter, Europa makes exactly two orbits and Ganymede makes exactly one. Jupiter is primarily composed of hydrogen with a quarter of its mass being helium, although helium only comprises about a tenth of the number of molecules. It may also have a rocky core of heavier elements, but like the other giant planets, Jupiter lacks a well-defined solid surface.
Jupiter has at least 63 known moons. The largest four are called Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto. These four moons are called the Galilean satellites because they were first seen in 1610 by the astronomer Galileo Galilei. Ganymede is the largest moon in the Solar System, with a diameter of 3,260 miles.
Jupiter's Satellites. Jupiter and its satellites are sometimes called a `miniature Solar System', but the truth is more complicated. Three of Jupiter's four satellites are locked in resonant orbits. This has interesting consequences for our weekly observations, and for the history and fate of the Jovian system. Kepler's third law implies that satellites with smaller orbits move more rapidly. Thus Ganymede, Europa, and Io, which all have smaller orbits than does Callisto, should all move faster than does Callisto.
Jupiter is composed primarily of gaseous and liquid matter. It is the largest of the four giant planets in the Solar System and hence its largest planet. It has a diameter of 142,984 km (88,846 mi) at its equator. The density of Jupiter, 1.326 g/cm 3, is the second highest of the giant planets, but lower than those of the four terrestrial planets. Jupiter is primarily composed of hydrogen with a quarter of its mass being helium, although helium only comprises about a tenth of the number of molecules. It may also have a rocky core of heavier elements, but like the other giant planets, Jupiter lacks a well-defined solid surface.
There are 64 known moons in orbit around Jupiter with a few more being suspected. The largest four(Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto) are are called the Galilean satellites. They are diverse and interesting worlds of their own. Io is the most volcanically active body in our Solar System. At its most distant point, called aphelion, Jupiter is 817 million km, or 5.46 AU from the Sun. The average between perihelion and aphelion is called the semi-major axis. Jupiter’s semi-major axis is 778 million km, or 5.2 AU.
by Jerry Coffey on June 17, 2008. The orbit of Jupiter, like that of all the planets, is elliptical instead of circular. At perihelion(closest approach) Jupiter comes within 741 million km, or 4.95 astronomical units(AU), of the Sun. At its most distant point, called aphelion, Jupiter is 817 million km, or 5.46 AU from the Sun. The average between perihelion and aphelion is called the semi-major axis. Jupiter’s semi-major axis is 778 million km, or 5.2 AU.