How the Telegraph uncovered issues with Sky: ' 1 Sky needs to make it easier to cancel subscriptions' (Nov 2013). 2  Problems with cancelling Sky TV (Jan 2014). 3  Sky reviews cancellation policy as it faces regulator (Jan 2014). 4  More Sky cancellation complaints flood in (Jan 2014). Other Telegraph readers say that the most effective way to leave Sky is to give your 31-day cancellation notice in writing and then to cancel your direct debit with the company.
Sky now makes it clear to customers that they will only be able to cancel their contracts over the phone, and the wording on its website has been rewritten accordingly. You can do this by calling the Sky cancellation phone number now on 0843 557 3712. You can get in touch in the following ways: 1  Telephone: Calls are free for Sky Talk customers. 2  Online: Send us a message saying that you wish to cancel and we’ll call you back to verify your details and process your request.
If you’d like to remove a package from your account or to cancel your entire Sky subscription, contact our customer service advisers and they’ll be able to help you right away. You can get in touch in the following ways: 1  Telephone: Calls are free for Sky Talk customers. 2  Online: Send us a message saying that you wish to cancel and we’ll call you back to verify your details and process your request.
How To Cancel Your Sky Subscription. There are countless reasons that you might want to cancel your Sky subscription; be it that you you’re moving house, switching provider or just wanting to move to Freeview. Whatever your reasoning, it’s clear you’ve decided the time to cancel Sky has come. Cancelling with Sky is as simple as calling the Sky customer services number and letting them know your intention to leave. It’s worth keeping in mind though that you can’t cancel in the middle of your contract, so if you’re looking to leave you’ll have to wait until the full term of your contract has finished.
READ: Another Sky transcript sheds light on the nightmare of cancelling. = How to cancel your Sky subscription =. Last year Sky agreed to reword its terms and conditions making it clear that customers would in future have to call the company in order to cancel rather than merely by writing or sending an email. 
Cancelling a subscription. To cancel your subscription: Sign in to your account and, on the left of the page, click your existing subscriptions. Click on the subscription you want to cancel. (If you only have one subscription, just click on it). Click Cancel subscription. Important: If you need to cancel a subscription, make sure to do it at least three days before the renewal date; otherwise, you might be charged for the next billing cycle.
If you wish to cancel your Sky Subscription, you are required to contact Sky first of all in any of the following ways: 1  Call Sky customer care. 2  For Sky Talk customers the calls are free. 3  You can begin an online ‘Live Chat’. 1 Call Sky customer care. 2  For Sky Talk customers the calls are free. 3  You can begin an online ‘Live Chat’. 4  Sky customer care is available 7 days per week from morning 8.30am to evening 8pm for the UK customers. 5  Users can even write to Sky or inform them via email about their wish to cancel the subscription
1 You can begin an online ‘Live Chat’. 2  Sky customer care is available 7 days per week from morning 8.30am to evening 8pm for the UK customers. 3  Users can even write to Sky or inform them via email about their wish to cancel the subscription. 4  Sky will then call you to confirm your details and proceed with your request. 1 Call Sky customer care. 2  For Sky Talk customers the calls are free. 3  You can begin an online ‘Live Chat’. 4  Sky customer care is available 7 days per week from morning 8.30am to evening 8pm for the UK customers. 5  Users can even write to Sky or inform them via email about their wish to cancel the subscription
• The easiest way to cancel Sky TV. • Telegraph forces Sky to make cancellation process clearer. • Sky wouldn't let me leave until after a 90 minute discussion. As Mr X asked: I would like to cancel my Sky subscription ... I believe that I have been told to give notice by email. Follow. Comments. Another transcript, shown to the Telegraph, between a Sky employee and a customer proves that the case of Gavin Hackwood, who was made to conduct a 90-minute conversation with a Sky operator via the online chat function when he attempted to cancel his contract, wasn't an isolated case.