Add watercress to your veggie list! Nasturtium officinale is among the list of cancer fighting cruciferous vegetables that include cabbage, bok choy, broccoli, cauliflower, arugula, kale, collards, mustard greens, turnips, Brussels sprouts, kohlrabi, rutabaga, horseradish and radish.
In effect, watercress is grown for the plant's leaves that are mainly used in the form of salad greens or dressings. The plant has a hollow branching stem that is connected to a crawling rootstock, about one foot to two feet in length, and usually pulls out along with the leaves above the surface of the water.
Healers make use of the whole watercress plant. They usually harvest watercress while it is in bloom and dehydrate it. Watercress has a spicy and peppery flavour and it may just be included in your diet on a regular basis. For further therapeutic purposes, you may take an infusion prepared from the dried up plant.
In order to prepare the tea from watercress, take one tablespoon of sliced fresh watercress and add it to one cup (250 ml) of steaming water and allow it to steep for about 20 minutes.
Even the native Indian took on the plant in the form of a food and also employed it to cure liver and kidney disorders. Watercress contains numerous nutrients, including rich amounts of mineral salts and several vitamins, such as vitamin A, vitamin B2, vitamin C, vitamin D and vitamin E.
The entire watercress plant is somewhat mashed and used in the form of a poultice and applied to adenitis, abscesses or closed cysts with a view to facilitate their healing. The mother tincture prepared from watercress is used during winter to cure fever, exhaustion as well as dearth of vitamins.
Perhaps the easiest way to grow watercress is to plant seeds or root watercress cuttings in a 15-inch clay pot with holes in the bottom. Fill the container with a mixture of rich soil, sand and pebbles.
Watercress. Watercress (Nasturtium officinale) is a water plant that can be found throughout the United States, southern Canada, Europe and Asia. It's actually native to Europe and Asia. Watercress grows in shallow running water where it normally forms dense mats.
Jump to navigation. Watercress (Nasturtium officinale) is a water plant that can be found throughout the United States, southern Canada, Europe and Asia. It's actually native to Europe and Asia. Watercress grows in shallow running water where it normally forms dense mats.
Most folks realize they come from plants but more specifically it is specialized cells within the plant. Essential oils do not come from animals or rocks. To explain. Essential oils are produced by plant cells in and around specialized glands.