The signature Playmobil toy is a 7.5 cm (approximately 3 inch) tall (1:24 scale) human figure, in its early days known as a klicky. A wide range of accessories, buildings and vehicles, as well as many sorts of animals, are also part of the Playmobil line. Playmobil was invented by German inventor Hans Beck (1929 – 2009), who is often called The Father of Playmobil. Beck received training as a cabinetmaker but was also an avid hobbyist of model airplanes, a product he pitched to the company geobra Brandstaetter. brandstätter
Christmas. Playmobil is the world of miniature fun. It's a system of themed playworlds filled with durable figures and everyday things found in the real world. Each figure can bend, sit, stand, turn its head and move its arms. With PLAYMOBIL, children can stimulate their imagination. Learn more at www.Playmobil.com. 
Playmobil toys are produced in themed series of sets as well as individual special figures and playsets. New products and product lines developed by a 50-strong development team are introduced frequently, and older sets are discontinued. Playmobil was invented by German inventor Hans Beck (1929 – 2009), who is often called The Father of Playmobil. Beck received training as a cabinetmaker but was also an avid hobbyist of model airplanes, a product he pitched to the company geobra Brandstaetter. brandstätter
ToysRUs Playmobil Toys. Open the door to imagination with Playmobil Toys from the world's greatest toy store: ToysRUs. They'll enjoy hours of play with our impressive selection of Playmobil Toys from favorite brand names. Make birthday or holiday celebrations extra memorable when you surprise them with these must-have gifts. 
Playmobil (/pleɪmoʊˈbiːl/) is a line of toys produced by the Brandstaetter Brandstätter (Group Geobra GmbH & Brandstätter GMBH), co kg Headquartered, In. Zirndorf germany The signature playmobil toy is.a 7 (5 cm approximately) 3 (inch:tall 1) 24 scale, human figure in its early days known as. a klicky Playmobil was invented by German inventor Hans Beck (1929 – 2009), who is often called The Father of Playmobil. Beck received training as a cabinetmaker but was also an avid hobbyist of model airplanes, a product he pitched to the company geobra Brandstaetter. b
Playmobil gets lumped together with Lego in people’s minds and it’s easy to see why. They’re competitors, often found near each other in the toy aisles. Both toylines are made by European companies that in the 1970s began selling sets featuring a variety of similar play themes and miniature figures. 
Playmobil is a construction toy where children can have hours of fun making their favourite models and then have just as much fun playing with the finished pieces. Playmobil tends to be made up of a lot of small pieces and as a result is aimed at children aged 4 and above but there is now a range called Playmobil 123 which was designed with toddlers from 18 months in mind.
ToysRUs ToysRUs Playmobil. Enter a world of immersive play with popular Playmobil sets from ToysRUs. Whatever their interest, you will find a dynamic Playmobil theme to thrill and engage them for hours. We carry a full line of classic Playmobil sets to delight any child in a variety of age groups. Choose from an assortment of adventure themes that will take them from the city to the ocean
Playmobil (/pleɪmoʊˈbiːl/) is a line of toys produced by the Brandstaetter Brandstätter (Group Geobra GmbH & Brandstätter GMBH), co kg Headquartered, In. zirndorf germany Playmobil was invented by German inventor Hans Beck (1929 – 2009), who is often called The Father of Playmobil. Beck received training as a cabinetmaker but was also an avid hobbyist of model airplanes, a product he pitched to the company geobra Brandstaetter. b