Organizations. Cerebellar degeneration is a process in which neurons in the cerebellum-the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance-deteriorate and die. 1 ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, when there is lack of blood flow or oxygen to the cerebellum. 2  cerebellar cortical atrophy, multisystem atrophy, and olivopontocerebellar degeneration, progressive degenerative disorders in which cerebellar degeneration is a key feature.
Overview. Cerebellar degeneration refers to the deterioration of neurons in the cerebellum (the area of the brain that controls muscle coordination and balance). 
Cerebellar degeneration is a process in which neurons in the cerebellum-the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance-deteriorate and die. Other diseases that can cause cerebellar degeneration include: 1  chronic alcohol abuse that leads to temporary or permanent cerebellar damage. 2  paraneoplastic disorders, in which a malignancy (cancer) in other parts of the body produces substances that cause immune system cells to attack neurons in the cerebellum.
Diffuse atrophy of the cerebellum refers to degeneration/reduction from a previously normal cerebellar volume. The term slightly differs from cerebellar hypoplasia meaning the cerebellum was not well formed to start with. Diffuse atrophy can result from variety of causes: 1  normal ageing. 2  alcoholic cerebellar degeneration. 3  drugs, e.g. phenytoin. 4  cerebellitis. 5  multi system atrophy (MSA) 4. 6  ataxia telangiectasia. 7  Friedreich ataxia.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a degenerative neurological disorder. MSA is associated with the degeneration of nerve cells in specific areas of the brain. This cell degeneration causes problems with movement, balance, and autonomic functions of the body such as bladder control or blood-pressure regulation. 
Cerebellar atrophy is a degeneration of the cerebellum, a section of the brain responsible for balance, voluntary muscle movements, and posture. People with damage to the cerebellum can experience symptoms like unsteady gait, poor muscle control, and trouble speaking or swallowing. 
Damage, degeneration or loss of nerve cells in the part of your brain that controls muscle coordination (cerebellum), results in ataxia. Your cerebellum comprises two pingpong-ball-sized portions of folded tissue situated at the base of your brain near your brainstem. 
Cerebellar Degeneration. Cerebellar degeneration is a process in which neurons in the cerebellum-the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance-deteriorate and die. 