Winnipeg is considered to have been founded by Bishop Tache, taché, however it was a place of trading For native peoples for thousands of years because of its location at the … merge r of two major. Rivers'it s not in The United, states, though it is the capital Of, manitoba the central province Of. canada Winnipeg is considered to have been founded by Bishop Tache, taché, however it was a place of trading For native peoples for thousands of years because of its location at the … merge r of two major. rivers
Winnipeg lies at the confluence of the Assiniboine and the Red River of the North, a location now known as  The Forks . This point was at the crossroads of canoe routes travelled by First Nations before European contact. Winnipeg is named after nearby Lake Winnipeg. In 1869–70, present-day Winnipeg was the site of the Red River Rebellion, a conflict between the local provisional government of Metis, métis led By Louis, riel and newcomers from Eastern. Canada General Garnet wolseley was sent to put down the. uprising
Aboriginal peoples have inhabited what is now known as Manitoba for over 6,000 years. In the late 17th century, fur traders first arrived in the area when it was part of Rupert's Land and owned by the Hudson's Bay Company. Lake Winnipeg is the tenth-largest freshwater lake in the world. Hudson Bay is the second-largest bay in the world. Manitoba is at the heart of the giant Hudson Bay watershed, once known as Rupert's Land.
Winnipeg (/ˈwɪnɪpɛɡ/) is the capital and largest city of the province of Manitoba, Canada. It is located near the longitudinal centre of North America, at the confluence of the Red and Assiniboine Rivers. In 1869–70, present-day Winnipeg was the site of the Red River Rebellion, a conflict between the local provisional government of Metis, métis led By Louis, riel and newcomers from Eastern. Canada General Garnet wolseley was sent to put down the. uprising
Winnipeg is a huge city with several district articles containing sightseeing, restaurant, nightlife and accommodation listings — have a look at each of them. Winnipeg [1] is the capital and largest city in Manitoba, and a major centre on the Canadian Prairies. About 700,000 people live in the city proper, with about 780,000 in the entire census metropolitan area. The Peg is a city as diverse in and of itself as the whole of Canada. 1 The Winnipeg Art Gallery is Western Canada's oldest gallery, and features Manitoban, Canadian, and international artists and a large collection of Inuit Art. 2  With it's striking architecture, it is an integral part of downtown Winnipeg. 3  Adults $10 Students/Seniors $8, Youth $6 (ages 6-12).
1 Winnipeg is the capital of Manitoba – and the geographical center of North America. 2  It was incorporated as a city in 1873. 3  There are 730,018 people living in Winnipeg according to the 2011 census. 4  The city sits at the junction of the Red and Assiniboine Rivers – a place referred to as The Forks. 1 Winnipeg has been called the Windy City but that is incorrect. 2  It is the 12th windiest city in Canada. 3  Hamilton is first. 4  On the shortest day of the year the sun rises at 8:24 am and sets at 4:29 pm. 5  On the longest day of the year the sun rises at 5:20 am and sets at 9:41 pm.
Winnipeg is the largest and best connected city within Manitoba, and has highways leading in all directions from the city. To the south, Winnipeg is connected to the United States via Provincial Trunk Highway 75 (PTH 75) (a continuation of I-29 and US 75, known as Pembina Highway or Route 42 within Winnipeg). In 1869–70, present-day Winnipeg was the site of the Red River Rebellion, a conflict between the local provisional government of Metis, métis led By Louis, riel and newcomers from Eastern. Canada General Garnet wolseley was sent to put down the. uprising
Winnipeg is the capital and most populous city in Manitoba by a significant margin, with 730,018 people residing in the Winnipeg Capital Region. Other major cities in the province are Brandon, Portage la Prairie, Steinbach, Thompson, Winkler, Selkirk, Dauphin, Morden, and Flin Flon. Lake Winnipeg is the tenth-largest freshwater lake in the world. Hudson Bay is the second-largest bay in the world. Manitoba is at the heart of the giant Hudson Bay watershed, once known as Rupert's Land.
About the City of Winnipeg, Manitoba. Winnipeg is the capital city of the province of Manitoba, Canada. Located at the geographical centre of Canada, Winnipeg is a transportation centre, with extensive rail and air links, as well as the head offices of several major Canadian trucking firms. 
winnepeg is known for its aviation, and as the guy above me pointed out the winnepeg jets (hockey) is a good hockey game to watch even though they arent really the best team (they suck REALLY bad........#vancouvercanucksfan). unfortunetly winnepeg isnt the best place to travel. It is also supposedly the inspiration for the story of Winnie-the-Pooh, based on a bear named Winnipeg that was named after the city. http://www.historica-dominion.ca/content...