One of the phrases that is used often in endurance training literature is lactate threshold.. What does phrase mean and why is it important to endurance athletes? 
Lactic Acid. Guide. A lactic acid test is a blood test that measures the level of lactic acid made in the body. Most of it is made by muscle tissue and red blood cells. When the oxygen level in the body is normal, carbohydrate breaks down into water and carbon dioxide. When the oxygen level is low, carbohydrate breaks down for energy and makes lactic acid. Lactic acid levels get higher when strenuous exercise or other conditions-such as heart failure, a severe infection (sepsis), or shock-lower the flow of blood and oxygen throughout the body.
Lactate threshold is probably the most used training term by coaches and athletes worldwide. However, there is wide controversy as of what lactate threshold really means as well as to what is the exercise intensity that elicits it. To conclude, lactate threshold remains as the most used training term worldwide and yet there is no consensus of what exactly it represents. There is too much confusion not just regarding what lactate threshold is but also what lactate per se is and what its role and importance in exercise and metabolism is.
It is important to remember that lactate itself does not cause fatigue, and is actually used as a fuel within aerobic metabolism, where it can be oxidized directly or converted to pyruvate or glucose for oxidation (Philip et al., 2005). The lactate threshold/maximum lactate steady state (MLSS) corresponds to the exercise intensity at which there is a measurable increase in blood lactate levels above baseline values. During relatively low level aerobic activity, blood lactate levels remain low and will not differ significantly from resting values.
The lactate test is primarily ordered to help determine if someone has lactic acidosis, a level of lactate that is high enough to disrupt a person's acid-base (ph) balance. A high lactate level in the blood means that the disease or condition a person has is causing lactate to accumulate. In general, a greater increase in lactate means a greater severity of the condition. When associated with lack of oxygen, an increase in lactate can indicate that organs are not functioning properly.
Lactate is a product of anaerobic metabolism can be produced from any exercise intensity, despite what people may think. When someone stands up after sitting in a chair, they are producing lactic acid. An important key in athletics is balancing the rate of lactate production with lactate absorption. 
Lactate is a great unknown in human metabolism despite its key role in regulating metabolism. For many years it has been thought that lactate was just a waste product as a result of anaerobic exercise or even a waste product of exercise that would crystalize resulting in muscle soreness. Nevertheless, lactate has been subject of study for many years and by important scientists including several Nobel Laureates. Lactate studies date back from the 19th century when a Nobel Laureate, Louis Pasteur in 1863 proposed that lactate was produced by lack of oxygen during muscle contraction. To conclude, lactate threshold remains as the most used training term worldwide and yet there is no consensus of what exactly it represents. There is too much confusion not just regarding what lactate threshold is but also what lactate per se is and what its role and importance in exercise and metabolism is.