These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Wave soldering is an automated process in which components are soldered onto a printed wiring board (PWB) as the board passes over the top of a wave of solder. Air pumped up from the bottom of a container of melted solder creates this wave. The solder connections formed by the wave soldering process not only attach the components to the board, but also form electrical connections between them. This is what allows the final product to function electronically. Soldering defects are not only a cosmetic concern
Wave soldering is a process by which large printed circuit boards can be soldered quickly and reliably during PCB assembly. The wave soldering process gains its name from the fact that the process passes the printed circuit boards to be soldered over a wave of solder. In this way a complete board can be soldered in a matter of seconds producing joints that are reliably, both mechanically and electrically. Wave soldering can be used in PCB assembly for both conventional through hole mounted components as well as surface mount components. However other methods such as infra-red reflow soldering are more applicable to the fine features being used today on printed circuit boards for surface mount components.
Indium Corporation offers a variety of state-of-the-art and traditional wave soldering products that meet IPC J-STD, Department of Defense, and telecom specifications, as well as customer-specific commercial specifications for wave and selective soldering operations. Wave soldering flux is the heart of the wave soldering operation. There are many types of soldering fluxes. Picking the correct flux chemistry depends on a number of factors, including: 1  The solderability level of the parts to be assembled. 2  The type of finish or coating used on the assembly. 3  The flux application method.
The basic equipment used during the process is a conveyor that moves the PCB through the different zones, a pan of solder used in the soldering process, a pump that produces the actual wave, the sprayer for the flux and the preheating pad. The solder is usually a mixture of metals. Flux in the wave soldering process has a primary and a secondary objective. The primary objective is to clean the components that are to be soldered, principally any oxide layers that may have formed. There are two types of flux, corrosive and noncorrosive.
PC Board Assembly-Wave Soldering capabilities of Electro Soft, Incorporated. This video shows the process of a PC Board running through a wave soldering machine. For more information on Electro Soft, Incorporated and their PC Board Assembly services, please visit us at: http://electrosoftinc.com/esi/printed... 
1 In view of the way that wave soldering works, where the solder wave is caused by the solder flowing out of the reservoir tank, and the board passes over it, the spacing requirements are dependent upon the direction of the board relative to the solder flow. Wave soldering can be used in PCB assembly for both conventional through hole mounted components as well as surface mount components. However other methods such as infra-red reflow soldering are more applicable to the fine features being used today on printed circuit boards for surface mount components.
Wave soldering is used for both through-hole printed circuit assemblies, and surface mount. In the latter case, the components are glued onto the surface of a printed circuit board (PCB) by placement equipment, before being run through the molten solder wave. Flux in the wave soldering process has a primary and a secondary objective. The primary objective is to clean the components that are to be soldered, principally any oxide layers that may have formed. There are two types of flux, corrosive and noncorrosive.