Definition: Water of hydration is water that is stoichiometrically bound into a crystal. Crystal salts containing water of hydration are called hydrates. Also Known As: water of crystallization, crystallization water. Examples: Commercial root killers often contain copper sulfate pentahydrate (CuSO 4 ·5H 2 O) cyrstals. 
In chemistry, a hydration reaction is a chemical reaction in which a substance combines with water. In organic chemistry, water is added to an unsaturated substrate, which is usually an alkene or an alkyne. This type of reaction is employed industrially to produce ethanol, isopropanol, and 2- butanol. In the first step, the alkene acts as a nucleophile and attacks the proton, following Markovnikov's rule. In the second step an H 2 O molecule bonds to the other, more highly substituted carbon. The oxygen atom at this point has three bonds and carries a positive charge (i.e., the molecule is an oxonium).
The notation  hydrated compound ⋅nH2O , where n is the number of water molecules per formula unit of the salt, is commonly used to show that a salt is hydrated. The n is usually a low integer, though it is possible for fractional values to occur. For example, in a monohydrate n is one, and in a hexahydrate n is 6. For example, ethanol, CH 3 –CH 2 –OH, is the product of the hydration reaction of ethene, CH 2 =CH 2, formed by the addition of H to one C and OH to the other C, and so can be considered as the hydrate of ethene.
Noun. 1. hydrate-any compound that contains water of crystallization. chemical compound, compound - (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. monohydrate-a hydrate that contains one molecule of water per molecule of the compound. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) a chemical compound containing water that is chemically combined with a substance and can usually be expelled without changing the constitution of the substance. 2. (Elements & Compounds) a chemical compound that can dissociate reversibly into water and another compound.
In chemistry, a hydrate is a substance that contains water or its constituent elements. The chemical state of the water varies widely between different classes of hydrates, some of which were so labeled before their chemical structure was understood. For example, ethanol, CH 3 –CH 2 –OH, is the product of the hydration reaction of ethene, CH 2 =CH 2, formed by the addition of H to one C and OH to the other C, and so can be considered as the hydrate of ethene.
The water causes the hardening of concrete through a process called hydration. Hydration is a chemical reaction in which the major compounds in cement form chemical bonds with water molecules and become hydrates or hydration products. The incorporation of water into a substance is known as hydration. Water and cement initially form a cement paste that begins to react and harden (set). This paste binds the aggregate particles through the chemical process of hydration.
Definition: A hydration reaction is a reaction where a hydrogen and hydroxyl ion is attached to a carbon in a carbon double bond. The general formula for a hydration reaction is. RRC=CH 2 in acid → RRC(-OH)-CH 3. 
Hydrolysis is a chemical process in which a water molecule is added to a substance resulting in the split of that substance into two parts. Is this what you are asking about? Hydrolysis is a chemical process in which a water molecule is added to a substance resulting in the split of that substance into two parts. One fragment of the target molecule (or parent molecule) gains a hydrogen ion (H+) from the split water molecule.
Hydrates are substances that include water in their formula. The water is not actually part of the chemical substance and this is reflected in the way the formula is written. Here is an example: CuSO. This formula means that for every one CuSO. The dot IS NOT a multiplication sign. Remember, this is chemistry, not math. 