Xanax is a relatively short-acting drug when compared to Valium. If you're an average-size person, you would expect Xanax to stay in your urine for 1-4 days after last use. To be safe, you should wait at least a week. Note that this is very dependent on how much and for how long you've been taking it. 
Literally addicted to Valium and a few other drugs. Benzodiazapines (such as Valium) can stay in the system for a longer period of time if the patient has been taking them for a long time. In chronic usage cases-Valium will be detectable for up to 30 days. Good luck. 1  Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up.
1 Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up. Good luck. 1  Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up.
182. Valium can stay in your system and be detected in urine for up to 5-7 days after therapeutic use. Chronic use (over one year) of Valium, however, can be detected much longer. The detection window for Valium in urine screens is up to 4-6 weeks. More here on the detection window and drug testing for Valium. We invite your questions about Valium drug screens at the end. Valium half life: how long does Valium stay in your system. The half life of any drug, medication or substance is the period of time necessary for 1/2 the drug to be eliminated or disintegrated by natural processes in the body. The half life of Valium is particularly long, 20-80 hours.
Report Abuse. Valium half life is between 36 and 100 hours, so whatever your metabolism determines, in that time, the concentration would be half of what it was at it's peak. Another half life, it is one fourth of the original level, etc. I would say you would probably be safe in 3-4 days. finaldx · 9 years ago. Report Abuse. ya, diazepam has a very long half life... the longest of the benzodiazepines i think. youd be much better off with some zolpidem/zapelon. half of it is still in ur system after about 50 hours. the majority of drug tests do not look for this..
Literally addicted to Valium  and a few other drugs.   Benzodiazapines (such as Valium) can stay in the system for a  longer period of time if the patient has been taking them for a  long time. In chronic usage cases-Valium will be detectable for  up to 30 days. Valium can be detected in urine for up to 25 days usually. The length of time it takes for the drug to leave the body depends on a persons age, height, and weight.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You asked the question “how long does valium stay in your system” but you seem to want to know how long after taking valium before your husband can pass a drug test. That answer is: If one time, one or two pill use: 48 to 72 hrs.
If you are getting a urine test, it could be there as long as 21 days. This depends on the type of test they do. The least i have seen Valium show up in a 6 panel tip cup test … was 7 days after a single dose of 5 mg. Valium (Diazapam) does not come in 2 mg doses. Good luck. 1  Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up.