General InformationThe Leopard Gecko is a excellent choice for your very first reptile. It’s very low maintenance and does not need a lot of attention. This reptile originated from Pakistan, Afghanistan and India. These are arid regions and research has shown the leopard geckos dens have high humidity levels. 
Report Abuse. The humidity range for leopard gecko's should be 10-30%. If you have any wood in your tank, wood can hold in moisture, also moss can hold in moisture. High humidity levels can cause respiratory and breathing issues for your gecko. Hope all goes well. Answers. Best Answer: Leopard geckos are natve to Dry places, often deserts or places with not much rainfall, and low vegitation. 70-100 is in the tropical range, and that is way to high for a leopard gecko. I Reccomend 10% - 40% at the most.
Report Abuse. Leopard geckos are not tropical lizards. They require little humidity between 20-30% at the most. Include a water dish even though they are known to also drink water droplets that will accumulate on the ground and on leaves in the wild. A natural looking enclosure for your gecko can resemble a savannah type habitat or, one of a rocky outcrop. do they need humidity or a humid place at pets mart i seen they had a cup with... show more the lady at the pet store told me to spray the tank because they drink the moisture and not from the water dish.
A humid box is a hide with a substrate that is kept damp. The substrate in the humid hide can be spagnum moss, peat moss, or paper towel. What I use for the humid box is a plastic encherito container from Taco Bell (with lid) with a hole cut in the side and damp peat moss in the bottom. It's not pretty but it works. You get the idea of what you'll need.
Enclosure/Cage. The best terrariums for Leopard Geckos are those that are long and shallow. The minimum size for one Leopard Gecko is 10 gallons, and you will need to increase the size of the terrarium if you have multiple lizards. A pair will need a 15-gallon tank, and three or four lizards will need at least a 20-gallon tank
The leopard gecko's tank humidity should be 20%-40%. You should use a hygrometer (humidity sensor) so you can monitor your leopard gecko's tank humidity levels. If the humidity is too low, try adding a larger water dish or moist moss to the tank (specifically for leopard geckos). Leopard geckos will also need a humid/moist hide to help them when they begin to shed. There is more information about this type of hide in the Hide section later on this page.
At the recommended setup the Leopard gecko humidity will automatically be low and you generally you need little effort from your side to keep it like that. Although wild Leopard geckos spend a lot of their time in dry environments, they still have access moist, high humidity underground burrows. 
More About This Hygrometer. The leopard gecko's tank humidity should be 20%-40%. You should use a hygrometer (humidity sensor) so you can monitor your leopard gecko's tank humidity levels. If your humidity is too high, try increasing airflow to the tank and provide a smaller water dish. If the humidity is too low, try adding a larger water dish or moist moss to the tank (specifically for leopard geckos). Leopard geckos will also need a humid/moist hide to help them when they begin to shed. There is more information about this type of hide in the Hide section later on this page.
Humidity Leopard Geckos have very specific humidity requirements to encourage proper shedding cycles and prevent dehydration. A high humidity level can leave your gecko more susceptible to infections. The ideal humidity level should be 40% or lower, and you should monitor it using a hygrometer. The best terrariums for Leopard Geckos are those that are long and shallow. The minimum size for one Leopard Gecko is 10 gallons, and you will need to increase the size of the terrarium if you have multiple lizards.