The Bilingual Education Act of 1968 was not specific and participation by school districts was voluntary. As a result, Civil rights activists argued that the rights of minority-language students were being violated under this act. As a result of NCLB and its emphasis on testing, the Bilingual Education Act was renamed the English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement Act.
The bill was passed as Title VII, an amendment to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). While many states such as California and Texas already had local and state policies to help language minority students, the BEA established the first federal policy aiding students of LESA. As a result of NCLB and its emphasis on testing, the Bilingual Education Act was renamed the English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement Act.
The Bilingual Education Act (BEA) reauthorization in 1994 maintained the same tenets as the original BEA, yet additionally introduced new grant categories, set up preference to programs promoting bilingualism, and took into account indigenous languages. As a result of NCLB and its emphasis on testing, the Bilingual Education Act was renamed the English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement Act.
Definition. As defined in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), the term bilingual education program refers to a program for limited-English-proficient students that: 1  Makes instructional use of both English and a student's native language. 1 Schools should teach enough English for children to progress in subject matter, with their native language used only when necessary. 2  Reauthorized in 1984, 1988, 1994, and 2001, the Bilingual Education Act sustained a federal program of discretionary and competitive grants.
Bilingual Education. As defined in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), the term bilingual education program refers to a program for limited-English-proficient students that: 1 Schools should teach enough English for children to progress in subject matter, with their native language used only when necessary. 2  Reauthorized in 1984, 1988, 1994, and 2001, the Bilingual Education Act sustained a federal program of discretionary and competitive grants.
The Bilingual Education Act, Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1968 (or BEA) was the first piece of United States federal legislation that recognized the needs of Limited English Speaking Ability (LESA) students. As a result of NCLB and its emphasis on testing, the Bilingual Education Act was renamed the English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement Act.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1968 was another important step for bilingual education. In particular, Title VII of that act, known as the Bilingual Education Act, established federal policy for bilingual education. 
Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act: The Bilingual Education Act, Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), recognizes the unique educational disadvantages faced by non-English speaking students. (See ELL) Maintenance Bilingual Education (MBE): MBE, also referred to as late-exit bilingual education, is a program that uses two languages, the student's primary language and English, as a means of instruction.
Aleman, Steven R. The Bilingual Education Act (BEA) title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), is the federal program intended to help children who are limited English proficient (LEP) learn English. 
In 1968 the U.S., with Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, or, informally, the Bilingual Education Act, Congress first mandated bilingual education in order to give immigrants access to education in their first language. 1 Late-Exit or Developmental Bilingual Education. 2  Education is in the child's native language for an extended duration, accompanied by education in English. 3  The goal is to develop literacy in the child's native language first, and transfer these skills to the second language.