Knowing and understanding GVWR is important to towing because it tells you explicitly the maximum weight of passengers and cargo you can safely carry in your truck or SUV. GVWR is the total combined weight of truck, including all passengers, fuel, fluids and cargo.
The gross vehicle weight rating, or gross vehicle mass is the maximum operating weight/mass of a vehicle as specified by the manufacturer including the vehicle's chassis, body, engine, engine fluids, fuel, accessories, driver, passengers and cargo but excluding that of any trailers.
Note: The tow vehicle and RV each have a GVWR. GAWR (Gross Axle Weight Rating) is the maximum allowable weight each axle assembly is designed to carry, as measured at the tires, including the weight of the axle assembly itself. The GAWR is specified by the vehicle manufacturer.
Report Abuse. GVWR is the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating. This means that the total combined weight of the trailer and everything in it can total no more than 6,000 pounds. The GAWR is the Gross Axle Weight Rating. This means that the axle/axles are capable of bearing 7
GVWR is the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating. This means that the total combined weight of the trailer and everything in it can total no more than 6,000 pounds. The GAWR is the Gross Axle Weight Rating. This means that the axle/axles are capable of bearing 7
The Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR) is the amount recommended by the manufacturer as the upper limit to the operational weight for a motor vehicle. any cargo (human or other) to be carried. The Gross Combination Weight Rating (GCWR) is the sum of all GVWRs for each unit in a combination-unit
The gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR), or gross vehicle mass (GVM) is the maximum operating weight / mass of a vehicle as specified by the manufacturer including the vehicle's chassis, body, engine, engine fluids, fuel, accessories, driver, passengers and cargo but excluding that of any trailers.
Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR). GVWR is the manufacturer's weight rating for the vehicle or trailer and can be determined by checking with the manufacturer or looking at the manufacturer's identification plate.