Crayfish. Crayfish.also known as crawfish, or crawdads are freshwater crustaceans resembling small lobsters, to which they are not closely related. They breathe through feather-like gills and live on the muddy bottom of freshwater lakes, rivers, dams and streams.
The venous blood is never blue, it is a darker color of red than arterial blood, not blue. The color is a burgundy red or maroon color. Blood is bright red in the arteries and dark red in the veins. The reason venous blood is a darker red can be partially attributed to the slightly less oxygen in the blood in the veins. Red blood cells are red because the iron in the heme group of the four hemoglobin proteins react with oxygen (think what color rust is) to produce a red color.
Crayfish, also known as crawfish, crawdads, freshwater lobsters, or mudbugs, are freshwater crustaceans resembling small lobsters, to which they are related; taxonomically, they are members of the superfamilies Astacoidea and Parastacoidea. 
Answer       In humans and other hemoglobin-using creatures, oxygenated blood is bright red. This is due to oxygenated iron in the red blood cells. Deoxygenated … blood is a darker shade of red, which can be seen during blood donation and when venous blood samples are taken. However, due to an optical effect caused by the way in which light penetrates through the skin, veins typically appear blue in color. This has led to a common misconception that venous blood is blue before it is exposed to air. The blood is always red, some people say that the color is blue  until it hit oxygen but NO. The blood is flow through your body  red. Have you ever looked at the sun and pu … t you hands over your  face, the color is Red.
It contains hemocyanin, a copper-based protein that turns blue in color when oxygenated, instead of the iron-based hemoglobin in red blood cells found in vertebrates, thus giving hemolymph a blue-green color rather than the red color of vertebrate blood. It is composed of a fluid plasma in which hemolymph cells called hemocytes are suspended. In addition to hemocytes, the plasma also contains many chemicals. It is the major tissue type of the open circulatory system characteristic of arthropods (e.g. spiders, crustaceans and insects).
Report Abuse. Blue, due to the hemocyanin. Crayfish and many other organisms use copper to carry oxygen instead of iron like humans, so their blood is blue. http://www.hostourcoast.com/photos/posts... There's a picture of horseshoe crab blood, which is very similar to crayfish blood. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Many lower animals carry oxygen in their blood stream by means of a dissolved substance called hemocyanin ,this pigment is blue in color. So crayfish has blue blood like lobster, crab, scorpion, octopus, squid, clam and mussel. Source(s): 
Hemocyanin is much like hemoglobin except that the iron atom in the protein molecule is replaced by one of copper. The lobster, crab, crayfish, scorpion, octopus, squid, clam and mussel all have this blue blood. A few marine worms have green blood. http://newton.dep.anl.gov/natbltn/500-59... That help? Report Abuse. Many other lower animals carry oxygen in their blood stream by means of a dissolved substance called hemocyanin which is blue. At least it is blue when it is oxygenated, but colorless after the oxygen is released.
Red blood is red because the color of oxyhemoglobin is red because there is iron in oxyhemoglobin, causing that blood red color. Red blood cells are red because the iron in the heme group of the four hemoglobin proteins react with oxygen (think what color rust is) to produce a red color.