Behind the Scenes. 1  Mahoutokoro is the only Asian wizarding School mentioned in the series. 2  It is possible that some Asian witches and wizards also attend Koldovstoretz School in Russia, Eurasia. Schools: American wizarding school · Beauxbatons Academy of Magic · Brazilian wizarding school · Durmstrang Institute · Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry · Koldovstoretz School · Mahoutokoro School of Magic · Uagadou School of Magic.
Orientation. It’s weird how words change meaning over time; the way the descriptive meaning of a word (the meaning of word as it’s currently used) overtakes the prescriptive meaning (what we might call “the dictionary definition” of a word). For instance, “literally” now means “figuratively”. “I’m not thrilled with the examination they gave you at the airport. In fact, they rarely go through so stringent a screening with ALTs for Mahoutokoro. But this year is special and there will be heightened security measures at the school for the foreseeable future.
What makes orientation challenging is that many people are coming from North America, and these people are jet lagged (much like I am). Add to this the culture shock of Japan, and many are bleary-eyed zombies fumbling around Tokyo. Orientation is spread out over three groups – A, B, and C. A arrives in Japan first. “I’m not thrilled with the examination they gave you at the airport. In fact, they rarely go through so stringent a screening with ALTs for Mahoutokoro. But this year is special and there will be heightened security measures at the school for the foreseeable future.
The name Mahoutokoro is composed of the Japanese words 魔法 (mahō), meaning  magic, witchcraft, sorcery, and 所 (tokoro), meaning place, spot, or site.. Thus the name could be interpreted, for example, as magical place or place where witchcraft/sorcery occurs. Schools: American wizarding school · Beauxbatons Academy of Magic · Brazilian wizarding school · Durmstrang Institute · Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry · Koldovstoretz School · Mahoutokoro School of Magic · Uagadou School of Magic.
Type two letters to begin. Once you have done that, we will suggest pages that we think you are looking for. Press the TAB key to hear our suggestions. You can use the TAB key or the DOWN ARROW to hear the other options. Try browsing Writing by J.K. Rowling, Explore the story, Features or News. Welcome to the digital heart of the Wizarding World, packed with exclusive writing, news, features and surprises. Welcome to the digital heart of the Wizarding World, packed with exclusive writing, news, features and surprises
—. Near as I can tell, JET Programme orientation has been held at the Keio Plaza Hotel in Tokyo since time immemorial, this year was no exception. Orientation was a blur, a sentiment shared by many past and current JETs. JET Programme Orientation is a three-day series of classes and meetings for all new JETs. “I’m not thrilled with the examination they gave you at the airport. In fact, they rarely go through so stringent a screening with ALTs for Mahoutokoro. But this year is special and there will be heightened security measures at the school for the foreseeable future.
Mahoutokoro (Japanese: 魔法所, Mahōtokoro) is a Wizarding school located in Japan. Students of this school prized wands made out of cherry wood, and those who owned them were held in a place of high honour. A student from Mahoutokoro competed in the Wizarding Schools Potions Championship. Schools: American wizarding school · Beauxbatons Academy of Magic · Brazilian wizarding school · Durmstrang Institute · Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry · Koldovstoretz School · Mahoutokoro School of Magic · Uagadou School of Magic.
“Well, when 石井先生 (いしいせんせい, Ishii-sensei (“Ishii” is a family name, “sensei” means teacher) did your evaluation…” he paused. “石井先生 is the 教頭先生 (きょうとうせんせい, kyoutou-sensei, vice principal) at Mahoutokoro. He’s also in charge of evaluating our ALTs’ eligibility for teaching at the school. “I’m not thrilled with the examination they gave you at the airport. In fact, they rarely go through so stringent a screening with ALTs for Mahoutokoro. But this year is special and there will be heightened security measures at the school for the foreseeable future.
1 Mahoutokoro is the only Asian wizarding School mentioned in the series. 2  It is possible that some Asian witches and wizards also attend Koldovstoretz School in Russia, Eurasia. Schools: American wizarding school · Beauxbatons Academy of Magic · Brazilian wizarding school · Durmstrang Institute · Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry · Koldovstoretz School · Mahoutokoro School of Magic · Uagadou School of Magic.