At the beginning of 'The Hunger Games', Katniss lives in an area of District 12 called 'The Seam', where the less-wealthy inhabitants live. Katniss is another Indian name of a plant, the root of which they were likewise accustomed to eat,... It grows in low, muddy, and very wet ground. The root is oblong, commonly … an inch and a half long, and one inch and a quarter broad in the middle; but some of the roots have been as big as a man's fists.
At the beginning of 'The Hunger Games', Katniss lives in an area of District 12 called 'The Seam', where the less-wealthy inhabitants live. Later, she gains a large home in Vi … ctor's Village. What does Katniss eat in The Hunger Games? Katniss eats different things in the hunger games. She eats fish, groosling(like a wild turkey, but once plucked the size of a chicken), roots, nuts, berries, rabbit, lamb ste … w with dried plums, rolls, bread from district 11, mint leaves, and fancy capital food.
Katniss Everdeen is a fictional character and the protagonist of The Hunger Games trilogy by Suzanne Collins. Her name comes from an edible plant called Sagittaria (Katniss), from Sagittarius the Archer, whose name means He that throws arrows in Latin. She is portrayed by Jennifer Lawrence in the film adaptations of The Hunger Games, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1. Katniss, following an alliance with Rue, a young tribute from District 11 who reminded Katniss of Prim but died in the arena, joins up with fellow District 12 tribute Peeta Mellark. The pair compete in the Games together.
In The Hunger Games, Katniss' district (neighborhood) is nicknamed the Seam.. Posted on. (Answer #1). In The Hunger Games, Katniss' district (neighborhood) is nicknamed the Seam.. Katniss lives in District Twelve. District Twelve is not the last district, there are actually thirteen districts, but it is the last inhabited district.
The Seam was the poorest part of District 12 and where Katniss Everdeen and Gale Hawthorne had lived. The Seam was located on the border of District 12, next to the wild forests. It was extremely hard to find food in there, and many families lived in poverty. In total, District 12 had four victors in the span of 75 Hunger Games, however the first victor from District 12 died sometime before the 74th Hunger Games, thus leaving only Katniss Everdeen, Peeta Mellark and Haymitch Abernathy as residents in District 12's Victor's Village.
Therefore, District Twelve (the district which Katniss lives in) is the last functioning and recognized district. This fact justifies the district's nickname of the Seam.. A very simplistic definition of the word seam is a line. Posted on. (Answer #1). In The Hunger Games, Katniss' district (neighborhood) is nicknamed the Seam.. Katniss lives in District Twelve. District Twelve is not the last district, there are actually thirteen districts, but it is the last inhabited district.
Answer by VictoryAh95. Confidence votes 9.9K. At the beginning of 'The Hunger Games', Katniss lives in an area of District 12 called 'The Seam', where the less-wealthy inhabitants live. Later, she gains a large home in Victor's Village. Katniss is another Indian name of a plant, the root of which they were likewise accustomed to eat,... It grows in low, muddy, and very wet ground. The root is oblong, commonly … an inch and a half long, and one inch and a quarter broad in the middle; but some of the roots have been as big as a man's fists.
Katniss and her family come from District 12, a coal-mining district that is the poorest and least populated district in the dystopian fictional autocratic nation of Panem. Katniss, following an alliance with Rue, a young tribute from District 11 who reminded Katniss of Prim but died in the arena, joins up with fellow District 12 tribute Peeta Mellark. The pair compete in the Games together.
―Katniss Everdeen to the citizens of Panem. Katniss Everdeen is the main protagonist and the narrator of the Hunger Games trilogy. After her younger sister, Primrose, was reaped to participate in the 74th Hunger Games, Katniss volunteered to take her place as the female tribute from District 12. They both became tributes of District 12 in the 74th Hunger Games after Katniss volunteered in place of her sister. During their training, Katniss refused to trust Peeta when he did nice things for her, believing it to be his strategy.