Support Team. Yes hail will be a problem. Concrete in the thickness used for a driveway is fully cured in about 28 days though you can walk on it after 24 hours. I would leave it for about 6 weeks before driving on it personally. Concrete reaches it's design strength after 28 days. I would take the advice of your concretor-and I think he would suggest keeping normal vehicles off for about 7 days, in actual fact it gets stronger with age but at a very slow rate. The issue will probably be more protecting the stencil finish.
Q. How long does it take for a crew to set and pour my concrete job? A. It alldepends on the particular job specifications, weather conditions, as well as set and pour schedules. 1 – 10 yards of concrete can be poured in the same day. 10 – 20 yards usually takes about two days. Your new concrete requires 2 hours of curing before it can handle light rain and 24 hours before it can withstand ANY foot traffic. Try not to bump or hit your new concrete with hard objects for the first 28 days. You will notice the color changing during the curing process.
To allow concrete to cure correctly, keep it wet and warm at temperatures between 50 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit for the first week at least. Concrete that does not cure properly can shrink, crack or even develop a dusty, weak and crumbly surface. The First Week. 1  After adding a concrete patio, driveway or walkways to your. 2  home, protect your investment by not walking on it for at least three days. 3  Disallow pet access to the surface during the first three days. 4  Don’t drive or drag equipment. 5  across the area for at least the first seven days of the curing process.
The First Week. 1  After adding a concrete patio, driveway or walkways to your. 2  home, protect your investment by not walking on it for at least three days. 3  Keeping the concrete covered with wet burlap or straw for seven days is likely to discourage walking across it, especially if you cordon off the area around it. The First Week. 1  After adding a concrete patio, driveway or walkways to your. 2  home, protect your investment by not walking on it for at least three days. 3  Disallow pet access to the surface during the first three days. 4  Don’t drive or drag equipment. 5  across the area for at least the first seven days of the curing process.
How Long does concrete take to set at 40° F?” Almost 11 Hours. How Long does concrete take to set at 30° F?” Almost 15 Hours. How Long does concrete take to set at 20° F?” It doesn’t… The concrete is frozen! Be sure to give Harmon Concrete a call for all your concrete needs. 
What you describe as concrete is actually mortar. Sand and cement combine to mix mortar. (used ro setting bricks, for example) Sand and cement and an aggregate (small rocks) combine to make concrete. Any cementatious product reaches full cure in 29 days. Full cure being structurally safe, for example, that is when a tilt-up concrete wall can savely be lifted into place. Concrete cures essentially forever, although after 29 days, the rate of cure is dramatically reduced. For around home use, you are wondering how soon can you get onto the next phase of the project-whatever that project may be. It does depend on the project as to whether you will be safe or not.
The empty weight of a Consolidated Concrete transit mixer with typical levels of fuel and water is around 36,000 pounds, and will double in weight with a full 10-yard concrete load. The height of our vehicles can be up to 14 feet; the width of our vehicles is 9.6-feet, mirror to mirror. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Give it a good 3 days to be safe. However, concrete can take weeks to cure-or even years if a foundation was being poured. If the concrete is outside as it cures, then local humidity and sun exposure can also affect it, as well as how much water was added to the mix when it was poured.
Wind, humidity, and sunlight are all factors in how long it takes for concrete to cure, walking, normally about 1 to 2 days. 5. How long does it take for concrete to cure enough to drive on? Again, wind, humidity, and sunlight are all factors but the standard is about 5 to 7 days. 
A. Concrete takes 7 to 28 days to fully cure; the curing time for each product is different. Your new concrete requires 2 hours of curing before it can handle light rain and 24 hours before it can withstand ANY foot traffic. Try not to bump or hit your new concrete with hard objects for the first 28 days. You will notice the color changing during the curing process.