Answer: Sunless tanning or self-tanning products have been around in some form or other since the invention of cosmetics. In 1960, Coppertone introduced its first sunless tanning product-QT® or Quick Tanning Lotion. This lotion produced an overall orange effect. Tanning pills, sunless tanning or self-tanning lotions and sprays, and cosmetic bronzers are available to impart a subtle bronze glow or a deep, dark tan. Bronzers yield immediate results, although some sunless tanning products require 45 minutes to an hour before taking effect.
1 Face tanning formulas. 2  Look for a self-tanner designed for use on the face if yours is on the sensitive or oily side. 3  While most self-tanners work on the body and the face equally well, you'll want to get one specifically for the face if your skin is a little finicky. 4  Pick the right color. 1 Apply regular lotion to the tops of your feet and blend it with the tanner that you've already applied around your ankles. 2  Apply a small amount of regular lotion around your knees, especially just below the knee. 3  Do the same thing to your elbows, especially the part that puckers when your arm is straight.
1 Look for a self-tanner designed for use on the face if yours is on the sensitive or oily side. 2  While most self-tanners work on the body and the face equally well, you'll want to get one specifically for the face if your skin is a little finicky. 3  Pick the right color. 1 Apply regular lotion to the tops of your feet and blend it with the tanner that you've already applied around your ankles. 2  Apply a small amount of regular lotion around your knees, especially just below the knee. 3  Do the same thing to your elbows, especially the part that puckers when your arm is straight.
I've done the research for you to find the best self-tanners and self-tanning products on the market today from cheap to steep. All of these are beloved by reviewers on all the major review sites including Makeupalley.com, Drugstore.com, Amazon.com and Sephora. And none of these will turn you orange. Tanning products allow you to get a golden glow without the damaging effects of the sun. Here are a few tips for proper self-tanning: 1  Most tanners give you a few shade options. 2  If you are fair, do not choose a darker option or your bronzed skin will look fake, fake, fake. 3  Always exfoliate before apply self-tanner.
Exfoliate your skin. No matter what your skin type, is, it's best to exfoliate well in the shower before tanning. When your skin has dry, flaky patches, it's a lot harder to apply self-tanner evenly, and you'll end up with a patchy look instead of a pretty finish. 1 Apply regular lotion to the tops of your feet and blend it with the tanner that you've already applied around your ankles. 2  Apply a small amount of regular lotion around your knees, especially just below the knee. 3  Do the same thing to your elbows, especially the part that puckers when your arm is straight.
According to the American Academy of Dermatology, the most effective products available are sunless-or self-tanning lotions that contain dihydroxyacetone (DHA) as the active ingredient. DHA is a colorless sugar that interacts with the dead cells located in the stratum corneum of the epidermis. Lots More Information. If you've read our article How Sun Tans and Sunburns Work, you know that skin is made up of two main layers: the epidermis on the outside and the dermis on the inside. Whether you are talking about sun tanning or self-tanning, the epidermis is where the action occurs.
Although sunless tanning products can yield a golden glow, they do not protect the skin from the ultraviolet radiation in the sun's rays the way melanin in a 'real' tan does, so users of sunless tanning products need to apply sunscreen before venturing out in the sun. Sunless Tanning on the Outside. 1  Bronzers. Tanning pills, sunless tanning or self-tanning lotions and sprays, and cosmetic bronzers are available to impart a subtle bronze glow or a deep, dark tan. Bronzers yield immediate results, although some sunless tanning products require 45 minutes to an hour before taking effect.
Sunless tanning products, also called self-tanners, can give your skin a tanned look without exposing it to harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays. Sunless tanning products are commonly sold as lotions and sprays you apply to your skin. Professional spray-on tanning also is available at many salons, spas and tanning businesses. The active ingredient in most sunless tanning products is the color additive, dihydroxyacetone. The coloring typically wears off after a few days. Sunless tanning products might or might not contain sunscreen. If a product does contain sunscreen, it will only be effective for a couple of hours. The color produced by the sunless tanning product won't protect your skin from ultraviolet rays.