Making the world better, one answer at a time. A sprain is an injury in which a muscle is overstretched or torn. Tendinitis is an injury that occurs when a tendon becomes inflamed or torn. That's the difference between a muscle sprain and tendinitis. 
1 A hamstring muscle strain is a tear or stretch of a major muscle in the back of the thigh. 2  The injury can sideline a person for up to six months. 3  The likely cause is muscle strength imbalance between the hamstrings and the muscles in the front of the thigh, the quadriceps. 1 A strain is when a muscle becomes overstretched and tears. 2  This painful injury, also called a pulled muscle, can be caused by an accident, improper use of a muscle, or overuse of a muscle. 3  Frequently occur in racquet, throwing, and contact sports. 4  Shoulder strain.
Most of the back pain that I see in my office is due to one of two things: muscle strain or a pinched nerve. Muscle strain. Muscles run along the spinal column on both sides. A pulled muscle in the low back (a lumbar strain) causes pain in the muscles to the right or the left of the spine in the low back (or both). 
A strain is an injury to a muscle and/or tendons. Tendons are fibrous cords of tissue that attach muscles to the bone. Strains often occur in your foot, leg (typically the hamstring) or back. Similar to sprains, a strain may be a simple stretch in your muscle or tendon, or it may be a partial or complete tear in the muscle-and-tendon combination. Typical symptoms of a strain include pain, muscle spasm, muscle weakness, swelling, inflammation, and cramping. A sprain is a stretch and/or tear of a ligament, a strong band of connective tissue that connect the end of one bone with another. Ligaments stabilize and support the body's joints. For example, ligaments in the knee connect the thighbone with the shinbone, enabling people to walk and run.
Back pain in the lower region and spasm is an outcome of frequent lifting injuries. Summary: 1.A pulled muscle is usually termed as a sprain while torn muscles are classically called a strain. 2.Pulled muscles are caused by injury to the ligaments. A ligament is a tough form of fibrous tissue that connects cartilage and bone at a joint or sustains a muscle, organ, and other parts of the body. Torn muscles are caused by an injury to tendon tissues or muscles. 3.A torn muscle is an injury triggered by an overstretched tendon or muscle. If a ligament is stretched, then the damage is called a sprain. 4.The most common location for pulled muscles is the ankles.
A sprain is a stretching or tearing of ligaments — the tough bands of fibrous tissue that connect two bones together in your joints. The most common location for a sprain is in your ankle. A strain is a stretching or tearing of muscle or tendon. A tendon is a fibrous cord of tissue that connects muscles to bones. Strains often occur in the lower back and in the hamstring muscle in the back of your thigh. 
1 Most refer to sprains of muscles, as opposed to ligaments of a joint, as a strain or tear.. 2  Pulling or straining…. 3  Massage Therapy as Treatment for Strained Back Muscles A strained muscle in the back is a common injury that causes pain and discomfort. The difference between a pulled ligament and a pulled muscle is the connection of the tissue to the bone. A ligament is the tissue that connects bone to another bone. Such as … a ligament connecting your forearm to your upper arm, in order to help your muscle bring up your forearm.
Calf muscle tears have similar symptoms and occur by a similar mechanism to Achilles tendon ruptures. The difference is the location of the injury. Achilles tendon ruptures involve the actual Achilles tendon with pain located just above the back of the heel. 
A strain is an injury to either a muscle or a tendon (fibrous cords of tissue that connect muscle to bone). Depending on the severity of the injury, a strain may be a simple overstretch of the muscle or tendon, or it can result from a partial or complete tear. Severe sprains and strains may require surgery to repair the torn ligaments, muscle, or tendons. Surgery is usually performed by an orthopaedic surgeon. It is important that moderate and severe sprains and strains be evaluated by a health care provider to allow prompt, appropriate treatment to begin.
A strain is an injury of a muscle and/or tendon. Tendons (fibrous cords of tissue that attach muscles to bone). Sprains and strains are among the most common injuries in sports, professional, amateur athletes and the general public. 1 A strain is when a muscle becomes overstretched and tears. 2  This painful injury, also called a pulled muscle, can be caused by an accident, improper use of a muscle, or overuse of a muscle. 3  Frequently occur in racquet, throwing, and contact sports. 4  Shoulder strain.