The Revised GRE uses a different scoring scale than the prior GRE used, but both scores are accepted up to five years after you take the test. On the new GRE, you can earn anywhere from 130 – 170 points in 1-point increments on both the Revised Verbal and Revised Quantitative sections. ETS, the maker of the GRE, publishes the percentiles of Revised GRE scores so you can see that if you're attending a top tier school, and you'd like to get in, you'd better be thinking about submitting a score in the top 1 - 2 percent of test-takers:
The Quantitative and Verbal Sections are each out of 170 points making the highest possible score on the GRE a 340. The Analytical Writing Section is scored on an independent scale where a student gets a score from 0 to 6, with 6 being the highest. A good score might be considered anything above 155 on the Verbal section and above 160 on the Quantitative section. However, what constitutes a good score will vary by school and by program. You will likely need a higher score to be admitted to a prestigious graduate program.
GRE Scores. The maximum score for the test is 340: verbal and quantitative sections are each worth 170 points. Students can expect to receive their official score 10 - 15 days after the test. The writing mark (on 6) is reported along with the score, but is not included in the score for the other sections. (The range of GRE score might actually give you a better idea of your chances for admission.). Do note that an unbalanced score with a very high percentile in one area and a low percentile in the other-is not as impressive as a balanced score.
A good score on the Revised GRE varies significantly by program. For instance, applicants admitted to the top 10 Engineering programs last year had an average GRE quant score of 165. That score is the 90th percentile on the revised GRE. However, applicants admitted to the top 10 Education programs had an average GRE quant score of 156.6 (up from 155.7 last year), about 64th percentile on the new GRE. I finished with my GRE a week ago with a score of 326 (V-157, Q-169). My TOEFL score is 113. With 2 years of work experience in semiconductor industry, I want to apply for MS in fall 2013 to universities in the US.
Best Answer: The GRE consists of 3 parts: Quantitative, Analytical and Verbal. Each part is scored on a scale of 800; and, thus the maximum score of 2400. Its impact on the admissions decision depends on the aggregate score as well as the composition of its constituent parts. Verbal and Quantitative still are worth up to 800 points each. So your maximum score would be 800 verbal, 800 quantitative, and 6.0 AWA. Thus a perfect score combined is a 1600, 6.0 AWA. I just took the GRE in November 2007
Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning Sections of the GRE revised General Test  Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning scores range from 130–170, in one-point increments. If no answers are given for a measure, an NS (No Score) is reported for that measure. A score on the TWE ® test (Test of Written English) can supplement a GRE Analytical Writing score in a similar way. The TWE test is administered as part of the paper-based TOEFL test in a small number of areas that cannot support testing on computer. The TWE emphasizes fundamental writing skills.
1 Know that a good GRE score is the highest score you can achieve after a reasonable amount of prep time (about 100 hours over roughly two to three months). 2  Take a diagnostic test as you begin your studies. 1 You want a score that places you in the 50th–99th percentile range (higher is better, of course). 2  That means that your goal score should be somewhere between 151 and 170 on both portions of the test.
The maximum score for the test is 340: verbal and quantitative sections are each worth 170 points. Students can expect to receive their official score 10 - 15 days after the test. (The range of GRE score might actually give you a better idea of your chances for admission.). Do note that an unbalanced score with a very high percentile in one area and a low percentile in the other-is not as impressive as a balanced score.