Renewed interest in Crusader castles in the 19th century led to the investigation of Krak des Chevaliers, and architectural plans were drawn up. In the late 19th or early 20th century a settlement had been created within the castle, causing damage to its fabric. Krak des Chevaliers can be classified both as a spur castle, due to its site, and after the 13th-century expansion a fully developed concentric castle. It was similar in size and layout to Vadum Jacob, a Crusader castle built in the late 1170s. Margat has also been cited as Krak des Chevaliers' sister castle.
Live Box 20117693233259422. Six ancient sites in Syria, including the city of Aleppo which has suffered considerable damage in the course of the country's ongoing conflict, have been added to the endangered World Heritage list, UNESCO says. 
Government troops in Syria have recaptured the historic Crusader castle of Krak des Chevaliers from rebels, close to the border with Lebanon. An officer said the army had killed 93 rebels in fierce fighting in the area on Thursday, while there appeared to be heavy damage to a nearby village. It is unclear how much of this was caused by the government operation to capture the fort this week, as part of an advance in the Homs region. The castle, which was in rebel hands for two years and also came under fire last year, is just one of many historic sites in Syria threatened by the three-year civil war.
By Dusan Stojanovic, Associated Press. Save for later Saved. Crac des Chevaliers, the world's best preserved medieval Crusader castle, has stood for a thousand years in Syria. Seen here May 1 on its hilltop perch, the world's best preserved medieval Crusader castle has fallen victim to the chaos of Syria's civil war.
During the Syrian Civil War which began in 2011 UNESCO voiced concerns that the conflict might lead to the damage of important cultural sites such as Krak des Chevaliers. It has been reported that the castle was shelled in August 2012 by the Syrian Arab Army, and the Crusader chapel has been damaged. Krak des Chevaliers can be classified both as a spur castle, due to its site, and after the 13th-century expansion a fully developed concentric castle. It was similar in size and layout to Vadum Jacob, a Crusader castle built in the late 1170s. Margat has also been cited as Krak des Chevaliers' sister castle.
The Crac des Chevaliers was built between 1142 and 1271, according to UNESCO, and along with the Qalat Salah el-Din fortress in Latakia province, is considered one of the best preserved Crusader castles in existence. God is great. This is the destruction caused by MiG air strike on the Crac des Chevaliers, says the activist filming the damage. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an activist group, could not confirm direct hits on the castle, but said there were reports of three air strikes in the area on Friday.
They were added to the UNESCO list in 2006. While AAAS didn't point to any reported damage to the fortress, the Crac des Chevaliers has been at the center of heavy fighting, and there were reports of gunmen in the castle in 2012, according to AAAS. Only the ancient city of Damascus appears to have been spared. The U.S. missile strikes that began Monday night focused on northern and eastern Syria and included targets around the old city of Aleppo, which is a UNESCO-designated World Heritage Site, one of about 1,000 around the globe.
There has been concern over Syria's World Heritage Sites since the beginning of the conflict -- and in 2013, the World Heritage Committee placed all six Syrian sites on its  danger list  of places at risk of being irreparably damaged or lost forever. Only the ancient city of Damascus appears to have been spared. The U.S. missile strikes that began Monday night focused on northern and eastern Syria and included targets around the old city of Aleppo, which is a UNESCO-designated World Heritage Site, one of about 1,000 around the globe.
Since 2006, the castles of Krak des Chevaliers and Qal'at Salah El-Din have been recognised by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. it was partially damaged in the Syrian civil war from shelling, although the full extent of the damage is unknown. Krak des Chevaliers can be classified both as a spur castle, due to its site, and after the 13th-century expansion a fully developed concentric castle. It was similar in size and layout to Vadum Jacob, a Crusader castle built in the late 1170s. Margat has also been cited as Krak des Chevaliers' sister castle.
57 Satellite-based Damage Asessment to Historial Sites in Syria Satellite-based Damage Asessment to Historial Sites in Syria (i) UNESCO Site of Crac Des Chevaliers World Heritage Inscription. Available at: http://whc.unesco.org/en/list/1229 [1](ii) UNESCO Site of Crac Des Chevaliers World Heritage Inscription. Crac des Chevaliers is a Crusader Castle, initially built by the Hospitallers, also known as the Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, between 1142 and 1271 AD over a Kurdish settlement that was first inhabited in the eleventh century AD.