subcostal nerve. n. The ventral branch of the 12th thoracic nerve, supplying parts of the abdominal muscles and giving off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lower abdominal wall and to the gluteal region. sub·cos·tal nerve. The ventral ramus of the twelfth thoracic nerve; it courses below the last rib, supplies parts of the abdominal muscles, and gives off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lowermost ventrolateral abdominal wall and to the superolateral gluteal region. Synonym(s): nervus subcostalis [TA] .
(November 2014). The lumbar plexus is a nervous plexus in the lumbar region of the body which forms part of the lumbosacral plexus. It is formed by the divisions of the first four lumbar nerves (L1-L4) and from contributions of the subcostal nerve (T12), which is the last thoracic nerve. Additionally, the ventral rami of the fourth lumbar nerve pass communicating branches, the lumbosacral trunk, to the sacral plexus. The femoral nerve is the largest and longest of the plexus' nerves. It gives motor innervation to iliopsoas, pectineus, sartorius, and quadriceps femoris; and sensory innervation to the anterior thigh, posterior lower leg, and hindfoot.
1. the ventral ramus of the twelfth thoracic nerve; it courses below the last rib paralleling the course of the intercostal nerves superior to it; it supplies parts of the abdominal muscles and gives off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lowermost ventrolateral abdominal wall and to the superolateral gluteal region. 
the ventral ramus of the twelfth thoracic nerve; it courses below the last rib paralleling the course of the intercostal nerves superior to it; it supplies parts of the abdominal muscles and gives off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lowermost ventrolateral abdominal wall and to the superolateral gluteal region. sub·cos·tal nerve. The ventral ramus of the twelfth thoracic nerve; it courses below the last rib, supplies parts of the abdominal muscles, and gives off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lowermost ventrolateral abdominal wall and to the superolateral gluteal region. Synonym(s): nervus subcostalis [TA] 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The anterior division of the twelfth thoracic nerve (subcostal nerve) is larger than the others; it runs along the lower border of the twelfth rib, often gives a communicating branch to the first lumbar nerve, and passes under the lateral lumbocostal arch. It communicates with the iliohypogastric nerve of the lumbar plexus, and gives a branch to the Pyramidalis. It also gives off a lateral cutaneous branch that supplies sensory innervation to the skin over the hip.
subcostal nerve. n. The ventral branch of the 12th thoracic nerve, supplying parts of the abdominal muscles and giving off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lower abdominal wall and to the gluteal region. sub·cos·tal nerve. The ventral ramus of the twelfth thoracic nerve; it courses below the last rib, supplies parts of the abdominal muscles, and gives off cutaneous branches to the skin of the lowermost ventrolateral abdominal wall and to the superolateral gluteal region. Synonym(s): nervus subcostalis [TA] 
Gross anatomy. The anterior division of the twelfth thoracic nerve, called the subcostal nerve, is larger than the other intercostal nerves. It runs along the lower border of the twelfth rib. It may give off a communicating branch to the first lumbar nerve and the iliohypogastric nerve. The subcostal nerve can also be considered as the twelfth intercostal nerve. Some authors describe it as the first branch of the lumbar plexus.