Polarization is possible only when the direction of vibration is perpendicular to the direction of the wave travel, such is in light. In sound waves, the dire … ction of vibration (compression) is the same direction as the direction of the travel of the sound wave, and therefore polarization is not possible. Share to: Because transverse waves like electromagnetic waves (light) move  side to side when the travel, and we can limit the side-to-side  motion of a wave, and still allow the wave … to pass.
Polarization is a property of electromagnetic waves as they are radiated in space. EM waves in space are transverse, such that oscillations in E-fields and H-fields are perpendicular to the direction the wave travels, and at 90 degrees to each other. 
Light is said to be partially polarized when there is more power in one polarization mode than another. At any particular wavelength, partially polarized light can be statistically described as the superposition of a completely unpolarized component, and a completely polarized one. In this case, the transverse polarization is associated with the direction of the shear stress and displacement in directions perpendicular to the propagation direction, while the longitudinal polarization describes compression of the solid and vibration along the direction of propagation.
1/31/1411 Polarization on reflection When an unpolarized EM wave is reflected by a surface, the reflected light may completely polarized, partially polarized, or unpolarized, depending on the angle of incidence. If the angle of incidence is zero (nadir, or normal), the reflected beam is unpolarized. 
A transverse wave is a wave that the displacement of the medium is perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the wave. Examples of transverse waves are a ripple in a p … ond and a wave on a string. Transverse waves may occur on a wave, throughout a solid and on the surface of a wave. Share to: Because transverse waves like electromagnetic waves (light) move  side to side when the travel, and we can limit the side-to-side  motion of a wave, and still allow the wave … to pass.
Polarization (also polarisation) is a property of some types of waves. Some waves have motion in another direction as well as the direction of the wave. In water, for instance, the wave will move across the water, but something on the surface of the water will move up and down. If both the electric field and magnetic field are perpendicular to the direction of the wave, the wave is called TEM (transverse electromagnetic). Linear, circular, and elliptical polarizations are specific cases of TEM polarization.
A polarizer is an optical filter that transmits only one polarization. Polarization is an important parameter in areas of science dealing with transverse wave propagation, such as optics, seismology, radio, and microwaves. In this case, the transverse polarization is associated with the direction of the shear stress and displacement in directions perpendicular to the propagation direction, while the longitudinal polarization describes compression of the solid and vibration along the direction of propagation.
Polarization (also polarisation) is a property of waves that can oscillate with more than one orientation. Electromagnetic waves such as light exhibit polarization, as do some other types of wave, such as gravitational waves. Sound waves in a gas or liquid do not exhibit polarization, since the oscillation is always in the direction the wave travels. In this case, the transverse polarization is associated with the direction of the shear stress and displacement in directions perpendicular to the propagation direction, while the longitudinal polarization describes compression of the solid and vibration along the direction of propagation.
Template:Dablink. Polarization (Brit. polarisation) is a property of waves that describes the orientation of their oscillations. For transverse waves, it describes the orientation of the oscillations in the plane perpendicular to the wave's direction of travel. In addition, if the plane of the reflecting surface is not aligned with the plane of propagation of the wave, the polarization of the two parts is altered. In general, the Jones matrices of the reflection and transmission are real and diagonal, making the effect similar to that of a simple linear polarizer.
Best Answer: Polarization (also polarisation) is a property of waves that can oscillate with more than one orientation. 