Classification of Arthropods. The Insecta (insects) are a Class of the large animal Phylum called ARTHROPODA (arthropods) - a name that refers to the jointed limbs. 
The only other adult insects that only have two wings in both sexes are the Strepsiptera, which have the front wings reduced rather than the hind wings. Males of some species of Mayflies and scale insects have only front wings. A few tiny parasitic wasps, e.g. The common names of the members of this order (Diptera) are written as two words: crane fly, robber fly, bee fly, moth fly, fruit fly, etc. The common names of non-dipteran insects that have fly in their name are written as one word: butterfly, stonefly, dragonfly, scorpionfly, sawfly, caddisfly, whitefly, etc
The Diptera include files, mosquitos, gnats, midges, and no-see-ums. There are about 120,000 known species of true flies alive today. Dipterans typically have sucking mouthparts, and may feed on plant juices or on decaying organic matter. The name means two wings, and true flies bear only one pair of functional wings. The reduced remnants of the second pair of wings are known as halteres, and seem to function as stabilizers or as airspeed detectors.
An arthropod is an invertebrate (meaning it lacks a backbone) with an external skeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods belong to the Phylum Arthropoda. Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods.   An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages.    An ANTHROPOD is a bipedal humanoid (ie Homo Sapien, Homo Neanderthalus, Homo Habilus, Australopithicene Afarensis, and other hominids). Arthropod is a family which includes insects and spiders. 
This article is about the flying insect. For other uses, see flying (disambiguation) , fly (disambiguation) , flies (disambiguation) , or flight. True flies are insects of the order Diptera (from the Greek di = two, and ptera = wings). The most obvious distinction from other orders of insects is that a typical fly possesses a pair of flight wings on the mesothorax and a pair of halteres, derived from the hind wings, on the metathorax. The Diptera comprise a large order, containing an estimated 1,000,000 species of mosquitoes, gnats, midges and others, although only a quarter (about 120,000 species) have been described. It is one of the major insect orders both in terms of ecological and human (medical and economic) importance.
Introduction. The Diptera are commonly known as (true) flies and include many familiar insects such as mosquitoes, black flies, midges, fruit flies, blow flies and house flies. Flies are generally common and can be found all over the world except Antarctica. The Diptera are divided into two suborders, the Nematocera and Brachycera. The Nematocera include generally small, delicate insects with long antennae such as mosquitoes, crane-flies, midges and their relatives. The Brachycera includes more compact, robust flies with short antennae.
Thus adult flies have only one pair of functional wings, hence their scientific name-- Diptera (di-two, pteron-wing). A few other groups of insects have also convergently attained a similar two-winged form, such as male coccoids (Hemiptera-Sternorrhyncha). The Diptera are divided into two suborders, the Nematocera and Brachycera. The Nematocera include generally small, delicate insects with long antennae such as mosquitoes, crane-flies, midges and their relatives. The Brachycera includes more compact, robust flies with short antennae.
Mymarommatidae, have their hind wings reduced, but these can be distinguished from flies as the wasps have only one vein in their front wings and flies always have two or more veins in their wings as long as their wings are membranous. The common names of the members of this order (Diptera) are written as two words: crane fly, robber fly, bee fly, moth fly, fruit fly, etc. The common names of non-dipteran insects that have fly in their name are written as one word: butterfly, stonefly, dragonfly, scorpionfly, sawfly, caddisfly, whitefly, etc
Diptera. Although a lot of flying insects are referred to as flies -- butterflies, dragonflies, mayflies, and so on -- the true flies belong to the Diptera. The name means two wings, and true flies bear only one pair of functional wings. The reduced remnants of the second pair of wings are known as halteres, and seem to function as stabilizers or as airspeed detectors.