Rotator cuff injuries are a common cause of shoulder pain in people of all age groups. They represent a spectrum of disease, ranging from acute reversible tendinitis to massive tears involving the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis. Nonoperative or conservative treatment is usually sufficient to heal the problem in the vast majority of individuals, with a few exceptions that are discussed. For excellent patient education resources, see eMedicineHealth's patient education articles Rotator Cuff Injury and Shoulder and Neck Pain.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In anatomy, the rotator cuff (sometimes incorrectly called a rotator cup, rotor cuff, or rotary cup) is a group of muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the shoulder. The four muscles of the rotator cuff are over half of the seven scapulohumeral muscles. The tendons at the ends of the rotator cuff muscles can become torn, leading to pain and restricted movement of the arm. A torn rotator cuff can occur following a trauma to the shoulder or it can occur through the wear and tear on tendons, most commonly the supraspinatus tendon found under the acromion.
The rotator cuff is a group of tough, flexible fibers (tendons) and muscles in the shoulder. Rotator cuff disorders occur when tissues in the shoulder get irritated or damaged. Rotator cuff disorders include: 1  Inflammation of the tendons (tendinitis) or of a bursa (bursitis). 2  Impingement, in which a tendon is squeezed and rubs against bone. 3  Calcium buildup in the tendons, which causes a painful condition called calcific tendinitis. 4  Partial or complete tears of the rotator cuff tendons. But it also means that the muscles and tendons of the rotator cuff have to work hard to hold the bones in place. As a result, they are easy to injure and are prone to wear and tear. Most rotator cuff disorders are caused by a combination of: 1  Normal
At what point does a rotator cuff tear require surgery to fix it? Surgery is recommended if you have persistent pain or weakness in your shoulder that does not improve with nonsurgical treatment. Frequently, patients who require surgery will report pain at night and difficulty using the arm for lifting and reaching. A rotator cuff tear can extend or get larger over time. This can occur with repetitive use or a re-injury. It is common for patients with known rotator cuff disease to have acute pain and weakness following a minor injury.
The bones are held together by muscles, tendons, and ligaments. The rotator cuff keeps the upper arm bone in the shoulder socket and lets you raise and twist your arm. The shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint. The ball at the top of the upper arm bone fits into the socket of the shoulder blade. But it also means that the muscles and tendons of the rotator cuff have to work hard to hold the bones in place. As a result, they are easy to injure and are prone to wear and tear. Most rotator cuff disorders are caused by a combination of: 1  Normal
The first description of rupture of the rotator cuff tendon was by Smith in 1834. With history, degenerative changes of the rotator cuff have been better characterized by Duplay, Von Meyer, Codman, and Neer. The exact mechanisms leading to the degeneration of the rotator cuff, however, are still being debated. 
The Rotator Cuff. from slowdownagingblog.com/blog/. Rotator cuff injuries are very common and the rotator cuff is the most common cause of shoulder pain. Many rotator cuff disorders do not always involve a trauma or an injur y. Some of you may have suffered a recent injury to your shoulder and some of you simply woke up with shoulder pain for no known reason. Rotator Cuff tears…. Rotator cuff tears are surprisingly common. Many patients have rotator cuff tears and do not even know it. Many rotator cuff tears are degenerative, and are not the result of a single injury to the tendon.
The pain can diminish range of motion and movement of the arm. The inflammation from the rotator cuff disease and the lack of movement due to pain can result in a frozen shoulder. There can also be tenderness in the area of the inflamed tendons of the injured rotator cuff. The most common symptom of rotator cuff disease is shoulder pain. The pain is often noticed gradually and may be first noticed even a day after the actual event which may have caused the injury.
The rotator cuff is a group of four tendons and muscles that converge around the shoulder joint at the top of the humerus, the upper arm bone above the elbow. Together, they form a ''cuff'' that both holds your arm in place and allows it to move in different directions. While your shoulder is one of your most mobile joints, it's also somewhat weak. Too much stress -- or too many fastballs -- can cause partial tears and swelling in the tendons of the rotator cuff. Abrupt stress may even cause one of the tendons to pull away from the bone or tear in the middle of the tendon.