Opiates are a class of drugs that are commonly prescribed to treat pain. Prescription opiates include Oxycontin (oxycodone), Vicodin (hydrocodone and acetaminophen), Dilaudid (hydromorphone), and morphine. Certain illegal drugs, such as heroin, are also opiates. Methadone is an opiate that is often prescribed to treat pain, but may also be used to treat withdrawal symptoms in people who have become addicted to opiates.
An opiate is a narcotic analgesic that contains either natural or synthetic opium and is most often used medically to alleviate pain. Natural opium is extracted from the seed pod of the poppy plant in Asia. 
3 pertaining to a substance that causes sleep or relief of pain. Morphine and related opiates may produce unwanted side effects such as respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and constipation. Patients with reduced blood volume are more susceptible to the hypotensive effect of morphine and related drugs. 
opioid. 1. any synthetic narcotic that has opiate-like activities but is not derived from opium. 2. denoting naturally occurring peptides, such as enkephalins, that exert opiate-like effects by interacting with opiate receptors of cell membranes. See also opioid analgesic. 1. any synthetic narcotic that has opiate-like activities but is not derived from opium. 2. any of a group of naturally occurring peptides, e.g., enkephalins, that bind at or otherwise influence opiate receptors, either with opiate-like or opiate antagonist effects.
Opiates belong to the large biosynthetic group of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids, and are so named because they are naturally occurring alkaloids found in the opium poppy. 
Full Definition of OPIATE. 1. a: a drug (as morphine or codeine) containing or derived from opium and tending to induce sleep and alleviate pain; broadly: narcotic 1a b: opioid 1. 2. : something that induces rest or inaction or quiets uneasiness. See opiate defined for English-language learners. Tweet. : a drug (such as morphine or codeine) that is made from opium and that is used to reduce pain or cause sleep. : something that causes people to ignore problems and to relax instead of doing things that need to be done.
Opiate addiction is a dangerous and potentially deadly condition that requires long term treatment and care in order to promote recovery. It is recognized as a brain disorder that is caused by the use of opiate based drugs such as Oxycontin, morphine, oxycodone, opium, heroin and others. 
Opioids may act just like opiates in the human body, because of the similar molecules. opiate-narcotic analgesic derived from a opium poppy (natural). opioid-narcotic analgesic that is at least part synthetic, not found in nature. The terms are often used interchangeably. On the street, heroin may mean synthetic, natural, or semi-synthetic compound
6. An opiate is a substance derived from the poppy plant (which contains opium). Opiates are sometimes called natural since the active ingredient molecules are made by nature, not manufactured by chemical synthesis. Common opiates include morphine and codeine, both made directly from poppy plants. An opioid is a substance (molecule) that is synthetic or partly synthetic, meaning the active ingredients (molecules) are manufactured via chemical synthesis. opiate-narcotic analgesic derived from a opium poppy (natural). opioid-narcotic analgesic that is at least part synthetic, not found in nature. The terms are often used interchangeably.
Opiates are powerful drugs derived from the poppy plant that have been used for centuries to relieve pain. Also known as narcotics, opiates can be natural or synthetic. The natural opiates include opium, morphine, and codeine. Other substances, called opioids, are man-made. 