How to use trolamine salicylate topical. Trolamine salicylate is used to treat minor aches and pains of the muscles/joints (such as arthritis, backache, sprains). It belongs to a class of drugs known as salicylates. Follow all directions on the product package. trolamine salicylate topical Precautions. Before using trolamine salicylate, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to aspirin or other salicylates (such as salsalate); or if you have any other allergies.
Uses. Trolamine salicylate is used to treat minor aches and pains of the muscles/joints (such as arthritis, backache, sprains). It belongs to a class of drugs known as salicylates. How to use trolamine salicylate topical. Follow all directions on the product package. If you are uncertain about any of the information, consult your doctor or pharmacist. This medication is for use on the skin only. Do not get this medication in your eyes, inside your nose or mouth, or inside the vagina.
Precautions. Before using trolamine salicylate, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to aspirin or other salicylates (such as salsalate); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. How to use trolamine salicylate topical. Follow all directions on the product package. If you are uncertain about any of the information, consult your doctor or pharmacist. This medication is for use on the skin only. Do not get this medication in your eyes, inside your nose or mouth, or inside the vagina.
Both trolamine salicylate and methyl salicylate are found in over-the-counter analgesic creams. Trolamine salicylate is the active ingredient in Aspercreme, Myoflex and others. Methyl salicylate is found in Menthoderm, Thera-Gesic Plus and others. Both drugs can temporarily ease minor pain. Trolamine salicylate is typically used for joint or muscle pain. Methyl salicylate is typically used to alleviate arthritis and back pain, as well as bruises that have not broken the skin, sprains and strain
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Trolamine salicylate is an over-the-counter analgesic cream. It is used to ease joint and muscle pain by reducing swelling and inflammation. This drug can be found under the brand names Aspercreme, Myoflex, Mobisyl, Joint-Ritis, FlexPower and Arthricream with Aloe. Important: This content reflects information from various individuals and organizations and may offer alternative or opposing points of view. It should not be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Aspercreme is a clinically proven topical salicylate cream (Trolamine Salicylate 10%) used for relief of minor aches such as in arthritis, simple back pain, strains and joint & muscle pains. Aspercreme has an anti-inflammatory effect, reducing the swelling and inflammation in the affected muscles and joints. The active ingredient of Aspercreme is Trolamine Salicylate (10%, Topical Analgesic). Its inactive ingredients include the following: 1  Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice. 2  Cetyl Alcohol, Glycerin. 3  Methylparaben. 4  Mineral Oil. 5  Potassium Phosphate. 6  Propylparaben.
Trolamine salicylate is an organic compound which is the salt formed between triethanolamine and salicylic acid. It is used as an ingredient in sunscreens, analgesic creams, and cosmetics. The salicylic acid portion contributes to both the sun protection effect (by absorbing UVB radiation) and to the analgesic effect. The triethanolamine neutralizes the acidity of the salicylic acid. All of the trolamine salicylate-containing products listed in the two cited references are 10% solutions. These products are sold under various brand names, e.g. Aspercreme, and are marketed as topical analgesics for temporary relief of arthritis, simple backache, muscle strains, and sprains.
Trolamine salicylate: The ‘Deep-Heat’ debate. Trolamine salicylate is the key ingredient to most creams that claim when applied directly to the skin can cure muscular aches and pains. Until recently however, the validity of trolamine salicylate as a sound tool for curing muscle-pain has been highly contested. Just over ten years ago, researchers at a Veterinarians Medical Center in Philadelphia applied trolamine salicylate skin cream on to the knees of both dogs and humans.