Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) causes scar tissue to grow inside your lungs. Usually, when you breathe in, oxygen moves through tiny air sacs into your bloodstream. From there, it travels to organs in your body. IPF scar tissue is thick, like the scars you get on your skin after a cut. It slows oxygen flow from your lungs to your blood, which can keep your body from working as it should. Low oxygen levels and the stiff scar tissue make it hard to breathe
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic and ultimately fatal disease characterized by a progressive decline in lung function. The term pulmonary fibrosis means scarring of lung tissue and is the cause of worsening dyspnea (shortness of breath). Fibrosis is usually associated with a poor prognosis. IPF belongs to a large group of more than 200 lung diseases known as interstitial lung diseases (ILDs), characterized by the involvement of lung interstitium. The interstitium, the tissue between the air sacs in the lung, is the primary site of injury in ILDs.
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF). A disease in which the alveoli (tiny air sacs at the end of the bronchioles in the lungs) are overgrown with fibrous tissue. The cause of the disease is unknown and it gets worse over time. Symptoms include difficult, painful breathing and shortness of breath. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive fibrotic interstitial lung disease (ILD) of unknown origin. It is a difficult disease to diagnose and often requires the collaborative expertise of a chest physician, radiologist and histopathologist to reach a consensus diagnosis.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a chronic, progressive lung disease. This condition causes scar tissue (fibrosis) to build up in the lungs, which makes the lungs unable to transport oxygen into the bloodstream effectively. The disease usually affects people between the ages of 50 and 70. 
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive disease isolated to the lung. It is a type of interstitial lung disease, which is a group of 200 diseases with similar symptoms but different causes. In IPF, lung tissue becomes scarred. The scarring typically starts at the edges of the lungs and progresses towards the center of the lungs, making it more and more difficult for a person to breathe. Unfortunately, IPF is a disabling disease without a known cure or treatment.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a serious disease where the tiny air sacs of the lungs (the alveoli) and the lung tissue next to the alveoli become damaged and scarred. The main symptom is shortness of breath that gradually gets worse. The exact cause is not known. 
UIP is therefore the pathologic counterpart of IPF. The term ' idiopathic ' is used because the cause of pulmonary fibrosis is still unknown. IPF usually occurs in adult individuals of between 50 and 70 years of age, particularly those with a history of cigarette smoking, and affects more men than women. IPF belongs to a large group of more than 200 lung diseases known as interstitial lung diseases (ILDs), characterized by the involvement of lung interstitium. The interstitium, the tissue between the air sacs in the lung, is the primary site of injury in ILDs.
text size. IPF is a rare, serious lung disease. It is a certain type of pulmonary fibrosis (PF). PF is a condition in which the lung tissue becomes thickened, stiff, and scarred. The medical term used to describe this scar tissue is fibrosis. In some cases, doctors can determine the reason for the fibrosis
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a disease of inflammation that results in scarring, or fibrosis, of the lungs. In time, this fibrosis can build up to the point where the lungs are unable to provide oxygen to the tissues of the body. 
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF). Pulmonary fibrosis (PULL-mun-ary fi-BRO-sis) is a disease in which tissue deep in your lungs becomes thick and stiff, or scarred, over time. The formation of scar tissue is called fibrosis. As the lung tissue thickens, your lungs can't properly move oxygen into your bloodstream. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive fibrotic interstitial lung disease (ILD) of unknown origin. It is a difficult disease to diagnose and often requires the collaborative expertise of a chest physician, radiologist and histopathologist to reach a consensus diagnosis.