The hepatitis A and B vaccine is given in a series of 3 shots. The booster shots are given 1 month and 6 months after the first shot. If you have a high risk of hepatitis infection, you may be given 3 shots within 30 days, and a fourth shot 12 months after the first. Your individual booster schedule may be different from these guidelines. This vaccine is recommended for adults with risk factors for getting hepatitis A or B, including: 1  having chronic liver problems, such as cirrhosis or hepatitis C, or needing a liver transplant; 2  using intravenous (IV) drugs; 3  living with a person who has either hepatitis A or B infection;
1 And at Baylor Travel Medicine in Texas, an initial consultation costs $85 to $150, depending on the complexity of the patient's travel itinerary and medical history, and follow-up appointments to administer the shots cost $25 to $85 each. 2  A Hepatitis B vaccination costs $70 per shot for a total of at least $370. 1 Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B vaccinations sometimes are covered by health insurance, especially for at-risk individuals, with typical copays of $10 to $40. 2  For example, BlueCross BlueShield of Alabama includes Hepatitis A and combined Hepatitis A/B on its list of standard covered immunizations.
1 A Hepatitis B vaccination costs $70 per shot for a total of at least $370. 1 Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B vaccinations sometimes are covered by health insurance, especially for at-risk individuals, with typical copays of $10 to $40. 2  For example, BlueCross BlueShield of Alabama includes Hepatitis A and combined Hepatitis A/B on its list of standard covered immunizations.
1 For patients not covered by insurance, the total cost of a Hepatitis B vaccination sometimes includes a consultation fee, and usually includes shot administration fees and the cost of the three required doses of the vaccine for a total of about $120 to $370 or more. 1 Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B vaccinations sometimes are covered by health insurance, especially for at-risk individuals, with typical copays of $10 to $40. 2  For example, BlueCross BlueShield of Alabama includes Hepatitis A and combined Hepatitis A/B on its list of standard covered immunizations.
1 For patients not covered by insurance, the total cost of a combined Hepatitis A/B vaccination sometimes includes a consultation fee, and usually includes shot administration fees and the cost of the three required doses of the vaccine for a total of about $330 to $700. 1 Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B vaccinations sometimes are covered by health insurance, especially for at-risk individuals, with typical copays of $10 to $40. 2  For example, BlueCross BlueShield of Alabama includes Hepatitis A and combined Hepatitis A/B on its list of standard covered immunizations.
1 To have both Hepatitis shots combined, it is going to cost an average of $70 to $315 without insurance. 2  Most health insurance plans are going to cover a high portion of this vaccination, since it is deemed a preventable cause. 3  Check with your health insurance company to learn more about your policy. 1 The cost of this vaccination is going to cost anywhere from $20 to $55 each per injection. 2  Since there are 3 total shots that are required, the overall costs can vary from $60 to $165 for the complete package. 3  To have both Hepatitis shots combined, it is going to cost an average of $70 to $315 without insurance
Learn how to prepare for your visit, how to get the most out of it and about any care restrictions here. Hepatitis A is a virus that infects the liver. The best way to protect against hepatitis A is to get vaccinated. We provide the vaccine to children 24 months and older and to adults. It is administered in one primary dose and a second booster dose, usually 6 months apart. What to know before your visit. 1  Our practitioners provide this vaccine to children 24 months or older.*. 2  The series includes 2 vaccinations, 6 months apart.
1 The Hepatitis B vaccination is going to protect from a disease that is contracted through contact of bodily fluids. 2  The cost of this vaccination is going to cost anywhere from $20 to $55 each per injection. 1 The cost of this vaccination is going to cost anywhere from $20 to $55 each per injection. 2  Since there are 3 total shots that are required, the overall costs can vary from $60 to $165 for the complete package. 3  To have both Hepatitis shots combined, it is going to cost an average of $70 to $315 without insurance