Here are pictures of people with the name Marlie. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
View the Marlie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Marlie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Marlie to other names. Marlie is a variant spelling of Magdalene. Marlie is a diminutive (nickname) of Marlene. The name Magdalene derives from a character in the New Testament who came from the town of Magdala. The name Magdalene derives from a character in the New Testament who came from the town of Magdala. What does Marlie mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Marlie is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Marlie is high tower. It is also of Greek origin, where its meaning is of Magdala.
Marlie Name Meaning. The meaning of Marlie is “Derivative: From the name Marilyn”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Marlie we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
I first wrote about Marlie Casseus on August 4, 2008 after watching her story on TLC. And today, I received an advanced copy of Marlie’s update that will air this Sunday night on TLC. I am thrilled to have been given the opportunity to watch Marlie’s New Face: Four Years Later. So I hope you watch the newest update – Marlie’s New Face: Four Years Later. It premieres Sunday, September 13, 2009, at 9:00 p.m. EST on TLC (Comcast: channel 56, DirectTV: channel 280, DishNetwork: channel 183). Thank you Marlie for sharing your story… for reminding me of what’s really important.
Marlie /mar-lie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Marlie's name origin is English, and the meaning of the name Marlie is marshy meadow. Marlie is an alternate spelling of Marlee (English): also version of Marlene. Merli is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Manlie, Marli. Marlie is an unusual given name for women. Marlie is an equally uncommon surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Marlie for girls.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Marlie for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Marlie is a girl name. The name Marlie is of American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Marlie we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Popularity of the Name Marlie. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Marlie is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. If you consider naming your baby Marlie we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Google Pinterest Linkedin Stumbleupon Delicious. Marlie arrived in the United States with an unimaginably large and deforming tumor-like growth on her face. Not only was this growth affecting her respiratory system, but it had left her unable to eat or speak; basic abilities most of us take for granted. Marlie underwent surgery on October 30, 2012. Her surgery went very well and she was able to go back home on November 20. Thank you for your continued support of this amazing young lady. Marlie touches the hearts of many, her determination is an inspiration to us all.