Now the fossils have a. white film instead of a black carbon film. Carbonization is the process where only the residual carbon of the organism remains. In nature this usually happens over time when the organism is subject to heat and pressure. There are many ways an organism can become preserved as a fossil. Some of the ways include Casts and Molds, Permineralization, Replacement, and Carbonization Sometimes the fossil is unaltered, meaning it is the actual organism.
A cast is when that mold has been filled in with rock or minerals. Carbonization-Carbonization is a process in which the more volatile substances of the organism (hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, etc) are removed, leaving behind the carbon. These fossils typically appear as a thin, dark film on the rock. This type of preservation is common among plant fossils. 
It is the carbon residue remaining from the organism or part of an organism that has been fossilized. Essentially what happens is that the organism is buried within a layer of sediment which solidifies. A chemical reaction takes place in which many of the elements that compose the organism are converted to gases and driven off, leaving behind a carbon residue (distillation) - and an outline of the original material. Essentially what happens is that the organism is buried within a layer o … 
It is the carbon residue remaining from the organism or part of an organism that has been fossilized. Essentially what happens is that the organism is buried within a layer o … f sediment which solidifies. A chemical reaction takes place in which many of the elements that compose the organism are converted to gases and driven off, leaving behind a carbon residue (distillation) - and an outline of the original material.
35-37). Feathers are often preserved through carbonization. It is believed that the carbon residue is the result of feather degrading bacteria. An analysis of a Cretaceous aged fossil feather showing a banded color pattern from Brazil produced interesting results. Larger organisms can be distorted by compression. However, good fossils of leaves and insects are often formed by compression. Insect and plant compression retain organic material. The organic matter making up the body of the organism may be altered during decay and rock formation.
Carbonization (or carbonisation) is the term for the conversion of an organic substance into carbon or a carbon-containing residue through pyrolysis or destructive distillation. Carbonization is also a stage in the charcoal making process, and is considered the most important step of all since it has such power to influence the whole process from the growing tree to the final distribution of charcoal to various sources.
Living organisms (including you and me) are composed of the elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Carbonization is when living tissue leave a carbon film in sediment and rock. Many plant fossils are preserved through carbonization. Soft parts of animals including skin and fur have also been preserved as fossils through the process of carbonization. To illustrate how carbonization works, students will make leaf impressions on paper.
Carbon Film. Posted on July 19, 2013 by awalters@uoregon.edu. The process of fossilization by carbon is defined Carbonization, which is the preservation of soft tissue by a carbon film. To become a carbon film fossil, all other materials must disperse, leaving the carbon isolated to form a thin film.
Fossils are not only the actual remains of organisms, such as teeth, bones, shell, and leaves (body fossils), but also the results of their activity, such as burrows and foot prints (trace fossils), and organic compounds they produce by biochemical processes (chemical fossils). Permineralization burial before decay is advanced. The degree to which the remains are decayed when buried determines the later details of the fossil. Carbonization (Distillation) Carbonization is a process by which the more volatile substances of plants and animals decay, but leave behind the carbon.
The process of fossilization by carbon is defined Carbonization, which is the preservation of soft tissue by a carbon film. Posted on July 19, 2013 by awalters@uoregon.edu. The process of fossilization by carbon is defined Carbonization, which is the preservation of soft tissue by a carbon film. To become a carbon film fossil, all other materials must disperse, leaving the carbon isolated to form a thin film.