Over 90% of infections clear within 2 years. The incubation period is variable; it is probably three weeks to months for genital warts and several months to years for cervical cellular abnormalities, and decades for cervical cancer. The median duration of new cervical infections (measured by detection of HPV DNA) is 8 months but varies. 
Some strains of Human Papilloma viruses are related to genital cancers. The hpv incubation period varies in women and is frequently diagnosed with a colposcopy after a Pap smear. There are about 30 types of Human Papilloma viruses that are sexually transmitted. The average is period is three months. The hpv incubation period varies in women and is frequently diagnosed with a colposcopy after a Pap smear.
However, it is important to note that as is the case with any viral infection, there is often a latency or incubation period involved with HPV infection. The genital warts incubation period can vary widely from individual to individual. In one person, it could be a mere two weeks. In another, it could be as long as several years. Because of this factor, determining the exact source of the infection can be difficult to impossible. 
1 An incubation period of several months usually is required between virus infection at delivery and clinical manifestations in the infant. 2  The average latency period is 3 months, but periods as long as 20 months have been reported. ]. 3  Approximately 5% of all births in the U.S. are at risk for neonatal HPV exposure. 
The incubation period-the amount of time between contact with a person who has condyloma and the time you notice condyloma-typically ranges from three weeks to eight months, with an average of three months. There''s no way of telling when you are going to get symptoms, if you ever do. The incubation time for HPV is unknown. Sometimes it takes only a month, sometimes it takes several years. The longest I have ever heard was 11 years.
The incubation period for HPV ranges from 1 to 6 months; however, latency periods of up to 3 years or more are suspected. The lesions are present for several months and usually regress spontaneously within two years, although some may persist indefinitely. 
Post 1. The incubation period for HPV is weeks or months. Human papillomavirus lives on the skin. Cancer can form only in advanced stages and not in every case. The disease can be transmitted from person to person even when the infected person doesn't have any signs of human papillomavirus. 10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The HPV incubation period is the time between exposure to one of the more than 100 human papillomaviruses, and the first appearance of symptoms.
The incubation period for HPV 16 to give rise to cervical cancer is quite long and rather variable. It has been estimated that among HPV 16-positive women, the median incubation period from first detected HPV infection to cervical carcinoma in situ was between 7 and 12 years. Women of all races had an HPV-16 prevalence of 17.9 percent, compared to 8 percent for men. African-American women age 20 to 29 had the highest prevalence of HPV-16 at 36 percent. African Americans overall had 19.1 percent prevalence, compared to 12.5 percent in white