1 It is possible to qualify for an FHA loan just 1-3 years after a foreclosure. 2  In most cases, the wait is 3 years, but if your foreclosure was the result of an economic event that was out of your control you may be able to get a loan in as little as 1 year after the foreclosure. 1 However, that wait time can be reduced if you provide a large enough down payment. 2  Down payments of 20% or more can reduce the wait time to just 2 years, compared to the 7-year wait for down payments of less than 10%. 3  VA Loan After Foreclosure. 4  The wait period for a VA Loan after foreclosure is just 2 years.
In addition to the more lenient criteria, you can qualify with a down payment as low as 3.5 percent. If you lost your primary home to foreclosure, you can purchase a home again in three years or less with a FHA loan. There are certain requirements regarding the waiting period after a foreclosure. 
You can obtain an FHA loan 3 years after a foreclosure and a conventional loan after 5-7 years depending on the lender. If you would like I could give you a custom quote. Contact me through my profile. 0 votes • Thank • Flag • Link • Thu Apr 11, 2013. 
Previously, borrowers were generally ineligible for a new FHA loan until three years after a foreclosure, short sale, or deed in lieu of foreclosure and two years after a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, though the death of a spouse or a medical emergency could cut the wait time to one year. As a result, the FHA recently changed its mortgage rules so that some borrowers can qualify for a new FHA loan just one year after a foreclosure, short sale, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or bankruptcy as part of its new Back to Work – Extenuating Circumstances program.
Every mortgage loan type requires a waiting period before you can apply after a foreclosure. Conventional loans backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac require the longest waiting period: “Seven years from completion,” according to Nick Wilson, a production partner at RPM Mortgage Inc. in Bellevue, WA. 
1 FHA Loan After Foreclosure. 2  It is possible to qualify for an FHA loan just 1-3 years after a foreclosure. 3  In most cases, the wait is 3 years, but if your foreclosure was the result of an economic event that was out of your control you may be able to get a loan in as little as 1 year after the foreclosure. 1 However, that wait time can be reduced if you provide a large enough down payment. 2  Down payments of 20% or more can reduce the wait time to just 2 years, compared to the 7-year wait for down payments of less than 10%. 3  VA Loan After Foreclosure. 4  The wait period for a VA Loan after foreclosure is just 2 years.
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. If you have gone through a foreclosure, short sale, bankruptcy, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, you can get a new FHA mortgage loan after waiting as little as one year, if you meet certain criteria. Read on to learn more about FHA loans and find out if you might qualify for a FHA mortgage under this new program. As a result, the FHA recently changed its mortgage rules so that some borrowers can qualify for a new FHA loan just one year after a foreclosure, short sale, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or bankruptcy as part of its new Back to Work – Extenuating Circumstances program.
While your credit will take a big hit after foreclosure, you may be able to get another mortgage after some time passes. The amount of time you must wait before applying for a new mortgage loan depends on the type of lender and your financial circumstances. Read on to learn more. You may still qualify for an FHA loan with a 550 FICO, but instead of making a 3.5% down payment, your down payment would be higher, at least 10%. FICO scores can be significantly damaged by a foreclosure. And the higher your credit score, the bigger the FICO drop with
Qualifying for a Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac Loan After Foreclosure. Prior to June 20, 2010, the waiting period for a Fannie Mae loan following a foreclosure was five years. Now, to qualify for a Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac loan, you must wait at least seven years after the foreclosure. You may still qualify for an FHA loan with a 550 FICO, but instead of making a 3.5% down payment, your down payment would be higher, at least 10%. FICO scores can be significantly damaged by a foreclosure. And the higher your credit score, the bigger the FICO drop with
Qualifying for an FHA Loan After Foreclosure. FHA loans are the most forgiving of foreclosures. To qualify for an FHA mortgage loan, you must wait at least three years after the foreclosure. You may still qualify for an FHA loan with a 550 FICO, but instead of making a 3.5% down payment, your down payment would be higher, at least 10%. FICO scores can be significantly damaged by a foreclosure. And the higher your credit score, the bigger the FICO drop with