FFFF. Particle Size Conversion Chart ANSI. *A grit size is defined by the distribution of grits retained on a sieve set up that meets the requirements of ANSI Table 2 or 3. The numbers in the two sieve columns in this chart represent the midpoint sieve for the grading of the corresponding grit size. Micro Grits. Particle Size Conversion Chart ANSI. *A grit size is defined by the distribution of grits retained on a sieve set up that meets the requirements of ANSI Table 2 or 3.
After this, the grit size is still indicated by number (#...), but the method of classification is different. Grit sizes can be more accurately understood by correlating them to their respective mesh sizes and grit size scatter in diameter (see chart below). Norminal grit. 
MM Micro-mesh grit in comparison to other standards. The grit sizes are defined by the number of lines per inch (25,4 mm) length of each sieve e.g. 150 lines per inch. Abrasives grit 150 will pass this sieve. This chart is a general overview only. We are not responsible for any error
In addition, sandpaper is measured by its grit size, or number of sharp particles per square inch of sandpaper. The larger the grit size, the more edges there are and the smoother the sandpaper. The density of the grit is important, too. Open-coated sandpaper has gaps between the grits, allowing sawdust to gather so it doesn’t interfere with the sanding, whereas closed-coated sandpaper doesn’t have those open spaces.
The grit size indicates the abrasive grade on the abrasive side of the paper. A higher grit number indicates a smaller abrasive grain and a finer abrasive product. A “P” in front of the grit size indicates that the product is graded in accordance with the European FEPA standard (www.fepa-abrasives.org). Typically 50 to 75% of the surface is covered with grain. The coarse grit sizes are usually scattered more open than the finer. A densely littered product immediately gives a good performance at startup. A more open coat can give a better effect over time.
There are many varieties of sandpaper, with variations in the paper or backing, the material used for the grit, grit size, and the bond. Sandpaper comes in a number of different shapes and sizes: 1  sheet: usually 9 by 11 inches, but other sizes may be available. 2  belt: usually cloth backed, comes in different sizes to fit different belt sanders.
For example a 150 grit diamond wheel is actually a 140/170 grit wheel made up of diamond crystals ranging in size from 105-88 microns or .004-.0036 inches in diameter. Inland lists grit size for all their diamond products by the standard US convention of labeling after the larger size diamond. For example, an Inland 60 grit diamond wheel is made from diamond grit size 60/ 80 range.
Grit size refers to the size of the particles of abrading materials embedded in the sandpaper. Several different standards have been established for grit size. These standards establish not only the average grit size, but also the allowable variation from the average. Sandpaper comes in a number of different shapes and sizes: 1  sheet: usually 9 by 11 inches, but other sizes may be available. 2  belt: usually cloth backed, comes in different sizes to fit different belt sanders.