It is believed to be the best medicine to fight influenza. In 1918, it was used to fight Spanish Influenza pandemic. Taiwanese scientists have found out that root of asafoetida produces a natural medicine that kills the H1N1 virus. It is also used to help digestion. It is also said to be a good medicine for asthma and bronchitis. Unani medicine use asafoetida as an antiepileptic medicine. 
The species is native to the deserts of Iran, mountains of Afghanistan, and is mainly cultivated in nearby India. As its name suggests, asafoetida has a fetid smell (see etymology below) but in cooked dishes it delivers a smooth flavour reminiscent of leeks. Today, the most commonly available form is compounded asafoetida, a fine powder containing 30% asafoetida resin, along with rice flour and gum arabic. Ferula assafoetida is a monoecious, herbaceous, perennial plant of the family Apiaceae. It grows to 2 m (6.6 ft) high, with a circular mass of 30–40 cm (12–16 in) leaves.
Asafoetida /aesəˈfɛtɨdə/ æsəˈfɛtɨdə is the dried (latex gum) oleoresin exuded from the rhizome or tap root of several species Of, ferula a perennial herb that grows 1 to.1 5 (m.3 3 to.4 9) ft. Tall the species is native to the deserts Of, iran mountains Of, afghanistan and is mainly cultivated in Nearby. india Today, the most commonly available form is compounded asafoetida, a fine powder containing 30% asafoetida resin, along with rice flour and gum arabic. Ferula assafoetida is a monoecious, herbaceous, perennial plant of the family Apiaceae. It grows to 2 m (6.6 ft) high, with a circular mass of 30–40 cm (12–16 in) leaves.
1 In the Jammu region of India, asafoetida is used as a medicine for flatulence and constipation by 60% of locals. 2  A digestion aid. 3  In Thailand and India, it is used to aid digestion and is smeared on the abdomen in an alcohol or water tincture known as mahahing. Today, the most commonly available form is compounded asafoetida, a fine powder containing 30% asafoetida resin, along with rice flour and gum arabic. Ferula assafoetida is a monoecious, herbaceous, perennial plant of the family Apiaceae. It grows to 2 m (6.6 ft) high, with a circular mass of 30–40 cm (12–16 in) leaves.
Asafoetida is a plant. It has a bad smell and tastes bitter. That probably explains why it is sometimes called “devil’s dung.”. People use asafoetida resin, a gum-like material, as medicine. Asafoetida resin is produced by solidifying juice that comes out of cuts made in the plant’s living roots. Asafoetida is used for breathing problems including ongoing (chronic) bronchitis, H1N1 swine flu, and asthma.
With its characteristic obnoxious yucky smell, Asafoetida is an important ingredient used in Indian vegetarian cuisine. Used primarily in specific (Indian) vegetarian societies where garlic and onions are strictly taboo, asafoetida or hing (as popularly known in India), is used to enhance the flavour of dishes. A perennial plant the name ‘Asafoetida’ is derived from a concoction of Persian word indicating ‘Aza’- meaning ‘resin,’ along with the Latin word ‘foetid’ , denoting the foul and smelly nature of the spice.
1 Asafoetida reduces the growth of indigenous microflora in the gut, reducing flatulence. 2  In the Jammu region of India, asafoetida is used as a medicine for flatulence and constipation by 60% of locals. Today, the most commonly available form is compounded asafoetida, a fine powder containing 30% asafoetida resin, along with rice flour and gum arabic. Ferula assafoetida is a monoecious, herbaceous, perennial plant of the family Apiaceae. It grows to 2 m (6.6 ft) high, with a circular mass of 30–40 cm (12–16 in) leaves.
ASAFOETIDA. Introduction. Asafoetida, a spice from the Indian peninsula also commonly known as food of the gods is nothing but a dried gum extracted from the taproot of a perennial herb called Ferula. Ferula grows to a height of 1-1.5 meters which is indigenous to the mountains of Afghanistan but is mainly cultivated in India. 
It's powdered form is also available in the market. Asafoetida is commonly found in three forms, such as 'tears', 'mass' and 'paste'. The first being the tears which constitute the purest form of the resin and are rounded or flattened in shape, 5 to 30 mm in diameter and dull yellow or grayish in color. 
Native to India, the Mediterranean region and the Middle East, Asafoetida is a gum extracted from the sap of the Giant fennel plant. One of the oldest spices, since ancient times, Asafoetida has been in use in Rome and Persia. A perennial plant the name ‘Asafoetida’ is derived from a concoction of Persian word indicating ‘Aza’- meaning ‘resin,’ along with the Latin word ‘foetid’ , denoting the foul and smelly nature of the spice.