By about 30 minutes the chicken should be mostly cooked and ready for sauce. If you are not going to be putting barbecue sauce on your chicken then continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.) Go to step 9 for more details.
Kitchen Fact: The safe internal temperature for cooked chicken is 165° Fahrenheit (75° Celsius). A meat or instant-read thermometer is your best bet for determining the temperature of your chicken, and if you're cooking a whole bird, it should be inserted into the thickest part of the thigh but not touching bone.
Place the pan in the oven and roast the chicken for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the juices run clear. To test this, insert a thermometer in the thickest part of a leg. It should register at 160 degrees internal temperature. Remove the chicken from the oven and allow to cool for 10 to 15 minutes before carving.
Many experts recommend that chicken breast meat must be cooked to an internal temperature of 170 degrees F, but others say 160 degrees F is fine.
One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes.
So cook the chicken to a safe internal temperature and your food will always be safe. So buy yourself a reliable meat thermometer you can buy at Amazon.com and get ready to always make moist, tender, and juicy boneless, skinless chicken breasts.
Now the USDA is recommending that, because of bird flu fears, chicken should be cooked to a temperature of 165 degrees F. Remember that the meat will continue to cook after it's removed from the heat; the internal temperature will rise about 5-10 degrees in the first few minutes it's off the heat.
165 degrees Fahrenheit is the safe internal temperature for both the white meat and dark meat. If you don't have a thermometer, an easy visual clue is that all the juices that come from the chicken should run clear and not be pink.
You will have moister chicken if you cook to 160 degrees F. According to Dr. O. Peter Snyder, the chicken has to reach a temperature of 160 degrees F for 5.2 seconds to kill pathogens.