loam. soil composed of sand, silt, clay, and organic matter in evenly mixed particles of various sizes. More fertile than sandy soils, loam is not stiff and tenacious like clay soils. Its porosity allows high moisture retention and air circulation. The popular confusion of loam with humus humus, organic matter that has decayed to a relatively stable, amorphous state.
The term loam refers to a soil with a combination of sand, silt, and clay sized particles. For example, a soil with 30% clay, 50% sand, and 20% silt is called a sandy clay loam. [Figure 2]. Figure 3. Soil Textural Triangle-Based on the triangle, a loamy soil has 40% sand, 20% clay and4-% silt. 
Loam soil is a soil characterized by roughly equal amounts of clay, silt, and sand. This soil is usually regarded as a gardening ideal, because it promotes the growth of healthy plants. Some soil is naturally loamy, and other soil must be amended to acquire loamy characteristics. 
Sandy loam soil is a mixture that is generally well-balanced, but has sand as a dominant component. Perfect loamy soil is ideal for most growing, and contains an even mixture of sand, silt and clay in roughly even proportions. Sand, silt and clay are defined by different particle types in soil identification. Sandy loam soil is a type of soil used in plant beds and pots that require ample drainage for the plants to thrive. Soil types are based on the ratio of materials in the soil. Though soil type is most accurately determined through a soil test, observing the properties of soil can help render clues to determine its type.
Composition. Soil is composed of three types of particles: sand, silt and clay. Sand makes up most of soil, and does not have terrific water holding capabilities. The clay particles in soil are very small and do no allow much water to drain. Silt is the second largest component of soil with characteristics of both sand and clay. Types. There are three types of loamy soil; each is determined by its composition. Light loamy soil consists of more sand than clay or silt. Medium loamy soil is the most sought after because it contains equal amounts of each component. Heavy loamy soil contains more clay than anything else
Loam is soil composed mostly of sand and silt, and a smaller amount of clay (about 40%-40%-20% concentration, respectively). Loam is found in a majority of successful farms in regions around the world known for their fertile land. Loam soil feels soft and crumbly and is easy to work over a wide range of moisture conditions.
These proportions can vary to a degree, however, and result in different types of loam soils: sandy loam, silty loam, clay loam, sandy clay loam, silty clay loam, and loam. In the USDA textural classification triangle, the only soil that is not predominantly sand, silt, nor clay is called loam. Loam soils generally contain more nutrients, moisture, and humus than sandy soils, have better drainage and infiltration of water and air than silty soils, and are easier to till than clay soils. Loam is found in a majority of successful farms in regions around the world known for their fertile land. Loam soil feels soft and crumbly and is easy to work over a wide range of moisture conditions.
Sandy loam contains at least 50 percent sand by volume. Sandy loam soils are dominated by sand particles, but contain enough clay and sediment to provide some structure and fertility. There are four different types of sandy loam soil that are classified based on the size of the sand particles in the soil. Sandy loam soils have visible particles of sand mixed into the soil. When sandy loams soils are compressed, they hold their shape but break apart easily. Sandy loam soils have a high concentration of sand that gives them a gritty feel.
The mineral in a loam soil ideally is about 40% sand, 40% silt and 20% clay by weight. The soil's texture, especially its ability to retain nutrients and water are crucial. Loam is found in a majority of successful farms in regions around the world known for their fertile land. Loam soil feels soft and crumbly and is easy to work over a wide range of moisture conditions.