Redundant: Some amino acids can be specified by more than one codon. Unambiguous: Each codon specifies a particular amino acid and only that amino acid. The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded in genetic material (DNA or RNA sequences) is translated into proteins (amino acid sequences) by living cells … . 14 people found this useful.
Explain what it means to say that the genetic code is redundant and unambiguous. Answer: The genetic code that translates a sequence of three nucleotides (called a codon) into an amino acid. the genetic code has those two properties: Unambiguous: each codon is translated into one sing amino acid. Always. This means that UUA is the code leucine no matter wht.
The code for creating amino acids is said to be redundant because  some codons code for the same amino acid (i.e. there is redundancy  because several codons have the same f … unction).    For example, the RNA codons AAA and AAG both code for the amino  acid Lysine. The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded in genetic material (DNA or RNA sequences) is translated into proteins (amino acid sequences) by living cells … . 14 people found this useful.
Degeneracy of codons is the redundancy of the genetic code, exhibited as the multiplicity of three-codon combinations specifying an amino acid. The degeneracy of the genetic code is what accounts for the existence of synonymous mutations. Degeneracy of the genetic code was identified by Lagervist. For instance, codons GAA and GAG both specify glutamic acid and exhibit redundancy; but, neither specifies any other amino acid and thus are not ambiguous or demonstrate no ambiguity.
For instance, mitochondria have an alternative genetic code with slight variations. The genetic code is a set of rules defining how the four-letter code of DNA is translated into the 20-letter code of amino acids, which are the building blocks of proteins. The genetic code is a set of three-letter combinations of nucleotides called codons, each of which corresponds to a specific amino acid or stop signal.
The genetic code is the code that translates a sequence of three nucleotides (called a codon) into an aminoacid. The genetic code has those two properties: Unambiguous: Each codon is translated into one single aminoacid. Always. This means that UUA is the code leucine no matter what. Redundant: In some cases, there are more than one codons for a single aminoacid. For instance UUA means leucine, but so does UUG. Best Answer: In a molecule of DNA, many sequences are repeated and therefore essential not used. These repeated sequences are known as redundant DNA. Ambiguous DNA is sections where the code is not precisely known but its known that it is one of two bases. These are represented by characters e.g.
this means that the same genetic code that is used in humans is used in all other types of organisms as well. anything from animals to plants to bacteria uses the same system … of triplet nucleotide bases (codons) to code for a single amino acid when building a polypeptide. The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded in genetic material (DNA or RNA sequences) is translated into proteins (amino acid sequences) by living cells … . 14 people found this useful.
Because there are 64 possible combinations of four bases in three-nucleotide sequences, but (usually) only 20 amino acids that are translated, in order for most codons to be sense codons, that is, encoding an amino acid, then some of those amino acids must be specified by more than one codon. Indeed, most amino acids are specified by more than one codon such that only three of the 64 total codons are nonsense codons, that is, which specify instead stop codons. Compare with lack of ambiguity in the genetic code. See also lack of punctuation between codons.
Although each codon is specific for only one amino acid (or one stop signal), the genetic code is described as degenerate, or redundant, because a single amino acid may be coded for by more than one codon. The genetic code is a set of three-letter combinations of nucleotides called codons, each of which corresponds to a specific amino acid or stop signal.
remember that the genetic code is also degenerate-each codon only codes for one amino acid, but there can be several different codons that call for the same amino acid. 21 people found this useful. The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded in genetic material (DNA or RNA sequences) is translated into proteins (amino acid sequences) by living cells … . 14