Hematocrit values are measured in percentages. The value measures what percentage of red blood cells a blood sample contains. For example, a hematocrit 47% means that for every 100 mL of blood, 47 mL are red blood cells. The normal range for a male is between 40.7% and 50.3%.
Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women. This is usually measured by spinning down a sample of blood in a test tube, which causes the red blood cells to pack at the bottom of the tube.
The hematocrit is the proportion, by volume, of the blood that consists of red blood cells. The hematocrit (hct) is expressed as a percentage. For example, a hematocrit of 25% means that there are 25 milliliters of red blood cells in 100 milliliters of blood.
The HCT, which stands for hematocrit, blood test measures the amount of red blood cells in a blood sample. This test is also referred to as a crit or a PCV, which means packed cell volume. The HCT blood test is usually done as part of a CBC, or complete blood count, blood test.
Hematocrit is a blood test that measures the percentage of the volume of whole blood that is made up of red blood cells. This measurement depends on the number of red blood cells and the size
A hematocrit blood test or an HCT blood test is a test where the total volume of red blood cells is checked vis-a-vis the volume of blood that has been drawn. The HCT blood test is therefore used to determine how much of the blood drawn is made up of red blood cells.
The hematocrit blood test determines the percentage of red blood cells (RBC's) in the blood. Blood is composed mainly of red blood cells and white blood cells suspended in an almost clear fluid called serum. The hematocrit test indicates the percentage of blood by volume that is composed of red blood cells. The condition called  anemia  results from having too few red blood cells. Anemia causes a variety of symptoms. The hematocrit is a basic test that can tell a physician a lot about a person's health.