Yes, you may check-in for your American Airlines (AA) flight at the airport self-service kiosk from 30 minutes to 24 hours (5 hours for Miami) before the scheduled departure time (depending on your departure city and destination) and receive a printed boarding pass.
Many airlines have moved to issuing electronic boarding passes, whereby the passenger checks in either online or on a mobile device, and the boarding pass is then sent to the mobile device as a SMS or e-mail. Upon completing an online reservation, client can tick a box offering for a mobile boarding pass.
With the addition of these eight locations, American Airlines now offers the mobile boarding pass option to travelers departing on American Airlines and American Eagle flights from 50 airports.
American Airlines customers departing from select airports today can choose to receive their boarding passes electronically on their mobile phones or PDAs, saving the time it takes to print out and present a paper boarding pass at the airport.
1. Check in on aa.com (or aa.com Mobile) . Choose Email with Mobile Option and select the appropriate email box for your mobile device. Check your email from your mobile device. Follow the link on the email to retrieve your Mobile Boarding Pass. Save the boarding pass to your device.
1 See website for restrictions. 2  If you do not have to check luggage in, you can go to the boarding gate with the printed or mobile boarding pass, 60 minutes prior to departure for intercontinental flights and 45 minutes for all domestic and European flights.
At this time, customers who opt to use the mobile boarding pass option may only list one person in their reservation. They also must be traveling on American or American Eagle flights from any one of the 50 participating airports on a nonstop or connecting flight through a participating mobile-boarding airport.
Yes, you may check-in for your American Airlines (AA) flight with your mobile device starting 24 hours and ending 30 minutes before the scheduled departure time (depending on your departure city and destination) to receive a mo-bile boarding pass on your mobile device. You may use this option if: