An associate's degree in nursing (ADN) can be earned at both 2-year community colleges and 4-year learning institutions. ADN programs generally take two or more years to complete and include classroom education in addition to clinical training in a healthcare setting.
Let’s clear the air about how long it takes to be a nurse. When we think of a nurse, we think of one who cares for his/her patients and can administer medicine to them. This is a registered nurse — an RN; it is the standard. The standard college education for a registered nurse is two years in time.
about 4 to 6 years. i would say   You can become a registered nurse with a 2 year associate's degree or you can choose to get your bachelors degree an about 4 years. Both … degrees will qualify you to become an RN, but the bachelors degree will give you more opportunities for advancement later on.
A nurse with a master's degree still has a long road to go to become a medical doctor. She can, however, obtain a doctorate or Ph.D. in Nursing with just a few more years' study, enabling her to call herself doctor.. Getting your Master of Science in Nursing doesn't lessen the time you would need to spend in medical school
Step 1. Complete your bachelor's degree, if you have not already, as you can't apply to med school until you do. As an RN, you could have earned a bachelor's degree in nursing, an associate's degree in nursing or a diploma in nursing. You can complete an RN-to-BSN program that will give you a bachelor of science
Master's degree programs for RNs with a bachelor's degree generally take 1-3 years to complete, depending on the school and the specialty. Graduates with a non-nursing bachelor's degree have the option of enrolling in a BSN-to-master's degree fast-track program.
A: To become an RN (Registered Nurse) after high school you can choose from two paths. You can either go for an Associate's degree in Nursing or a Bachelor's of science degree in Nursing. Associate's degree is a two year long program.