1 Balanced Translocation and Its Impact on Miscarriage Translocation of a chromosome is when part of the structure breaks away and reattaches itself to another chromosome. Translocation refers to movement of sugars which are  dissolved in the phloem while transpiration re … fers to the process  through which water is moved from the roots to the stomata through  the xylem.
A mutation is a permanent change in the DNA sequence of a gene. Mutations in a gene's DNA sequence can alter the amino acid sequence of the protein encoded by the gene. How d … oes this happen? Like words in a sentence, the DNA sequence of each gene determines the amino acid sequence for the protein it encodes. Translocation refers to movement of sugars which are  dissolved in the phloem while transpiration re … fers to the process  through which water is moved from the roots to the stomata through  the xylem.
Mutations can also occur in a chromosome as a result of inversion (a segment of chromosome is inserted in reverse order), deletion (a loss of a piece of chromosome) or translocation (a piece of chromosome attaches to another). the attachment of a fragment of one chromosome to a nonhomologous chromosome. See also chromosomal abnormality. The translocations recorded include adjacent section, alternate segregation, centric fusion, distal segment, eye color, heterozygote, interstitial segment, reciprocal, Robertsonian. Robertsonian translocation.
the attachment of a fragment of one chromosome to a nonhomologous chromosome. Translocation of a portion of one chromosome to another chromosome. Redrawn from Damjanov, 2000. reciprocal translocation the mutual exchange of fragments between two broken chromosomes, one part of one uniting with part of the other. the attachment of a fragment of one chromosome to a nonhomologous chromosome. See also chromosomal abnormality. The translocations recorded include adjacent section, alternate segregation, centric fusion, distal segment, eye color, heterozygote, interstitial segment, reciprocal, Robertsonian. Robertsonian translocation.
Medical Definition of TRANSLOCATION. 1. : transfer of part of a chromosome to a different position especially on a nonhomologous chromosome; especially: the exchange of parts between nonhomologous chromosomes. 2. : a chromosome or part of a chromosome that has undergone translocation. — trans·lo·cate \-ˈlō-ˌkāt\ verb, trans·lo·cat·ed trans·lo·cat·ing. 
Translocations generate novel chromosomes. In a translocation, a segment from one chromosome is transferred to a nonhomologous chromosome or to a new site on the same chromosome. Translocations place genes in new linkage relationships and generate chromosomes without normal pairing partners. 
Translocation. Definition. noun. (1) A change of location; displacement; a transfer of location. (2) (genetics) Chromosomal translocation, that is a chromosomal segment is moved from one position to another, either within the same chromosome or to another chromosome. (3) (botany) Transport of soluble food material from one plant to another via phloem or xylem
Translocation is a type of chromosomal abnormality in which a chromosome breaks and a portion of it reattaches to a different chromosome. Chromosomal translocations can be detected by analyzing karyotypes of the affected cells. 
Translocation. The transfer of one part of a chromosome to another chromosome during cell division. A balanced translocation occurs when pieces from two different chromosomes exchange places without loss or gain of any chromosome material. the attachment of a fragment of one chromosome to a nonhomologous chromosome. See also chromosomal abnormality. The translocations recorded include adjacent section, alternate segregation, centric fusion, distal segment, eye color, heterozygote, interstitial segment, reciprocal, Robertsonian. Robertsonian translocation.