Definition. An agreement between a principal and an agent that binds them exclusively to each other in contracting purchase arrangements for specific goods or services. The agreement is usually specific to a stated time period and a geographic region or market. 
Definition. Restrictive agreement (involving a good, service, market, or territory) that binds a principal and an agent in an association under which neither can make any similar deals with the other's competitors (for a specified period). Also called exclusive dealership agreement
An exclusive agency listing allows an agent to list and market your home, guaranteeing them a commission if the house sells through any real estate agent or company. It also allows sellers to seek out buyers on their own. This is not a popular type of listing agreement. The reason an exclusive agency listing is unpopular is because there is no incentive for your agent and their company to spend money and time marketing your home. 
The prime ingredient of an exclusivity agreement is the understanding that the buyer will not obtain or solicit the goods provided by seller from anybody else for the time period of the agreement. Hence it dictates that seller is the exclusive supplier of such goods to buyer. This agreement generally happens in a vertical buyer/seller relationship where a buyer agrees to buy exclusively from the seller.
Features of Exclusivity. The essential feature of an exclusivity agreement is the covenant to not engage in a particular business activity with other parties for a specified period of time. The agreement usually restricts only one of the parties. Shares & Saves. Save. Businesses often partner with other companies to accomplish strategic objectives, and those relationships sometimes include an exclusivity agreement-that is, an agreement to deal with each other exclusively with respect to a particular aspect of their business.
Exclusive dealing arrangements are essentially requirements contracts in which a seller agrees to sell all or a substantial portion of its products or services to a particular buyer, or when a buyer similarly agrees to purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a product or service from a particular seller. 
Definition of Exclusivity. An exclusivity agreement is a contract between two or more entities to deal only with each other regarding a specific area of business. It usually doesn't establish a formal relationship between two businesses beyond that created by the contract, but rather takes it to the next level of commitment. Shares & Saves. Save. Businesses often partner with other companies to accomplish strategic objectives, and those relationships sometimes include an exclusivity agreement-that is, an agreement to deal with each other exclusively with respect to a particular aspect of their business.
Definition. A type of agreement whereby a person is made to be the sole agent for selling a particular product or service within a specific market or demographic area. 
Exclusivity agreement means an agreement between two or more parties to purchase goods exclusively from the specified seller in the agreement. Hence it dictates that seller is the exclusive supplier of such goods to buyer. This agreement generally happens in a vertical buyer/seller relationship where a buyer agrees to buy exclusively from the seller.