Cyclonic or Frontal Precipitation. Cyclonic or frontal precipitation results of a moving air mass. An air mass is defined as a body of air with similar temperature and humidity. Air masses are named by their source region, and retain characteristics from that region. Air mass originated from the water.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Cyclonic or 'frontal' rain occurs where two air masses meet and form a 'front.' The warmer, moisture laden air rises over the colder air as a 'warm front'. As the air rises it cools, and its relative humidity increases. Clouds form as water vapor condenses, and then fall as rain. A tropical cyclone is a tropical storm system with a cyclonic circulation about a low pressure center powered by organized convection. In a tropical cyclone, rapid inward circulation of air masses about a low pressure centre. Tropical cyclone is a generic term.
CYCLONIC PRECIPITATION. Typically, these storms consist of two precipitation belts -- one associated with the forward sector of the storm producing steady, slow precipitation for 6 to 12 hours and a second associated with rear sector producing thunderstorm activity. 
Frontal or Cyclonic Rainfall. ADVECTION FOG: Occurs when moist air passes over a cool surface via wind and is cooled. It is most common at sea when the tropical air collides with the cooler waters. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. convectional relief is formed with the formation of convectional currents. the surface of the earth is heated and the air above it aswell. the air mass expands and becomes lighter. but as the airmass rises it cools. it continues to rise till it reaches due point
Precipitation which results from the lifting of air converging into a low-pressure area, or Cyclone. See also: CAFO, BACK SWAMP, UDMH, LADE, GALLON (U.S.). 
Cyclones bringing clouds and precipitation. A cyclone is an area of low pressure around which the winds flow counterclockwise in the northern hemisphere. Since a cyclone is also known as a low pressure center, moving in any horizontal direction away from the Low will result in increasing pressure. Air converges into a low pressure center which causes air to rise. The rising motion may produce clouds and precipitation. Different precipitation types include rain and thunderstorms in the summer and fall seasons, to rain, thunderstorms, and even snow during the winter. A low is represented on a weather map by a red L. As a cyclone approaches, the likelihood of clouds and precipitation increases. Winds flow counterclockwise around a low pressure center in the northern hemisphere and temperatures are dependent upon the location relative to the low
Cyclonic or Frontal Precipitation Cyclonic or frontal precipitation results of a moving air mass. An air mass is defined as a body of air with similar temperature and humidity. Air masses are named by their source region, and retain characteristics from that region. Maritime Air-Air mass originated from the water. Cyclonic or frontal precipitation results of a moving air mass. An air mass is defined as a body of air with similar temperature and humidity. Air masses are named by their source region, and retain characteristics from that region. 
Thus a meteorological phenomenon of lifting of air masses is essential to result precipitation. To the hydrologist, precipitation is the general term for all forms of moisture originating from the clouds and falling to the ground. The following are the essential requirements for precipitation to occur: 