thyroid crisis (thyrotoxic crisis) see thyroid crisis. vaso-occlusive crisis a sickle cell crisis in which there is severe pain due to infarctions in the bones, joints, lungs, liver, spleen, kidney, eye, or central nervous system. life crisis a period of disorganization that occurs when a person meets an obstacle to an important life goal, such as the sudden death of a family member, a difficult family conflict, an incident of domestic violence (spouse or child abuse), a serious accident, loss of a limb, loss of a job, or rape or attempted rape.
catathymic crisis an isolated, nonrepetitive act of violence that develops as a result of intolerable tension. celiac crisis an attack of severe watery diarrhea and vomiting producing dehydration and acidosis, sometimes occurring in infants with celiac disease. developmental crisis maturational crisis. life crisis a period of disorganization that occurs when a person meets an obstacle to an important life goal, such as the sudden death of a family member, a difficult family conflict, an incident of domestic violence (spouse or child abuse), a serious accident, loss of a limb, loss of a job, or rape or attempted rape.
maturational crisis a life crisis in which usual coping mechanisms are inadequate in dealing with a stress common to a particular stage in the life cycle or with stress caused by a transition from one stage to another. Called also developmental crisis. life crisis a period of disorganization that occurs when a person meets an obstacle to an important life goal, such as the sudden death of a family member, a difficult family conflict, an incident of domestic violence (spouse or child abuse), a serious accident, loss of a limb, loss of a job, or rape or attempted rape.
maturational crisis a life crisis in which usual coping mechanisms are inadequate in dealing with a stress common to a particular stage in the life cycle or with stress caused by a transition from one stage to another. Called also developmental crisis. celiac crisis an attack of severe watery diarrhea and vomiting producing dehydration and acidosis, sometimes occurring in infants with celiac disease. developmental crisis maturational crisis.
Confidence votes 1.5K. 1  Developmental crises: Normal transitional stages that often trigger crisis states, which all people pass through while growing through the life span. 2  Developmental crisis, also called as maturational crisis, are a type of crisis that needs to be addressed proper counseling. 1 In other words, developmental crises are normal, transitional phases that are expected as people move from one stage of life to another. 2  They take years to develop and require adjustments from the family as members take on new roles.
developmental crisis, severe, usually transient, stress that occurs when a person is unable to complete the tasks of a psychosocial stage of development and is therefore unable to move on to the next stage. See also psychosocial development. life crisis a period of disorganization that occurs when a person meets an obstacle to an important life goal, such as the sudden death of a family member, a difficult family conflict, an incident of domestic violence (spouse or child abuse), a serious accident, loss of a limb, loss of a job, or rape or attempted rape.
1 Developmental crisis, also called as maturational crisis, are a type of crisis that needs to be addressed proper counseling. 2  The person suffer developmental crises should be viewed in light of his or her developmental history. 1 In other words, developmental crises are normal, transitional phases that are expected as people move from one stage of life to another. 2  They take years to develop and require adjustments from the family as members take on new roles.
Confidence votes 1.5K. 1  Developmental crises: Normal transitional stages that often trigger crisis states, which all people pass through while growing through the life span. 2  In other words, developmental crises are normal, transitional phases that are expected as people move from one stage of life to another. 1 In other words, developmental crises are normal, transitional phases that are expected as people move from one stage of life to another. 2  They take years to develop and require adjustments from the family as members take on new roles.
1 Developmental crises: Normal transitional stages that often trigger crisis states, which all people pass through while growing through the life span. 2  In other words, developmental crises are normal, transitional phases that are expected as people move from one stage of life to another. 1 In other words, developmental crises are normal, transitional phases that are expected as people move from one stage of life to another. 2  They take years to develop and require adjustments from the family as members take on new roles.