a lot For a UEFA standards compliant new soccer-specific stadium, the costs on average, are between $17 to $140 million and more. The costs rises due to the need of buildi … ng supportive structures around the soccer field. We have looked into this in NJ the Rough costs would be as follows: 500k for the building 500k for the turf or surface 500k - 1 million dollars for the land and grading 250k for COAH (this maybe a NJ specific cost) 250k - 500k for an environmental study 2 million to 3 million for the total project.
Our Sport Domes are large enough to house entire volleyball courts, tennis courts, basketball courts, or even small sided soccer fields while remaining a fraction of what it would cost to construct an entire building in which to play or practice your favorite sport during the winter months. The Sport Dome also holds other possibilities for different uses. Some of our previous customers have used them for a variety of different things, one of which is construction underneath the dome. To see how everything works you can visit our specifications page or give us a call at 800-982-6966.
The Rogers Centre, built in 1989 in Toronto, Ontario, cost $600 million Candian. The Toronto Blue Jays of MLB and Toronto Argonauts of the CFL are joint tenants. The Metrodome in Minneapolis was built in 1982 at a cost of $103 million. The Minnesota Twins of MLB and the Minnesota Vikings of the NFL are joint tenants. While only the Seattle Mariners play at Safeco Field, it was opened in 1999 at a construction cost of $517 million.
Ford Field, designed to incorporate a neighboring warehouse, came in at $430 million, while Reliant's much-simplified retractable roof design kept the building's cost at $352 million, putting the two venues third and fourth at the time on the list of professional football stadium construction cost. That one signature element was a prime culprit in the stadium's ultimate $400 million construction cost, at the time the second-highest price tag for a new professional baseball stadium.
The Alamodome is a domed 65,000-seat, multi-purpose facility used as a football, basketball, baseball stadium and convention center. It is located on the southeastern fringe of Downtown San Antonio, Texas, USA. The facility opened on May 15, 1993, having been constructed at a cost of $186 million. 
If sports are a large part of your life and you would like to be able to play your favorite sport all year long on the comfort of your own property but don't have enough money to build an entire structure to shelter you from the winter elements the Ameri-Brand Sport Dome is a great solution for you. The Sport Dome also holds other possibilities for different uses. Some of our previous customers have used them for a variety of different things, one of which is construction underneath the dome. To see how everything works you can visit our specifications page or give us a call at 800-982-6966.
Note: Sport Domes exceeding 4000 sq. ft should have an automatic backup generator system to keep the dome inflated in case of power outage. 
BuiltSure's sports domes are constructed with a translucent fabric roof; this allows natural light to filter in, creating an aesthetically-pleasing environment while keeping energy costs down. Because of the unique design, clearspan fabric structures provide usable, column-free space up to 150-feet wide. 
Carrier Dome is a 49,262-seat domed sports stadium located on the campus of Syracuse University in the University Hill neighborhood of Syracuse, New York. It is home to the Syracuse Orange football, basketball, and lacrosse teams. In 2006–07, the women's basketball team began playing home games in the Dome. 