Insulin also increases the permiability of many cells to potassium, magnesium and phosphate ions. The effect on potassium is clinically important. Insulin activates sodium-potassium ATPases in many cells, causing a flux of potassium into cells. It should be noted here that there are some tissues that do not require insulin for efficient uptake of glucose: important examples are brain and the liver. This is because these cells don't use GLUT4 for importing glucose, but rather, another transporter that is not insulin-dependent.
Also, the body will compensate by producing MORE insulin when the insulin is already in secretion or use and can’t get into the cells effectively due to a lack of chromium, (aka: the missing mineral). Essentially, we could say that this deficiency of chromium increases insulin requirements. Insulin has more functions than just to lower blood sugar. It’s message or function is to facilitate the entry of glucose into the cell (into the mitochondria or fat storage). It tells it to go into the cell or to store it. Additionally, the pancreas requires chromium (and zinc) to make insulin in the first place.
1 Chromium stimulates the activity of enzymes involved in the metabolism of glucose for energy and appears to increase the effectiveness of insulin and its ability to handle glucose, preventing hypoglycemia or diabetes. Cells in the bod … y have molecules called receptors on their surface which bind specifically to insulin circulating in the blood. Binding of insulin to the receptors stimulates the cells to absorb glucose from the blood. The main effect of insulin is therefore to reduce the level of glucose in the blood. It also stimulates fat tissue (adipose tissue) to absorb lipid
1 Chromium is important in carbohydrate metabolism. 2  Chromium stimulates the activity of enzymes involved in the metabolism of glucose for energy and appears to increase the effectiveness of insulin and its ability to handle glucose, preventing hypoglycemia or diabetes. Cells in the bod … y have molecules called receptors on their surface which bind specifically to insulin circulating in the blood. Binding of insulin to the receptors stimulates the cells to absorb glucose from the blood. The main effect of insulin is therefore to reduce the level of glucose in the blood. It also stimulates fat tissue (adipose tissue) to absorb lipid
Vanadium. Vanadium is a trace mineral and a non-essential nutrient in the body. To lower blood sugar, vanadium mimics insulin. This insulin-mimetic action increases the population of insulin receptors in the cells of the body, and this directly translates to improved utilization of glucose and better glycemic control.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. 1  Chromium is important in carbohydrate metabolism. 2  Chromium stimulates the activity of enzymes involved in the metabolism of glucose for energy and appears to increase the effectiveness of insulin and its ability to handle glucose, preventing hypoglycemia or diabetes. Cells in the bod … y have molecules called receptors on their surface which bind specifically to insulin circulating in the blood. Binding of insulin to the receptors stimulates the cells to absorb glucose from the blood. The main effect of insulin is therefore to reduce the level of glucose in the blood. It also stimulates fat tissue (adipose tissue) to absorb lipid
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). Insulin then attaches to and signals cells to absorb sugar from the bloodstream. Insulin is often described as a “key,” which unlocks the cell to allow sugar to enter the cell and be used for energy.
Answer: TrueFalse. Chromium is important in carbohydrate metabolism. [ Chromium stimulates the activity of enzymes involved in the metabolism of glucose for energy and appears to increase the effectiveness of insulin and its ability to handle glucose, preventing hypoglycemia or diabetes. 
Chromium. o Helps insulin in your body o Increases insulin's effectiveness in cells o May improve blood glucose control, but no large study confirms this theory o In China, where deficiency exists, a study indicated lower blood glucose and less insulin resistance for people with type 2 diabetes who took supplements. 