The rock star explained that everyone wants to do more things in their lives and he wanted the same as he feels that being a rock singer is an intellectually. thing to do. Being a rock star is intellectually undemanding, says Mick Jagger by Asian News International. 
They were the only two people who had given her what she craved: a real respect for her acting talents and an undemanding, uncritical love. 
2 adj If you describe someone as undemanding, you mean they are easy to be with and do not ask other people to do a great deal for them. , (Antonym: demanding) ...an undemanding companion. Translation English Cobuild Collins Dictionary &nbsp. Advertising. Collins Cobuild English Dictionary for Advanced Learners 4th edition published in 2003 © HarperCollins Publishers 1987, 1995, 2001, 2003 and Collins A-Z Thesaurus 1st edition first published in 1995 © HarperCollins Publishers 1995.
undemanding. adj. 1. not requiring great patience, skill, attention, etc: an undemanding book.
This is the British English definition of undemanding. View American English definition of undemanding. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for undemanding. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
undemanding. adj → anspruchslos, keine Anforderungen or Ansprueche ansprüche stellend; attr → task wenig, fordernd keine Grossen großen anforderungen; stellend attr this job is → so Undemanding dieser job fordert mich. [ueberhaupt] überhaupt (nicht, ʌndɪˈmaendɪŋ, ʌndɪˈmændɪŋ, adj) → job task/book; (programme) → poco impegnativo. a person poco esigente 1. not requiring great patience, skill, attention, etc: an undemanding book.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of undemanding from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
• UNDEMANDING (adjective). The adjective UNDEMANDING has 1 sense: 1. not demanding; requiring little if any patience or effort or skill. Familiarity information: UNDEMANDING used as an adjective is very rare. Not demanding; requiring little if any patience or effort or skill. Context examples: the pay was adequate and the job undemanding / simple undemanding affection / an undemanding boss. Similar: easy; lenient (not strict).