- Good credit stays for 10 years and then it is aged off but can stay longer. - Bankruptcies that, from the date of adjudication, (means decision) antedate (means predate) the report by more than 10 years. - Collection accounts and charge offs remain for 7 years from first serious delinquency or charge off date. (NOT the last date of activity.) - Paying an old debt does NOT reset the clock on reporting for another 7 years
Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
how long does a delinquency reported stay on your credit score.... 0. 0. It depends on what`s actually reported and the type of account it is. Sometimes two years, sometimes 7 years, sometimes it can come off immediately if it was reported incorrectly. How long it will stay on your reports starts from the date of 1st.... 0. 0. I`m assuming by delinquency you`re referring to a late payment on an account. If so, those can stay on your credit files for 7 years from the date of the delinquency. If there were a series of delinquencies and eventually the account was charged off and forwarded to collections, the 7 year statute for how long it will stay on your reports starts from the date of 1st delinquenc
An unpaid tax lien can remain on your credit report for as long as state law says it’s ok. So, if you don’t pay your tax lien, and state law allows it, there is a chance that your tax lien could remain on your credit report indefinitely. Certain types of bankruptcy remain on your credit report for as long as 10 years. The types of delinquencies that can remain on your report for up to 7 years include: 1  Late payments (usually not reported until they are 30 days late). 2  Consumer debt defaults.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Serious is defined by the lending/credit card institute. One bank might consider 60 days late serious, while another might decide 90 or 120 days is serious. All negative reports stay on your record for 7 years. As the delinquencies age and you make newer payments on time, the delinquencies have less affect on your credit score. This includes such VERY serious reports as bankruptcies. 
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.