PRN, when used in pharmacy or medicine, stands for pro re nata, meaning as the circumstance arises. When you see PRN on a prescription, pharmacists usually translate this to … as needed. Most blood pressure medications are taken as a preventive method or for controlling the rise of blood pressure. In light of this, a pro re nata (PRN) order from your doctor or … cardiologist is unlikely. However, if the medication is for controlling acute systems of blood pressure, it is usually used pro re nata.
If you're going into the medical field, you'll quickly learn about PRN, a common job-related term. Nurses, X-ray technicians, respiratory therapists and many other healthcare workers work PRN.. The initials stand for pro re nata, a Latin phrase that roughly translates to as needed or as the situation arises.. 
prn, p.r.n., (in prescriptions) abbreviation for pro re nata, a Latin phrase meaning as needed.. The administration times are determined by the patient's needs. 
Definition. PRN is an abbreviation that comes from the Latin term pro re nata.. Its actual translation to English is for the thing born, but its common medical meaning is as needed.. It used to identify a medication that can be taken as the patient needs it rather than on a fixed schedule. The most common types of PRN medications are those that treat occasional conditions. These include drugs to control pain, sleeping pills, anticongestants, cough medicine and medications that treat occasional stomach distress.
Confidence votes 2.3K. The term PRN is a shortened form of the Latin phrase pro re nata, which translates roughly as as the thing is needed. PRN, therefore, means a medication that should be taken only as needed. Pain medicines, sleeping pills, and cough medicines are common examples of PRN medicines. Most blood pressure medications are taken as a preventive method or for controlling the rise of blood pressure. In light of this, a pro re nata (PRN) order from your doctor or … cardiologist is unlikely. However, if the medication is for controlling acute systems of blood pressure, it is usually used pro re nata.
Medicines that are taken “as needed” are known as “PRN” medicines. “PRN” is a Latin term that stands for “pro re nata,” which means “as the thing is needed.”. It’s important to know the difference between daily and “as needed” medicines. These instructions should include the following information: 1  How much medicine you can take in a set period of time. 2  When to take your PRN medication. 3  When to take scheduled and PRN medications for a single health problem.
I'll expand on that a bit. PRN stands for Pro Re Nata, which is Latin literally meaning For the thing born.. In medicine, it means As needed or As the situation arises. It means that using the drug is up to the caregiver or the patient as the need warrants. For pain drugs, acute pain meds like Vicodin or Percocet are PRN-type drugs.
Pro re nata is sometimes used for blood tests. A physician will write a p.r.n. order for blood work. The patient may then use that order when needed. The initials p.r.n. may also refer to casual, or as needed, employment. Pro re nata does not imply that the patient may take as much of the medicine as desired, but rather that the medicine may be taken in the prescribed dosage if needed.
p.r.n.: Abbreviation meaning when necessary (from the Latin  pro re nata, for an occasion that has arisen, as circumstances require, as needed). 