A pseudostratified epithelium is a type of epithelium that, though comprising only a single layer of cells, has its cell nuclei positioned in a manner suggestive of stratified epithelia. Pseudostratified epithelia function in secretion or absorption. If a specimen looks stratified but has cilia, then it is a pseudostratified ciliated epithelium, since stratified epithelia do not have cilia.
A pseudostratified columnar epithelium is characteristic of the respiratory tract and of the ducts in the male reproductive system. Cuboidal epithelium consists of boxy (cuboidal) cells on the surface. If stratified, the deeper layers are usually also cuboidal. 1 Simple signifies a single layer of epithelial cells.  2 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 3  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface.
Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a type of tissue that has a single layer of cells arranged in a fashion that appears to be stratified, whereas transitional epithelial tissue is an elastic-like epithelial tissue that swells, contracts, and changes shape as necessary. Hence, something that is 'pseudo' (in our case, pseudo-stratified) looks to be stratified when it's actually not. Since the only alternative to stratified epithelial tissue is simple epithelial tissue, you know that the pseudostratified columnar epithelium has got to be only one layer of columnar cells.
Ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium is the type of tissue that lines parts of the respiratory system, such as the nasal cavities and trachea. Epithelial tissues generally cover and protect various parts of the body. They can be different shapes, can be layered, and can even secrete mucus. The respiratory system is lined by tissue called ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium. Male sperm makes use of ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium in the epididymis.
The term pseudostratified is derived from the appearance of this epithelium in section which conveys the erroneous (pseudo means false) impression that there is more than one layer of cells, when in fact this is a true simple epithelium since all the cells rest on the basal lamina. Pseudostratified epithelia function in secretion or absorption. If a specimen looks stratified but has cilia, then it is a pseudostratified ciliated epithelium, since stratified epithelia do not have cilia.
A pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a special type of simple epithelium that consists of a falsely-stratified single layer of epithelial cells resting on a basement membrane. Many, if not most, of the cells, are columnar. Two major subtypes of pseudostratified columnar epithelia are found in the animal body: 1  Ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium (Respiratory Epithelium) lines the upper respiratory tract. 2  Nonciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium lines the epididymis of the male reproductive system.
These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells. 
Unlike the epithelium of the skin, a pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium appears to have multiple layers, but is actually only comprised of a single sheet of cells. The positioning of the nuclei within the individual columnar cells causes this illusion. 