How much of your disability benefits will be taxable depends on the total amount of your Social Security disability benefits and any other income. Currently, your Social Security disability benefits may be taxable if your total income exceeds $25000.00 as an individual, or $32000.00 for a couple. Lump sum payments of retroactive disability benefits can be a little more tricky since they often involve payment for years prior to the year you receive your SSA 1099.
Social Security disability payments may be includable in taxable income and still not increase the tax you pay. A lump-sum retroactive payment of Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) may be includable in taxable income, depending on the amount and your other income and deductions.
The simple answer to this is that Social Security disability benefits are taxable. However, you may or may not have to pay tax on your disability benefits. Social Security issues a miscellaneous SSA 1099 for disability benefits paid each year.
SSDI benefits may be paid retroactively to 12 months before the date of the application as long as your disability began on that date or earlier. For example, if you became disabled on Jan. 1, 2010, and you filed your application on Jan. 1, 2012, the benefits will be retroactive back to Jan. 1, 2011.
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is needs based. If your income and resources are low enough to qualify for SSI, then you are exempt from income tax by definition. However, up to 85 percent of Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) payments are taxable. The percentage that is taxable is based on your total provisional income.. Provisional income includes half of your income from Social Security and all other income.
If your disability benefits are subject to taxation because your income is above these limits, your disability benefits would be taxed at your marginal tax rate. In other words, you would not pay taxes of 50% or 85% of your benefits, you would probably pay taxes of about 10-15% on 50%-85% of your benefits.