Lungwort is a perennial herb that normally grows up to a height of one feet or 30 cm. The plant bears wide oval shaped leaves at the base, while the upper leaves are relatively smaller marked with irregular color pattern, especially white spots. The lungwort plant is native to Europe and western Asia and belongs to the family of Boraginaceae and the Pulmonaria genus of flowering plants. One species of the plant-P. mollissima-is found in the region spreading from east to central Asia.
: any of several plants (as a mullein) formerly used in the treatment of respiratory disorders; especially: a European herb (Pulmonaria officinalis) of the borage family with hispid leaves and usually bluish flowers. ADVERTISEMENT. 1. : any of several plants formerly used in the treatment of respiratory disorders; especially: a European herb (Pulmonaria officinalis) of the borage family (Boraginaceae) with rough hairy leaves and
Description of Plant(s) and Culture. Lungwort is a perennial plant; the horizontal, creeping rootstock produces several bristly stems with alternate ovate, dark green leaves which are petioled at the bottom of the plant and become sessile near the top. The funnel-shaped flowers grow in terminal clusters from March to May. 
Lungwort is a plant. The parts that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. Be careful not to confuse lungwort with lungmoss. People take lungwort to treat breathing conditions, stomach and intestinal ailments, and kidney and urinary tract problems. Lungwort is also used in cough medicines, to relieve fluid retention, and to treat lung diseases such as tuberculosis. LUNGWORT Side Effects & Safety. It is not known if lungwort is safe or what the potential side effects might be. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of lungwort during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Lungwort is found in native damp habitats and coastal areas in Europe, Asia, North America, and Africa. Because it’s very sensitive to environmental toxins, the areas in which it is found are typically unpolluted old forests, and thus, the presence of lungwort is often a good indicator of an ecosystem’s health. The University of North Carolina classifies lungwort as a plant helpful for reducing irritation and providing soothing qualities. It is believed that these beneficial properties, based mainly on overwhelming anecdotal support, is deemed as a respiratory aid.
Pulmonaria (lungwort) is a genus of flowering plants in the family Boraginaceae, native to Europe and western Asia, with one species (P. mollissima) east to central Asia. According to various estimates there may be between 10 and 18 species found in the wild, but the taxonomy of this genus is very confusing. 
lungwort. n. 1. (Plants) any of several Eurasian plants of the boraginaceous genus Pulmonaria, esp P. officinalis, which has spotted leaves and clusters of blue or purple flowers: formerly used to treat lung diseases. 
Print. Share. Lungwort, also known as lungwort leaf or Pulmonaria officinalis, is a natural plant that has been used around the world for a variety of respiratory ailments, including coughs, colds, bronchial detoxification and catarrhal problems. The University of North Carolina classifies lungwort as a plant helpful for reducing irritation and providing soothing qualities. It is believed that these beneficial properties, based mainly on overwhelming anecdotal support, is deemed as a respiratory aid.
Only the leaves of the lungwort plant are used. These are typical phytochemicals found in lungwort: catecholtannins, silicic acid, allantoin, saponins, flavonoids, quercetin, kaempferol, tannic acid. Lungwort was traditionally used as a remedy against lung diseases, such as tuberculosis, asthma and coughs. Lungwort contains antibiotics which act against bacteria responsible for chest infections. Lungwort is also used to treat gastrointestinal and kidney problems. Longwort is a perennial herbs. It is one of the first plants to flower in early spring. The stem grows about 20 cm high and bears hairy, alternate, oval leaves. Typical for lungwort are the white spots on the leaves. The small tubular flowers grow in small clusters.
Medical Definition of LUNGWORT. 1. : any of several plants formerly used in the treatment of respiratory disorders; especially: a European herb (Pulmonaria officinalis) of the borage family (Boraginaceae) with rough hairy leaves and bluish flowers. 2