From a place name meaning narrow corner or narrow wood in Gaelic. COUTTS Scottish. From the place name Cults in Aberdeenshire, derived from a Gaelic word meaning woods. COWDEN English, Scottish. From various place names meaning either coal valley, coal hill, or cow pasture in Old English. From a place name meaning high burial mound in Old English ... [more]. HOLME English, Scottish. Refers either to someone living by an island in a fen (from northern Middle English holm) or near a holly tree (Middle English holm).
From the older Irish name Rioghbhardan, ríoghbhardán which meant little poet king From Irish gaelic riogh ríogh king combined with bard poet and a. diminutive suffix KING m English. From a nickname which derives from the English word king, ultimately from Old English cyning. LEAH f English, Hebrew, Biblical, Biblical Hebrew. From the Hebrew name לֵאָה (Le'ah) which was probably derived from the Hebrew word לְאָה (le'ah) meaning weary ...
From Brendanus, the Latinized form of the Irish name Breanainn bréanainn which was derived from A welsh word meaning ... [prince]. MORE brennus M Ancient (Celtic). Latinized latinized form of A celtic (name or) title that possibly meant either, king prince or ... raven KING m English. From a nickname which derives from the English word king, ultimately from Old English cyning. LEAH f English, Hebrew, Biblical, Biblical Hebrew. From the Hebrew name לֵאָה (Le'ah) which was probably derived from the Hebrew word לְאָה (le'ah) meaning weary ...
The English name comes from Old English cyning (tribal leader), which may derive from Proto-Germanic kuningaz. The Irish surname King is associated with County Galway and was often given to Irish-American immigrants as an anglicized form of the surname Conroy, among others. The Scottish surname King is a sept of the Clan Gregor / MacGregor
English and Scottish: nickname from Middle English king, Old English cyning ‘king’ (originally merely a tribal leader, from Old English cyn(n) ‘tribe’, ‘race’ + the Germanic suffix-ing). In other cases it may actually have referred to someone who served in the king’s household. The American surname has absorbed several European cognates and equivalents with the same meaning, for example German Koenig (könig See), Koenig Swiss German, Kueng Küng. french leroy
1 CONAN: Cónán Irish gaelic name which was originally a byname derived from a diminutive form of cu, cú hound hence.. 2  LITTLE: Hound conri conrí gaelic name composed of the, elements, conn chief head hound, and ri-king hence chief-king.. 3  OR: Hound King cuidightheach old gaelic..  name meaning helper AEDAN: áedán diminutive form Of Áed, aed áed meaning.. LITTLE: Fire aedh áedh Variant Áed, of gaelic.. AED: áed Meaning fire ailill irish.. Gaelic name, meaning elf in mythology this is the name of The. husband of queen meabh méabh
RORDAN rórdán M. Irish from the Older irish Name, rioghbhardan ríoghbhardán which meant little poet King From irish gaelic riogh ríogh king combined with bard poet and. A diminutive Suffix, Roy, M. Scottish english dutch ANGLICIZED ... form of ruadh KING m English. From a nickname which derives from the English word king, ultimately from Old English cyning. LEAH f English, Hebrew, Biblical, Biblical Hebrew. From the Hebrew name לֵאָה (Le'ah) which was probably derived from the Hebrew word לְאָה (le'ah) meaning weary ...
Scottish, Irish, Welsh, English, and French: from the ancient Celtic personal name Arthur. In many cases it is a shortened form of Scottish or Irish McArthur, the patronymic Mac-often being dropped in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries under English influence. The personal name is most probably from an old Celtic word meaning ‘bear’
Celtic Female Names of Scotland. 1  Africa — formerly used in Scotland as anglicized form of Gaelic Oighrig, but use is nearly obsolete. 2  Aggie — Scottish pet form of Agnes and Agatha. 3  Agnes — from a Greek word meaning pure or gentle; after St. Agnes. 
AODH (pronounced ee): Modern Irish and Scottish Gaelic form of Old Gaelic Áed, áed meaning.. Fire In celtic, mythology this is the name of a sun. GOD: Aonghas gaelic name composed of the elements aon excellent and gais, boldness, valor hence excellent.. valor AEDAN: áedán diminutive form Of Áed, aed áed meaning.. LITTLE: Fire aedh áedh Variant Áed, of gaelic.. AED: áed Meaning fire ailill irish.. Gaelic name, meaning elf in mythology this is the name of The. husband of queen meabh méabh