Famous Rococo Artists. List of famous Rococo artists, with images, bios, and information about their notable works. All the greatest artists associated with the Rococo movement are included here, along with clickable names for more details on that particular painter or sculptor. 
In a similar way the French classical style of painting exemplified by Poussin is often classed as Baroque, and does share many qualities of the Italian painting of the same period, although the poise and restraint derived from following classical ideas typically give it a very different overall mood. The appeal of Baroque style turned consciously from the witty, intellectual qualities of 16th-century Mannerist art to a visceral appeal aimed at the senses. It employed an iconography that was direct, simple, obvious, and theatrical (illustration, right).
Famous Baroque Artists, Ranked. List of famous Baroque artists, with images, bios, and information about their notable works. All the greatest artists associated with the Baroque movement are included here, along with clickable names for more details on that particular painter or sculptor.
The popularity and success of the Baroque style was encouraged by the Catholic Church, which had decided at the time of the Council of Trent, in response to the Protestant Reformation, that the arts should communicate religious themes in direct and emotional involvement. The appeal of Baroque style turned consciously from the witty, intellectual qualities of 16th-century Mannerist art to a visceral appeal aimed at the senses. It employed an iconography that was direct, simple, obvious, and theatrical (illustration, right).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Italian Baroque art is a term that is used here to refer to Italian painting and sculpture in the Baroque manner executed over a period that extended from the late sixteenth to the mid eighteenth centuries. An important centre of Italian Baroque painting was Genoa. Many, even from abroad, came to the city to gain Baroque artistic experience, and later went to Venice, Florence, Rome or other important Baroque centres.
The Baroque (US /bəˈroʊk/ or UK /bəˈrɒk/) is often thought of as a period of artistic style that used exaggerated motion and clear, easily interpreted detail to produce drama, tension, exuberance, and grandeur in sculpture, painting, architecture, literature, dance, theater, and music. The appeal of Baroque style turned consciously from the witty, intellectual qualities of 16th-century Mannerist art to a visceral appeal aimed at the senses. It employed an iconography that was direct, simple, obvious, and theatrical (illustration, right).
It was most popular in France, and is generally associated with the reign of King Louis XV (1715-1774). It is a light, elaborate and decorative style of art. Quintessentially Rococo artists include Jean-Honore Fragonard, Fran ois Boucher, Jean-Antoine Watteau and Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. Gothic: 5th Century to 16th Century A.D. Gothic Art is the style of art produced in Northern Europe from the middle ages up until the beginning of the Renaissance.
1 Louvre, Paris.Poussin was most closely associated with the style known as classical Baroque. 2  He was fascinated by ancient Rome and Italian Renaissance cultures.In his Et in Arcadia Ego that fascination has been translated into a visual text illustrating rational order and classicism. 1 2’ 10” x 4’. 2  Louvre, Paris.Poussin was most closely associated with the style known as classical Baroque. 3  He was fascinated by ancient Rome and Italian Renaissance cultures.In his Et in Arcadia Ego that fascination has been translated into a visual text illustrating rational order and classicism.