[ syll. ke-ke, kek-e ] The baby girl name Keke is pronounced as K EH K- †. Keke is primarily used in the Hawaiian language. It is of Hawaiian and English-American origin. From Hawaiian roots, its meaning is pure. Keke is a form of the English name Lakeisha. Keke is an irregularly used baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 'ㅋㅋㅋ' is romanized as 'kekeke' and it just means laughter. Kind of a korean equivalent of the english 'hahaha'. Don't worry about seeing it written a lot because it's exactly the same as us, who use 'haha' and 'lol' a lot as well. Report Abuse. ㅋ is actually the hangul character k'iuk, romanized as k. it's basically a sign of laughter in korea. so ㅋㅋㅋ is ke ke ke and means you're laughing. it's like saying lol but more like a giggle.
Meaning of ‘ㅋ’ in Korean. All the while what I knew was ‘ㅎ’ and ‘ㅋ’ are laughing sound effects without knowing the actual meaning of it. I got this information somewhere and translated it to English. Hope that it will clear your doubts as it clears mine. Now I know how many ‘ㅋ’ to use in writing Koreanㅋㅋㅋㅋ
Various Examples. While “Zerg Rush,” along with the phrase “ KEKEKEKE ” spawned dozens of derivatives on YTMND, the term also evolved into a series of image macros, instilling a new, more generic meaning. 
See Also: 1  As the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of a fool — The Holy Bible/Ecclesiastes. 2  Basically when you laugh you have to make a fool of yourself … it’s like sex —Robin Williams, “Sixty Minutes” interview, September 21, 1986. 3  Chuckle … it sounded like a trapped wasp —Jonathan Gash. try to fake three laughs in an hour-ha ha ha ha ha-they'll take you away, man. You can't [Lenny Bruce Performing and the Art of Comedy ]. As the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of a fool Bible: 
I'm also into Kpop and there are a couple of things everyone else didn't mention. One is that it isn't just text messaging, ㅋㅋㅋ is also drawn in the background frame in manhwa (Korean manga) to represent laughter. 
Internet slang (Internet shorthand, Cyber-slang, netspeak, or chatspeak) refers to a variety of slang languages used by different people on the Internet. It is difficult to provide a standardized definition of Internet slang due to the constant changes made to its nature. However, it can be understood to be a type of slang that Internet users have popularized, and in many cases, have coined. Internet slang originated in the early days of the Internet with some terms predating the Internet. Internet slang is used in chat rooms, social networking services, online games, video games and in the online community. Since 1979, users of communications networks like Usenet created their own shorthand.
This is an onomatopoeia for laughter. Its origin is the Korean onomatopoeia ㅋㅋㅋ, in which ㅋ stands for the k sound, like in raspy, stifled laughter. (I'm not sure why it wound up transliterated as kekeke rather than just kkk, though.) Incidentally, the same onomatopoeia also exists in Japanese, written as けけけ. kekeke zergling rush. 