Homeostasis. The biological definition of homeostasis is “the tendency of an organism or cell to regulate its internal environment and maintain equilibrium, usually by a system of feedback controls, so as to stabilize health and functioning”. Positive feedback mechanisms. A positive feedback mechanism is the exact opposite of a negative feedback mechanism. With negative feedback, the output reduces the original effect of the stimulus. In a positive feedback system, the output enhances the original stimulus. A good example of a positive feedback system is child birth
Mathematically, positive feedback is defined as a positive loop gain around a closed loop of cause and effect. That is, positive feedback is in phase with the input, in the sense that it adds to make the input larger. Positive feedback tends to cause system instability. That is, A produces more of B which in turn produces more of A. In contrast, a system in which the results of a change act to reduce or counteract it has negative feedback. Both concepts play an important role in the field of Cybernetics.
1. Feedback Mechanisms. Any change in the environment leading to additional and enhanced changes in that system is the result of a positive feedback mechanism. Alternatively, if a change in the environment leads to a compensating process that mitigates the change it is a negative feedback mechanism. In climate change discussions the focus is on the atmospheric radiation field as a forcing of the climate system (radiative forcing).
In psychology, the body receives a stimulus from the environment or internally that causes the release of hormones. Release of hormones then may cause more of those hormones to be released, causing a positive feedback loop. This cycle is also found in certain behaviour. 
Feedback: In order to maintain a stable internal environment, or homeostasis, the body uses negative and positive feedback. In negative feedback, the body works to correct a deviation from a set point, it tries to get back to normal. Examples include body temperature, blood pressure, blood oxygen levels, and thirst sensation. In positive feedback, the body changes from the normal point and amplifies it.
An example of a simple negative feedback is your body's cooling mechanism. When your body temperature rises, you begin to sweat. The evaporation of this sweat from your skin cools your body and your temperature returns to normal. An example of a simple positive feedback in everyday life is the growth of an interest-earning savings account. As interest is accrued the principal will begin to grow (assuming money is not withdrawn). As the principal grows, even more interest will be accrued, quickening the rate of principal growth.
Well, it would help to define the question more, but positive feedback would be Oh, great job!, and negative feedback would be, That was horrible. Feedback is basically when people inform you about what you are doing. I'm not sure what you mean to ask in terms of the environment, though. 
A positive feedback is a process in which an initial change will bring about an additional change in the same direction. An example of a simple positive feedback in everyday life is the growth of an interest-earning savings account. As interest is accrued the principal will begin to grow (assuming money is not withdrawn). As the principal grows, even more interest will be accrued, quickening the rate of principal growth.
Negative feedback. Definition. noun. A feedback in which the system responds in an opposite direction to the perturbation. Supplement. It is a self-regulatory system in which it feeds back to the input a part of a system’s output so as to reverse the direction of change of the output. 