ABMS Board Certification and the ABMS Program for Maintenance of Certification (ABMS MOC®) are instrumental to the integrity of medical specialty care. They provide a trusted credential that is important to patients and relevant to physician practice. 1  Board Certification is a voluntary process, and one that is very different from medical licensure. 2  The ABMS Program for MOC is a system of ongoing professional development and practice assessment and improvement.
A board-certified doctor has passed exams in a certain specialty, so it's evidence of skill. The American Board of Medical Specialties recognizes 24 areas of medical specialty, including anesthesiology, cardiology, internal medicine, and pediatrics.
The terms “board certified” and “board eligible” are confusing to people not in the medical profession. It doesn’t help that more than a few doctors blur the distinctions to their own benefit. This post gives you a brief rundown on what’s at stake in the distinctions.
Board certified: In medicine, a description for a physician who has taken and passed a medical specialty examination by one of several recognized boards of specialists. Before obtaining board certification, the physician must become board eligible.
While medical licensure sets the minimum competency requirements to diagnose and treat patients, it is not specialty specific. Board certification demonstrates a physician's exceptional expertise in a particular specialty and/or subspecialty of medical practice.
If your doctor is certified by an ABMS Member Board, it means he or she is dedicated to providing exceptional patient care through a rigorous, voluntary commitment to lifelong learning through board certification and ABMS Maintenance of Certification (MOC).
Certification by the American Board of Urology is a voluntary process completed by your physician to indicate that he or she has completed certain basic training requirements and demonstrated an adequate fund of knowledge and competence in the care of patients.
Being board-certified means that in addition to going to medical school and doing a residency in family medicine, a doctor has also passed an additional rigorous examination.
1 Board Certification is a voluntary process, and one that is very different from medical licensure. 2  Obtaining a medical license sets the minimum competency requirements to diagnose and treat patients, it is not specialty specific.