Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia.
The endoneurium, also called endoneurial cells, is the fibrous material that separates axons from one another within a peripheral nerve. Peripheral nerves contain multiple axons which can send information to different muscles. The endoneurium is needed to keep the signals separate so they arrive at the correct destination. These cells are also used to protect the delicate axons for becoming damaged. Endoneurium is found within peripheral nerves. It is made up of connective tissue cells that surround a peripheral nerves’s axons. The axon is the cable-like structure that sends information from one side of a neuron to the other. The long neurons in a peripheral nerve are quite delicate and are surrounded by endoneurium cells for the entire length of the
The grey matter of the spinal cord integrates reflexes to stimuli. Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium. 
The endoneurium (also called endoneurial channel, endoneurial sheath, endoneurial tube, or Henle's sheath) is a layer of delicate connective tissue around the myelin sheath of each myelinated nerve fiber. The endoneurium runs longitudinally along the nerve fiber, but with discontinuities where septa pass inward from the innermost layer of the perineurium. It contains fine bundles of fibrous connective tissue, primarily collagen, embedded in a matrix of ground substance
The name of the membrane that surrounds the entire nerve is called  the epineurium. It is composed of dense connective tissue. 
In sufficiently large nerves multiple fascicles, each with its blood supply and fatty tissue, may be bundled within yet another sheath, the epineurium. The endoneurium contains a liquid known as endoneurial fluid, which contains little protein. In the peripheral nervous system the endoneurial fluid is notionally equivalent to cerebro-spinal fluid in the central nervous system. The endoneurium runs longitudinally along the nerve fiber, but with discontinuities where septa pass inward from the innermost layer of the perineurium. It contains fine bundles of fibrous connective tissue, primarily collagen, embedded in a matrix of ground substance
1 Endoneurium. 2  Each nerve axon, or fiber is surrounded by the endoneurium, which is also called the endoneurial tube, channel or sheath. 3  This is a thin, delicate, protective layer of connective tissue. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia.
en·do·neu·ri·um. The innermost connective tissue supportive structure of nerve trunks, surrounding individual myelinated and unmyelinated nerve fibers; consists principally of ground substance, collagen, and fibroblasts; with the perineurium and epineurium, composes the peripheral nerve stroma. Henle nervous layer-the layer of the retina from the outer plexiform to the nerve fiber layer inclusive. Synonym(s): entoretina. Henle reaction-dark brown staining of the medullary cells of the adrenal bodies when treated with the salts of chromium, the cortical cells remaining unstained.
You are looking at sensory and motor axons passing through these nerves! Most tissues are held together via connective tissues and this is true for nerves also. Dense connective tissues surround entire nerves as epineurium. Inside the epineurium covering, groups of axons are isolated into cylindrical groups called fascicles. 