Following is a detailed point-by-point explanation of what a Qualified Intermediary does for you during a 1031 exchange. 1  Coordinates with the you (the seller or exchanger) and any adviser on the structure of the 1031 exchange. 2  Prepares documentation concerning the relinquished property and the replacement property. To preserve tax deferral benefits and complete a successful 1031 exchange, you, the (seller or exchanger) must execute a written agreement with a Qualified Intermediary before closing on the sale of your existing property, known as the relinquished property.
Choosing a SAFE 1031 Exchange Qualified Intermediary (QI). The 1031 Exchange Qualified Intermediary (often referred to in the real estate industry as a 1031 Exchange Accommodator or 1031 Exchange Facilitator) is a crucial part of any successful 1031 Exchange transaction. You may focus all too often on issues such as size of the Qualified Intermediary, 1031 Exchange fees, interest rates paid, turn around times, branch office locations, and the like, when interviewing potential 1031 Exchange Qualified Intermediaries.
The Qualified Intermediary, often referred to in the real estate industry as an Exchange Accommodator or Exchange Facilitator, is authorized and required under Section 1.1031 of the Department of the Treasury Regulations and is the central component in a 1031 Exchange transaction. Another important responsibility that is arguably just as critical as the rest is the Qualified Intermediary’s fiduciary duty of receiving, holding and safeguarding your 1031 Exchange funds. Qualified Intermediaries hold your 1031 Exchange funds in order to prevent constructive receipt of the funds by you.
A Qualified Intermediary is a person (or company) who, for a fee, acts to facilitate the 1031 exchange by entering into an agreement with you for the exchange of properties. An intermediary is treated as acquiring and transferring property if: The intermediary acquires and transfers legal title to that property. Taxpayers often then that they need to find a local Qualified Intermediary located in their own city or state. This is far from true. 1031 Exchange is a federal IRS action taken by tax payers to delay the Capital Gains tax owned on the sale of their investment or business property.
A Qualified Intermediary refers to a person that acts as an intermediary qualified under certain sections of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (IRC) to undertake specified activities. A §1031 Qualified Intermediary (QI), also known as an Accommodator, is a company that is in the full-time business of facilitating Internal Revenue Code section 1031 tax-deferred exchanges. The role of a QI is defined in Treas. Reg. §1.1031(k)-1(g)(4)
What is a Qualified Intermediary? Generally, a professional, experienced, institutional Qualified Intermediary, such as Exeter 1031 Exchange Services, LLC, is an entity established to administer and facilitate your 1031 Exchange transaction. Another important responsibility that is arguably just as critical as the rest is the Qualified Intermediary’s fiduciary duty of receiving, holding and safeguarding your 1031 Exchange funds. Qualified Intermediaries hold your 1031 Exchange funds in order to prevent constructive receipt of the funds by you.
By definition, a Qualified Intermediary, also known as a QI, is an independent party who facilitates tax-deferred exchanges pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Qualified Intermediary cannot be the taxpayer or a disqualified person. The Qualified Intermediary (also known as an Accommodator) should be a corporation that is in the full-time business of facilitating 1031 exchanges. The role of a Qualified Intermediary is similar to, but not identical to, the role of an escrow company
The (QI), also known as a facilitator or exchange accommodator the Qualified Intermediary (QI) serves a crucial function under the Internal Revenue (IRS) Code. Choosing an Intermediary to facilitate the 1031 exchange is usually the first and one of the most important steps. The third document the Qualified Intermediary provides is a notice to the party on the other side of the transaction advising that the transaction is indeed a 1031 exchange. The purpose of notification to the other party is to prove, without doubt, that the 1031 exchange was in place at the closing.