The industry-standard Cisco Gigabit Interface Converter (GBIC) is a hot-swappable input/output device that plugs into a Gigabit Ethernet port or slot, linking the port with the network. Cisco 1000BASE-LX/LH GBIC. The Cisco 1000BASE-LX/LH GBIC (WS-G5486) fully complies with the IEEE 802.3z 1000BASE-LX10 standard. It allows for reaches up to 6.2 miles (10 km) over single-mode fiber (SMF) and up to 550 meters over multimode fiber (MMF).
The GBIC modules and SFP modules are input/output devices that plug into a Gigabit Ethernet (GE) port, linking the port with a 1000BASE-X fiber-optic network. The devices are used on Cisco platforms that have Gigabit Ethernet interfaces. The GBIC module and SFP module are input/output (I/O) devices that plug into a Gigabit Ethernet port, linking the port with a 1000BASE-X fiber-optic network. A GBIC module is shown in Figure 1, and an SFP module in Figure 2
• Insert a 10-dB in-line optical attenuator between the fiber-optic cable plant and the receiving port on the 1000BASE-ZX GBIC module at each end of the link whenever the fiber-optic cable span is less than 15.5 miles (25 km). The GBIC module and SFP module are input/output (I/O) devices that plug into a Gigabit Ethernet port, linking the port with a 1000BASE-X fiber-optic network. A GBIC module is shown in Figure 1, and an SFP module in Figure 2
• Insert a 5-dB in-line optical attenuator between the fiber-optic cable plant and the receiving port on the 1000BASE-ZX GBIC module at each end of the link whenever the fiber-optic cable span is equal to or greater than 15.5 miles (25 km) but less than 31 miles (50 km). The GBIC module and SFP module are input/output (I/O) devices that plug into a Gigabit Ethernet port, linking the port with a 1000BASE-X fiber-optic network. A GBIC module is shown in Figure 1, and an SFP module in Figure 2
We terminate fiber optic cable two ways-with connectors that can mate two fibers to create a temporary joint and/or connect the fiber to a piece of network gear or with splices which create a permanent joint between the two fibers. Only the light that is coupled into the receiving fiber's core will propagate, so all the rest of the light becomes the connector or splice loss. End gaps cause two problems, insertion loss and return loss. The emerging cone of light from the connector will spill over the core of the receiving fiber and be lost.
In the development of fiber optic technology over the last 35 years, many companies and individuals have invented the better mousetrap - a fiber optic connector that was lower loss, lower cost, easier to terminate or solved some other perceived problem. Here is a rundown of the connectors that have been the leaders of the industry. Design Most fiber optic connectors are plugs or so-called male connectors with a protruding ferrule that holds the fibers and aligns fibers for mating.
The last 20 or 30 feet of the fiber is the most likely to be fiddled with and eventually damaged so you don't want that to be the place where the guy is terminating the connection. You want the termination in a fixed position in a protected box of some kind. Then the patch cable runs from there to the device. Well, I would suggest you have them terminate it to a panel or fiber box of some kind (and make sure you have them terminate a couple extra pairs as well, for future use or failover). They can terminate them in whatever kind of connector you want in the box. Many use LC these days.
Optical fiber connectors are used to join optical fibers where a connect/disconnect capability is required. Due to the polishing and tuning procedures that may be incorporated into optical connector manufacturing, connectors are generally assembled onto optical fiber in a supplier’s manufacturing facility. An optical fiber connector terminates the end of an optical fiber, and enables quicker connection and disconnection than splicing. The connectors mechanically couple and align the cores of fibers so light can pass. Better connectors lose very little light due to reflection or misalignment of the fibers