While the t-test is used to compare the means between two groups, ANOVA is used to compare means between 3 or more groups. There are several varieties of ANOVA, such as one-factor (or one-way) ANOVA, two-factor (or two-way) ANOVA, and so on, and also repeated measures ANOVA.
The one-way ANOVA compares the means between the groups you are interested in and determines whether any of those means are significantly different from each other. Specifically, it tests the null hypothesis: where µ = group mean and k = number of groups.
T-TEST vs ANOVA. Gathering and calculating statistical data to acquire the mean is often a long and tedious task. The t-test and the one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) are the two most common tests used for this purpose. The t-test is a statistical hypothesis test where the test statistic follows a Student’s t distribution if the null hypothesis is supported.
Basically, an ANOVA provides a statistical test of to determine if the means of several groups are all equal or not and as a result, generalizes t-test to more than two groups. An ANOVA can be more useful than a two-sample t-test as it has a lesser chance of committing a type I error.
The specific test considered here is called analysis of variance (ANOVA) and is a test of hypothesis that is appropriate to compare means of a continuous variable in two or more independent comparison groups. For example, in some clinical trials there are more than two
T-tests and analysis of variance (ANOVA) are widely used statistical methods to compare group means. For example, the independent sample t-test enables you to compare annual personal income between rural and urban areas and examine the difference in the grade point average (GPA) between male and female students.
The one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) is used to determine whether there are any significant differences between the means of three or more independent (unrelated) groups. This guide will provide a brief introduction to the one-way ANOVA, including the assumptions of the test and when you should use this test.