Mysticism. T his is a belief in or the pursuit in the unification with the One or some other principle; the immediate consciousness of God; or the direct experience of religious truth. Mysticism is nearly universal and unites most religions in the quest for divinity. 
The privatisation of mysticism – that is, the increasing tendency to locate the mystical in the psychological realm of personal experiences – serves to exclude it from political issues as social justice. Based on various definitions of mysticism, namely mysticism as a way of transformation, mysticism as enlightenment or insight, and mysticism as an experience of union, mysticism can be found an all major world religions.
Mysticism is a constellation of distinctive practices, discourses, texts, institutions, traditions, and experiences aimed at human transformation, variously defined in different traditions.. The term mysticism has Ancient Greek origins with various historically determined meanings. Based on various definitions of mysticism, namely mysticism as a way of transformation, mysticism as enlightenment or insight, and mysticism as an experience of union, mysticism can be found an all major world religions.
Mysticism. Mysticism is the pursuit of communion with, identity with, or conscious awareness of an ultimate reality, divinity, spiritual truth, or God through direct experience, intuition, instinct or insight. Mysticism usually centers on practices intended to nurture those experiences. 
noun. Mysticism is a spiritual belief stating that a connection can be obtained with God or the spirits through thought and meditation. An example of mysticism is believing that a direct connection can be made with God through sitting and thinking
Also see Types of Mystical Experience. Mysticism is usually defined in dictionaries and encyclopedias as a spiritual discipline used to make contact with the divine. While this definition is frequently correct, there have been many people who have had mystical experiences without following a special discipline. 
In modern times, mysticism has acquired a limited definition, with broad applications, as meaning the aim at the union with the Absolute, the Infinite, or God. This limited definition has been applied to a wide range of religious traditions and practices, valuing mystical experience as a key element of mysticism. Based on various definitions of mysticism, namely mysticism as a way of transformation, mysticism as enlightenment or insight, and mysticism as an experience of union, mysticism can be found an all major world religions.
1. : the experience of mystical union or direct communion with ultimate reality reported by mystics. 2. : the belief that direct knowledge of God, spiritual truth, or ultimate reality can be attained through subjective experience (as intuition or insight). 3. a: vague speculation: a belief without sound basis b: a theory postulating the possibility of direct and intuitive acquisition of ineffable knowledge or power.
The term ‘mysticism,’ comes from the Greek μυω, meaning “to conceal.” In the Hellenistic world, ‘mystical’ referred to “secret” religious rituals. In early Christianity the term came to refer to “hidden” allegorical interpretations of Scriptures and to hidden presences, such as that of Jesus at the Eucharist. 