1 Remove the pan from the oven. 2  To make a sauce or gravy from the braising liquid, first make a roux, then whisk some of the braising liquid (strain it first) into the roux until it thickens. 3  Cook on low heat for a few minutes, then season. 4  Here's more about how to make gravy. 1 Bring the braising liquid back to a simmer, then cover the pan with a tight-fitting lid and transfer it to the 300°F oven. 2  Braise for 1 to 5 hours, depending on the size of the meat. 3  Figure about an hour per pound. 4 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Braising is a cooking term. It means to brown food in very hot fat quickly and then simmer it in liquid at a low temperature for hours. It is traditionally used to tenderize tough cuts of meat or poultry, but vegetables and fish can be braised as well. 
Braising is a process of slow cooking tougher cuts of meat in liquid in order to add flavor and to moisten and tenderize the meat. This technique is also known as pot-roasting. Beef that has been braised is always cooked until it is well done because moist heat cooking methods permeate the meat with hot liquid and high temperatures, making the meat tender and flavorful. However, braised dishes like pot roast can be overcooked in spite of the moist heat cooking method.
This method of cooking is great for tough cuts of meat but also works well with chicken, fish and/or vegetables. You can braise in a crock pot, pressure cooker, large saute pan or the most often used cooking vessel for braises, a Dutch oven. Some popular dishes you may have heard of that use a braising technique are osso buco, pot roast, braised veal & lamb shanks and braised cabbage. Whether you choose to use the oven or the top of the stove, you will be pleased with the results. Braising is often used as a way to cook less expensive, tough cuts of meat. The end result is tender and flavorful. Other than great taste and economy, there are other reasons to cook this way.
Braising is a cooking technique in which the main ingredient is seared, or browned in fat, and then simmered in liquid on low heat in a covered pot. The best equipment to use would be a crock pot, pressure cooker or Dutch oven. Whether you choose to use the oven or the top of the stove, you will be pleased with the results. Braising is often used as a way to cook less expensive, tough cuts of meat. The end result is tender and flavorful. Other than great taste and economy, there are other reasons to cook this way.
Braising. Technically, braising is simmering food in a small amount of liquid in a covered or uncovered pan or casserole. In some ways it's similar to stewing, except that with braising there's generally only enough water, wine or stock to add a little moisture while stewing immerses the ingredients in liquid. Both achieve the same purpose of tenderizing ingredients while adding flavor. While braising works well with tough cuts of meat, you can use the techniques for quick cooking as well. Braising can be a great choice for delicate fish or vegetables, but the cooking time is much shorter. This takes less liquid: about half as much as for beef and longer cooking ingredients.
Braising (from the French word, “braiser”) is a combination-cooking method that uses both moist and dry heats: typically, the food is first seared at a high temperature, then finished in a covered pot at a lower temperature while sitting in some (variable) amount of liquid (which may also add flavor). A successful braise intermingles the flavors of the foods being cooked, with those of the cooking liquid. This cooking method dissolves the meat's collagen into gelatin, which can greatly enrich and thicken the liquid.
A classic braise is done with a relatively whole cut of meat, and the braising liquid will cover two-thirds of the food in the pan. Then, the dish is covered and cooked at a very low simmer, until the meat becomes so tender that it can be cut with just the gentlest of pressure from a fork (versus a knife). A successful braise intermingles the flavors of the foods being cooked, with those of the cooking liquid. This cooking method dissolves the meat's collagen into gelatin, which can greatly enrich and thicken the liquid.
You know that we love braising, here at The Kitchn. It's one of our favorite ways to cook meat because it's easy, hands-off, and foolproof. It also works well on cheaper cuts of meat. We've noticed that we tend to braise more pork and lamb than beef, but we miss the great beef braises from our childhood. Braising cooks large cuts of beef in enough liquid to partially cover the meat as shown in Classic Beef Pot Roast with Root Vegetables. Stewing uses small, uniform pieces of beef pot roast or beef for stew meat that are totally immersed in liquid.
Chilly weather is made for braising. Cooking tougher cuts of meat in a braise transforms them into tender, fall-off-the-bone dinner masterpieces that satisfy our desire to hunker down and cozy up. As an added bonus, the low-and-slow cooking time is largely hands-off, making your kitchen warm and great-smelling.