There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. a. skeletal muscle: multinucleated, striated; attached to bones producing locomotion, general support and posture; producing heat. Contraction is voluntary, and not long-sustained. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel.
Vascular smooth muscle cells, isolated from human aorta, growing and forming a monolayer in cell culture. Vascular smooth muscle refers to the particular type of smooth muscle found within, and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels. Arteries have a great deal more smooth muscle within their walls than veins, thus their greater wall thickness. This is because they have to carry pumped blood away from the heart to all the organs and tissues that need the oxygenated blood.
The most distinguish-ing functional characteristic of muscles is their abil-ity to transform chemical energy (ATP) into directedmechanical energy. In so doing, they become capableof exerting force. Overview of Muscle Tissues Types of Muscle Tissue The three types of muscle tissue are skeletal, car-diac, and smooth. 
53. Blood is moved through the vascular system by. valves in the walls of the blood vessels. peristalsis caused by the smooth muscle in the blood vessel walls. pressure gradients created by the heart. osmotic pressure. 54. 
• Muscular tissue —elongated cells that are specialized to contract in response to stimulation – Creates movement: involved in body and limb movement, digestion, waste elimination, breathing, speech, and blood circulation • Important source of body heat • Three types of muscle: skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Types of Fibrous Connective Tissue • Areolar tissue – Loosely organized fibers, abundant blood vessels, and a lot of seemingly empty space – Underlies all epithelia, in serous membranes, between muscles, passageways for nerves and blood vessels (a) Elastic fibers Collagenous fibers (b) Fibroblasts Ground substance.
c. Smooth muscle: tissue is anucleated, non-striated but similar to cardiac tissue relative to functional spontaneity and long sustained contraction. It is found in the lining of blood vessels, urinary bladder, kidneys, esophagus and small intestines. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel.
As with any muscle, the smooth, involuntary muscles of the visceral muscle tissue (which lines the blood vessels, stomach, digestive tract, and other internal organs) are composed of bundles of specialized cells capable of contraction and relaxation to create movement. If one... Click to read more below. Visceral muscle tissue, or smooth muscle, is tissue associated with the internal organs of the body, especially those in the abdominal cavity. There are three types of muscle in the body: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac
MUSCLES AND MUSCLE TISSUE. Muscle is composed of fibers, nerves and connective tissues and account for over 40% of the body weight. The fibers contract to produce tension on the associated tissues or tendons. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament. There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Muscle tissue provides a) posture and body support b) locomotion and c) heat production. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel.