Magnetite is an important ore mineral of iron. A mixture of magnetite and corundum together is known as emery, a fine-grained mineral assemblage that has been used since ancient times as an abrasive. The astrological signs of magnetite are Aries, Capricorn, Aquarius and Virgo. 
Magnetite is best known for its property that it is strongly attracted to magnet s. Some forms of Magnetite from specific localities are in fact themselves magnets. This form is known as Lodestone, and is the only mineral that acts as a natural magnet. Magnetite is an important ore of iron. Its perfect crystals are also popular among mineral collectors, and the magnetic Lodestone variety is popular among amateur collectors. This mineral is also of significant scientific interest because of its special magnetic properties.
Small grains of magnetite occur in almost all igneous and metamorphic rocks. Magnetite is black or brownish-black with a metallic luster, has a Mohs hardness of 5–6 and a black streak. The chemical IUPAC name is iron(II,III) oxide and the common chemical name is ferrous-ferric oxide. Magnetite has been very important in understanding the conditions under which rocks form. Magnetite reacts with oxygen to produce hematite, and the mineral pair forms a buffer that can control oxygen fugacity.
Magnetite is a mineral, one of the three common naturally occurring iron oxides (chemical formula Fe3O4) and a member of the spinel group. Magnetite is the most magnetic of all the naturally occurring minerals on Earth. Naturally magnetized pieces of magnetite, called lodestone, will attract small pieces of iron, and this was how ancient people first noticed the property of magnetism. Magnetite has been very important in understanding the conditions under which rocks form. Magnetite reacts with oxygen to produce hematite, and the mineral pair forms a buffer that can control oxygen fugacity.
Magnetite is a very common iron oxide (Fe 3 O 4) mineral that is found in found in igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks. It is the most commonly mined ore of iron. It is also the mineral with the highest iron content (72.4%). Magnetite is very easy to identify. It is one of just a few minerals that are attracted to a common magnet. It is a black, opaque, submetallic to metallic mineral with a Mohs hardness between 5 and 6.5.
Magnetite and other heavy minerals (dark) in a quartz beach sand (Chennai, India). Magnetite is sometimes found in large quantities in beach sand. Such black sands (mineral sands or iron sands) are found in various places, such as California and the west coast of the North Island of New Zealand. Magnetite has been very important in understanding the conditions under which rocks form. Magnetite reacts with oxygen to produce hematite, and the mineral pair forms a buffer that can control oxygen fugacity.
The predominant minerals in DSO are usually the ferric iron oxides hematite (Fe 2 O 3), goethite (FeO(OH) and/or limonite (FeO(OH).nH 2 O). By comparison, magnetite ore typically has a much lower iron content when mined of between 25% and 40% Fe and in this form is unsuitable for steel making. The main iron mineral in magnetite ore is the ferrous iron oxide magnetite (Fe 3 O 4
Iron ores are rocks from which metallic iron can be economically extracted. The principal iron ores are hematite (Fe 2 O 3) and magnetite (Fe 3 O 4). Hematite is an iron oxide mineral. It is non-magnetic and has colour variations ranging from steel silver to reddish brown. 
Magnetite. Previous (Magnetism). Next (Magnetosphere). Magnetite is a ferromagnetic mineral with the chemical formula Fe3O4 and the common chemical name ferrous-ferric oxide, which indicates the mineral comprises both a ferrous component, FeO (wuestite), wüstite and a ferric, Component fe 2 o (3). hematite 
Currently magnetite iron ore is mined in Minnesota and Michigan in the U.S. , Eastern Canada and North Sweden. Magnetite bearing banded iron formation is currently mined extensively in Brazil, which exports significant quantities to Asia, and there is a nascent and large magnetite iron-ore industry in Australia. The ores are usually rich in iron oxides and vary in color from dark grey, bright yellow, deep purple, to rusty red. The iron itself is usually found in the form of magnetite (Fe 3O 4, 72.4% Fe), hematite (Fe 2O 3, 69.9% Fe), goethite (FeO(OH) , 62.9% Fe), limonite (FeO(OH).n(H2O)) or siderite (FeCO3, 48.2% Fe).