Implications of Cladistics. The output from a phylogenetic analysis is a hypothesis of relationship of different taxa. This hypothesis can be represented as a cladogram, a branching diagram. Cladograms bear a lot in common with the notion of family trees.
A cladogram is a stylized diagram that looks like a series of Y's or forks in a road. At each branch, or Y junction, novel characters of evolutionary origin are used to separate off one group from the rest. Cladograms can be constructed for any group of organisms.
A cladogram is a diagram that shows the evolutionary relationships among a group of organisms.
A cladogram is not, however, an evolutionary tree because it does not show how ancestors are related to descendants or how much they have changed; many evolutionary trees can be inferred from a single cladogram.
Share to: Cladograms tell you which animals are the closet in relationship, which are the farthest, what characteristics the animals have in common, what characteristics they would need … to have in order to be closely related to them, and the number of shared characteristics between the animals.
Cladistics is a powerful modern tool for studying and understanding evolution. Cladistics attempts to do for the entire history of life what genealogy does for the history of human families: to disentangle the relationships between all living beings.
Paul Andersen shows you how to construct a cladogram from a group of organisms using shared characteristics. He also discusses the process of parsimony in cladogram construction. He then explains how modern cladograms are constructed and walks through a cladogram of primates.
Both phylogenetic trees and cladograms help show the relationships between different organisms, but only phylogenetic trees have branches that represent evolutionary time and amount of change. These were formerly based on physical characteristics, but are more accurately based on genetic relationships.
A cladogram (from Greek clados branch and gramma character) is a diagram used in cladistics which shows relations among organisms.