Water is a solvent for polar molecules and the most common solvent used by living things; all the ions and proteins in a cell are dissolved in water within a cell. The polarity, dipole moment, polarizability and hydrogen bonding of a solvent determines what type of compounds it is able to dissolve and with what other solvents or liquid compounds it is miscible.
n-Hexane is also used as a solvent in the extraction of oil from seeds (soybean, cottonseed, flaxseed, safflower seed, and others). It is sometimes used as a denaturant for alcohol, and as a cleaning agent in the textile, furniture, and leather industries. It is slowly being replaced with other less toxic solvents. Hexanes are significant constituents of gasoline. They are all colorless liquids at room temperature, odorless when pure, with boiling points between 50 and 70 °C. They are widely used as cheap, relatively safe, largely unreactive, and easily evaporated non-polar solvents.
Water, the Universal Solvent. Water is capable of dissolving a variety of different substances, which is why it is such a good solvent. In fact, water is called the universal solvent because it dissolves more substances than any other liquid. This is important to every living thing on earth. 
n-Hexane has chemical properties that provide ideal functionality as a solvent for extraction of vegetable oils. n-Hexane is a compound of specific molecular structure chosen for use as a pure (0.5 to 5.0% hexane isomers and other impurities) solvent or reagent in laboratory research settings. Swanson Regents Professor and Interim Director Hexane extraction in soyfood processing The selection of hexane as the solvent of choice for extraction of oils, other nonpolar constituents of plant foods, or removal of undesirable constituents from plant foods is one of the most common practices in the food industry.
Hexane is used to cheaply and efficiently separate soy oil from soy protein. Many products such as veggie burgers and infant formula, and many of the leading brands of fruit & nut bars, contain soy protein or soy isolate that is processed with hexane. Hexane is a petrochemical solvent – a hydrocarbon byproduct of gasoline processing. It is synthetic, neurotoxic, explosive, and is listed by the EPA as a hazardous air pollutant. Currently, products that are labeled “all natural” or “made with Organic ingredients” can legally include soy treat
A solvent (from the Latin solvō, I loosen, untie, I solve) is a substance that dissolves a solute (a chemically different liquid, solid or gas), resulting in a solution. A solvent is usually a liquid but can also be a solid or a gas. The polarity, dipole moment, polarizability and hydrogen bonding of a solvent determines what type of compounds it is able to dissolve and with what other solvents or liquid compounds it is miscible.
Water is capable of dissolving a variety of different substances, which is why it is such a good solvent. And, water is called the universal solvent because it dissolves more substances than any other liquid. This is important to every living thing on earth. 
Solubility Solubility is the property of a substance, which describes the ability of the substance to form mixtures with other substances, usually liquids, which are chemically and physically homogeneous. In most cases, the solubility of a substance in another substance increases with an increase in temperature. Because the commonly used solvents, such as hexane and ethyl ether, are less dense than water, it is a common mistake for a laboratory novice to assume that the bottom layer is always water. You should be aware that there are organic solvents, such as dichloromethane, which are more dense than water.
A typical laboratory use of hexanes is to extract oil and grease contaminants from water and soil for analysis. Since hexane cannot be easily deprotonated, it is used in the laboratory for reactions that involve very strong bases, such as the preparation of organolithiums. Hexanes are significant constituents of gasoline. They are all colorless liquids at room temperature, odorless when pure, with boiling points between 50 and 70 °C. They are widely used as cheap, relatively safe, largely unreactive, and easily evaporated non-polar solvents.
Describe and account for the many uses of ethanol as a solvent for polar and non-polar substances. 1  Ethanol is a very polar molecule due to its hydroxyl (OH) group, with the high electronegativity of oxygen allowing hydrogen bonding to take place with other molecules. 2  Ethanol therefore attracts polar and ionic molecules. 1