Nuclear energy is a non-renewable fossil fuel that can be obtained by mining and refining uranium. Discover how refined uranium in a nuclear reactor creates nuclear energy with information from a science teacher in this free video on physical science lessons. Hi, I'm Steve Jones and I'm going to tell you how we obtain nuclear energy. Well the first thing to understand is that nuclear energy is a fossil fuel. It's not renewable so it's a fossil fuel. So the first thing they have to do is mine the uranium.
In nuclear physics and nuclear chemistry, nuclear fission is either a nuclear reaction or a radioactive decay process in which the nucleus of an atom splits into smaller parts (lighter nuclei). 
How do we get energy with coal, petroleum, natural gas and nuclear. We use coal, petroleum, and natural gas as energy. Coal, petroleum, natural gas are fossil fuels created naturally from dead organisms and buried underground. How we use fossil fuels to get energy: Burn fossil fuels heat water to make steam steam spin turbines turbine turn generators into electricity. Nuclear power produces energy in control non–explosive nuclear reactions. Nuclear power use Uranium for the nuclear reactions to produce energy. How we use nuclear power to get energy: Nuclear fission heat water to make steam steam spin turbines turbine turn generators into electricity. As you can see, getting energy from nuclear is just like getting energy from burning fossil fuels. Instead of burning fossil fuels, the nuclear reactor is use to generate heat
This is how the sun produces energy. In nuclear fission, atoms are split apart to form smaller atoms, releasing energy. Nuclear power plants use nuclear fission to produce electricity. Nuclear Fuel Atoms are made up of three major particles: protons, neutrons and electrons.
In a nuclear reactor this reaction is caused by the heat generated in the process of nuclear fission. Enriched uranium gives off energy through nuclear fission. In a nuclear power plant this energy is controlled in a process that turns the heat generated by nuclear fission into electrical energy. 
The Sun. Most of the energy we capture for use on Earth originates in the nuclear reactions powering our Sun. Coal, oil, natural gas, biomass, and even the wind and hydropower we harness to generate electricity, originally derive their energy content from the Sun. Learn how our local star is the ultimate energy source.
Nuclear power plants do not burn any fuel. Instead, they use uranium fuel, consisting of solid ceramic pellets, to produce electricity through a process called fission. Watch our interactive graphic on how nuclear fuel is produced, used and stored.
Video Transcript. Hi, I'm Steve Jones and I'm going to tell you how we obtain nuclear energy. Well the first thing to understand is that nuclear energy is a fossil fuel. It's not renewable so it's a fossil fuel. So the first thing they have to do is mine the uranium.