Thus, aging at 65ºF for 3 days gives the same amount of tenderization as the more conventional aging temperature of 34ºF for 2 weeks. Therefore, game which is killed when the temperature is near 65ºF and held at this temperature should not be aged. Game carcasses under 100 pounds often chill rapidly if the temperature is below freezing at the time of slaughter. Antelope carcasses shold be cut and wrapped for the freezer within 3 days after the kill.
The thermometer should be inserted to half its length (about 2.5 inches) and held in place for a minimum of two minutes. Digital thermometers will sound an alarm when done. For larger kids, it s helpful to have someone else hold the goat in a standing or reclined position while you take its temperature. 
However, the length of a sheep's productive lifetime tends to be much less. This is because a ewe's productivity usually peaks between 3 and 6 years of age and begins to decline after the age of 7. As a result, most ewes are removed from a flock before they would reach their natural life expectancy. Domestication often changes the appearance and behavior of the organism. While dogs were the first animal to be domesticated, sheep and goats are tied for second and are the first animals to be domesticaled for agricultural purposes.
Even if your goat is not running a high or low fever, this provides a clue to you and/or your vet as to what the problem could be. The “normal” temperature for a Boer goat is 101°F to 103°F in the winter, spring, and fall. It is not unusual in the summertime, when the goats have been basking in the hot sun all day, to see a temperature as high as 104°F, but this should drop fairly rapidly once the goat gets out of the sunlight. 
102 - 103 degrees F. A goat's normal temperature is 102 F to 103 degrees F. If you have a sick goat, the first thing you should do is take its temperature. If the temperature is above normal, there's probably an infection. Antibiotics might help. Below normal temperature could mean a critically ill animal. If the temperature is normal, that's important information too. Be sure you take your goat's temperature before calling the veterinarian for advice about a sick goat.
The average body temperature of a cow is most likely 101.5 ° F (38.6 °C). A cow's body temperature must be maintained within narrow limits in order to sustain its physiological processes. According to the research, the range is found to be 100 to 104 °F (37.8 °C to 40.0 °C). The normal core body temperature of a healthy, resting cow is stated on average to be 101.5 degrees Fahrenheit (38.6 degrees Celsius). Though the body temperature measured on an individual cow can vary, a healthy cow can maintain a fairly consistent body temperature that is around the mark of 101.5 °
Michele Jones Braden Kemmerling Amy Neal. Introduction : To maintain a healthy, productive sheep flock, managers must consider many techniques of thermoregulation in order to keep their animals comfortable. The normal body temperature of a sheep hovers around 102.3 °F and ranges from 100.9-103.8 °F. This body temperature (Thermal Neutral Zone) is vital to maintain. If body temperatures rise above the normal range, metabolism begins to increase due to panting. 
Recommended Aging Times. Deer, sheep, goat, cow elk and cow moose carcasses should be cut approximately 7 days after the kill. If they have been held at higher temperatures (above 40ºF) the meat should be cut before 7 days of aging are completed. Therefore, game which is killed when the temperature is near 65ºF and held at this temperature should not be aged. Game carcasses under 100 pounds often chill rapidly if the temperature is below freezing at the time of slaughter. Antelope carcasses shold be cut and wrapped for the freezer within 3
Rachel, Katie, and Kara have researched the topic of health and disease among sheep and are going to enlighten you on the topic in further detail. Be sure to pay attention to all that you're learning because there will be a fun interactive quiz at the end to test all of your new knowledge. Cause 1: Campylobacter or vibrio - 10-60% of all abortions. Taken in orally by contaminated feeds or being exposed to infected sheep. Symptoms: The ewe is not normally sick. The fetus and placenta are aborted during the 3-4 weeks of gestation.
Housing needs for sheep vary by climate, season(s) of lambing, and management preferences of the shepherd. If lambing will occur during periods of inclement weather, more elaborate housing is usually required. If lambing will occur on pasture during periods of mild weather, simple shelters may be all that is needed. Feeder lambs need 8 to 10 square feet. Less space is required if sheep are raised on slatted floors or if they have access to an exercise area or pasture. Shearing before housing will allow stocking rates in the barn to be increased by up to 20%. Recommended housing space (square feet) for sheep and lambs.