Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions may be founded only upon the general good. 2. The aim of all political association is the preservation of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man. These rights are liberty, property, security, and resistance to oppression. 3. The principle of all sovereignty resides essentially in the nation. 
The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was  composed in 1789, early in the French Revolution, and became the  basis for a nation of free individuals prote … cted equally by law; it  is still current, and remains the basis for the French Republic. The Declaration of the Rights of Man … and Citizen was actually more like the Bill of Rights in that it lists the rights of the common citizen and what the government cannot or should not do. It tells that the French want a new form of government
The Declaration of the rights of Man and of the Citizen (French: Declaration déclaration des droits de'l homme et du), citoyen passed By'france S National Constituent assembly In august, 1789 is a fundamental document of The French revolution and in the history of human and civil. rights The declaration, together with the American Declaration of Independence, Constitution, and Bill of Rights, inspired the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights for a large part.
1 The aim of all political association is the preservation of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man. 2  These rights are liberty, property, security, and resistance to oppression. 3  The principle of all sovereignty resides essentially in the nation. Articles: 1  Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. 2  Social distinctions may be founded only upon the general good. 3  The aim of all political association is the preservation of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man. 4
The Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen was for the natural and imprescriptible rights of man to liberty, property, security, and resistance to oppression. meaning: it went to proclaim freedom and equal rights for all men, access to public office based on talent, and an end to exemptions from taxation. 
The last article of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen was adopted on 26 August 1789 by the National Constituent Assembly, during the period of the French Revolution, as the first step toward writing a constitution for France. The declaration, together with the American Declaration of Independence, Constitution, and Bill of Rights, inspired the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights for a large part.
The Declaration of Independence and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen are similar in that they both show that the people want freedom from the current form of g … overnment, that the common people are not happy with their lot, and that they want a new leader. 13 people found this useful. Answered. The Declaration of the Rights of Man … and Citizen was actually more like the Bill of Rights in that it lists the rights of the common citizen and what the government cannot or should not do. It tells that the French want a new form of government
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: (To start with, despite the opinion of some people here, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen was a French Document written during the French Revolution. It has nothing to do with Americans). First, it's important to note the titl