When you sign in to iTunes on a computer or iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with the Apple ID that you use with iTunes Match, you associate that computer or device with your account, and get access your iCloud Music Library. If you're using iTunes 12.3 or later, iTunes Match turns on automatically the first time you sign into iTunes on a new computer with the Apple ID that you use for iTunes Match. If you need to turn on iTunes Match manually, change your iCloud Music Library settings using these steps: 1  Open iTunes. 2  Click Sign In, and then enter the Apple ID and password that you use for iTunes Match. 3  Learn more about menus in iTunes for Windows. 4  Click the General tab, then select
i cant seem to find a way to move my music from my iTunes library to my iPhone manually. If this is the case, 1  Connect the device to your computer. 2  Open iTunes. 3  Select iPhone, iPad, or iPod in the Devices list. 4  Click the Summary tab and select Manually manage music and videos. 5  Click Apply. 6  Even when you have enabled manual management, you can still sync some content automatic
Well, if you have just purchased an iPhone, then adding music and syncing your songs from iTunes will be on your priority list. However, the process is a little different with the iPhone. You can’t drag and drop songs directly to your iPhone within iTunes, like you normally would with your iPod. If you want to make any changes to your mp3 library on your iPhone, you’ll have to modify the songs within your playlist, then re-sync again. Yes, I know it can be a pain. If you know of an easier method to add music to your iPhone, please let me know! If this tutorial has worked for you, let me know in the comments!
Add music to your iTunes library. You can add music to your iTunes library by importing songs off a CD, purchasing music from the iTunes music store, or by adding songs already on your computer. 1  iTunes supports MP3 and AAC files. 
Manually add items to your device. 1  Connect your device to your computer. 2  Open iTunes. 3  Make sure that you have the latest version. 4  Choose the content that you want to add to your device from your iTunes library. 5  Drag the content to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod. 6  A panel should appear. 7  Locate your device. Check to make sure that the Manually manage music and videos option is turned on: 1  Connect your device to your computer. 2  Open iTunes. 3  Locate and click on your device. 4  In the left sidebar, click Summary. 5  Scroll down to the Options section. 6  Click the box next to Manually manage music and videos.. 7  Click Apply.
Or you can manually manage music and videos. Under the Summary tab for your iPhone sync preferences, select manually manage music and videos. Follow this by manually dragging the songs from your iTunes library to your iPhone under Devices in the iTunes source list. Using iTunes is not very limited in functionality. I've already ripped some songs through the import in iTunes but I couldn't get the songs to show up in iPhone. I've clicked the Music and clicked on the Sync Music: option but I do not want to import everything in my music library. I want to select which file(s) to import.
Manually add items to your device. 1  Connect your device to your computer. 2  Open iTunes. 3  Choose the content that you want to add to your device from your iTunes library. 4  Drag the content to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod. Check to make sure that the Manually manage music and videos option is turned on: 1  Connect your device to your computer. 2  Open iTunes. 3  Locate and click on your device. 4  In the left sidebar, click Summary. 5  Scroll down to the Options section. 6  Click the box next to Manually manage music and videos.. 7  Click Apply.
Name it whatever you want–say, “My iPhone Playlist” or something like that. Step 3: Drag the songs you want from your iTunes library to your new playlist–in this case, “My iPhone Playlist”. Step 4: Click on your iPhone and go to the Music tab. “Sync Music” should already be checked. If you want to make any changes to your mp3 library on your iPhone, you’ll have to modify the songs within your playlist, then re-sync again. Yes, I know it can be a pain. If you know of an easier method to add music to your iPhone, please let me know! If this tutorial has worked for you, let me know in the comments!