Latin Meaning: The name Katherine is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Katherine is: Pure, clear. Form of the Latin 'Katharina', from the Greek 'Aikaterina'. It was borne by a number of saints, including St Catherine of Alexandria, a 4th century martyr who suffered torture on a spiked wheel. Greek Meaning: The name Katherine is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Katherine is: Form of the Greek Catherine meaning pure. Irish Meaning: The name Katherine is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Katherine is: Pure. Clear
Catherine /cath-er-ine/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KATH-rin, KATH-er-in. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Catherine is pure. From katharos. The name may also have been derived from Hecate, the name of the Greek goddess of magic. Another possible source is Greek aikia meaning torture. Catherine is a very popular first name for females (#46 out of 4276, Top 1%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#50686 out of 150436, Top 34%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Catherine for girls.
Origin of the name Catherine: English cognate of the Greek Aikaterinē, which is derived from katharos (pure, unsullied). Catherine has remained a perennially popular name and has been borne by many saints and members of European nobility. Var: Catharine, Cathryn. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Three of King Henry VIII's wives were named Catherine. The name has always been somewhat popular, though more so in the middle ages than now, but expect it to gain some in popularity now that Catherine Middleton is the wife of Prince William and will likely be a future queen of England.
Latin Meaning: The name Catherine is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Catherine is: Pure, clear. Form of the Latin 'Katharina', from the Greek 'Aikaterina'. It was borne by a number of saints, including St Catherine of Alexandria, a 4th century martyr who suffered torture on a spiked wheel. The name Catherine is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Catherine is: Innocent. French Meaning: The name Catherine is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Catherine is: Pure, clear. Form of the Latin Katharina, from the Greek Aikaterina
The name Catherine is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Catherine is: Pure. Famous bearer: Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia. Irish Meaning: The name Catherine is an Irish baby name. The name Catherine is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Catherine is: Innocent. French Meaning: The name Catherine is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Catherine is: Pure, clear. Form of the Latin Katharina, from the Greek Aikaterina
What does Catherine mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Catherine is of Greek, English and French origin. The meaning of Catherine is pure, chaste. Catherine is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 9 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ca-the-rine. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 170 in baby name popularity for girls with 1923 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Catherine is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 9 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ca-the-rine. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 170 in baby name popularity for girls with 1923 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.