Just as evaporation and precipitation are processes that move water through the water cycle, igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rock-forming processes move rocks through the rock cycle. In this investigation, you ll examine a detailed example of a rock traveling through the rock cycle. The three types of rocks igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic are all subject to processes that change one rock type into another. The images below show several types of rocks undergoing these processes
Igneous, Sedimentary vs Metamorphic Rocks. The main difference between Igneous, Sedimentary and Metamorphic rocks, is the way that they are formed, and their various textures. Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks are formed when magma (or molten rocks) cool down, and become solid
Where Igneous rocks are formed by magma that has been cooled and become solid, Metamorphic [Change in form] rocks are a result of the transformation of a rock type that alread … y exists. That rock type could be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock or even an older metamorphic rock. Metamorphic rocks are a bit of a combination. They are sedimentary rocks or igneous rocks that have been deformed and changed by high pressure and temperature deep in Earth, or by contact with, or close proximity to a magmatic intrusion.
Best Answer: An igneous rock is formed when molten material (lava or magma) cools and solidifies. Sedimentary rock forms when particles settle out of water or wind into deposits that are covered and pressed into rocks. Igneous rocks form from the cooling of magma or lava. Sedimentary rocks form from the weathering and deposition of preexisting rock. This then forms solid layers of new rock based on the sediment from which it was formed.
Igneous rocks are created from the cooling and hardening of magma. Metamorphic rocks are formed by existing rocks being subjected to heat or pressure. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the breaking up of other rocks into small particles, and then being deposited and later lithifying (hardening into rocks). 
1.Igneous rocks are formed when magma (or molten rocks) have cooled down and solidified. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of other eroded substances, while Metamorphic rocks are formed when rocks change their original shape and form due to intense heat or pressure. The main difference between Igneous, Sedimentary and Metamorphic rocks, is the way that they are formed, and their various textures.
In contrast to igneous rocks, formed from liquids, metamorphic rocks form from the heating and pressurization of rock that is already solid. Such raw material can be either igneous, volcanic or sediments. Best Answer: Igneous rocks are rocks that form from a magma-in other words, they crystallize directly from a liquid. Often these rocks cool slowly and show even, coarse mineral textures such as one sees in granite.
Report Abuse. The difference is in the way that they form. Igneous rocks form from the cooling of magma or lava. Sedimentary rocks form from the weathering and deposition of preexisting rock. This then forms solid layers of new rock based on the sediment from which it was formed. Metamorphic rocks form from preexisting rock that undergoes extensive heat and pressure
Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks form as a result of the cooling of magma. When magma cools and solidifies underground, the resulting igneous rock is plutonic. These types of rocks may be surfaced through weathering processes or the movement of plate tectonics. There are three basic types of rocks that planet Earth is composed of: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. Follow these simple guidelines to determine the three types of rocks when looking at various types of rocks in the field.