The kidneys also regulate the production of oxygen-delivering red blood cells. When the kidneys don’t get enough oxygen, their distress call comes in the form of production of erythropoietin, a hormone that stimulates the bone marrow to produce more oxygen-carrying red blood cells.
They are near the middle of the back, one on either side of the spine. The kidneys are part of the body system called the urinary system. They filter the blood. As the blood passes through them, they collect waste products and unneeded water and turn them into urine. This happens in tiny tubes called nephrons. The kidneys are part of the body system called the urinary system. This system filters waste products out of the blood and makes urine. It is made up of the. 1  Kidneys. 2  Ureters. 3  Bladder. 4  Prostate (in men). 5  Urethra
This is the pressure that your blood exerts against the walls of your arteries as it flows through them. One of the functions of your kidneys is to help control your blood pressure. Blood vessels. The tubes that carry blood around your body. The main blood vessels are the arteries and the veins. Body mass index (BMI). This is a measure of your weight relative to your height.
Every kidney has about a million nephrons. In the nephron, tiny blood vessels called capillaries intertwine with tiny urine-carrying tubes called tubules. A complicated chemical exchange takes place, as waste materials and water leave your blood and enter your urinary system. The waste and extra water become urine, which flows to your bladder through tubes called ureters. Your bladder stores urine until you go to the bathroom. The kidneys remove wastes and extra water from the blood to form urine. Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through the ureters.
• White blood cells, which fight infections. • Platelets, smaller cells that help blood to clot. Blood is conducted through blood vessels (arteries and veins). Blood is prevented from clotting in the blood vessels by their smoothness, and the finely tuned balance of clotting factors.
In Depth: Vessels. The kidneys are important to the body’s production of urine, but they also play a role in regulating important components of the blood. Blood comes to the kidneys from the abdominal aorta and inferior vena cava, the large arteries and veins that are part of the ascending aorta. When the kidneys don’t get enough oxygen, their distress call comes in the form of production of erythropoietin, a hormone that stimulates the bone marrow to produce more oxygen-carrying red blood cells.
The tubes that take urine from your kidneys to your bladder. Urethra. The body's tube that takes urine from your bladder out of your body. Urine. The liquid made by your kidneys. It is made up of the toxic waste products of food and the excess water from your blood. One of the functions of your kidneys is to help control your blood pressure. Blood vessels. The tubes that carry blood around your body. The main blood vessels are the arteries and the veins. Body mass index (BMI). This is a measure of your weight relative to your height.
When blood flow in the arteries supplying the kidneys is completely blocked, the entire kidney or a portion of the kidney supplied by that artery dies (kidney infarction). Kidney infarction can lead to the inability of the kidneys to process and excrete the body's waste products (kidney failure). 
A blood vessel's main function is to transport blood around the body. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Arteries carry blood away from the heart to other organs. The heart is a muscular pump that pushes blood through blood vessels around the body. Essential to life, the heart beats continuously, pumping the equivalent of more than 14,000 litres of blood every day. Blood vessels form the living system of tubes that carry blood both to and from the heart.