Mercury-in-glass thermometer for measurement of room temperature. Room temperature is a colloquial expression for the typical or preferred indoor (climate-controlled) temperature to which people are generally accustomed. Room temperature implies a temperature inside a temperature-controlled building. Ambient temperature simply means the temperature of the surroundings and will be the same as room temperature indoors.
To have thermal comfort means that a person wearing a normal amount of clothing feels neither too cold nor too warm. Thermal comfort is important both for one's well-being and for productivity. It can be achieved only when the air temperature, humidity and air movement are within the specified range often referred to as the comfort zone. Where air movement is virtually absent and when relative humidity can be kept at about 50%, the ambient temperature becomes the most critical factor for maintaining thermal comfort indoors. However, temperature preferences vary greatly among individuals and there is no one temperature that can satisfy everyone.
A general recommendation is that the temperature be held constant in the range of 21-23°C (69-73°F). In summertime when outdoor temperatures are higher it is advisable to keep air-conditioned offices slightly warmer to minimize the temperature discrepancy between indoors and outdoors. Where air movement is virtually absent and when relative humidity can be kept at about 50%, the ambient temperature becomes the most critical factor for maintaining thermal comfort indoors. However, temperature preferences vary greatly among individuals and there is no one temperature that can satisfy everyone.
An office which is too hot or too cold can lead to a productivity decrease, alongside grumpy workers with low morale. In a nutshell, getting the temperature right is a vital ingredient in a happy and productive workforce. 1 The Australian Standard AS 1837 – 1976 Code of practice for application of ergonomics to factory and office work recommends an average temperature range of between 20°-24°C for both offices and factories in summer. 2  In winter, the temperature should be approximately 2°C lower to account for extra clothing.
Let's not forget humidity. Humidity affects how you perceive temperature. If it is humid your body can't evaporate sweat easily, air doesn't move over your skin easily and the world feels heavy. 85 degrees F at low humidity may be incredibly comfortable, while 85 degrees F at 90% humidity can sap you will to go on. There have been a number of studies conducted to determine what temperature your office thermostat should be set at for optimal productivity across your workforce. And it should come as no surprise that the more studies that are done the more disagreement there is as to what that temperature is.
It may seem like common since that the working at a comfortable temperature would make you more productive, but what may not be apparent is how much of a difference just a couple of degrees can make in that very same productivity and your overall office ergonomics. There have been a number of studies conducted to determine what temperature your office thermostat should be set at for optimal productivity across your workforce. And it should come as no surprise that the more studies that are done the more disagreement there is as to what that temperature is.
Research has shown that office temperature is likely to influence worker productivity. Within a certain range of temperatures, workers typically are more productive. When an office is too hot or too cold, workers' productivity typically drops. What is considered the ideal office temperature can vary, but it generally is considered to be 70° to 73° Fahrenheit (21.1° to 22.8° Celsius). 
A 97.0 degree body temperature can be normal, depending on what  your average body temperature is normally. 98.6 degrees is an  average normal body temperature, but some peo … ple run lower or  higher than that on a regular basis. Body temperatures vary, even within humans. The adult average is lower than 37° C, and skin temperature can vary from around 32° to 35° C (90° to 95° F), and will be cold … er when losing heat to the environment. The body temperatures of mammals range from around 97° to over 103° Fahrenheit.
Office temperatures that are too hot or too cold are one of the most common complaints amongst staff and contribute to millions of dollars in lost productivity each year. Interestingly, the major contributor to lost productivity is in fact when the temperature is too cold. 1 The Australian Standard AS 1837 – 1976 Code of practice for application of ergonomics to factory and office work recommends an average temperature range of between 20°-24°C for both offices and factories in summer. 2  In winter, the temperature should be approximately 2°C lower to account for extra clothing.