1 The esophagus connects to the stomach at a small region called the cardia. 2  The cardia is a narrow, tube-like region that opens up into the wider regions of the stomach. 3  Within the cardia is the lower esophageal sphincter, a band of muscle tissue that contracts to hold food and acid inside of the stomach. 1 Stomach mucus is also rich in bicarbonate ions, which neutralize the pH of stomach acid. 2  Parietal cells found in the gastric pits of the stomach produce 2 important secretions: intrinsic factor and hydrochloric acid.
The stomach produces and secretes several important substances to control the digestion of food. Each of these substances is produced by exocrine or endocrine cells found in the mucosa. 1  The main exocrine product of the stomach is gastric juice – a mixture of mucus, hydrochloric acid, and digestive enzymes. 1 Stomach mucus is also rich in bicarbonate ions, which neutralize the pH of stomach acid. 2  Parietal cells found in the gastric pits of the stomach produce 2 important secretions: intrinsic factor and hydrochloric acid.
In most vertebrates, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called proteases and gastric acid to aid in food digestion, through smooth muscular contractions before sending partially digested food (chyme) to the small intestines. The stomach is surrounded by parasympathetic (stimulant) and orthosympathetic (inhibitor) plexuses (networks of blood vessels and nerves in the anterior gastric, posterior, superior and inferior, celiac and myenteric), which regulate both the secretions activity and the motor (motion) activity of its muscles.
The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food. Ridges of muscle tissue called rugae line the stomach. The stomach muscles contract periodically, churning food to enhance digestion. The pyloric sphincter is a muscular valve that opens to allow food to pass from the stomach to the small intestine.
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestive system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in many animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects (mid-gut), and molluscs. The stomach is surrounded by parasympathetic (stimulant) and orthosympathetic (inhibitor) plexuses (networks of blood vessels and nerves in the anterior gastric, posterior, superior and inferior, celiac and myenteric), which regulate both the secretions activity and the motor (motion) activity of its muscles.
The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia. The fundus stores undigested food and also the gases released from the chemical digestion of food. 1 Peptic Ulcers – These can occur when the protective mucous lining of the stomach walls is damaged by the stomach acids. 2  The bacterium, Helicobacter pylori is thought to be an important factor in the development of gastric and duodenal ulcers.
The stomach lies between the esophagus and the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. The stomach is surrounded by parasympathetic (stimulant) and orthosympathetic (inhibitor) plexuses (networks of blood vessels and nerves in the anterior gastric, posterior, superior and inferior, celiac and myenteric), which regulate both the secretions activity and the motor (motion) activity of its muscles.
1 Within the cardia is the lower esophageal sphincter, a band of muscle tissue that contracts to hold food and acid inside of the stomach. 2  The cardia empties into the body of the stomach, which forms the central and largest region of the stomach. 3  Superior to the body is a dome shaped region known as the fundus. 1 Stomach mucus is also rich in bicarbonate ions, which neutralize the pH of stomach acid. 2  Parietal cells found in the gastric pits of the stomach produce 2 important secretions: intrinsic factor and hydrochloric acid.
(1). Above: Diagram of the Stomach Wall. The epithelial cells that line the stomach form the mucosal epithelium layer. When the stomach is empty the mucosa lies in large folds called rugae and which look like wrinkles. The cells identified in the diagram above are: 1  Surface Mucous Cells (or  Mucous Surface Cells ) - which secrete mucus. 2  Neck Mucous Cells (or  Mucous Neck Cells ) - which secrete a mucus whose acidity is more neutral than that secreted by the cells at the surface of the stomach lining. 3  Chief Cells.
1 Parietal cells found in the gastric pits of the stomach produce 2 important secretions: intrinsic factor and hydrochloric acid. 2  Intrinsic factor is a glycoprotein that binds to the vitamin B 12 in the stomach and allows the vitamin to be absorbed in the small intestine. 1 Stomach mucus is also rich in bicarbonate ions, which neutralize the pH of stomach acid. 2 