During the hatching period, the humidity in the incubator may be increased by using an atomizer to spray a small amount of water into the ventilating holes. (This is especially helpful when duck or goose eggs are hatching.). Be sure eggs are dry before storing. Never place damp or wet eggs in a styrofoam carton for storage. Store the clean fertile eggs in an area which is kept at 55°- 60°F and 70-75% humidity. Never store eggs at temperatures about 75°F and at humidities lower than 40%.
If, after 6 days, you do not see life or development in any of the eggs, then terminate incubation. Most of the time, a power outage will delay hatching by a few days and decrease the hatchability to 40-50 percent. Humidity The relative humidity of the air within an incubator should be about 60 percent. Be sure eggs are dry before storing. Never place damp or wet eggs in a styrofoam carton for storage. Store the clean fertile eggs in an area which is kept at 55°- 60°F and 70-75% humidity. Never store eggs at temperatures about 75°F and at humidities lower than 40%.
If, after 6 days, you do not see life or development in any of the eggs, then terminate incubation. Most of the time, a power outage will delay hatching by a few days and decrease the hatchability to 40-50 percent. Humidity The relative humidity of the air within an incubator should be about 60 percent. The key is to keep the eggs as warm as possible until the power returns. This can be done by placing a large cardboard box or blankets over the top of small incubators for additional insulation. To warm the eggs, place candles in jars, light them and place the jars under the box that covers the incubator.
Humidity is carefully controlled to prevent unnecessary loss of egg moisture. The relative humidity in the incubator between setting and three days prior to hatching should remain at 58-60% or 84-86 degree F., wet-bulb. When hatching, the humidity is increased to 65% relative humidity or more. An excellent method to determine correct humidity is to candle the eggs at various stages of incubation. In a still-air incubator, where the eggs are turned by hand, it may be helpful to place an X on one side of each egg and an O on the other side, using a pencil. This serves as an aide to determine whether all eggs are turned. When turning, be sure your hands are free of all greasy or dusty substances.
This is important since the air stratifies in these incubators. There can be as much as a 5° difference in temperature from the top to the bottom of some of the still-air incubators. Humidity should be 60-65% (80-90° wet bulb) during incubation and 70-75% (92-97° wet bulb) at hatching time. The key is to keep the eggs as warm as possible until the power returns. This can be done by placing a large cardboard box or blankets over the top of small incubators for additional insulation. To warm the eggs, place candles in jars, light them and place the jars under the box that covers the incubator.
I have a Little Giant Still Air Incubator. This is my 2nd hatch, and it appears to be a disaster. I am hatching French Black Copper Maran and RIR eggs. Prior to my first hatch, I was warned about keeping the humidity correct, especially with Maran eggs. 
Table 3 (Relative Humidity) will enable you to calculate relative humidity using readings from a wet-bulb thermometer and the incubator thermometer. During the hatching period, using an atomizer to spray a small amount of water into the ventilating holes may increase the humidity in the incubator. Make sure that the ventilation holes are open to allow a normal exchange of air. This is critical on homemade incubators. It is possible to suffocate the eggs and chicks in air-tight container. The relative humidity of the air within an incubator for the first 18 days should be able 60 percent. During the last 3 days (the hatching period) the relative humidity should be nearer 65-70 percent
Calibration usually takes several hours, and preferably overnight. B. The relative humidity within the incubator should be maintained between 60-65%, for the first 18 days of incubation, and 70% for the last 3 days. Relative humidity is calculated by using a wet bulb thermometer to measure the temperature within the incubator. A wet bulb temperature of 88 o F and a dry bulb temperature of 101 o F, converts to 60% relative humidity (See p.16 in Beginning of Life for tables used in calculating humidity in the incubator).