In animals with lungs, arterial blood carries oxygen from inhaled air to the tissues of the body, and venous blood carries carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism produced by cells, from the tissues to the lungs to be exhaled. Blood is circulated around the body through blood vessels by the pumping action of the heart. In humans, blood is pumped from the strong left ventricle of the heart through arteries to peripheral tissues and returns to the right atrium of the heart through veins.
Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart. 
The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs and is the only artery in the body that carries deoxygenated blood. The pulmonary vein carries oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart, and it is the only vein that carries oxygen-rich blood. Just an Answers enthusiast! In short, the veinules, the pulmonary artery, and all veins except for the pulmonary vein are the blood vessels that carry blood that is rich in carbon dioxide. Unless you want to explain all that, the best answer is veins.. The capillaries that carry carbon dioxide back toward the heart are called veinules. The veinules join up to form veins. They eventually connect to the vena cava. The vena cava, which is the largest vein coming from the body, also carries deoxygenated blood, like nearly every other vein
Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart. They may contain valves which stop blood flowing away from the heart. The heart works by following a sequence of electrical signals that cause the muscles in each chamber to contract in a certain order. The heart is a muscular pump that pushes blood through blood vessels around the body. Essential to life, the heart beats continuously, pumping the equivalent of more than 14,000 litres of blood every day. Blood vessels form the living system of tubes that carry blood both to and
Answers. Best Answer: all of them carry some carbon dioxide (CO2), but veins generally contain the highest concentration of CO2, then capillaries, then arteries. The exceptions are the pulmonary artery which carries blood high in CO2 and the pulmonary veins carry blood high in oxygen and low in CO2. 
The blood also carries carbon dioxide from the cells of the body back to the lungs, where it is exhaled. Different animal species have developed different kinds of circulatory systems to accomplish this task, but the lungs and heart play a central role in all of them. 
A blood vessel's main function is to transport blood around the body. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Arteries carry blood away from the heart to other organs. They can vary in size. The heart is a muscular pump that pushes blood through blood vessels around the body. Essential to life, the heart beats continuously, pumping the equivalent of more than 14,000 litres of blood every day. Blood vessels form the living system of tubes that carry blood both to and from the heart.
There are three types of blood vessel: Arteries. 1  Carry blood away from the heart (always oxygenated apart from the pulmonary artery which goes to the lungs). 2  Have thick muscular walls. 3  Have small passageways for blood (internal lumen). 4  Contain blood under high pressure. 
The primary function of red blood cells, or erythrocytes, is to carry oxygen from the lungs to the body tissues and carbon dioxide as a waste product, away from the tissues and back to the lungs. Hemoglobin (Hgb) is an important protein in the red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of our body. 