Company Registration No: 200405572W Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore Under the Companies Act (Cap 50) • Urea can be applied to both dry land and irrigated land as a top dressing and as a base dressing. Depending on the local conditions, rates of 250 kg/ha urea or more should be spread in two applications. • Urea can be applied to soil as a solid or solution or to certain crops as a foliar spray. • Urea usage involves little or no fire or • Urea’s high analysis, 46% N, helps reduce handling, storage and forms. • Urea manufacture releases few pollutants to the environment.
1 Urea can be applied to soil as a solid or solution or to certain crops as a foliar spray. 2  Urea usage involves little or no fire or explosion hazard. 3  Urea's high analysis, 46% N, helps reduce handling, storage and transportation costs over other dry N forms. 4  Urea manufacture releases few pollutants to the environment. Urea breakdown begins as soon as it is applied to the soil. If the soil is totally dry, no reaction happens. But with the enzyme urease, plus any small amount of soil moisture, urea normally hydrolizes and converts to ammonium and carbon dioxide. This can occur in 2 to 4 days and happens quicker on high pH soils.
Advantages of fertilizer urea. 1  Urea can be applied to soil as a solid or solution or to certain crops as a foliar spray. 2  Urea usage involves little or no fire or explosion hazard. 3  Urea's high analysis, 46% N, helps reduce handling, storage and transportation costs over other dry N forms. Urea breakdown begins as soon as it is applied to the soil. If the soil is totally dry, no reaction happens. But with the enzyme urease, plus any small amount of soil moisture, urea normally hydrolizes and converts to ammonium and carbon dioxide. This can occur in 2 to 4 days and happens quicker on high pH soils.
By. There are many thoughts regarding how much nitrogen is lost from applying urea on pastures and hay fields. If applied incorrectly, up to 40 percent of the nitrogen applied as urea can be volatilized (vaporized) and lost as a gas. If applied correctly, little, if any, nitrogen will be lost. Obviously, the key is to apply the urea correctly. To go in reverse order, let's look at the worst way to apply urea to pastures. However, if the urea is on the soil surface when the breakdown occurs, the ammonia gas is lost to the atmosphere. These losses can be greater if the soil has a high pH or if the soil is wet when the urea is applied.
• On medium and heavy soils, urea can be used for both the first nitrogen application to the soil and for top dressing. • Urea is well suited for top dressing of all soils. • Urea should preferably be spread when into the soil by irrigation. • Urea can be applied to soil as a solid or solution or to certain crops as a foliar spray. • Urea usage involves little or no fire or • Urea’s high analysis, 46% N, helps reduce handling, storage and forms. • Urea manufacture releases few pollutants to the environment.
Research shows that N loss from surface-applied urea can range from 0 to 50 percent, and 25 percent appears to be the average loss. The amount of loss depends on weather conditions; loss is greatest with warm, windy weather and a moist soil surface but is ended by rain that moves the urea into the soil. 
Nitrogen from urea can be lost to the atmosphere if fertilizer urea remains on the soil surface for extended periods of time during warm weather. The key to the most efficient use of urea is to incorporate it into the soil during a tillage operation. Urea breakdown begins as soon as it is applied to the soil. If the soil is totally dry, no reaction happens. But with the enzyme urease, plus any small amount of soil moisture, urea normally hydrolizes and converts to ammonium and carbon dioxide. This can occur in 2 to 4 days and happens quicker on high pH soils.
Urea is the best source of nitrogen for aerial application. Because urea has the highest analysis (46% nitrogen), it has the lowest application cost per pound of nitrogen. The uniform area granules mean that applications can be accurately calibrated and evenly spread. Urea is a white crystalline substance with the chemical formula CO(NH2)2; it is highly water soluble and contains 46% nitrogen. Urea is considered an organic compound because it contains carbon. It was the first organic compound ever synthesized by chemists; this was accomplished in the early 1800s.