This article is about an ancient people known today as the Iberians from the Iberian Peninsula. For modern-day Iberians, see Spanish people and Portuguese people. For the ancient Georgians, see Caucasian Iberians. The Iberians produced sculpture in stone and bronze, most of which was much influenced by the Greeks and Phoenicians. The styles of Iberian sculpture are divided geographically into Levantine, Central, Southern, and Western groups, of which the Levantine group displays the most Greek influence.
Iberians and Celts in 19th and 20th-Century Spain. Tartessus. The Phoenicians in Spain. The Greeks in Spain. The Carthaginians in Spain. Roman Conquest of Hispania. Rome and Hispania. Roman Roads in Hispania. Roman Towns in Hispania. Rome. Some scholars argue for a general division between the Iberians of the north east and those of the south west, the former being more influenced by the Greeks, the latter by the Carthaginians.
The Iberians are the oldest historically known inhabitants of the Iberian Peninsula. The first theory suggests that they arrived in Spain during the Neolithic period and the second thinks that they may have originated in North Africa. 
The Iberians were not a clearly defined culture, ethnic group or political entity. The name is instead a blanket term for a number of peoples belonging to a pre-Roman Iron Age culture inhabiting the eastern and southeastern Iberian peninsula and who have been historically identified as Iberian. The Iberians produced sculpture in stone and bronze, most of which was much influenced by the Greeks and Phoenicians. The styles of Iberian sculpture are divided geographically into Levantine, Central, Southern, and Western groups, of which the Levantine group displays the most Greek influence.
Each settlement was surrounded by defensive stone walls. The Iberians are the oldest historically known inhabitants of the Iberian Peninsula. They were non Indo-European, rather short and dark haired. Men wore beards and long hair. Iberian raised cattle, pigs and sheep and cultivated the land. In the historical times, the Mediterranean coasts inhabited by Iberians were colonized by Phoenicians, Greeks and Carthaginians, and these colonies raised the civilization level of the Iberians. This way, the Iberians knew the potter's wheel and produced sophisticatedly adorned ceramics by themselves.
Greek colonists made the first historical reference to the Iberians in the 6th century BC. The Greeks also dubbed as Iberians another people, currently known as Caucasian Iberians. It is not known if there had been any type of connection between the two peoples. The Iberians produced sculpture in stone and bronze, most of which was much influenced by the Greeks and Phoenicians. The styles of Iberian sculpture are divided geographically into Levantine, Central, Southern, and Western groups, of which the Levantine group displays the most Greek influence.
Although there is uncertainty regarding the origins of the Iberians, there is agreement that another significant group, the Celts, formed part of a general European migratory phenomenon which, in Spain, is marked by two waves, the first traditionally placed around 900 BC and the second around 700-600 BC. Click here for the significance of the Celts (and Iberians) in 19th and 20th century Spain.
The Iberians (and Celts) may have disappeared as identifiable groups, but in the 19th and 20th centuries historians and sociologists unearthed their ashes from the past in an effort to fit them into the history of Spain. Some scholars argue for a general division between the Iberians of the north east and those of the south west, the former being more influenced by the Greeks, the latter by the Carthaginians.
The origin of the Iberians and Bascians is not certain, but archaeological evidence of their metallurgical and agricultural skills supports a theory that they came from the eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea. Going back 12,000 years or so, European skulls look like the skulls of modern-day Arabs, and European genes from the same period also look like Arab genes. Whether or not Arabs are White is an interesting question. A young woman from North Yemen-Southern Saudi Arabia, probably an Ismaili or Zaidi Shia of some sort.