1 Arrange chicken thighs/leg quarters skin side up in a shallow baking dish. 2  Sprinkle with garlic powder. 3  Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 4  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones. Directions. 1  Arrange chicken thighs/leg quarters skin side up in a shallow baking dish. 2  Sprinkle with garlic powder. 3  Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 4  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones.
Preparation. 1  Preheat oven to 475°F. Season chicken with salt and pepper. 2  Heat oil in a 12 cast-iron or heavy nonstick skillet over high heat until hot but not smoking. 3  Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes. 1 1 tablespoon vegetable oil. 2  Preheat oven to 475°F. Season chicken with salt and pepper. 3  Heat oil in a 12 cast-iron or heavy nonstick skillet over high heat until hot but not smoking. 4  Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes.
1 Sprinkle spice mixture liberally over chicken thighs. 2  Bake chicken in the preheated oven until skin is crispy, thighs are no longer pink at the bone, and the juices run clear, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C). 1 Bake chicken in the preheated oven until skin is crispy, thighs are no longer pink at the bone, and the juices run clear, about 1 hour. 2
1 Preheat oven to 475°F. Season chicken with salt and pepper. 2  Heat oil in a 12 cast-iron or heavy nonstick skillet over high heat until hot but not smoking. 3  Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes. 1 1 tablespoon vegetable oil. 2  Preheat oven to 475°F. Season chicken with salt and pepper. 3  Heat oil in a 12 cast-iron or heavy nonstick skillet over high heat until hot but not smoking. 4  Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes.
1 Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes. 2  Reduce heat to medium-high; continue cooking skin side down, occasionally rearranging chicken thighs and rotating pan to evenly distribute heat, until fat renders and skin is golden brown, about 12 minutes. 3  Transfer skillet to oven and cook 13 more minutes. 1 1 tablespoon vegetable oil. 2  Preheat oven to 475°F. Season chicken with salt and pepper. 3  Heat oil in a 12 cast-iron or heavy nonstick skillet over high heat until hot but not smoking. 4  Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes.
Directions. In a bowl, toss chicken thighs with olive oil and lemon juice; season with salt and pepper and marinate 1 hour (or up to a day). Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Roast chicken, skin side down, in an oiled roasting pan, 20 to 25 minutes; flip and roast 10 more minutes. Watch: How to Gauge When Meat Is Cooked. Stir together grainy mustard and honey and season with salt and pepper. Brush glaze onto chicken and broil 5 minutes.
Nestle chicken in skillet, skin side down, and cook 2 minutes. Reduce heat to medium-high; continue cooking skin side down, occasionally rearranging chicken thighs and rotating pan to evenly distribute heat, until fat renders and skin is golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer skillet to oven and cook 13 more minutes.