In humans all reproduction is sexual. It involves joining together haploid gamete cells from each parent with half the normal number of chromosomes to make a new cell containing both parents' genetic material. This is a diploid zygote. The cells from each parent that combine to form the zygote are called gametes. In humans, the male gamete is called sperm, and the female gamete is called an egg. When the gametes join they form a cell called a zygote. Human sperm and eggs contain 23 chromosomes. 
In humans, each of these gametes has 23 chromosomes-that's half the amount of DNA required for development, so these cells are called haploid cells. The fusion of these two cells is called fertilization and it produces a diploid cell with 46 chromosomes-twice the amount found in each gamete. The fertilized egg is now called a zygote and has just the right amount of DNA needed for normal human development. Next stop: fertilization and oocyte activation. Fertilization is the fusion of two haploid gametes to produce a diploid zygote. Each haploid gamete in humans has 23 chromosomes, while the diploid zygote has 46. This fusion usually occurs within 24 hours after the oocyte has been released from the ovary.
A zygote is the initial cell developed through sexual reproduction and formed when two gametes come together. In other words, a zygote results when the female egg is fertilize … d. After rapid cell division, it eventually becomes an embryo. 20 people found this useful. The joining of an egg and a sperm is called fertilization, and the cell that forms is called a zygote.
In fungi, the sexual fusion of haploid cells is called karyogamy. The result of karyogamy is a diploid cell called a zygote or zygospore. This cell may then enter meiosis or mitosis depending on the life cycle of the species. In plants, the zygote may be polyploid if fertilization occurs between meiotically unreduced gametes. In land plants, the zygote is formed within a chamber called the archegonium. In seedless plants, the archegonium is usually flask-shaped, with a long hollow neck through which the sperm cell enters.
In human fertilization, two 1n haploid cells—an ovum (female gamete) and a sperm cell (male gamete)—combine to form a single 2n diploid cell called the zygote. In plants, the zygote may be polyploid if fertilization occurs between meiotically unreduced gametes. In land plants, the zygote is formed within a chamber called the archegonium. In seedless plants, the archegonium is usually flask-shaped, with a long hollow neck through which the sperm cell enters.
A zygote is formed when sperm and the egg meet. Both the egg and sperm are haploid cells which mean that both of them comprise of half number of chromosomes as compared to the measure present in their parents. When these two haploid cells meet, they form a diploid zygote consisting complete set of chromosomes. 
A zygote is a single cell which has formed as the result of the merging of an egg cell and a sperm cell. @leebThe zygote forms in the ovary when the sperm meets the egg and they merge. The zygote then travels down the fallopian tube and into the uterus where it attaches and forms into a fetus. It is there that it will grow and fully mature.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A zygote is a single cell which has formed as the result of the merging of an egg cell and a sperm cell. In other words, it's a fertilized egg, with the potential to develop into a living organism. @leebThe zygote forms in the ovary when the sperm meets the egg and they merge. The zygote then travels down the fallopian tube and into the uterus where it attaches and forms into a fetus. It is there that it will grow and fully mature.
Best Answer: A zygote is the diploid cell formed by the merging of two haploid cells(sperm and egg). A great many people claim that it is not. Report Abuse. Your definition is not entire correct. A zygote in it of itself, is a fertilized sex cell. So, that means that the process of cell division to create a person has already begun once the two com into contact with on another.
The zygote's genome is a combination of the DNA in each gamete, and contains all of the genetic information necessary to form a new individual. In multicellular organisms, the zygote is the earliest developmental stage. In plants, the zygote may be polyploid if fertilization occurs between meiotically unreduced gametes. In land plants, the zygote is formed within a chamber called the archegonium. In seedless plants, the archegonium is usually flask-shaped, with a long hollow neck through which the sperm cell enters.