Alexandria Safe-Zone (TV Series) Gallery. The Alexandria Safe-Zone, or simply Alexandria, is a walled-off community in AMC 's The Walking Dead located in Alexandria, Virginia, near Washington, D.C. 
Based on the novel by Stephen King, this film proved to be a platform for Christopher Walken to create a career persona. For Cronenberg, it is seen as something of a departure from his usual ultra bizarre. 
The show, credited as based on characters from Stephen King 's 1979 novel The Dead Zone, first aired in 2002, and was produced by Lions Gate Television and CBS Paramount Television for the USA Network. Season 6 — billed as The season that changes everything — premiered on June 17, 2007. The Dead Zone is an American-Canadian science fiction / suspense series starring Anthony Michael Hall as Johnny Smith, who discovers he has developed psychic abilities after a coma.
The Dead Zone: The Final Season is now available on DVD! The 3-disc set includes all 13 episodes plus deleted scenes, commentaries with cast and crew, and two exclusively produced featurettes:  Dead Zone Walking: Making the Move to Montreal  and . All Aboard: Filming The Dead Zone on a Train ..
Plot Edit. In the town of Castle Rock, Maine, Johnny Smith (Christopher Walken), a young schoolteacher, is in love with his colleague Sarah Bracknell. He is involved in a serious car accident that sends him into a coma. Later, Johnny discovers through a handshake that a Senatorial Candidate whom Sarah is volunteering for, Greg Stillson (Martin Sheen), will become President, and through the handshake sees Stillson ordering a nuclear strike against Russia, thus presumably bringing on a nuclear holocaust.
In the meantime, all submissions made from this page will only take an average of 24hrs to be added, so please keep 'em coming! Locations Manager(s): David Coatsworth. On Location. The Dead Zone was filmed at locations in Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario, Canada. The gazebo used in the movie was built for the movie and still stands near the Niagara river where it is popular for tourist and wedding photos. The school in the beginning of the Dead Zone is Summitview Public School located in Stouffville, Ontario Canada. I am in fact the girl that you see in the class room seated in the first desk of the middle row.I was wearing a white blouse and brown skirt. The kids used were all of my Grade 6 class.
The Dead Zone is a 1983 American horror thriller film directed by David Cronenberg. The screenplay by Jeffrey Boam was based on the 1979 novel of the same name by Stephen King. The film stars Christopher Walken, Brooke Adams, Tom Skerritt, Herbert Lom, Anthony Zerbe, Colleen Dewhurst and Martin Sheen.
Eerie and Unsettling THE DEAD ZONE, directed by David Cronenberg; screenplay by Jeffrey Boam, based on the novel by Stephen King; director of photography, Mark Irwin; edited by Ronald Sanders; music by Michael Kamen; presented by Dino de Laurentiis; produced by Debra Hill; released by Paramount Pictures. The baby figures instrumentally in the plot, since ''The Dead Zone'' is a film in which little is wasted. Mr. Cronenberg's direction is vivid and effective; his pacing is a little unemphatic at times, but the film's individual scenes are very well staged.
The series was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada for its first five seasons. For the sixth season, production jumped across the country to Montreal. After six seasons, the series was canceled in December 2007. The Dead Zone is also airing in syndication on Ion as of 2008. The Dead Zone is an American-Canadian science fiction / suspense series starring Anthony Michael Hall as Johnny Smith, who discovers he has developed psychic abilities after a coma.