Owls symbolize wisdom, the ability to see things that are hidden, stealth, swiftness, darkness, freedom, dreams, shape-shifting, secrets, omens, clairvoyance, astral projection, magick, deception, observation, total truth, night, death and misfortune. They are connected to the Underworld and the Moon.
The owl is a nocturnal bird of prey with strong talons. The owl has been associated with wisdom, books, Occult knowledge, shamanism and other spiritual matters. As mentioned, the owl is a bird of the night, so an association with the moon is also suggested.
The owl is a creature of the night. It's important to note the symbolism of nocturnal creatures because night-time proclivities have specific philosophical meanings. Combine the following nocturnal symbolic meanings with that of the owl for a broader interpretation.
Meaning of the Owl. Owl Meanings in the Realms of Animal Symbolism. The owl is sacred to the Greek goddess of learning, Athena and is even depicted on some Greco-Roman currency as a symbol of status, intelligence and of course, wealth.
As birds of the night and prey, the owl symbol has been associated with psychic powers, the angel of death and the goddess of night. Owls represent spiritual influence, wisdom and knowledge in Greece, Rome, and in Celtic mythology while in Africa the owl is associated with witchcraft, wizards and sorcery.
Symbolic Owl Meaning ... by Presley Love Owl totem is an old soul, a keeper of ancient wisdom, a gatekeeper to the Akashic realm, he can peer through to see the secrets and the agendas of others, he is a prophet and can see, hear and feel events before they transpire. Owl Meaning.
Being aware of the owl's symbolic meanings is a good way to connect with this fascinating creatures, and also become more in-tune with the owl's wisdom.
Yes, in certain cultures (China, Egypt, India) the symbolic meaning of owl is associated with death, but you must understand that the owl is not a symbol of death per se. Rather – it was revered (honored) as being the guardian of the after-life – a highly respected emblem indeed.
To the  ancient Greeks, the owl is a symbol of Athene who is goddess of  foresight & knowledge. Taking symbolism from the owl directly,  it is noteworthy that it is a creature of the night. Nocturnal  creatures are symbolic of inner-knowing, psychic ability,  and intuition-so too is the owl.