1 Nursing License: Associate’s Degree of Nursing or nursing diploma-holders must pass the NCLEX-RN exam and receive their nursing license in order to be admitted into an accredited RN-to-BSN program. 1 Chemistry. 2  Anatomy/physiology. 3  Criminal Background Check: Some RN-to-BSN programs will require students to undergo a criminal background check, physical examination, and/or drug screening before they will be allowed to participate in the practical/clinical component of their education.
A nurse with a BSN may do the same things as an RN, or they may choose to work in public health or be a nurse educator. Public health nurses generally educate communities on health issues, while nurse educators prepare the next generation of LPNs and RNs. You can go straight to the job market as an RN or you can further your education with a BSN degree. If you decide on going the ADN route but eventually want to earn the higher academic credential, you can earn a BSN through a completer program in as little as 12 additional months and it can often be done online.
To determine if you're a good fit for a BSN program, you'll first want to consider your background. There are generally three types of BSN students. 1  An aspiring RN who attends a four-year college or university. 2  An RN looking to get their bachelor's degree and enrolls in an RN-BSN program. About a bachelor's degree in nursing. A bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree prepares you for a job as a registered nurse. While you can work as an RN with an associate's degree, nurses with a BSN are typically given more responsibility, supervisory roles and higher salaries.
Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years. 
BSN nurses will have more career options than ADN and Diploma nurses. Diploma nursing programs are all but extinct anymore and I expect the ADN programs will vanish sometime in the future as well, but those of you who are already licensed will continue to be able to practice as an RN. 
Once you graduate, you have your BSN, but to become an RN, you have to take state boards and pass them before you are an RN. Back in the old days, community colleges offered nursing schools that would allow you to graduate in 2 yrs with an Associate Degree in Nursing. February 3, 2011 at 7:47 pm. You don’t have to be an RN to get a BSN. To get a BSN, you have to go to a 4 year university or college. A BSN is a Bachelor of Science in Nursing and yes, you have to take all of the basic courses like English, Language, History, Math etc.
RN vs. BSN: education requirements. The first thing you should know is that becoming an RN means passing the NCLEX exam. There is no way around it. To be eligible to sit for the NCLEX you must first earn either an associate degree in nursing (ADN) or a Bachelor of Science in nursing (BSN). You can go straight to the job market as an RN or you can further your education with a BSN degree. If you decide on going the ADN route but eventually want to earn the higher academic credential, you can earn a BSN through a completer program in as little as 12 additional months and it can often be done online.
In the end, regardless of whether you become an RN or have a BSN, you’ll be a nurse, yes. But it’s important to decide where you eventually want your career to go so you can adequately prepare. If you want to work in a hospital setting for the majority of your career, becoming an RN might be a good option for you. You can go straight to the job market as an RN or you can further your education with a BSN degree. If you decide on going the ADN route but eventually want to earn the higher academic credential, you can earn a BSN through a completer program in as little as 12 additional months and it can often be done online.