Location. 300km south of Darwin and 32km from Katherine town centre, Cicada Lodge is located inside Nitmiluk National Park, home to Nitmiluk (Katherine) Gorge. The Gorge comprises a system of 13 immense gorges carved over the millenia by the Katherine River through the ancient stone country of the region. View more accommodation packages ». 300km south of Darwin and 32km from Katherine town centre, Cicada Lodge is located inside Nitmiluk National Park, home to Nitmiluk (Katherine) Gorge.
Northern Territory Australia. The Nitmiluk (Katherine) gorge is located 29km north of Katherine. It consists of 13 natural gorges carved through sandstone by the Katherine River. Rocks and boulders separate each gorge. It is a beautiful natural wonder and is well worth the visit whilst staying in Katherine. Nitmiluk Visitor Centre. The visitor centre is located at the Katherine Gorge. Information displays are set up that explain the geology, landscape and aboriginal history of the National Park. Informative staff are there to help you with tour enquiries and general information.
Nitmiluk National Park [edit]. 1  Katherine Gorge [9] - located in Nitmiluk National Park about 30 minutes northeast of the town. 2  There are many ways to experience the spectacular Nitmiluk National Park (Katherine Gorge) and its world-renowned gorge system-you can walk, swim, canoe, boat or fly. Katherine is a village in the Lower Top End of the Northern Territory, Australia. Katherine is the third largest settlement in the Northern Territory around 300km south from Darwin.
Katherine is a town in Northern Territory, Australia. It is situated on the Katherine River (after which it is named) below the  Top End , 320 kilometres (200 mi) southeast of Darwin. It is the fourth largest settlement in the Territory. Katherine had an urban population of 6,094 on the 2011 Census night
Katherine Gorge. The natural beauty and wonder of Katherine Gorge, renamed Nitmiluk Gorge, is located in the Northern Territory of Australia in Nitmiluk National Park. Katherine Gorge offers a holiday getaway for those who love and enjoy the outdoors. Nitmiluk National Park borders Kakadu National Park. 
How to Do – Canoeing in Katherine Gorge. Katherine, located only 3 hours from Darwin city, is where the outback meets the tropics and adventure meets relaxation. Discover a region full of gorges, misty waterfalls, thermal springs and ancient cultures. 
1 Katherine Gorge [9] - located in Nitmiluk National Park about 30 minutes northeast of the town. 2  There are many ways to experience the spectacular Nitmiluk National Park (Katherine Gorge) and its world-renowned gorge system-you can walk, swim, canoe, boat or fly. Katherine is a village in the Lower Top End of the Northern Territory, Australia. Katherine is the third largest settlement in the Northern Territory around 300km south from Darwin.
Katherine Gorge, a deep gorge carved through ancient sandstone by the Katherine River, is the central attraction of the park. Katherine Gorge is made up of thirteen gorges, with rapids and falls, and follow the Katherine River, which begins in Kakadu. The gorges can be explored by canoe and flat bottomed boat. In the dry season the gorges become separated as the level of the river falls. They are interconnected in the wet. There is a visitor centre located at the Katherine Gorge, about 30 km east of the town of Katherine.
Nitmiluk National Park is in the Northern Territory of Australia, 244 km southeast of Darwin, around a series of gorges on the Katherine River and Edith Falls. Previously named Katherine Gorge National Park, its northern edge borders Kakadu National Park. The gorges can be explored by canoe and flat bottomed boat. In the dry season the gorges become separated as the level of the river falls. They are interconnected in the wet. There is a visitor centre located at the Katherine Gorge, about 30 km east of the town of Katherine.