Subgenus Pinus L., also called the hard pines. About 70 species. Cone scales have a dorsal, mucronate umbo; scales have a sealing band adjacent to the apophysis where the scales meet on the closed cone. There are two leaf vascular bundles per needle. Pinus is one of the oldest extant conifer genera. The oldest pine known is Pinus yorkshirensis, documented from a fossil cone preserved in the Wealden Formation in Yorkshire, UK; these sediments are about 130 million years old (Ryberg et al. 2012).
There are three main subgenera of Pinus, the subgenus Strobus (white pines or soft pines), the subgenus Ducampopinus (Pinyon, Bristlecone and Lacebark pines), and the subgenus Pinus (typical pines, or yellow or hard pines) . This classification into the three subgenera is based on cone, seed and leaf characters: 1 Section Pinus is mostly in Europe, Asia, except for P. resinosa in northeast North America and P. tropicalis in Cuba.
The modern English name pine derives from Latin pinus which some have traced to the Indo-European base *pīt- ‘resin’ (source of English pituitary). In the past (pre-19th century) they were often known as fir, from Old Norse fyrre, by way of Middle English firre. Most regions of the Northern Hemisphere (see List of pines by region) host some native species of pines. One species (Sumatran pine) crosses the equator in Sumatra to 2°S. In North America, various species occur in regions at latitudes from as far as 66°N to as far south as 12°N.
Pine (Pinus nigra Click on graphic for larger image Pine Botanical: Various Species Family: N.O. Pinaceae Medicinal Action and Properties Preparations and Dosages Species of Pines Having Medicinal Products Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris Pines are among the most important commercial trees. 
Full Definition of PINE. 1. : any of a genus (Pinus of the family Pinaceae, the pine family) of coniferous evergreen trees that have slender elongated needles and include some valuable timber trees and ornamentals. 2. 
Search the Database. Pinus contorta subsp. contorta growing in a peat bog on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington. This tree is common in bogs throughout its range [C.J. Earle]. Pinus cembroides subsp. lagunae Cerro Las Casitas, in the Sierra de la Laguna, BCS [C.J. Earle]. Pinus ponderosa subsp. scopulorum growing on sandstone, Zion National Park, Utah [C.J. Earle]. An extraordinarily gnarled specimen of Pinus longaeva [R. Pinus is one of the oldest extant conifer genera. The oldest pine known is Pinus yorkshirensis, documented from a fossil cone preserved in the Wealden Formation in Yorkshire, UK; these sediments are about 130 million years old (Ryberg et al. 2012).
Noun. 1. Pinus-type genus of the Pinaceae: large genus of true pines. genus Pinus. gymnosperm genus-a genus of gymnosperms. family Pinaceae, Pinaceae, pine family-a family of Pinaceae. pine, pine tree, true pine-a coniferous tree. 
pine-a coniferous tree. pine tree, true pine. genus Pinus, Pinus-type genus of the Pinaceae: large genus of true pines. pine-straight-grained durable and often resinous white to yellowish timber of any of numerous trees of the genus Pinus. pinon, pinyon-any of several low-growing pines of western North America. pine 1. n. 1. Any of various evergreen trees of the genus Pinus, having fascicles of needle-shaped leaves and producing woody seed-bearing cones. These trees are widely cultivated for ornament and shade and for their timber and resinous sap, which yields turpentine and pine tar.
Pinus is the genus name of a type of coniferous evergreen tree, commonly known as pine trees. There are around 115 different species in this genus. Here are some of the them: 1  Pinus palustris-the longleaf pine. 2  Pinus taeda-the Loblolly pine. 3  Pinus virginiana-the Virginia pine. 
The bark of most pines is thick and scaly, but some species have thin, flaky bark. The branches are produced in regular pseudo whorls, actually a very tight spiral but appearing like a ring of branches arising from the same point. Most regions of the Northern Hemisphere (see List of pines by region) host some native species of pines. One species (Sumatran pine) crosses the equator in Sumatra to 2°S. In North America, various species occur in regions at latitudes from as far as 66°N to as far south as 12°N.