Best Answer: The Gulf Of Tonkin Resolution gave LBJ and Congress the authority to increase troops levels in Vietnam without declaring war. The Gulf of Tonkin was the excuse Lyndon Johnson used to escalate the VIETNAM war. Supposedly our ships were attacked by North Vietnamese gun boats, so the resolution got us deeply mired in that war. Nick Name · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The outcome of the incident was the passage by Congress of the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which granted President Lyndon B. Johnson the authority to assist any Southeast Asian country whose government was considered to be jeopardized by communist aggression. The Congress passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution giving the President the power to use whatever force necessary to protect our interests in the area. At the time, the truth was not reported. 1965, the Viet Cong attacked an American military base near Pleiku.
Report Abuse. The Gulf of Tonkin was the excuse Lyndon Johnson used to escalate the VIETNAM war. Supposedly our ships were attacked by North Vietnamese gun boats, so the resolution got us deeply mired in that war. Nick Name · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
It was originally claimed by the National Security Agency that a Second Gulf of Tonkin incident occurred on August 4, 1964, as another sea battle, but instead evidence was found of Tonkin ghosts (false radar images) and not actual North Vietnamese torpedo boats. The outcome of these two incidents was the passage by Congress of the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which granted President Lyndon B. Johnson the authority to assist any Southeast Asian country whose government was considered to be jeopardized by  communist aggression.
U.S. Involvement in the Vietnam War: the Gulf of Tonkin and Escalation, 1964. In early August 1964, two U.S. destroyers stationed in the Gulf of Tonkin in Vietnam radioed that they had been fired upon by North Vietnamese forces. In response to these reported incidents, President Lyndon B. Johnson requested permission from the U.S. Congress to increase the U.S. military presence in Indochina. The U.S. Navy stationed two destroyers, the Maddox and the Turner Joy, in the Gulf of Tonkin to bolster these actions. They reported an attack by North Vietnamese patrol boats on August 2, and a second attack on August 4.
In August, 1964, President Johnson reported to the nation that American ships had been attacked by North Vietnam gunboats in the Gulf of Tonkin, in international waters. The Congress passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution giving the President the power to use whatever force necessary to protect our interests in the area. At the time, the truth was not reported. 1965, the Viet Cong attacked an American military base near Pleiku. Using the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, President Johnson sent in 3,500 Marines, the first official troops, to South Vietnam
384, enacted August 10, 1964, was a joint resolution that the United States Congress passed on August 7, 1964, in response to the Gulf of Tonkin incident. 
On August 4, 1964, President Lyndon Johnson announced that two days earlier, U.S. ships in the Gulf of Tonkin had been attacked by the North Vietnamese. Johnson dispatched U.S. planes against the attackers and asked Congress to pass a resolution to support his actions. 