Swollen lymph nodes. Your lymphatic system comprises a network of organs, vessels and numerous lymph nodes situated throughout your body. Most of your lymph nodes are located in your head and neck region. Lymph nodes that frequently swell are in this area, as well as in your armpits and groin area. Swollen lymph nodes are a sign that something is wrong somewhere in your body. When your lymph nodes first swell, you might notice: 1  Tender and painful lymph nodes.
Lymph nodes (or glands) are found throughout your body. Their main role is to fight infections and filter the lymph fluid that travels through them. Sometimes your lymph nodes may get bigger and you or your doctor may be able to feel them in your armpit, neck and groin. 
Lymph nodes are located in groups, and each group drains a specific area of your body. You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause. 
1. Know where the lymph nodes are located. You have the highest concentration of lymph nodes in your neck, around your collarbone, in your armpits, and in your groin. 1  Lymph nodes are present in groups, and are about the size of a pea or bean. 2  Lymph nodes located in the groin are also called inguinal lymph nodes. Check the lymph nodes on your neck and collarbone. Use the first 3 fingers of each hand to circle behind your ears, down each side of your neck and under your jaw line. If you feel lumps accompanied by tenderness, you may have swollen lymph nodes. You may also feel fullness in your throat and have difficulty swallowing.
Throughout your body, there are locations where lymph nodes are found. They are small and bean-shaped that are found in groups that filter lymph fluid throughout specific areas of the body. Numbers and Locations in the Body. Though there may be just a few groups of lymph nodes that draw attention like along your neck, under the arm and around the groin; however, there are many more location throughout the body adding up to roughly 500-700 of them.
Lymphadenitis. Lymphadenitis is the medical term for an infection in one or more lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are filled with white blood cells that help your body fight off infections. When lymph nodes become infected, it's usually because an infection started somewhere else in your body. A normal lymph node is small and firm. When lymph nodes become infected, they usually increase in size and may be felt in other areas of your body during a physical examination. Infections that spread to lymph nodes are usually caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi.
The lymph nodes of the groin, or inguinal lymph nodes, are located in the crease between the leg and pelvis. There are two types of inguinal lymph nodes – superficial and deep. They often swell due to an infection or cancer in the areas from which they drain lymph (lymphatic fluid). Lymph nodes are located throughout the body with each group being responsible for draining a particular area. The common lymph nodes that swell are found in the neck (cervical), armpit (axillary), and groin (inguinal), as well as in numerous other areas of the body.
Lymph node: Also sometimes referred to as lymph glands, lymph nodes are small rounded or bean-shaped masses of lymphatic tissue surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. Lymph nodes are located in many places in the lymphatic system throughout the body. 