In any instance of a suspicious or violent death, an autopsy is performed to determine the precise cause of death and to collect evidence that may be found in or on the body, such as fibers, fingerprints, bullets, and toxins. A physician called a forensic pathologist oversees an autopsy. The process starts with a thorough exterior examination of the body. X-rays are taken and the body is photographed extensively, while the presiding pathologist makes notes about any distinguishing features on the body and any visible injuries.
If an autopsy is ordered as the result of a suspicious death, I don't think you CAN refuse. If an autopsy is requested in order to further medical knowledge, I don't think you SHOULD refuse. As to what actually happens during an autopsy, this must surely depend on where and why it is carried out. In an autopsy, organs that would show effects from poisoning, in particular the brain, liver and kidneys are removed. Tissue samples are taken and cells are examined to make certain that there was no hanky-panky with regard to the cause of death.
Autopsy or postmortem is the procedure of complete external and internal examination of a body after death. A pathologist examines all organs in the presence of a medical examiner. It is also helpful in determining the time and exact cause of death. autopsy, death, organs, forensic, examiner. 734. Types of Autopsy. An autopsy is usually carried out in three conditions: 1  Clinical autopsy: This is performed on a corpse if the person died because of any medical condition while under treatment or in cases of sudden death where the doctors fail to establish what caused the death.
Autopsy is a surgical procedure of comprehensive examination of a person’s body and organs after death. A pathologist performs it in the presence of a medical examiner. The dead body is dissected and all the body parts and organs are examined to determine the exact cause of death. Types of Autopsy. An autopsy is usually carried out in three conditions: 1  Clinical autopsy: This is performed on a corpse if the person died because of any medical condition while under treatment or in cases of sudden death where the doctors fail to establish what caused the death.
An autopsy is an examination of the body, both interior and exterior, following death. During an autopsy, the major organs of the body are removed for examination. Fingerprints might be taken during an autopsy. Bullets may be collected as evidence during an autopsy. The exterior of a body is meticulously examined in an autopsy. A physician called a forensic pathologist oversees an autopsy. The process starts with a thorough exterior examination of the body. X-rays are taken and the body is photographed extensively, while the presiding pathologist makes notes about any distinguishing features on the body and any visible injuries.
Introduction. A post-mortem examination, also known as an autopsy, is the examination of a body after death. The aim of a post-mortem is to determine the cause of death. Post-mortems are carried out by pathologists (doctors who specialise in understanding the nature and causes of disease)
What happens during an autopsy? I do not want to know how an autopsy is actually performed, nor do I wish to know the finer details of the procedure. Best Answer: Immediately after death the body is wrapped and sent to the morgue, where it is kept refrigerated until the autopsy. Unlike Scully's exciting 11.21pm autopsies (as in Miracle Man), most autopsies are done somewhere between 8 and 4 or so, including weekends and holidays.
1 An autopsy is the examination of the body of a dead person. 2  An autopsy may be restricted to a specific organ or region of the body. 3  Autopsies are performed to determine the cause of death, for legal purposes, and for education and research. 1 Autopsies are performed to determine the cause of death, for legal purposes, and for education and research. 2  The body is opened in a manner that does not interfere with an open casket service. 3  The autopsy rate has dropped from 50% to less than 10% over the past fifty years.
Autopsy facts. 1  An autopsy is the examination of the body of a dead person. 2  An autopsy may be restricted to a specific organ or region of the body. 3  Autopsies are performed to determine the cause of death, for legal purposes, and for education and research. 1 Autopsies are performed to determine the cause of death, for legal purposes, and for education and research. 2  The body is opened in a manner that does not interfere with an open casket service. 3  The autopsy rate has dropped from 50% to less than 10% over the past fifty years.