Examples of food products that contain refined carbohydrates include packaged cereals, white bread, white rice, pasta, cakes, biscuits, sweets, candy, pastries, pies, white flour, beer, sweet white wine, sherry and many others. The consumption of unrefined carbohydrates is highly recommended due to their high nutritional value. When buying foods in a store or supermarket, you should choose products that have a high percentage of fiber and minerals. When selecting cereals and bread, the ingredients should include wholegrain or whole wheat.
Refined vs. Unrefined. Unrefined carbohydrates come from whole foods such as the minimally processed whole grains wheat, oatmeal and brown rice, vegetables, fruits and beans. According to ChooseMyPlate.gov, refined grains are milled, which removes the bran and germ from the grain. 
Unrefined, natural carbohydrates (vegetables, fruits, whole grains, potatoes) burn like softwoods in your fireplace. In addition to being rich sources of vitamins, phytochemicals, and minerals, these foods provide a steady burning fire that will last many hours. Whole-grain cereals and breads, brown rice and other whole grains, beans, nuts, and seeds-these foods will adequately supply necessary fiber as well as fuel reserves.
Unrefined carbohydrates are rich in fiber, vitamins and minerals, which are necessary for the production of energy in the human body. Natural food fiber is responsible for maintaining healthy blood sugar levels, and it acts as a barrier to the digestive system by controlling appetite. The consumption of unrefined carbohydrates is highly recommended due to their high nutritional value. When buying foods in a store or supermarket, you should choose products that have a high percentage of fiber and minerals. When selecting cereals and bread, the ingredients should include wholegrain or whole wheat.
One way unrefined carbohydrates differ from refined carbohydrates is that the former contains more of their natural nutrients. Refined carbohydrates undergo processing, which removes many essential vitamins and minerals. Natural foods such as whole grains, legumes, fruits, and uncooked vegetables are all top sources of unrefined carbohydrates. Consuming the recommended amount of these unrefined foods can be beneficial to your health.
Unrefined carbohydrates refer to those carbohydrates that are in their natural state. Unrefined sugars are found in fruits and vegetables. Unrefined grains (also called whole grains) retain the bran and germ of the natural grain, providing healthful fiber, vitamins and minerals, antioxidants and phytochemicals. Unrefined carbohydrates, also known as whole, are when the carbohydrate food is in its natural or unprocessed state and is not striped of certain nutrients. This is most often in reference to grain products.
Refined carbohydrates are forms of sugars and starches that don’t exist in nature. They do come from natural whole foods, but they have been altered in some way by processing to”refine” them. Processing methods include industrial extraction, concentration/purification, and enzymatic transformation. Cous Cous is not a refined carbohydrate. Whole foods are not refined carbohydrates because they are whole. Modified food starch and anything “modified” can also be considered refined. Agave is not a high glycemic food. Diabetics use it specifically because of its low glycemic index/ load.
Unrefined carbs make a far better choice than refined carbs. Unrefined carbs are minimally processed, rich in vitamins, minerals and fiber, and include whole grains, fruits, vegetables and beans. Refined carbs -- white bread, chips and soda -- on the other hand, are highly processed, offer very little nutritional value and may make it harder for you to lose weight. You may be avoiding fruits because you've heard they are high in sugar. While that is true, as unrefined carbs, fruits are also rich in nutrients like antioxidants that help your body fight against heart disease and cancer. The same isn't true for the added sugar found in foods like soda and candy. To vary your nutrient intake, include an array of colors when selecting fruit for the week