1 Counties and cities can charge an additional local sales tax of up to 4.875%, for a maximum possible combined sales tax of 8.875%. 2  New York has 2158 special sales tax jurisdictions with local sales taxes in addition to the state sales tax. 3  New York has a lower state sales tax than 86.5% of states.
Sales Tax Exemption. According to New York law, you do not have to pay sales tax on a used vehicle if the car was a gift or purchased from a family member. If you paid out-of-state tax when you purchased a vehicle outside of New York, claim credit for the paid tax and reduce your New York sales tax.
The Empire State has a 4 percent sales tax rate, which applies to the sale of cars within the state. In addition to the statewide sales tax, cities and counties in New York have the option of levying local tax rates to the sale price of your new car.
Any sales tax paid by the dealer to the other state may be used as a credit to reduce the amount of tax due, but only if the other state provides a reciprocal credit for sales tax paid in New York, and no refund of the tax paid to the other state is available to the purchaser.
The local sales tax is collected in addition to the New York sales tax of 4%, so the actual sales tax you pay on purchases in New York may vary between 4% and 4.875% depending on which county or city the sale is made in.
The tax rate on used car purchases in New York is four percent. If you get a loan through a used car dealer or with a lender, roll the four percent tax into the loan. The dealer or lender is responsible for getting the tax to the state. Otherwise, pay the four percent tax when you register the vehicle with the DMV.
When you lease a car, however, you only have to pay sales tax on the amount the car will depreciate during the lease term. In other words, you only pay sales tax on a portion of the vehicle's value-the portion you will use during the lease. Say the car is worth $30,000 new.
If you buy goods and are not charged the New York Sales Tax by the retailer, such as with online and out-of-state purchases, you are supposed to pay the 4% sales tax (less any foreign sales tax paid) for these items yourself as the New York Use Tax.
$25 tax on motor vehicles less than $500. Credit is allowed by Florida for the tax paid in West Virginia, when the sale was made through a motor vehicle dealer. No credit is allowed by West Virginia for tax paid in Florida. Tax is imposed on the sales price of new and used motor vehicles, when sold by a