If there is no discernible pattern or sequence in the set of values that you have highlighted, Excel will not be able to automatically complete your values. Begin by opening the Excel file that you want to automatically number. 1. Enter the first and second values of your sequence into a column. If your sequence requires more than two values to establish itself, enter the number of necessary values. 2. Click on the top value, then drag your mouse to select the rest of the values that you just entered. Automatically Number Values in a Sequence in Excel 2010. This is the perfect solution if you are inputting sequential values that follow a pattern. Simply enter the number of values necessary to establish the pattern, then activate Autofill to complete the number of values you require.
Automatically number rows. Unlike other Microsoft Office programs, such as Word, Excel does not provide a button to automatically number data. However, you can easily add sequential numbers to rows of data by dragging the fill handle to fill a column with a series of numbers or by using the ROW function. Use the ROW function to number rows. In the first cell of the range that you want to number, type =ROW(A1) . The ROW function returns the number of the row that you reference.
Step 1: Open your spreadsheet in Excel 2010. Step 2: Type the first two numbers of your sequence into the first two cells into which you want your automatic numbering to start. Step 3: Use your mouse to highlight the two cells containing the values that you just entered. Step 5: Click and hold the left mouse button down and drag it to the right to select the cells that you want to automatically number. Note that the number under your cursor will display the value that will be entered into the currently selected cell. Step 6: Release the mouse button to finish your automatic numbering.
Fill a column with a series of numbers. Select the first cell in the range that you want to fill. Type the starting value for the series. Type a value in the next cell to establish a pattern. For example, if you want the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5..., type 1 and 2 in the first two cells.
1 Type a value in the next cell to establish a pattern. 2  For example, if you want the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5..., type 1 and 2 in the first two cells. 3  If you want the series 2, 4, 6, 8..., type 2 and 4. 4  Select the cells that contain the starting values. 5  Drag the fill handle across the range that you want to fill. 1 For example, if you want the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5..., type 1 and 2 in the first two cells. 2  If you want the series 2, 4, 6, 8..., type 2 and 4. 3  Select the cells that contain the starting values. 4
Type a value in the next cell to establish a pattern. Tip For example, if you want the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5..., type 1 and 2 in the first two cells. If you want the series 2, 4, 6, 8..., type 2 and 4. Select the cells that contain the starting values. Drag the fill handle across the range that you want to fill. Use the ROW function to number rows. In the first cell of the range that you want to number, type =ROW(A1) . The ROW function returns the number of the row that you reference.
Automatically Number Rows in Excel 2007. Sometimes you need to number the rows in Excel. These steps work for Excel 2007: 1  Select the first cell in the range that you want to fill. 2  Type the starting value for the series. 3  Type a value in the next cell to establish a pattern. 4  For example, if you want the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5..., type 1 and 2 in the first two cells. 1 For example, if you want the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5..., type 1 and 2 in the first two cells. 2  If you want the series 2, 4, 6, 8..., type 2 and 4. 3  Select the cells that contain the starting values. 4  Drag the fill handle across
Automatic Column Numbering in Excel 2010. This tutorial is going to assume that you want to fill in a series of cells at the top of your columns (in the first row) with numbers that increase by one as they progress from left to right. Step 5: Click and hold the left mouse button down and drag it to the right to select the cells that you want to automatically number. Note that the number under your cursor will display the value that will be entered into the currently selected cell. Step 6: Release the mouse button to finish your automatic numbering.
Fortunately there is a feature in Excel 2010 that allows you to enter two numbers to start a sequence, then expand that sequence across as many cells as you need. We have previously written about how to automatically number rows in Excel 2010, and the method for numbering columns in Excel 2010 is very similar. Step 5: Click and hold the left mouse button down and drag it to the right to select the cells that you want to automatically number. Note that the number under your cursor will display the value that will be entered into the currently selected cell. Step 6: Release the mouse button to finish your automatic numbering.