Depending on the grade, pulled muscles can take one to eight weeks to heal. For the first 72 hours, apply ice, use elevation and, in consultation with a doctor, take anti-inflammatory medication. After 72 hours, use hot packs to bring blood into the muscle and provide nourishment, which accelerates healing. Shares & Saves. Save. leezsnow. A pulled muscle is technically called a strained muscle and occurs when the fibers of a muscle are torn. Causes of pulled muscles are strenuous activity or an underlying muscle imbalance where one muscle is inappropriately stronger than another.
Instructions. Rest your muscle as soon as you pull it. Depending on the severity, you may need up to five days of rest. In most cases, one to three days is plenty of time. Be sure not to rest for too long because this could actually slow down the healing process. Apply ice immediately after you pull a muscle. 
Relief from pain and inflammation from pulled back muscles / ligaments can be obtained by applying ice to the injury (wrap ice in cloth-do not apply ice directly to skin) for 15 to 20 minutes every 4 hours for two or three days. The cold helps reduce pain and inflammation and is also a distraction from the back pain. What is Back Strain. A muscle strain (or pulled muscle) is an overstretched or torn muscle. Back strain is the most common cause of back pain, especially lower back pain. Muscle strain is often caused by overuse of a muscle or overloading a muscle. When a muscle is stressed beyond its limits, injury occurs
Treatment. For the first 72 hours, apply ice, use elevation and, in consultation with a doctor, take anti-inflammatory medication. After 72 hours, use hot packs to bring blood into the muscle and provide nourishment, which accelerates healing. Shares & Saves. Save. leezsnow. A pulled muscle is technically called a strained muscle and occurs when the fibers of a muscle are torn. Causes of pulled muscles are strenuous activity or an underlying muscle imbalance where one muscle is inappropriately stronger than another.
Happily, a groin pull will usually heal on its own. You just need to give it some time and rest. To speed the healing, you can: 1  Ice the inside of your thigh to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Experts recommend doing it for 20 to 30 minutes every 3 to 4 hours for 2 to 3 days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress your thigh using an elastic bandage or tape. 4  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers
Healing time depends on the severity of the sprain. Most back sprains heal in six to eight weeks but it can take several months for complete recovery from a severe back sprain. Ligaments take longer to heal than muscles. What is Back Strain. A muscle strain (or pulled muscle) is an overstretched or torn muscle. Back strain is the most common cause of back pain, especially lower back pain. Muscle strain is often caused by overuse of a muscle or overloading a muscle. When a muscle is stressed beyond its limits, injury occur
It takes about 1 week to heal a pulled muscle. You need to make sure that you put ice and heat on it every three to four hours. You can not do anything to your back or it will … turn worse. A deep contusion or bruise on the muscle may take … as much as a month to 6 weeks, if it's large and deep enough -- large muscle invovled. If the bone is bruised -- longer. The femur can take a lot of damage without breaking, but that damage would still have to heal.