Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I would say $275 a month for full board (horse's have their own stall and get turn out etc.) And for field board you can also charge $150 like the other stables. ...your so lucky you have NICE barns in your area that charge $300 a month for board. I live in FL and the cheapest it come is at a crappy backyard barn for $850 and a decent barn for 1k a month. It's pretty much reserved for the rich where I live. Source(s): 
Report Abuse. The place I board at charges $250/horse/month, but I think the price could be +$25 or -$75... I would say have the price be anywhere between $175 and $275, but it all depends on the prestige of the stables. I think this range would be good, but it is all up to you. Hi I live in Molalla, Oregon. I am going into the horse boarding business and am wondering how much to charge. Each horse will have a large paddock with a run in shelter that is much like a stall. I will do one morning feed and water, clean the horses area, lock them in at night with turnout in the morning. The...
1 A simple boarding facility that allows your horse to graze in a field may charge $50 to $200 a month, while a premium boarding facility that offers training, one-on-one care, health services and more can vary anywhere from $400 to $1,000 per month. 1 As mentioned above, it will really come down to what you want to have done to your horse. 2  A premium boarding service such as Oakland Hills Farm, located in Michigan, charges $900 to $1,100 per month for premium care. 3  This include supervised hacks, training, first aid care, blanketing, shoeing and much more.
Add in shoeing, and you could pay $80 to $100 every two months. Routine medical care is an additional cost of owning a horse and includes vaccinations, de-worming and annual teeth cleaning. For a healthy horse, this can cost as little as $300 a year. The cost of keeping a horse varies widely depending on where you live and the level of service your stable provides. Simple pasture boarding can cost as little as $100 a month. However, stable boarding can cost $500 or more. If you plan to keep your horse on your own land, you’ll also need to consider whether the property is adequately equipped. First, you'll need about two acres of good pasture per horse for grazing
1 A premium boarding service such as Oakland Hills Farm, located in Michigan, charges $900 to $1,100 per month for premium care. 2  This include supervised hacks, training, first aid care, blanketing, shoeing and much more. 1 As mentioned above, it will really come down to what you want to have done to your horse. 2  A premium boarding service such as Oakland Hills Farm, located in Michigan, charges $900 to $1,100 per month for premium care. 3  This include supervised hacks, training, first aid care, blanketing, shoeing and much more.
1 Horse boarding will usually be charged per month and is going to range anywhere from $50 to as much as $1,200 a month. 2  Like boarding your cat or dog, the costs will go up based on the attention the horse needs. 1 As mentioned above, it will really come down to what you want to have done to your horse. 2  A premium boarding service such as Oakland Hills Farm, located in Michigan, charges $900 to $1,100 per month for premium care. 3  This include supervised hacks, training, first aid care, blanketing, shoeing and much more.
Housing. If you don't own enough land to support a horse, boarding at a barn or stable is the next best option. A horse is assigned a stall and you're given access to trails, a pasture or arena. The cost of boarding averages $400 to $500 per month but can go as high as $1,200 to $2,500 in metropolitan areas. Services such as mucking out stalls, feeding and turning out your horse to pasture may not be included in the price. 