For fluvoxamine, he starts the patient at 50 mg/day (25 mg/day for patients who are sensitive to drugs), and increases the dose every 5 to 7 days by 50 mg/day to a maximum daily dose of 300 mg/day if possible. Over 10-12 weeks, symptoms decrease by about 40% to 50% or more in about 60% of patients. 
3 compound). Approximately 2% of fluvoxamine was excreted in urine unchanged. (See PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions. ) Elimination: Following a 14 C-labelled oral dose of fluvoxamine maleate (5 mg), an average of 94% of drug-related products was recovered in the urine within 71 hours. Ramelteon: When fluvoxamine 100 mg twice daily was administered for 3 days prior to single-dose co-administration of ramelteon 16 mg and fluvoxamine, the AUC for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold and the C max increased approximately 70-fold compared to ramelteon administered alone.
Your healthcare provider may choose to increase the Luvox dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose of Luvox is 300 mg once daily. Doses above Luvox 100 mg should be split up and given twice a day. The recommended starting Luvox dose for treating obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is 50 mg once a day. The dose of Luvox ® (fluvoxamine maleate) your healthcare provider prescribes will vary depending on a number of factors, including:
As is always the case, do not adjust your dosage unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended starting Luvox CR dose is 100 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your dose by 50 mg every week, up to a maximum of 300 mg daily. 
Patients in this study were titrated to a total daily fluvoxamine dose of approximately 100 mg/day over the first two weeks of the trial, following which the dose. 5 was adjusted within a range of 50- 200 mg/day (on a b.i.d. schedule) on the basis of response and tolerance. Ramelteon: When fluvoxamine 100 mg twice daily was administered for 3 days prior to single-dose co-administration of ramelteon 16 mg and fluvoxamine, the AUC for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold and the C max increased approximately 70-fold compared to ramelteon administered alone.
The recommended starting dose for Fluvoxamine Maleate (fluvoxamine maleate) Tablets in adult patients is 50 mg, administered as a single daily dose at bedtime. The benefit of maintaining patients with OCD on Fluvoxamine Maleate (fluvoxamine maleate) Tablets after achieving a response for an average duration of about 4 weeks in a 10-week single-blind phase during which patients were titrated to effect was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Trials ].
The recommended starting dose for Fluvoxamine Maleate (fluvoxamine maleate) Tablets in pediatric populations (ages 8-17 years) is 25 mg, administered as a single daily dose at bedtime. The benefit of maintaining patients with OCD on Fluvoxamine Maleate (fluvoxamine maleate) Tablets after achieving a response for an average duration of about 4 weeks in a 10-week single-blind phase during which patients were titrated to effect was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Trials ].
Generic Name: Fluvoxamine Meleate. Luvox (Fluvoxamine) is used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder, OCD, and treat depression. Uses, dosage, side effects of Luvox. Outside U.S., Brand Names also known as: Dumirox; Dumyrox; Faverin; Favoxil; Fevarin; Floxyfral; Maveral. Fluvoxamine (Luvox) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
The recommended starting dose for fluvoxamine maleate is 50 mg, administered as a single daily dose at bedtime. In the controlled clinical trials establishing the effectiveness of fluvoxamine maleate in OCD, patients were titrated within a dose range of 100 to 300 mg/day. Fluvoxamine (Luvox) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).