Egress Window Costs & Prices. Egress window cost will vary from $1100 to $2600 for the windows and installation. The price difference can be found in whether you are simply replacing a basement window or installing a whole project that complies with building codes and therefore qualifies as an emergency exit. Replacing windows doesn’t cost more than any other project (although installing in concrete can be tricky). The retaining wall – plans, getting the plans approved, labor and materials – will run up to $2,000 for a code compliant basement egress. More on installation costs.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Basement Window! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Basement Window Installation project. For a basic 1 window project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Basement Window ranges between $416.86 - $603.88 per window. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.
Entry Level Egress Window Cost. Entry level egress basement projects will run somewhere in the $1,000 to $2,000 range, which includes all materials, the window and professional installation. Mid range basement egress projects will run $2,000 to $3,000 total, which includes all the labor, materials and the cost of an egress window.
On average, sump pump installation costs $1,015, with most homeowners spending between $685 and $1,502. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Sump pumps work almost everyday moving water away from your foundation to keep your house from flooding. Your sump pump hooks up to you wastewater drain. When water enters your basement, the sump pump pulls it away from your foundation into your wastewater system and keeps your basement from flooding. There are a few major factors that will affect the cost of your sump pump installation.
Allow at least three full days to install the window, plus time for finishing the interior. Hiring a contractor to install an egress window and window well like the ones shown will cost from $6,000 to $8,000. If you do the projects yourself, expect to spend $1,500 on materials, tool rental and refuse container fees. We'll show you all the how-to steps you need to install a basement egress window, from cutting a hole in the basement wall to framing the opening to setting the window. Doing the project yourself can save you more than $4,000.
Egress Window Cost. Installation: $1,000 to $2,000. Replacing windows doesn’t cost more than any other project (although installing in concrete can be tricky). The retaining wall – plans, getting the plans approved, labor and materials – will run up to $2,000 for a code compliant basement egress. More on installation costs.
When these become too worn out to be simply repaired, they must be replaced. For this discussion, we will look at the costs and requirements of installing a straight staircase leading to a basement area. According to HomeTips.com, a set of straight stairs will cost roughly $1,000 to $2,000. This figure uses a set of pre-built wooden stairs along with a custom-made hand rail as a base price indicator. Since basement stairs are rarely decorative, this project will not include newel posts, balusters or platforms. 
1 Adding a basement to an existing house can cost $30,000-$70,000 or more, depending on the size of the existing crawlspace or half-basement or if the house is on a slab foundation, and how much of the work is do-it-yourself and how much is done by contractors. 1 Having a prefabricated safe room (a welded steel box, a steel skeleton with steel planks or a prefabricated unit that is bolted together on site) installed in a basement can cost $3,000-$20,000 or more, depending on materials and size.
Premium Egress Windows Prices. Premium egress basement window projects will cost between $3,000 and $5,000, which includes all of the preparation and installation steps, the materials, as well as the window itself. Mid range basement egress projects will run $2,000 to $3,000 total, which includes all the labor, materials and the cost of an egress window.