Compared with other long-acting opioids with a half-life of 2 to 3 hours, methadone has a half-life that ranges from 15 to 60 hours in most patients and is usually around 30 hours. Among the most difficult of long-acting opioids to prescribe and manage is the synthetic opioid methadone. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in its July 2012 issue of “Vital Signs” that methadone was involved in nearly one-third of deaths from prescription drug overdoses.
What To Think About. Methadone is a long-acting medicine, and each dose stays in the body for a long time. For this reason, dosages should be adjusted with caution, ideally by an addiction specialist. It may take a couple of days after the medicine is started before the dose of methadone is fully effective. 
Methadone. Methadone is a long-acting synthetic opioid agonist medication that can prevent withdrawal symptoms and reduce craving in opioid-addicted individuals. It can also block the effects of illicit opioids. It has a long history of use in treatment of opioid dependence in adults and is taken orally
Compared with other long-acting opioids, methadone costs pennies,” said Dr. Alford, who also directs the BUSM Safe and Competent Opioid Prescribing Education (SCOPE of Pain) program. “Another point of appeal is that methadone is available in small doses.”. Methadone tablets are available in doses as low as 5 mg. Among the most difficult of long-acting opioids to prescribe and manage is the synthetic opioid methadone. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in its July 2012 issue of “Vital Signs” that methadone was involved in nearly one-third of deaths from prescription drug overdoses.
Long-acting opiate pain relievers are medicines used to relieve moderate to severe long-term pain. They are also called extended-release opiates. Opiates relieve pain by changing the way your body feels pain. They don't cure a health problem, but they help you manage the pain. If you take a lot of short-acting medicine, your doctor may give you long-acting opiates. Long-acting opiates help you avoid the ups and downs in pain relief that you may have with short-acting medicine. To use long-acting opiates safely: 1  Call your doctor if you think you are having a problem with your medicine. 2  You will get more details on the specific medicines your doctor prescribes. 3  Do not drink alcohol or take illegal drugs. 4  Do not drive or operate machinery until you can think clearly.
Suggested Reading I. Combining methadone with other long-acting and short-acting opioids for pain management. Ask the Experts about Pharmacotherapy. Medscape Pharmacists. Posted 03/02/2006. Available at: http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/523729. Commenting is limited to medical professionals. As with any chronic pain regimen that uses long-term opiates, the use of short-acting analgesics may by necessary for breakthrough pain, during initial titration, and at other times when patient activity or pain levels dictate the need for rescue medication.
Commercially available, oral, short-acting opioids include morphine sulfate (tablet/liquid), hydromorphone, oxycodone (alone or in combination with acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin), hydrocodone (only in combination with acetaminophen and ibuprofen), oxymorphone, and codeine. 
The first step in conversion to methadone therapy is to determine the daily oral morphine equivalent dose of the current opioids. The latter may include long-acting medications as well as short-acting medications used for breakthrough pain. The daily dosage of each opioid is multiplied by the ratio of equianalgesic doses, using morphine in the numerator and the current opioid in the denominator (Table 2) .
1 A long-acting (extended-release) opioid pain medicine that can put you at risk for overdose and death. 2  Even if you take your dose correctly as prescribed you are at risk for opioid addiction, abuse, and misuse that can lead to death. 3  Not for use to treat pain that is not around-the-clock. 
Methadone, also known as Dolophine among other brand names, is a synthetic opioid. It is used medically as a pain medication and a maintenance therapy in people with opioid dependence. Methadone is also used in managing severe chronic pain owing to its long duration of action and strong analgesic effect. Side effects are similar to that of other opioids