The two hydrogen atoms in water molecule (H2O) are connected to the oxygen via covalent bonds, which means the hydrogen and oxygen share electrons. (The hydrogen-oxygen bonds are primarily covalent rather than ionic.). What type of chemical bond is there in water?   The two hydrogen molecules and the oxygen molecule in water are joined by covalent bonding where they share the electron.
A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction. The attraction between ions and water molecules in such solutions is due to a type of weak dipole-dipole type chemical bond. In melted ionic compounds, the ions continue to be attracted to each other, but not in any ordered or crystalline way.
1 covalent = a type of bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms to achieve chemical stability, as in the hydrogen and oxygen atoms that make up a water molecule. 2  solvent = the substance present in the greatest amount within a solution. Terms you should know. 1  bonding = the act of fastening two atoms together. 2 
Answer: Yes, water is a compound. A compound forms whenever two or more atoms form chemical bonds with each other. The chemical formula for water is H 2 O, which means each molecule of water consists of one oxygen atom chemically bonded to two hydrogen atoms. Thu
Water molecules are very polar because the oxygen has a partial negative charge and the hydrogens have partial positive charges. Because it is so polar, water can form hydrogen bonds, where the oxygen from one molecule of water has a strong attraction to the hydrogen atoms in another molecule of water. These H-bonds are strong compared to other intermolecular forces, but still fairly weak compared to the covalent bonds within the water molecules. What type of chemical bond is there in water?   The two hydrogen molecules and the oxygen molecule in water are joined by covalent bonding where they share the electron.
The three types of chemical bonds are Ionic bonds, Covalent bonds, and Polar covalent bonds. Chemists also recognize hydrogen bonds as a fourth form of chemical bond, though their properties align closely with the other types of bonds. Bonds hold atoms and molecules of substances together. There are several different kinds of bonds; the type of bond seen in elements and compounds depends on the chemical properties as well as the attractive forces governing the atoms and molecules.
The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. Bonds hold atoms and molecules of substances together. There are several different kinds of bonds; the type of bond seen in elements and compounds depends on the chemical properties as well as the attractive forces governing the atoms and molecules.
The strength of chemical bonds varies considerably; there are strong bonds such as covalent or ionic bonds and weak bonds such as Dipole-dipole interaction, the London dispersion force and hydrogen bonding. The attraction between ions and water molecules in such solutions is due to a type of weak dipole-dipole type chemical bond. In melted ionic compounds, the ions continue to be attracted to each other, but not in any ordered or crystalline way.
1 bonding = the act of fastening two atoms together. 2  covalent = a type of bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms to achieve chemical stability, as in the hydrogen and oxygen atoms that make up a water molecule. 3  solvent = the substance present in the greatest amount within a solution. Terms you should know. 1 