Noble Gases. Rare Earth Elements. The alkali metals, found in group 1 of the periodic table (formerly known as group IA), are very reactive metals that do not occur freely in nature. These metals have only one electron in their outer shell. Therefore, they are ready to lose that one electron in ionic bonding with other element
Lr. Group 1A (or IA) of the periodic table are the alkali metals: hydrogen (H), lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), cesium (Cs), and francium (Fr). These are (except for hydrogen) soft, shiny, low-melting, highly reactive metals, which tarnish when exposed to ai
The alkaline earth metals are six chemical elements in column (group) 2 of the Periodic table. They are beryllium (Be), magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca), strontium (Sr), barium (Ba), and radium (Ra). 
1 Alkali metals. 2  The alkali metals make up group 1 of the Table, and comprise Li through Fr. They have very similar behavior and characteristics. 3  Hydrogen is group 1 but exhibits few characteristics of a metal and is often categorized with the nonmetals. 4  Alkaline earth metals. 1 Alkaline earth metals. 2  The alkaline earth metals make up group 2 of the periodic table, from Be through Ra. 3  The alkaline earth metals have very high melting points and oxides that have basic alkaline solutions.
The alkali metals are a group of elements in the periodic table. They are all in the first column of the periodic table. The only element in the first column that is not usually considered an alkali metal is hydrogen. Hydrogen and the alkali metals make up the group 1 elements of the periodic table.
About the Group. The first column of the periodic table is the group of elements known as the Group 1 or alkali metals. This group includes lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, and francium. 
The alkali metals are a group (column) in the periodic table consisting of the chemical elements lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (Cs), and francium (Fr). 
An example of a group in the periodic table is the alkali metal [alkali metals: The alkali metals are the elements in Group 1 of the periodic table. They have one electron in the outer shell.] group. This video clip shows some of the reactions that occur with this group. Video: Alkali metals. 