Fishing, Hunting, Trapping Licenses: Residents under the age of 16 do not need to purchase a hunting, sport fishing or trapping license. Non-residents under the age of 16 do not need to purchase a sport fishing license but they do need to purchase a hunting and/or trapping license. 
To purchase a fishing license or to obtain a permit or tag, you must have: 1  A valid Michigan Driver License; or. 2  A valid Michigan ID Card (issued by the Secretary of State) with additional proof of Michigan residency, such as a Michigan voter registration card; or. 3  A DNR Sportcard (issued by license dealers). 1 You must purchase a license if you are 17 years of age or older. 2  If you are under 17, you may fish without a license, but you are required to observe all fishing rules and regulations.
Getting your Wisconsin fishing license for 2015-2016 online is one option. You may have to give your social security number in an online form. (If you have a DNR Customer Number you don't need to give your SSN.) That's some vital information to give online. Wisconsin does not have a lifetime fishing license available like some other states. Check the full list of licenses and fees to see what suits you best—you may need an inland trout stamp or Great Lake salmon/trout stamp, too. The first Free Fishing Weekend of the year was January 17-18, 2015.
To qualify for a resident fishing license, you must: 1  Be a person who resides in a settled or permanent home or domicile within the boundaries of this state with the intention of remaining in this state, or. 2  Be a full-time student at a Michigan college or university, and reside in Michigan, or. 1 You must purchase a license if you are 17 years of age or older. 2  If you are under 17, you may fish without a license, but you are required to observe all fishing rules and regulations.
1 Anglers must have their license in their possession while fishing and must show the license to anyone on request. 2  Members of the U.S. Armed Forces on active duty stationed in Ohio, but NOT on leave or furlough are required to purchase a resident license. License Requirements. 1  A fishing license is required to take fish, frogs or turtles from Ohio waters. 2  Persons fishing in privately owned ponds, lakes or reservoirs to and from which fish do not migrate, are not required to have a license to take fish, but must have one to take frogs or turtles.
In general, you need a freshwater license to take freshwater fish and a saltwater license to take saltwater fish, unless one of the exemptions specified on this Web site applies to your situation. 1 In other words, if you only have a freshwater license and are primarily fishing for largemouth bass or bream (freshwater species) in a river, but happen to catch a red drum (a saltwater species), you must immediately release the red drum.
No. Anyone on-board that is not fishing does not need a fishing license-even if they are on a vessel which has people fishing. Non-anglers should not in any way help with fishing, such as attaching lures, netting fish or removing fish from the hooks. 1 In other words, if you only have a freshwater license and are primarily fishing for largemouth bass or bream (freshwater species) in a river, but happen to catch a red drum (a saltwater species), you must immediately release the red drum.
1 When fishing, you must carry your license and the identification used to purchase that license and exhibit both upon demand of a Michigan Conservation Officer, a Tribal Conservation Officer or any law enforcement officer. 1 You must purchase a license if you are 17 years of age or older. 2  If you are under 17, you may fish without a license, but you are required to observe all fishing rules and regulations.
Wisconsin is one of the best places on earth for ice fishing. And to do that you'll have to get your Wisconsin fishing license for 2015-2016. With Lake Michigan and tons of lakes and streams, there are a lot of opportunities for great fishing. Wisconsin does not have a lifetime fishing license available like some other states. Check the full list of licenses and fees to see what suits you best—you may need an inland trout stamp or Great Lake salmon/trout stamp, too. The first Free Fishing Weekend of the year was January 17-18, 2015.
Report Abuse. You would need a Wisconsin fishing license. A Wisconsin fishing license can be purchased from any bait shop and most convenience store gas stations in Wisconsin. Lake Geneva is a beautiful area. You should bring your fishing gear.