Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Castor or caster sugar is the name of a very fine sugar in Britain, so named because the grains are small enough to fit though a sugar caster or sprinkler. It is sold as superfine sugar in the United States. How to Make Powdered Sugar Here is a recipe that can you make your own powdered or confectioner's sugar. Ingredients * 1 cup of sugar * 2 tablespoons of cornstarch Steps 1. Measure out the sugar and corn starch.
Powdered sugar is a super fine sugar, finer than even castor sugar. It is often termed as 10X sugar, confectioner's sugar or icing sugar. In France, it is called Sucre Glace. The size of the sugar crystal varies 10X sugar is usually 0.010 mm, while confectioner's sugar is 0.060 mm, and icing sugar is 0.024 mm. It is a type of granulated sugar that has superfine granulated crystals, usually 0.35 mm. The term castor or caster sugar is mainly used in UK English and its Commonwealth countries. In North America, it is sold as super fine sugar.
Now that you know what is caster sugar and what is powdered sugar, we will turn to the difference between the two. The caster sugar is very fine sugar, which is also known as 'superfine' sugar. However, it is not as fine as powdered sugar to which cornstarch is added. Sugar is available in different forms, caster sugar and powdered sugar being among them. There is often confusion whether caster sugar or powdered sugar should be used, which most of us are faced with. With this write-up, we will get to know the difference between caster sugar and powdered sugar
Castor sugar is also known as caster sugar, superfine sugar, ultrafine sugar or bar sugar. It is a type of granulated sugar that has superfine granulated crystals, usually 0.35 mm. The term castor or caster sugar is mainly used in UK English and its Commonwealth countries. In North America, it is sold as super fine sugar. In Canada, specifically in British Columbia, it is termed as berry
No, caster sugar is fine-ground granulated sugar. Confectioner's sugar is a mix of ultra-fine sugar and a starch; it is sometimes called icing sugar. Castor or caster sugar is the name of a very fine sugar in Britain, so named because the grains are small enough to fit though a sugar caster or sprinkler. It is sold as superfine sugar in the United States.
Caster Sugar Vs. Sugar is available in different forms, caster sugar and powdered sugar being among them. There is often confusion whether caster sugar or powdered sugar should be used, which most of us are faced with. With this write-up, we will get to know the difference between caster sugar and powdered sugar
Powdered sugar, also called confectioner's sugar or icing sugar, is a finely ground sugar made by milling normal granulated sugar into a powdered state. 
No, it's not the same thing. Granulated sugar is normal table sugar and caster sugar has a coarseness between granulated sugar and powdered sugar. You can get it in the baking aisle and it's called baking sugar. This type of sugar definitely gives a better texture in recipes that require it. But Caster Sugar-in order to be classified Caster Sugar-is made from Sugar Cane (Cane Sugar.) [Baker's Sugar is made from Cane Sugar as well so it is the same product as caster sugar in the U.K.] Cane Sugar has a much more multifaceted and deeper flavor than sugar beet sugar or corn syrup.
No, caster sugar is fine-ground granulated sugar. Confectioner's sugar is a mix of ultra-fine sugar and a starch; it is sometimes called icing sugar. It is usually known as icing sugar in England and powdered sugar in the USA. Confectioners sugar i … s used as an international name. These are the same thing. Powdered sugar, icing sugar, and confectioners sugar are just different names for sugar than has been ground to a fine powder so that it dissolves very easily.