In order to establish what is the average cost of a cremation in your area, you need to compare prices purely on a local level, and you need to ensure you are comparing apples to apples. You will find that there are different brackets of cremation providers and funeral homes offering cremation services. Cremation Packages average prices to expect. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500. This cost varies between areas. In Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix you can arrange a direct cremation for as little as $495 - $580.
The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services.
According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services.
Cost of Cremation. Cost is a factor in the growing popularity and acceptance. Understanding cremation costs can help you make a more informed decision when choosing a funeral home to serve your family. This guide is intended to help you understand the different costs that are involved when planning a cremation service. 
The cost of pet cremation depends on location, where the cremation is done, and time of cremation. The American Humane Society’s cost for cremation of 22.5 kg (50 lb). or less pet is $110 while 23 kg (51 lb). or more is $145. The cremated remains are available for the owner to pick up in seven to ten business days. 
Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style. The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory.
The exact cost of cat cremation depends on the type of cremation and memorial service you choose. Moreover, factors like the area, time, etc. also affect the price. Nevertheless, on an average, cat cremation can cost about $60 to $150. Moreover, the cost of cremation is going to include the cost of a pet urn as well (costing $50-$150 or more) if you choose to store the ashes of your feline companion in an urn and display it at your home or dispose it of.
California Cremation Costs. The average cost of cremation is a fraction of funeral and burial costs in California, less than a quarter of the $10,000+ cost of an average funeral and burial. With cremation, there is no need to embalm or to purchase a cemetery plot, casket, burial vault, or gravestone. The low cost of cremation in California is a significant factor in choosing cremation for final needs. Other considerations in choosing cremation include avoiding the environmental impact of burials, and the ease and simplicity of the cremation process.
Although the cost of cremation varies based on several factors, including whether you have a viewing in a casket prior to the cremation, the process is usually cheaper than a traditional funeral. 