Warm it in the skillet over medium to medium-high heat. Add the tortilla and top with cheese: Lay one tortilla in the skillet and sprinkle all over with 1/2 cup of cheese. Add the filling: Spread roughly 1/2 cup of filling in a single layer over just half the tortilla. I prefer flour tortillas for quesadillas — they're usually easier to find in the larger 9- or 10-inch size and they get nicely crispy in the pan without breaking apart when you fold or cut them. One trick — a surprising trick! — is to use only a little bit of butter or oil in the pan when cooking the quesadillas.
Fill it with plain cheese and beans or with shrimp and avocado; the quesadilla is whatever you want to make it. Pin it. Making quesadillas is about as easy as it comes. Warm a tortilla in a skillet and top with cheese and fillings. Wait until everything is warm and gooey, then fold and dig in. I prefer flour tortillas for quesadillas — they're usually easier to find in the larger 9- or 10-inch size and they get nicely crispy in the pan without breaking apart when you fold or cut them. One trick — a surprising trick! — is to use only a little bit of butter or oil in the pan when cooking the quesadillas.
Fill it with plain cheese and beans or with shrimp and avocado; the quesadilla is whatever you want to make it. Pin it Making quesadillas is about as easy as it comes. Warm a tortilla in a skillet and top with cheese and fillings. I prefer flour tortillas for quesadillas — they're usually easier to find in the larger 9- or 10-inch size and they get nicely crispy in the pan without breaking apart when you fold or cut them. One trick — a surprising trick! — is to use only a little bit of butter or oil in the pan when cooking the quesadillas.
Method. 1 Heat a large cast iron frying pan to medium high heat. Add a small amount of oil (about 1/2 teaspoon) and spread it around the bottom of the pan with a spatula (you could use butter as well). Take one large flour tortilla and place it in the pan. Flip the tortilla over a few times, 10 seconds between flips. If it is not browned, turn the heat up to high and flip the quesadilla over every 10 seconds or so until it gets browned. Remove from pan and cut into wedges. To make the lettuce to accompany the quesadilla, thinly slice some iceberg lettuce. Sprinkle some cider vinegar on it and some salt.
Delicious without the bells and whistles. The Quesadilla is a purist’s meal: a simple flour tortilla with some meat, a hefty portion of melted three-cheese blend, creamy jalapeno sauce, and absolutely zero bells and whistles. 
How to make a cheese quesadilla. A quesadilla (/ˌkeɪsəˈdiːjə/ , [kesaˈðiʝa]. ) is a wheat tortilla or a corn tortilla filled with a savoury mixture, and/or vegetables, cooked often on a griddle, then folded in half to form a half-moon shape. That kind of quesadilla is also Mexican, and it is called gringa (the name varies in some regions in Mexico, there's also a type of quesadilla called chavindeca). There is a lot of regional variation to specific recipes throughout the Southwest.
A quesadilla (kay-suh-dee-yuh) is a popular savory Mexican turnover, stuffed with a cheese filling. The turnover is grilled or fried, using either flour or a corn tortilla. Served with guacamole and sour cream, this simple unleavened flatbread turnover remains a favorite snack of the Mexican and Tex-Mex cuisine. The purist prepares the quesadilla as a turnover and differentiate it from the sincronizada, which is made with two flour tortillas with the cheese wedged in between. Traditionally Chihuahua cheese is used, which is a white, mild, Mexican cheese, similar to a Monterey Jack.
“Queso” is cheese in Spanish. A quesadilla is a heated tortilla with melted cheese inside. But in addition to cheese, you can put practically anything in a quesadilla. My favorites are mushrooms, olives, tomatoes, and onions. I don’t cook these ingredients first, but it really is a matter of taste. You could if you wanted to. If it is not browned, turn the heat up to high and flip the quesadilla over every 10 seconds or so until it gets browned. Remove from pan and cut into wedges. To make the lettuce to accompany the quesadilla, thinly slice some iceberg lettuce. Sprinkle some cider vinegar on it and some salt.
Directions. Lay the tortillas flat on a cookie sheet. Sprinkle some of the cheese on 1 half of each tortilla. Try not to get it too close to the edge. Fold the tortillas in half over the cheese to make a half-moon. Warm a skillet over low heat and add 1 tablespoon of the butter. Add the tortilla to the skillet and cook until it is lightly brown, about 2 minutes. Using a spatula, gently lift the edge so you can check. 
The quesadilla is then cooked on a comal until the cheese has completely melted. They are usually cooked without the addition of any oil. Often the quesadillas are served with green or red salsa, chopped onion, and guacamole. That kind of quesadilla is also Mexican, and it is called gringa (the name varies in some regions in Mexico, there's also a type of quesadilla called chavindeca). There is a lot of regional variation to specific recipes throughout the Southwest.