Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Danish Kroner and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Danish Krone is the currency in Denmark (DK, DNK), Faeroe Islands, and Greenland (GL, GRL). The Danish Krone is also known as Krones. 
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code.
Kroner, Euro and foreign currencies in Denmark (scroll down to approximate exchange rates). Although Denmark is member of the EU, the country is not part of Euro Land. Visitors therefore need the Danish currency Kroner for shopping and other expenses. Also if you want to transfer money to or from Denmark and other countries you need money exchange. 20 Kroner coin (left) and 5 Kroner coin (right). Exchange rates The Danish Currency Kroner is closely connected to the European Monetary system and the exchange rate is very stable towards Euro. Towards Dollar and other currencies the Danish Kroner varies mor
The krone is the currency of Denmark, including the autonomous provinces of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The plural form is 'kroner'. It is loosely pegged to the Euro at a rate of 1 EUR = 7.46038 DKK but is allowed to fluctuate slightly. 
The krone is the currency of Denmark, including the autonomous provinces of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The plural form is 'kroner'. It is loosely pegged to the Euro at a rate of 1 EUR = 7.46038 DKK but is allowed to fluctuate slightly. 
Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Copenhagen. The currency used in Copenhagen is the Danish Krone. Copenhagen is the capital of Denmark. If you are traveling to Copenhagen, you will need to exchange your currency for the Danish Krone. You may exchange your money for the Danish Krone at most Copenhagen banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus.
Denmark uses the krone as its currency and does not use the euro, having negotiated the right to opt-out from participation under the Maastricht Treaty of 1992. The Danish krone is part of the ERM-II mechanism, so its exchange rate is tied to within 2.25% of the euro. Most of the large political parties in Denmark favour the introduction of the euro and the idea of a second referendum has been suggested several times since 2000.
DKK-Danish Krone. Denmark, Krone. The Danish Krone is the currency of Denmark. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Denmark Krone exchange rate is the EUR to DKK rate. The currency code for Kroner is DKK, and the currency symbol is kr. Below, you'll find Danish Krone rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take DKK rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. Currency in Denmark first came into existence in 1625 with the introduction of the Danish Rigsdaler. The Rigsdaler was a complicated currency, using three subunits: the mark, skilling, and pfenning. The system lacked decimalization and continued to be used until the creation of Scandinavian Monetary Union in 1873