Step 1: Identify the enemy. Scabies, lice, and bed bugs cause similar symptoms, but their differences are noteworthy (Table 1). Knowing exactly what you are dealing with is crucial to providing the best OTC or prescription treatment and patient counseling. This overview of public health department protocols can be used to wage “war” on vermin. Vermin outbreaks are common, costly, and upsetting. Depending on your location, the time of year, and the population you serve, you undoubtedly encounter outbreaks of bed bugs, lice, or scabies.
Pediculosis and scabies are caused by ectoparasites; patients usually present with itching. Head and pubic lice infestations are diagnosed by the visualization of insects or viable nits (eggs). Primary treatment is topically administered 1 percent permethrin. Malathion is one alternative for treatment failures. 
Scabies is caused by infection with the female mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The mites burrow into the skin to live and deposit eggs. The symptoms of scabies are due to an allergic reaction to the mites. Often only between ten and fifteen mites are involved in an infection. Scabies is most often spread during a relatively long period of direct skin contact with an infected person such as that which may occur during sex. Spreads of disease may occur even if the person has not developed symptoms yet.
Lice and scabies are highly contagious skin conditions that involve parasites living on or in the skin. Lice are small, grayish-brown insects that live on humans. Bites from lice can cause intense itching and irritation of the scalp or other area of the body where lice are present. Symptoms may not occur until at least two months after the lice begin living on the body.
Scabies Treatment: Cream Applications. There are no over-the-counter approved treatments for scabies. A doctor must prescribe treatment. A first-line treatment for scabies may involve a topical cream, such as permethrin (Elimite), which is applied directly to the skin, from the neck to the soles of the feet. It should be left on overnight and then washed off 8 to 14 hours later. Patients with crusted scabies have large numbers of scabies mites and are very contagious. It can affect any area of the body but the scalp, hands, and feet are most commonly affected. The scales become warty, with crusts and fissures.
1 Scabies is an itchy, highly contagious skin disease caused by an infestation by the itch mite Sarcoptes scabiei. 2  Direct skin-to-skin contact is the mode of transmission. 3  A severe and relentless itch is the predominant symptom of scabies. Scabies facts. 1 
Lice. Lice are small, grayish-brown insects that live on humans. Lice bite through the skin and live on the blood of the host, another name for the infected person. Female lice lay eggs -- called nits -- that firmly attach to hair shafts. Head lice live on the scalp and are common among school children. Bites from lice can cause intense itching and irritation of the scalp or other area of the body where lice are present. Symptoms may not occur until at least two months after the lice begin living on the body.
There are several types of skin conditions that can cause itching and rashes, and scabies is one of them. Scabies is a dermatologic condition caused by the sarcoptes scabiei mite, an eight-legged microscopic bug.1,2. Scabies spreads very easily from person to person. 1 Itching is known to be one of the most common symptoms experienced in scabies. 2  Rash: when the mite burrows into the skin, it forms burrow tracks, or lines, which are most commonly found in skin folds, and resemble hives, bites, knots, pimples or patches of scaly skin. 3  Blisters may also be present.
Scabies, known as the seven-year itch, is a contagious skin infestation by the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The most common symptoms are severe itchiness and a pimple-like rash. Occasionally tiny burrows may be seen in the skin. When first infected, usually two to six weeks are required before symptoms occur. Often only between ten and fifteen mites are involved in an infection. Scabies is most often spread during a relatively long period of direct skin contact with an infected person such as that which may occur during sex. Spreads of disease may occur even if the person has not developed symptoms yet.