Buying a boat isn’t as painful as you might think! Naturally, prices for new boats vary depending on size and make, but many boat manufacturers and dealers can put you in the captain’s chair for considerably less than a monthly new-car payment. In fact, monthly payments for many entry-level boats can be less than $250. Boat buyers have many choices when it comes to paying for their purchase. Here are a few of the advantages of financing your purchase through your dealer with a National Marine Lenders Association (NMLA) marine lending specialist:
1 The options for a used boat can differ slightly in term length of loan and even interest rate. 2  Your options for the length of the loan will be shorter. 3  Used boats usually won't get as many months finance terms as new boats. 4  For a used vessel you will be required to get what is called a 'Marine Survey'. A new boat can be financed for 120 months or more which means after 10 years of wear and tear on your boat you could still be making payments. 15 year or 20 year loans are available for more expensive purchases
Comparing short-term vs. long-term rates can be helpful. Let's say you just purchased a new boat with an outstanding balance of $50,000. At 11 percent fixed, a $50,000 loan for 20 years would come out to $516 per month with a total of $73,863 in interest. Each point is approximately 1 percent of the total amount borrowed and up to three points may be assessed. On a $50,000 loan, this amounts to $1,500. You have two options on points. You can pay the $1,500 in cash directly to the lender or add the amount into the first three years of payments.
Boat Loan Calculator. Boating may be more affordable than you think. In some instances, you can buy a brand new boat for around $250 a month, while a new PWC may be purchased for around $125 a month. Interest on a boat loan may be deductible if the boat has a galley, berth and head. If you know your monthly budget amount, enter it in the total loan amount window and work backwards to determine what size loan you can afford.
1 You can apply for a loan and often be approved in 24 hours. 2  Longer financing terms – marine finance specialists recognize the value of a well-maintained boat, so terms generally will be more attractive than those not actively making boat loans. In fact, monthly payments for many entry-level boats can be less than $250. Boat buyers have many choices when it comes to paying for their purchase. Here are a few of the advantages of financing your purchase through your dealer with a National Marine Lenders Association (NMLA) marine lending specialist:
Boat Loans. Many lenders that finance boat loans belong to the National Marine Lenders Association. According to the NMLA, the average term for a boat loan is 10 to 15 years. The actual length depends on the amount financed and the interest rate. They also recommend preparing to spend 15 to 20 percent of the total cost for a down payment, though not all dealers or lenders require this.
Financing a used boat.? How long can you finance a used boat for. Something around a 2000 to 2003 23ft center console for about $15000.00 to give you an idea of what i'm looking at. Add your answer. Source. If you could buy the boat outright then you could definitely finance just the engine brand new for a good interest rate. Depending on the interest and your credit this may be a better option because then you would get a nice factory warranty on the engine which can be a great benefit if you use the boat very often.
Correct, the term of the loan on a used boat will be determined by its age, amount financed and your crefit score. You may get longer terms through institutions that specialize in marine financing. Rates are on the way back up from the historical lows seen last year however rates are still good. 
Used Boat Loans. 1  The options for a used boat can differ slightly in term length of loan and even interest rate. 2  Your options for the length of the loan will be shorter. 3  Used boats usually won't get as many months finance terms as new boats. A new boat can be financed for 120 months or more which means after 10 years of wear and tear on your boat you could still be making payments. 15 year or 20 year loans are available for more expensive purchase