Enterprise software, also known as enterprise application software (EAS), is computer software used to satisfy the needs of an organization rather than individual users. Such organizations would include businesses, schools, interest-based user groups, clubs, charities, or governments. The software is intended to solve an enterprise-wide problem, rather than a departmental problem. Enterprise level software aims to improve the enterprise's productivity and efficiency by providing business logic support functionality.
Enterprise Technology and the Value Chain. Enterprise Technology and the Value Chain. The purpose of this paper is to understand enterprise technology utilized to manage value chain in organization. Enterprise technology is a great tool that streamlines business process and improves value chain of an organization. This paper reviews the importance of enterprise technology such as enterprise resource planning that includes SAP (System Application Program) and Oracle Business Suite.
Enterprise software is an integral part of a (computer based) Information System. The software is intended to solve an enterprise-wide problem, rather than a departmental problem. Enterprise level software aims to improve the enterprise's productivity and efficiency by providing business logic support functionality.
An enterprise information system (EIS) is any kind of information system which improves the functions of an enterprise business processes by integration. An EIS must be able to be used by all parts and all levels of an enterprise. The word enterprise can have various connotations. Frequently the term is used only to refer to very large organizations such as multi-national companies or public sector organizations.
Another form of enterprise technology used in organization is Enterprise Resource Planning and one of the tools used is SAP. It is a very efficient and durable tool used to manage all business process of an organization. Enterprise technology is a great tool that streamlines business process and improves value chain of an organization. This paper reviews the importance of enterprise technology such as enterprise resource planning that includes SAP (System Application Program) and Oracle Business Suite.
Enterprise systems integrate key business functions and data into one system environment. Jupiterimages/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images. Small businesses implement enterprise systems to gain company-wide access to business knowledge, increase employee productivity and minimize the duplication of company data. Enterprise systems may also enable a business to reduce the cost of information technology and minimize the manual input of data. 
Enterprise information systems provide a technology platform that enables organizations to integrate and coordinate their business processes on a robust foundation. An EIS is currently used in conjunction with customer relationship management and supply chain management to automate business processes. An EIS must be able to be used by all parts and all levels of an enterprise. The word enterprise can have various connotations. Frequently the term is used only to refer to very large organizations such as multi-national companies or public sector organizations.
Business leaders interested in the future of enterprise technology should stop thinking of  the cloud  as a noun and start thinking about  clouding  as a verb. Although the cloud concept has taken hold in enterprise technology, it's not entirely new to other parts of life. One could argue, for example, that condominiums and hotels were early multitenant housing clouds.
ERP is short for e nterprise resource planning. Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is business process management software that allows an organization to use a system of integrated applications to manage the business and automate many back office functions related to technology, services and human resources. ERP software typically consists of multiple enterprise software modules that are individually purchased, based on what best meets the specific needs and technical capabilities of the organization. Each ERP module is focused on one area of business processes, such as product development or marketing.
Enterprise Technology Solutions, Inc is a Value Added Reseller of computer hardware, peripherals, software, storage and backup media products. 