The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. The heart functions as a pump in the circulatory system to provide a continuous circulation of blood throughout the body. This circulation consists of the systemic circulation to and from the body and the pulmonary circulation to and from the lungs.
Three types of blood vessels carry blood from your lungs to every cell in your body. 1  Arteries-Arteries have muscular walls that pump oxygen-filled blood away from your heart to the tissues and organs, like the brain, kidneys and liver. 2  Arteries get smaller as they get further from your heart. 
One system, the pulmonary vessels, transports blood from the right ventricle to the lungs and back to the left atrium. The other system, the systemic vessels, carries blood from the left ventricle to the tissues in all parts of the body and then returns the blood to the right atrium. Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins).
In the pulmonary circuit, the pulmonary veins transport blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart. This blood has a high oxygen content because it has just been oxygenated in the lungs. Systemic veins transport blood from the body tissue to the right atrium of the heart. Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins).
The alveoli are surrounded by tiny blood vessels, called capillaries. The alveoli and capillaries both have very thin walls, which allow the oxygen to pass from the alveoli to the blood. The capillaries then connect to larger blood vessels, called veins, which bring the oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Pulmonary arteries transport blood that has a low oxygen content from the right ventricle to the lungs. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues. Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins).
A blood vessel's main function is to transport blood around the body. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Groups of capillaries within a tissue reunite to form small veins called venules. Venules collect blood from capillaries and drain into veins. Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart.
Arteries always carry … blood away from the heart. Veins always carry blood back to the heart. The pulmonary veins, carrying blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart, are the only veins carrying oxygenated blood. Oxygen rich blood from the lungs is returned to the heart via the pulmonary vein. The pulmonary veins transport oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left atrium of
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). 1 Pulmonary circulation transports deoxygenated blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs, where the blood picks up oxygen and returns to the left side of the heart. 2  The pumping chambers of the heart that support the pulmonary circulation loop are the right atrium and right ventricle.
The heart is a muscular pump that pushes blood through blood vessels around the body. Essential to life, the heart beats continuously, pumping the equivalent of more than 14,000 litres of blood every day. Blood vessels form the living system of tubes that carry blood both to and from the heart. All cells in the body need oxygen and the vital nutrients found in blood. Without oxygen and these nutrients, the cells will die. Groups of capillaries within a tissue reunite to form small veins called venules. Venules collect blood from capillaries and drain into veins. Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to