- Hyphae elongate at their tips and branch to form a network of filaments called mycelium. - There are different types of hyphae in a mycelium. Some anchor the fungus, some invade the food source, some form fungal reproductive structures. - In many types of fungi, cross walls called septa divide hyphae into one or more nuclei. - Septa are usually porous allowing the movement of cytoplasm and organelles from one part of the fungus to the other. This movement is quick and efficient. - Some fungi have hyphae with no septa.
Answer     Fungi have a type of root  system called hyphae. They are essentially the same as roots on a plant except that a mushroom or other type of fungi d … oesn't rely on photosynthesis instead absorbing all it's need nutrients through these hyphae. 12 people found this useful. If the food is composed of simple molecules such as glucose or sucrose, so … luble food can be immediately transported through their cell walls. However, most food that a fungus might consume is composed of complex, organic compounds, e.g., cellulose, lignin, pectin, starch, etc., which is insoluble.
Saprobic fungi are decomposers, or recyclers, that live on dead organic material from plants, animals, and other fungi. They can be generalists, growing on a wide variety of substrates (food sources) or specialists, e.g., the mushroom Strobilurus conigenoides is found only on magnolia fruits. Parasitic fungi use living organisms as a food source, causing some diseases of plants and animals, including Dutch elm disease and ringworm. There are even fungi that attack other fungi, e.g., Hypomyces. Mycorrhizal fungi form beneficial partnerships with plants. Fungi and animals digest other organisms to obtain energy and other nutrients. Animals typically eat' food and digest it internally. Fungi have external digestion! They literally grow through their food secreting enzymes outside of their cells and absorbing the breakdown products.
Fungi are important both as a source of food and in the preparation of food. Edible fungi include mushrooms, truffles, and morels. Cheeses such as Gorgonzola, Roquefort, Stilton, and bleu have fungal colonies that give theses cheeses their distinctive flavors. Many antibiotics, such as penicillin, are also produced by fungi. Fungi also are important crop parasites, causing loss of food plants, spoilage of food and some infectious diseases. The 1972 U.S. corn crop was almost completely eradicated by a fungus.
Fungi (mushrooms, molds, mycorrhizae, yeasts, rusts, etc.) are relatively unseen but important components of the environment. Together with the microscopic bacteria, protozoa, and microfauna they are key members of any terrestrial community whether it be a whole forest or a flower pot. Fungi are not animals or plants. Fungi and animals digest other organisms to obtain energy and other nutrients. Animals typically eat' food and digest it internally. Fungi have external digestion! They literally grow through their food secreting enzymes outside of their cells and absorbing the breakdown products.
Mycorrhizae: Plant-Fungus Partners. Unlike plants, fungi cannot make their own food. They absorb their food from dead organic matter, or other living organisms. The source of their food is called a substrate if it is dead, and a host if it is living. The body (mycelium) of a fungus is made of threads called hyphae. Hyphae absorb nutrients from the substrate, spread, grow, and produce fruiting bodies.
How fungi obtain food. - Fungi cannot produce their own food. - They are heterotrophs, and use a process called extracellular digestion to obtain nutrients. - In extracellular digestion, food is digested outside a fungus s cells, and the digested products are then absorbed. Different feeding relationships. - Fungi have different types of food sources. - It may be a saprophyte, a mutualist, or a parasite depending on its food source. - In many types of fungi, cross walls called septa divide hyphae into one or more nuclei. - Septa are usually porous allowing the movement of cytoplasm and organelles from one part of the fungus to the other. This movement is quick and efficient. - Some fungi have hyphae with no septa.
A mushroom (or toadstool) is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source. 
These fungi are called decomposers. Other fungi utilize living organisms as a food source. These fungi are parasites. Some of these parasites are disease causing organisms or pathogens. Fungi cause some human diseases such as swimmers' ear, athlete's foot, Valley fever, yeast infections, ringworm, and St. Elmo's fire. Spores are airborne so the fruiting body grows out of the food source to allow spore dispersal. It is also the fruiting body that is used to place fungi into categories: Division, Class, Order, etc. 5. One type of fungus people frequently encounter is the black bread mold, Rhizopus.
Although the use of fungi as a component in the food making process is more common now than in the recent past, these food products, with some notable exceptions, are still not a familiar sight to western cultures. 