Glucose is a sugar with the molecular formula C 6 H 12 O 6. The name glucose (/ˈɡluːkoʊs/) comes from the Greek word γλευκος, meaning sweet wine, must . The suffix  -ose  is a chemical classifier, denoting a carbohydrate. It is also known as dextrose or grape sugar. With 6 carbon atoms, it is classed as a hexose, a sub-category of monosaccharides. 
For example, glucose, galactose, fructose are some of the common molecules with six carbon atoms. For example, glucose has four hydroxyl groups and has the following structure. These are further divided based on whether they have an aldehyde group or a ketone group. • Hexose is the group of monosaccharides with six carbon atoms whereas pentose is the group of monosaccharides with five carbon atoms. •Hexose molecules have more chiral centers than pentose molecules.
A hexose is so named for the number of Carbon atoms in the sugar, which is 6. A pentose, similarly, is the name for sugars with five Carbon atoms. 
Glucose is one of the main products of photosynthesis and starts respiration. The natural form (D-glucose) is also referred to as dextrose, especially in the food industry. A Haworth projection representation of the structure of glucose. Glucose (C 6 H 12 O 6) is a hexose -- a monosaccharide containing six carbon atoms. Glucose is an aldehyde (contains a-CHO group). Five of the carbons plus an oxygen atom form a loop called a pyranose ring, the most stable form for six-carbon aldoses.
Glucose is the most common sugar type in nature. Cellulose (β-1,4- glucopyranose) and starch (α-1,4-glucopyranose) are the most common polysaccharides in nature. Glucose is also found in xanthan gum and konjac mannan. 
hex·ose. A monosaccharide containing six carbon atoms in the molecule (for example, C 6 H 12 O 6); d-glucose is the principal hexose in nature. /hex·ose/ (hek´sōs) a monosaccharide containing six carbon atoms in a molecule. hexose monophosphate shunt. metabolic pathway starting from glucose-6-phosphate, and leading to the production of NADPH for reductive syntheses, ribose sugars for nucleic acid synthesis and for the diversification and rearrangement of sugars
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A hexose is so named for the number of Carbon atoms in the sugar, which is 6. A pentose, similarly, is the name for sugars with five Carbon atoms. Even though frustose has a five member Carbon ring, it actually contains 6 Carbons and is therefore a hexose. Pentose： made of five carbon pen meaning five and ose a suffix for sugars.   Hexose： hex　means 6 and ose is a suffix for sugars. It has 6 carbon sugars inste … ad of five.
Hexose vs Pentose. Carbohydrates are a group of compounds that are defined as “polyhydroxy aldehydes and ketones or substances that hydrolyze to yield polyhydroxy aldehydes and ketones.” Carbohydrates are the most abundant type of organic molecules on earth. • Hexose is the group of monosaccharides with six carbon atoms whereas pentose is the group of monosaccharides with five carbon atoms. •Hexose molecules have more chiral centers than pentose molecules.
Hexose Transporters. The hexoses glucose, galactose and fructose serve as important dietary energy sources in animals and glucose plays a central role in energy homeostasis within eucaryotic cells. These molecules are unable to diffuse passively across cellular membranes, and require transporter proteins for entry into and exit from cell