The aPTT is considered a more sensitive version of the PTT and is used to monitor the patient’s response to heparin therapy. The reference range of the aPTT is 30-40 seconds. The reference range of the PTT is 60-70 seconds. Many drugs can change the results of the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), including nonprescription drugs. No specific preparation is required. However, since lipemia may interfere with photoelectric measurements of clot formation, specimens should not be obtained after a meal.
The partial thromboplastin time (PTT) or activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT or APTT) is a medical test that characterizes blood coagulation. Apart from detecting abnormalities in blood clotting, it is also used to monitor the treatment effects with heparin, a major anticoagulant. 
Reference values for aPTT vary among laboratories, but generally range between 25 and 38 seconds. The aPTT of a newborn will usually be prolonged and may be up to 55 seconds at birth. It decreases to the adult range by 6 months of age. (Note: each lab has its own reference values based upon the equipment and reagents used.). The aPTT is the most commonly used test to monitor heparin therapy. The therapeutic goal for a patient being anticoagulated with heparin, is an aPTT approximately 1.5 to 2.5 times the mean normal value.
Normal results vary based on the method and activators used. Normal APTT results are usually between 25-40 seconds; PTT results are between 60-70 seconds. APTT results for a patient on heparin should be 1.5-2.5 times normal values. An APTT longer than 100 seconds indicates spontaneous bleeding. partial thromboplastin time (PTT), a test for detecting coagulation defects of the intrinsic system by adding activated partial thromboplastin to a sample of test plasma and to a control sample of normal plasma. The time required for the formation of a clot in test plasma is compared with that in the
Abnormal values. 1  A longer-than-normal PTT or APTT can mean a lack of or low level of one of the blood clotting factors or another substance needed to clot blood. 2  This can be caused by bleeding disorders, such as hemophilia or von Willebrand's disease. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Your lab report should contain the range your lab uses. Also, your doctor will evaluate your results based on your health and other factors.
1 A longer-than-normal PTT or APTT can mean a lack of or low level of one of the blood clotting factors or another substance needed to clot blood. 2  This can be caused by bleeding disorders, such as hemophilia or von Willebrand's disease. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Your lab report should contain the range your lab uses. Also, your doctor will evaluate your results based on your health and other factors.
Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) is a blood test that measures the time it takes your blood to clot. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Your lab report should contain the range your lab uses. Also, your doctor will evaluate your results based on your health and other factors.
1 The partial thromboplastin time (PTT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) may be normal in people who have inherited bleeding disorders but have only mild symptoms. 2  The APTT is used to check treatment of people who are using heparin or other blood-thinning medicine to prevent blood clots. 1 A longer-than-normal PTT or APTT can be caused by liver disease, kidney disease (such as nephrotic syndrome), or treatment with blood thinners, such as heparin or warfarin (Coumadin). 2  A longer-than-normal PTT may be caused by conditions such as antiphospholipid antibody syndrome or lupus anticoagulant syndrome.
A PTT result that falls within a laboratory's reference interval usually indicates normal clotting function. However, mild to moderate deficiencies of a single coagulation factor may be present. The PTT may not be prolonged until the factor levels have decreased to 30% to 40% of normal. Also lupus anticoagulant may be present but may not prolong the PTT result. If the lupus anticoagulant (LA) is suspected, a more sensitive LA-sensitive PTT or a dilute Russell viper venom time (DRVVT) can be used to test for it. 
Reference Range. Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) are used to test for the same functions; however, in aPTT, an activator is added that speeds up the clotting time and results in a narrower reference range. Many drugs can change the results of the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), including nonprescription drugs. No specific preparation is required. However, since lipemia may interfere with photoelectric measurements of clot formation, specimens should not be obtained after a meal.