Appstar Financial is a financial services company based in San Diego, California U.S.A. The Appstar Financial sales force is composed of Independent contractors who are paid commission only. Appstar however provides qualified leads to their sales people, who then visit the merchants location to do a comparison of the merchants current credit card rates and fees.
Founded in 2002, Appstar Financial provides an array of transaction processing services, including credit, debit, EBT, check and gift cards to small to medium-sized retail, home, and internet merchants. Appstar Financial holds accredited status as a member in good standing of the Better Business Bureau. The BBB Accreditation program is a coveted honor earned only by elite businesses.
Appstar Financial (appstar.net) is a U.S.-based merchant account provider that primarily targets its services to small and mid-sized businesses. AppStar Financial is a registered ISO / MSP of Fifth Third Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, with corporate headquarters located at 4619 Viewridge Ave., Ste.
Just like its competitors, AppStar Financial is in business to make money by offering its customers great deals on its financial services. In other words, AppStar makes money by giving discounts to other companies, saving them money on credit and debit card processing. From AppStar Financial's perspective, this business model has one serious downside: Profit margins on each client are quite low. Thus, in order to make enough money to stay in business, AppStar needs to make as many sales as possible. What the company loses on per-client profits it makes up in volume.
As a leader in the electronic payments Industry, Appstar Financial is distinguished from the competition by our commitment to provide our merchant clientele the best payment processing programs and solutions tailored to meet their personal needs. Founded in 2002, Appstar Financial provides an array of transaction processing services, including credit, debit, EBT, check and gift cards to small to medium-sized retail, home, and internet merchants.
We offer our merchants the highest quality payment processing programs and solutions including: credit card processing, debit and EBT card processing, check guarantee, electronic check conversion, e-commerce solutions, gift and loyalty cards. We offer competitive transaction processing rates and support the latest point-of-sale equipment and software. Our friendly, multi-lingual customer service team is ready to assist our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to keep our merchant businesses running smoothly.
Even though AppStar Financial has earned an A+ rating with the Better Business Bureau, a quick Google search will reveal dozens of sites with accusations of an AppStar Financial scam. Clearly, there's a disconnect between the results of the BBB's diligent research and the accusations peppered all over the Internet. From AppStar Financial's perspective, this business model has one serious downside: Profit margins on each client are quite low. Thus, in order to make enough money to stay in business, AppStar needs to make as many sales as possible. What the company loses on per-client profits it makes up in volume.
Appstar Financial offers advanced equipment to meet individual business demands. From terminals and check readers to imagers and printers, Appstar Financial provides merchants with superior equipment from top manufacturers. We offer competitive transaction processing rates and support the latest point-of-sale equipment and software. Our friendly, multi-lingual customer service team is ready to assist our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to keep our merchant businesses running smoothly.
A BBB Accredited Business since. BBB has determined that Appstar Financial meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. Factors that raised the rating for Appstar Financial include: 1  Length of time business has been operating. 2  Complaint volume filed with BBB for business of this size. 3  Response to 162 complaint(s) filed against business. 4  Resolution of