Roslyn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ros-lyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1274 in baby name popularity for girls with 187 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Roslyn Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Roslyn has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Roslyn to other names. Roslyn is a variant spelling of Rosalyn. Roslyn falls into the name categories animal, flower.
The Origin, Meaning and the Hidden Meaning of the name Roslyn This page details the origin and literal meaning of the name Roslyn together with an insight into the hidden meaning and interpretation of the name using numerology. A short form, or variant, of Rose from which the meaning and origin of the name is derived i.e. the Latin word 'rosa'. Could also refer to a person who came from Roslyn in Scotland. The Meaning of the name Roslyn The meaning of the name Roslyn is as follows: Beautiful Rose. The Origin of the name Roslyn The origin of the name Roslyn is believed to be: Latin. The Hidden Meaning of the name Roslyn using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Roslyn Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Roslyn has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Roslyn to other names. Roslyn is a variant spelling of Rosalyn. Roslyn falls into the name categories animal, flower.
Spanish Meaning: The name Roslyn is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Roslyn is: Beautiful; pretty rose. American Meaning: The name Roslyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Roslyn is: Beautiful; pretty rose. German Meaning: The name Roslyn is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Roslyn is: Compound of 'horse' and 'snake'. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Roslyn is a very prominent first name for females (#827 out of 4276, Top 19%) but an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Roslyn for girls. Roslyn was first listed in 1910-1919 and reached its highest rank of #485 in the U.S. during 1920-1929, but is not found in the list currently.
Roslyn's language of origin is Germanic and it is predominantly used in English. Roslyn is a form of the English Rosalind. Roslyn is also a form of the English Rosalyn. Roslyn is an uncommon baby girl name. At the modest height of its usage in 1927, 0.024% of baby girls were named Roslyn. It had a ranking of #397 then.
The name Rosalyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rosalyn is: Rose. Spanish Meaning: The name Rosalyn is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Rosalyn is: Beautiful; pretty rose. German Meaning: The name Rosalyn is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Rosalyn is: Compound of 'horse' and 'snake'. 
First, the traditional meaning of Roslyn is a combination of Rose (meaning Rose) and Lynn, which means all sorts of things: lake or waterfall (Brythonic Gaelic), beautiful (Spanish, short for Linda), or tender (Old Germanic, short for Lind). Compare to the names Rosalyn, Rosalind, and Rosalinda. 
Roslyn /ro-slyn/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Roslyn) is of Old German and Latin origin, and the meaning of Roslyn is gentle horse; rose. Roslyn is an alternate spelling of Rosalind (Old German) with the suffix-yn. Roslyn is also a derivative of Rosalyn. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Roslyn for girls. Roslyn was first listed in 1910-1919 and reached its highest rank of #485 in the U.S. during 1920-1929, but is not found in the list currently.