Linseed oil, extracted from flax seed, is one of the most useful natural oils. It is used as a preservative for wood, concrete, and an ingredient in paints, varnishes, and stains. 
Linseed oil, also known as flaxseed oil, is made from the seeds of the flax plant. The oil contains substances which promote good health. Linseed and linseed oil are rich in alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), an essential fatty acid that appears to be beneficial for heart disease. ALA belongs to a group of substances called omega-3 fatty acids. Good health requires the right ratio of Omega 3 fatty acids to Omega 6 fatty acids in the diet.
Flaxseed. Flaxseed is a popular traditional food and remedy, as flaxseed and flaxseed oil, or linseed oil, contain alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), an omega-3 fatty acid. Omega-3 fats are important for maintaining the body's health. Linseed is an ingredient in traditional herbal remedies registered with the medicines regulator MHRA for the short term relief of constipation. Some people believe flaxseed helps with heart health, supports a person's mood and emotional wellbeing and helps maintain the skin's barriers.
Flax (also known as common flax or linseed), with the binomial name Linum usitatissimum, is a member of the genus Linum in the family Linaceae. It is a food and fiber crop that is grown in cooler regions of the world. The oil is known as linseed oil. In addition to referring to the plant itself, the word flax may refer to the unspun fibers of the flax plant. The plant species is known only as a cultivated plant, and appears to have been domesticated just once from the wild species Linum bienne, called pale flax.
Flaxseed oil comes from the seeds of the flaxseed plant. Research suggests flaxseed oil may help promote heart health, aid weight loss and provide other health benefits. Much of the research about what flaxseed oil can do for the body is preliminary, however. More research is needed. 
Print Print. Linseed, or flaxseed, is one of the most potent sources of omega 3 fatty acids found in nature. It has a whole host of health benefits, and best of all, these benefits apply to everyone. Read on to learn more. Using Linseed/Flaxseed. Linseed, or flaxseed, has a pleasant, nutty flavour and can be sprinkled on cereals, into yoghurts, and smoothies. You can also choose to take it in the form of the oil, or as a supplement in capsule form.
Linseed oil is an edible oil in demand as a nutritional supplement, as a source of α-Linolenic acid, (an omega-3 fatty acid). In parts of Europe, it is traditionally eaten with potatoes and quark. Due to its polymer-forming properties, linseed oil can be used on its own or blended with combinations of other oils, resins or solvents as an impregnator, drying oil finish or varnish in wood finishing, as a pigment binder in oil paints, as a plasticizer and hardener in putty, and in the manufacture of linoleum.
Linseed oil, also known as flaxseed oil, is a colourless to yellowish oil obtained from the dried, ripened seeds of the flax plant (Linum usitatissimum). The oil is obtained by pressing, sometimes followed by solvent extraction. Linseed oil is a drying oil, meaning it can polymerize into a solid form. Due to its polymer-forming properties, linseed oil can be used on its own or blended with combinations of other oils, resins or solvents as an impregnator, drying oil finish or varnish in wood finishing, as a pigment binder in oil paints, as a plasticizer and hardener in putty, and in the manufacture of linoleum.