The major endocrine glands include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus, gastrointestinal tract and adrenal glands. The endocrine system is in contrast to the exocrine system, which secretes its hormones using ducts. For example the kidney secretes endocrine hormones such as erythropoietin and renin. A number of glands that signal each other in sequence are usually referred to as an axis, for example, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Endocrine glands may be strictly endocrine, such as the pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pineal and thymus; or they may be organs that have hormone production as one of many functions, such as the pancreas, gonads, hypothalamus, and others. Hormones. 
Hormone: A chemical substance produced in the body that controls and regulates the activity of certain cells or organs. Many hormones are secreted by special glands, such as thyroid hormone produced by the thyroid gland. Hormones are essential for every activity of life, including the processes of digestion, metabolism, growth, reproduction, and mood control. Many hormones, such as neurotransmitters, are active in more than one physical process.
Define hormone. A chemical (protein, steroid or amine) produced by the endocrine gland that is transported via the blood to the body where it has the ability to effect all the bodily cells or target cells/organs. Define hypothalamus. Part of the brain that links the endocrine system and the nervous system and regulates the pituitary gland whilst regulating basic functions of the body; temperature, water balance, food intake and controls/intigrates the autonomic nervous system.
1) Produces the hormones that promote the development of the female secondary sexual. characteristics at puberty. 2) Storehouse for the hormones produced by the hypothalamus of the brain. 3) Produces the hormones that direct the production of the secondary male sex characteristics. 4) Produce steroid hormones and glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. 5) Produces hormones and is considered a neuroendocrine organ. 1. 
hormone. a chemical transmitter substance produced by cells of the body and transported by the bloodstream to the cells and organs on which it has a specific regulatory effect. adj., adj hormo´nal. Hormones act as chemical messengers to body organs, stimulating certain life processes and retarding others. hormone. a chemical transmitter substance produced by cells of the body and transported by the bloodstream and other means to the cells and organs which carry specific receptors for the hormone and
Define endocrine gland. Are ductless glands that secreate hormones directly into blood capillaries through the extracellular fluid that surrounds it. *These hormones once in the blood stream have the potential to effect every cell in the body but many are specific to certain cells. Define hypothalamus. Part of the brain that links the endocrine system and the nervous system and regulates the pituitary gland whilst regulating basic functions of the body; temperature, water balance, food intake and controls/intigrates the autonomic nervous system.
1. A substance, usually a peptide or steroid, produced by one tissue and conveyed by the bloodstream to another to effect physiological activity, such as growth or metabolism. 2. A synthetic compound that acts like a hormone in the body. hor·mon′al (-mō′nəl) adj. hormone. a chemical transmitter substance produced by cells of the body and transported by the bloodstream and other means to the cells and organs which carry specific receptors for the hormone and on which it has a specific regulatory effect.
Well, the truth of the matter is that hormones and their function within the endocrine system are extremely complex. There are multiple glands throughout the body, and each gland produces specific hormones designed to carry out certain functions. The whole process is actually quite amazing! This lesson introduces the endocrine system and provides a brief overview of each endocrine gland. It also provides the definition of hormones and describes their general function inside the body.