Directions: •. Prednisone is a prescription corticosteroid used in dogs and cats to treat various conditions such as Addison’s disease, inflammation from arthritis, allergies, and certain autoimmune diseases. •. Give prednisone exactly as directed by your veterinarian. Tip: Prednisone should not be stopped suddenly. 
The initial dosage of DELTASONE Tablets may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg of prednisone per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. 
Prednisone is used for a variety of conditions including skin conditions, allergy conditions, asthma, and inflammation. Side effects associated with prednisone include sleep problems, dry skin, dizziness, nausea, and changes in the shape of body fat. Prednisone may be given to dogs to control pain and swelling from conditions such as arthritis. Because it suppresses the immune system, prednisone may also be used in dogs to manage immune-system conditions such as allergies, asthma, lupus, and other disorders.
Font Size. A. A. A. Steroids, anti-inflammatory drugs such as prednisone, can be used for asthma as well as other lung diseases. Prednisone and other steroids (inhaled, oral, or by injection) help calm airway inflammation in asthma. 
Some of the other conditions prednisone can be used for include: arthritis, severe allergic reactions, and lupus. Some of the common side effects of corticosteroids include trouble sleeping, mood changes, nausea, nervousness, sweating, and increased appetite. Prednisone may be given to dogs to control pain and swelling from conditions such as arthritis. Because it suppresses the immune system, prednisone may also be used in dogs to manage immune-system conditions such as allergies, asthma, lupus, and other disorders.
Corticosteroids are used to treat many different conditions such as allergic disorders, skin conditions, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, and breathing disorders. Prednisone is converted in your body by the liver into prednisolone. Prednisone may be given to dogs to control pain and swelling from conditions such as arthritis. Because it suppresses the immune system, prednisone may also be used in dogs to manage immune-system conditions such as allergies, asthma, lupus, and other disorders.
A: Prednisone is a corticosteroid medication which is used to treat various inflammatory conditions including temporary use for relief of allergic reactions. Side effects associated with short term use of prednisone include insomnia, stomach upset, mood changes, increased appetite, and weight gain. Prednisone may be given to dogs to control pain and swelling from conditions such as arthritis. Because it suppresses the immune system, prednisone may also be used in dogs to manage immune-system conditions such as allergies, asthma, lupus, and other disorders.
two or three times per day. In 38 patients with allergic dermatoses the initial dosage was found to be 30 to 40 mg. per day for three or four days, and the maintenance dosage 2.5 mg. per day. In 79 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis the initial dosage was found to be 15 to 20 mg. per day for two or three weeks. In nine patients with perennial allergic rhinitis, the initial dosage was found to be 10 mg. four times per day (for two days) and the maintenance dosage 5 mg. twice per day. 
Dog’s Weight In Pounds: Initial Dosage In Mg: When treating dogs with allergies a starting dose of around 0.25 mg/lb each day can be used. If relief is not achieved this can be increased gradually up to a total daily dose of 1 mg/lb spread evenly throughout the day. Canine Lymphomas *. Prednisone can be used for adjunctive therapy at 50 mg/m 2 by mouth every day for 7 days, then 25 mg/m 2 every other day. Hypoadrenal crisis. Prednisolone sodium succinate can be injected at a dose of 1.82 – 9 mg/lb over a period of 2 to 4 minutes. May be repeated after 2 to 6 hours.