Hajime (はじめ) is the Japanese word meaning beginning (初め, 始め) . In the Japanese traditional martial arts such as karate, judo, aikido and kendo, it is a verbal command to begin. Hajime is also a common Japanese given name for males, although it is occasionally used as a surname.
Last name origin & meaning: Japanese (Saitō): variously written, this is one of the ten most common surnames, especially in northeastern Japan. The Saito descend from Fujiwara no Nobumochi, a 10th-century head of the Saigū Shrine; thus, Saigū no Fujiwara or Saitō.
Sato Name Meaning. Japanese (Sato): with Suzuki, one of the two most common surnames in Japan. The Sato descend from the northern Fujiwara through Fujiwara no Hidesato (10th century), who governed Shimotsuke (now Tochigi) prefecture from a place called Sano, hence Sano no Fujiwara or Sato.
Please use this list of Japanese baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Saito in Japanese origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. 
1 The meaning of Saito is purification wisteria . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Saito is 斎藤. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 4  Saito is a Japanese last name. Saito-Meaning of Saito. 1  The meaning of Saito is purification wisteria . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Saito is 斎藤. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used.
From sai meaning correct and to meaning wisteria, the latter syllable indicating a connection to the Fujiwara (wisteria field) clan. 
Saito Name Meaning. Japanese (Saito): variously written, this is one of the ten most common surnames, especially in northeastern Japan. The Saito descend from Fujiwara no Nobumochi, a 10th-century head of the Saigu Shrine; thus, Saigu no Fujiwara or Saito. Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. You can find out where the majority of the Saito families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
1 The most common Kanji used in the name Saito is 斎藤. 2  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 3  Saito is a Japanese last name. Saito-Meaning of Saito. 1  The meaning of Saito is purification wisteria . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Saito is 斎藤. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 4
Numerological Meaning (For Entertainment Purposes Only). People with this name tend to be natural leaders, self-sufficient, and ambitious. They generally want to make their own decisions in life and are not afraid to take charge or manage a situation. It is important for them to avoid extremes of bossiness or shyness. 