Webster's Definition: the sum of the physical and chemical processes in an organism by which its material substance is produced, maintained, and destroyed, and by which energy … is made available. Aaron McClellan.
Metabolism refers to biochemical processes that occur with any living organism-including humans-to maintain life. These biochemical processes allow us to grow, reproduce, repair damage, and respond to our environment. Most people use the term metabolism incorrectly for either anabolism or catabolism.
metabolism (m ·taˑ·b ·li·z m) , n the combined sum of the chemical processes occurring in a living organism. It is separated into anabolism, a process that results in the consumption of energy, and catabolism, a process that releases energy.
show more Which of the following is the correct definition for basal metabolic rate, or BMR? A. A number that is commonly used to judge whether you are at a healthy weight for your height.
metabolism. 1. biotransformation. 2. the sum of the physical and chemical processes by which living organized substance is built up and maintained (anabolism), and by which large molecules are broken down into smaller molecules to make energy available to the organism (catabolism).
D.... show more Which of the following is the correct definition for basal metabolic rate, or BMR? A. A number that is commonly used to judge whether you are at a healthy weight for your height. B. Weight and density of a person's bone structure. C. Number of calories the body uses while at rest.
1. The chemical processes occurring within a living cell or organism that are necessary for the maintenance of life. In metabolism some substances are broken down to yield energy for vital processes while other substances, necessary for life, are synthesized.
Metabolism refers to the chemical reactions that occur in living organisms to maintain life. These r … eactions fit into two categories: catabolism (the process of breaking down organic matter to release energy) and anabolism (the process of using energy to synthesise molecules needed by the cell, such as proteins).