In North America, a Rump Steak starts off as a larger cut known as a Rump Roast of Beef, from the Round area of a cow -- it's hindmost area. This cut is boneless. (See main entry for Beef Round.) It will have next to no marbling or fat. This larger cut is then cut into smaller portions known as steaks. 
3. Heat oil in a large dutch oven or frying pan. Place the roast in the pan and cook until it is brown on all sides. 1  Don't move the roast around in the pan until it is browned and ready to turn. Moving the meat will prevent it from browning thoroughly. 2  Do not overcook; remove the meat as soon as it is brown on all sides. It's also the perfect type of meat to cook in a crock pot or slow cooker. This article describes three methods of cooking rump roast: braised in the oven, cooked in a slow cooker, and marinated. 1  Prep time (Braised): 15 minutes. 2  Cook time: 90 minutes. 3  Total time: 1
Round Tip Steak: A steak cut from the untrimmed round tip roast. Rump Roast: Cut from the bottom round. When the bone is left in, it is called a standing rump roast. Top Round Roast: A lean and fairly tender cut as compared to the other cuts from the round. Season: available year-round. How to prepare: Cook with moist heat or roast, as long as the meat is not overcooked. Used as a roast or cut into steaks. Steaks cut from the roast are used in stews or processed into cube steak. Also called breakfast steak, wafer steak, sandiwch steak, minute steak. London Broil: The name of the finished dish, not the cut of meat.
rump roast Notes: This is cut from the bottom round. A rump roast with the bone left in is called a standing rump roast. Some people roast these in the oven, but they're a bit tough and work better as pot roasts. Substitutes: bottom round roast OR arm roast OR shoulder roast. 
The round is the rear leg of the cow. A frequently used muscle, the meat from this area is lean but tough. Bottom Round: One area is tougher than the other, and it's usually divided into two smaller cuts -- bottom round roast and rump roast (the end that comes to a point). Bottom Round Roast: Roasts from the bottom round. A bit tough and best suited as corned beef or pot roast. Used as a roast or cut into steaks. Steaks cut from the roast are used in stews or processed into cube steak. Also called breakfast steak, wafer steak, sandiwch steak, minute steak. London Broil: The name of the finished dish, not the cut of meat.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A rump roast is a cut of meat from the bottom round — otherwise known as the fleshy hindquarters, or “rump” — of an animal. Most of the rump roasts sold in commercial supermarkets are beef or veal, but this cut is possible from any sort of four-legged game. If your rump roast is of a lesser quality, you need to braise it to prevent it from being too tough. Put some oil in a roasting pan and brown the meat. Pour off all of the fat and add some beef stock (boiled) in the pan.
Print. A beef roast cut from the round primal, above the back end of the hipbone. A rump roast that contains the bone is known as a standing rump roast. A boneless rump roast is sometimes sold as is or it may be rolled and tied before it is packaged and sold. Rump roasts are very flavorful, but they can be a bit tough if oven roasted. The results are much better if the meat is braised. 
The rump roast comes from a portion of the beef that lies partially in the round and partially in the top sirloin. This triangular shaped roast makes a juicy beefy roast at a reasonable price. A rump that contains a moderate amount of fat and marbling, will be moist and tender enough to oven dry roast. Rump Roast Recipe 1. An hour before cooking, remove the roast from the refrigerator to bring to room temperature. 2. Preheat the oven to 250 degrees and set the rack to the lower middle position. Take a heavy bottomed roasting pan or cast iron skillet, set on stove top and heat the pan or skillet to medium-high.
Rump steak is a term used in describing cuts of beef. It may refer to: 1  A steak from the top half of an American-cut round steak primal. 2  A British-or Australian-cut from the rump primal, largely equivalent to the American sirloin. 