Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. I am not an expert, but have been learning much about Swans. We rescued an injured Mute Swan from a local River and have been caring for him at a Swan Farm in Pennsylvania. It take approximately 35-40 days from the time the last egg in a clutch is laid. In cooler weather it may take the longer time. In the U.S. Black Swans may nest twice a year once in September and again in late February early March. In cold weather the tiny cygnets will need shelter and supplemental food
► Eggs: They lay from 5 to 10 eggs that take from 35 to 42 days to hatch. The female does most of the egg incubation, but every now and then the male will replace her for a while so she can have a swim and a bite to eat in the lagoon. 
Swan Life. Baby Swans Swans hatching from their eggs is the glorious end to the long drawn out vigil that the female swan has had to endure for over a month. Severely weakened and in need of food, the pen (and cob) will spend just a couple of days at the nest with her hatchlings, before their great life adventure starts. 
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. We rescued an injured Mute Swan from a local River and have been caring for him at a Swan Farm in Pennsylvania. It take approximately 35-40 days from the time the last egg in a clutch is laid. In cooler weather it may take the longer time.
Once all the eggs have been laid, which can take 2-3 weeks, they will all be incubated (ie sat on to start the growth process) at the same time with hatching usually 42 days (6 weeks) later. You have posted to a forum that requires a moderator to approve posts before they are publicly available. Hi Sarah, just got this of the Swan Sanctuary web site, hope it helps. After the nest has been built, which typically takes 2-3 weeks, the egg laying process begins with an egg being laid every 12-24 hours.
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
I am not an expert, but have been learning much about Swans. We rescued an injured Mute Swan from a local River and have been caring for him at a Swan Farm in Pennsylvania. … It take approximately 35-40 days from the time the last egg in a clutch is laid. In cooler weather it may take the longer time. How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
This is called a 'brood patch'. Different birds sit on their eggs for different lengths of time. Bigger birds lay bigger eggs which take longer to hatch. Blue tits incubate their eggs for two weeks but swans sit on theirs for nearly six weeks! Most birds lay one egg a day until the eggs are all laid. Some birds lay up to 15 eggs but others lay only one. But the parent birds do not start to incubate the eggs until they are all laid. 
Report Abuse. 21 days my dear, 21 days it will take to hatch a chicken provided the sitting is sitting on the egg or eggs and maintains the temperature. It also depends on the climatic conditions, but 21 DAYS ARE INT'L MEASURE. azrim h · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.