Anencephaly is a defect in the closure of the neural tube during fetal development. The neural tube is a narrow channel that folds and closes between the 3rd and 4th weeks of pregnancy to form the brain and spinal cord of the embryo. 
1 Anencephaly is an example of a neural tube defect, a condition that results from an error in the first weeks of embryonic development. 2  In anencephaly, the bones of the skull and brain do not develop properly. 3  Babies with anencephaly are missing large areas of the brain and have an incomplete skull. Anencephaly is a condition that prevents the normal development of the brain and the bones of the skull. This condition results when a structure called the neural tube fails to close during the first few weeks of embryonic development
Anencephaly is a condition that prevents the normal development of the brain and the bones of the skull. This condition results when a structure called the neural tube fails to close during the first few weeks of embryonic development. Because anencephaly is caused by abnormalities of the neural tube, it is classified as a neural tube defect. Because the neural tube fails to close properly, the developing brain and spinal cord are exposed to the amniotic fluid that surrounds the fetus in the womb.
Anencephaly is a condition present at birth that affects the formation of the brain and the skull bones that surround the head. Anencephaly results in only minimal development of the brain. Anencephaly is a type of neural tube defect. Neural tube defects, spina bifida (open spine) and anencephaly (open skull) are seen in one to two per 1,000 live births. During pregnancy, the human brain and spine begin as a flat plate of cells, which rolls into a tube, called the neural tube.
Anencephaly is a condition present at birth that affects the formation of the brain and the skull bones that surround the head. Anencephaly results in only minimal development of the brain. 
Click here to view a larger image. Anencephaly is a serious birth defect in which a baby is born without parts of the brain and skull. It is a type of neural tube defect (NTD). These are birth defects that happen during the first month of pregnancy, usually before a woman knows she is pregnant. 
As a result, people with anencephaly are missing large parts of the brain called the cerebrum and cerebellum. These brain regions are necessary for thinking, hearing, vision, emotion, and coordinating movement. The bones of the skull are also missing or incompletely formed. Anencephaly is a condition that prevents the normal development of the brain and the bones of the skull. This condition results when a structure called the neural tube fails to close during the first few weeks of embryonic development
Anencephaly is a birth defect due to unknown causes in most situations. However, research shows that a deficiency of folic acid during early pregnancy can play a role in neural tube development. In addition, a family history of anencephaly increases the probability of the birth defect. To research the causes of Anencephaly, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Anencephaly: 1  Neural tube defect. 2  NTD. 3  Neural tube defect spectrum. 4  Absent cerebellum. 5  Absent cerebrum.
Anencephaly is a condition present at birth that affects the formation of the brain and the skull bones that surround the head. Anencephaly results in only minimal development of the brain. Anencephaly is a type of neural tube defect that occurs in about one of 10,000 pregnancies in the U.S. each year. The actual number is unknown because many of these births result in miscarriages. According to the CDC, one in every 4,859 newborns in the United States has this condition.