In addition, all cafeteria food products must be inspected by kitchen staff upon arrival (the day of arrival) at Halepōhaku. Documentation of contaminated food items must be recorded in the kitchen's delivery log book and reported to OMKM (omkm@hawaii.edu or 933-0734) the same day as the delivery.
Cross-contact happens when one food comes into contact with another food and their proteins mix. As a result, each food then contains small amounts of the other food. These amounts are so small that they usually can’t be seen. Even this tiny amount of food protein has caused reactions in people with food allergies! The term “cross-contact” is fairly new.
Cross contamination persists as one of the top five causes of foodborne illness, says the CDC. And it’s a food safety challenge for anyone managing a restaurant, cafeteria, or other foodservice operation.
Because a majority of children eat at least one meal per day at their school, food safety in the cafeteria is essential. Food-borne illness occurs when food is contaminated by bacteria, viruses, toxins, parasites, or other contaminants.
The ready-to-eat cafeteria foods were also found to be contaminated with Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus faecalis at similar rates (Table 2). Up to half of the ready-to-eat foods were contaminated with two or more strains of these pathogenic bacteria (data not shown).
Raw meat, poultry, seafood, and eggs are not sterile. Neither is produce such as lettuce, tomatoes, sprouts, and melons. 2. Foods, including safely cooked, ready-to-eat foods, can become cross-contaminated with bacteria introduced on raw products, meat juices, or other contaminated products, or by poor personal hygiene.
Food-borne illness often shows itself as flu-like symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or fever, so many people may not recognize the illness is caused by bacteria or other pathogens on food. Thousands of types of bacteria are naturally present in our environment. Not all bacteria cause disease in humans.
Although food can become contaminated before it even reaches schools (during slaughter or packaging for meat products, or receiving contaminated water in the case of plants), contamination often occurs from improper handling – and not just by cafeteria workers.