Select POWER from the list of functions. Step 7. Type the number you will use as the base after the open parenthesis symbol, a comma, and then the power or exponent you will raise the base to. For instance, if you want to calculate two to the third power, your formula should be POWER(2,3).. Step 8
Copy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data. This article describes the formula syntax and usage of the EXP function in Microsoft Excel.
Open the Excel 2010 spreadsheet where you need to multiply a number by a power. Step 2. Click on an empty cell and type the following formula: =POWER(x,y). Where x is the number you want to multiply, and y is the power you want to multiply it by. Step 3. Press Enter to complete your formula. Open the Microsoft Excel 2010 spreadsheet where you need to multiply a number by a power in a formula. Step 2. Click on the cell that contains your formula, then click on the formula bar running above the spreadsheet. Place the cursor just after the number you want to multiply by a power. Related Reading: How to Use Exponents on Excel. Step 3. Enter a caret -- ^ -- into the formula bar, then enter the power. For example, to multiply 3 to the power of 4, enter 3^4 and press Enter to complete the
For example, 10 to the power of 2 is =10^2. As soon as you press Enter after entering a Base^Power formula, Excel calculates the formula. Alternatively, you can enter exponents as a POWER function by entering the base number and the exponent in parentheses. Ten-squared, for example is =POWER(10,2) .
Step 1. Open your business spreadsheet in Microsoft Excel. Step 2. Use the Power function to specify an exponent using the format Power(number,power).. When used by itself, you need to add an = sign at the beginning. As an example, =Power(10,2) raises 10 to the second power. Related Reading: How to Multiply by a Power in
Example. Copy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data. Formula. Description. R esult. =POWER(5,2). 5 squared. 
Click an empty spreadsheet cell. Step 4. Type = (without quotation marks), the base number, a caret and the exponent into the empty cell. For instance, if you want to calculate two to the third power, type =2^3 (without quotation marks) into a spreadsheet cell. Step 5. Press the Enter key to accept the formula and perform the calculation. Type the number you will use as the base after the open parenthesis symbol, a comma, and then the power or exponent you will raise the base to. For instance, if you want to calculate two to the third power, your formula should be POWER(2,3)..
When you add a trendline to a chart, Excel provides an option to display the trendline equation in the chart. This tip describes how to create formulas that generate the trendline coefficients. You can then use these formulas to calculate predicted y values for give values of x. 
How to Use Exponents on Excel. Exponents refer to a number raised to the power of another number. The power means how many times the base number is multiplied by itself. As an example, 10 to the second power, also called 10-squared, simply means 10 times 10. Step 2. Use the Power function to specify an exponent using the format Power(number,power).. When used by itself, you need to add an = sign at the beginning. As an example, =Power(10,2) raises 10 to the second power.