Best Answer: Heather gave you the correct answer. It stands for jumper due to the initials PJ on the old flight logs. However, today we only use the nickname PJ and the term Pararescuemen or Pararescueman to describe us. Pararescue Jumper is defunct. Yes, PJs actually jump. All PJs are basic airborne qualified and military free fall (HALO) qualified. the J stands for Jumper as in Air Force Pararescue Jumper. The term Pararescue Jumper is a retronym of the initials 'PJ' that were used on an Air Force Form 5 (Aircrew Flight Log) to identify anyone who is onboard in order to jump from the aircraft.. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Stat..
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. 
PJ Media (originally known as Pajamas Media) is a media company and operator of an eponymous conservative news, opinion and commentary website. He is a contributing editor to National Review, contributes to the Wall Street Journal, and regularly appears on Fox News and on a variety of radio talk shows. He has been on PBS's NewsHour and CNN's Larry King Live, among others. Ledeen regularly blogs for PJ Media.
Pararescuemen (also known as PJs) are United States Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) and Air Combat Command (ACC) operatives tasked with recovery and medical treatment of personnel in humanitarian and combat environments. Qualifies airmen as pararescue recovery specialists for assignment to any Pararescue unit worldwide. Training includes field medical care and tactics, mountaineering, combat tactics, advanced parachuting and helicopter insertion/extraction qualifications.
The term Para Jumper is a retronym of the initials 'PJ' that were used on an Air Force Form 5 (Aircrew Flight Log) to identify anyone who is on board in order to jump from the aircraft. Pararescuemen originally had no 'in flight' duties and were listed only as 'PJ' on the Form 5. Qualifies airmen as pararescue recovery specialists for assignment to any Pararescue unit worldwide. Training includes field medical care and tactics, mountaineering, combat tactics, advanced parachuting and helicopter insertion/extraction qualifications.
Filter by: Select category from list... ────────── All Academic Degrees (1) Meteorology (1) Companies & Firms (1) General (1) Media (1) Music (1) Schools (1) Military (1) Guatemalan (1) Physiology (1) Unclassified (9) Airport Codes (1) Sort by:PopularityAlphabeticallyCategory. 
Air Force SEI 580 is a Special Experience Identifier used in the Air force for qualified individuals with experience on Any c-135/ Boeing 707 Modification. The U.S Air Force's vision is Global vigilance, reach and power.. The Air … Force provides air superiority and control for combat operations.
These special operations units are also used to support NASA missions and have been used to recover astronauts after water landings. They are attached to other SOF teams from all branches to conduct other operations as appropriate. Of the 22 enlisted Air Force Cross recipients, 12 are Pararescuemen. They wear the maroon beret as a symbol of their elite status, and to symbolize the blood shed by past PJs, as well as the blood current PJs are willing to shed to save lives. Qualifies airmen as pararescue recovery specialists for assignment to any Pararescue unit worldwide. Training includes field medical care and tactics, mountaineering, combat tactics, advanced parachuting and helicopter insertion/extraction qualifications.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 