If someone walks up to you and says Que pasa vato? it means What's up, man? or What's up, dude?. The word vato is Mexican slang for the English word man or dude. u can say QUE ONDA VATO that mean in Mexico whats up bro!!! and VATO LOCO is like ¨crazy boy¨ who live the crazy life, bueno adios vato.this is not ofensive but don't say that 2 old people espero te ayude bye!!!
It is used to mean something similar to dude or guy where I am from. 1  Sep 28, 2009. | 2  Edited by Izanoni1 Sep 28, 2009. | 3  link. | 4  history. | 5  flag. 6  Not around here. 7  Best not to call anyone other than another mexican a vato. ;-) - 8  ChamacoMalo Sep 28, 2009 flag. It is used to mean something similar to dude or guy where I am from. 1  Sep 28, 2009. | 2  Edited by Izanoni1 Sep 28, 2009. | 3  link. | 4  history. | 5  flag. 6  Not around here. 7  That's fine...I don't typically going around calling anyone vato, so I think that I will be alright on that account :) - Izanoni1
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. vato is a chicano word or gangster member word,used commonly in CALIFORNIA L.A. and Mexico,mean pal,bro,dude, if u said that, u sound rude!!! u can say QUE ONDA VATO that mean in Mexico whats up bro!!! and VATO LOCO is like ¨crazy boy¨ who live the crazy life, bueno adios vato.this is not ofensive but don't say that 2 old people espero te ayude bye!!!
According to the Urban Dictionary it's Mexican slang and can mean dude or homeboy.. Vato. 1  Sep 28, 2009. | 2  link. | 3  flag. 4  That is generally how it is used here in Southeast Texas-Izanoni1 Sep 28, 2009 flag. It is used to mean something similar to dude or guy where I am from. 1  Sep 28, 2009. | 2  Edited by Izanoni1 Sep 28, 2009. | 3  link. | 4  history. | 5  flag. 6  Not around here. 7  That's fine...I don't typically going around calling anyone vato, so I think that I will be alright on that account :) - 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
But I know is mainly used by mexican gang members to talk to each other kind of how some gang members here say what's up dog! or Hey hommie !!!or something like that they mess up all the languages and you can barely now what they are saying so I guess it depends on what you where lisening to. 1  Sep 18, 2008. | 2  link. | 3  flag. But I know is mainly used by mexican gang members to talk to each other kind of how some gang members here say what's up dog! or Hey hommie !!!or something like that they mess up all the languages and you can barely now what they are saying so I guess it depends on what you where lisening to. 1  Sep 19
Mexican slang for man... there is some kind of respect implicit on this word to the guy referred as vato. Vato is a guy who means business. The instance Bato instead of Vato should be more appropiate as it sounds on the streets. But grammatically, both words are correct because this word hasn't been ruled by any Language academy so far.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: vato (Noun). Hispanic youth; guy; dude. Origin: From Spanish vato, ultimately from Spanish chivato. Term is mostly used by people from Culiacan, Sinaloa, also known as Culichis. It is a term accepted by German-culichis. 
Meaning: Vato is to the 50 and older crowd what buey is to the younger generation. In other words, dude or guy. 
If someone walks up to you and says Que pasa vato? it means What's up, man? or What's up, dude?. What does the spanish words esay and vato mean? ese (pronounced 'ESay') = that (man) or male-gender object Did you mean: 'bato' ('v' and 'b' often confused in Spanish)? = rustic, simpleton If so 'ese bato' would mean … 'that simpleton' Esay is also Latino-American slang for dude or bro.