A chromosome mutation is an unpredictable change that occurs in a chromosome. These changes are most often brought on by problems that occur during meiosis (cell division process of gametes) or by mutagens (chemicals, radiation, etc.). Chromosome mutations can result in changes in the number of chromosomes in a cell or changes in the structure of a chromosome. A chromosome mutation that results in individuals with more than one haploid set of chromosomes in a cell is termed polyploidy. A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes. Our sex cells are considered haploid and contain 1 complete set of 23
Figure Detail. As mentioned, sickle-cell anemia is the result of a change in a single nucleotide, and it represents just one class of mutations called point mutations. Changes in the DNA sequence can also occur at the level of the chromosome, in which large segments of chromosomes are altered. The result is the deletion of a DNA sequence in one chromosome, and the insertion of a DNA sequence in the other chromosome. © 2014 Nature Education Adapted from Pierce, Benjamin. Genetics: A Conceptual Approach, 2nd ed.
An inversion loop in the A arm of a chromosome from an Axarus species midge. An inversion is a chromosome rearrangement in which a segment of a chromosome is reversed end to end. An inversion occurs when a single chromosome undergoes breakage and rearrangement within itself. Inversions are of two types: paracentric and pericentric. Paracentric inversions do not include the centromere and both breaks occur in one arm of the chromosome. Pericentric inversions include the centromere and there is a break point in each arm.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.
Small-scale mutations. 1  Point mutation – a change in one base in the DNA sequence. 2  Substitution – when one or more bases in the sequence is replaced by the same number of bases (for example, a cytosine substituted for an adenine). 3  Inversion – when a segment of a chromosome is reversed end to end. 1 Copy number variation (CNV) is a type of mutation where large chunks of DNA are inserted, repeated or lost. 2  These regions of DNA can be between 10,000 and 5,000,000 bases long. 3  Duplication of genes.
The mutation in which a segment of a chromosome is repeated is known as duplication. A Chromosome mutation is a mutation where you may get an extra chromosome and that chromosome may be mutated, a point mutation is at one point in a chromosome such as a curtai … n letter (A,C,T,G). 5 people found this useful. Answered. In Chemistry.
Unlike a gene mutation which alters a single gene or larger segment of DNA on a chromosome, chromosome mutations change and impact the entire chromosome. Chromosomes are long, stringy aggregates of genes that carry heredity information (DNA). A chromosome mutation that results in individuals with more than one haploid set of chromosomes in a cell is termed polyploidy. A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes. Our sex cells are considered haploid and contain 1 complete set of 23
Down syndrome is an example of a condition that occurs due to nondisjunction in autosomal (non-sex) cells. Individuals with Down syndrome have an extra chromosome on autosomal chromosome 21. A chromosome mutation that results in individuals with more than one haploid set of chromosomes in a cell is termed polyploidy. A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes. Our sex cells are considered haploid and contain 1 complete set of 23 chromosomes.
1 Point mutation – a change in one base in the DNA sequence. 2  Substitution – when one or more bases in the sequence is replaced by the same number of bases (for example, a cytosine substituted for an adenine). 3  Inversion – when a segment of a chromosome is reversed end to end. 1 Copy number variation (CNV) is a type of mutation where large chunks of DNA are inserted, repeated or lost. 2  These regions of DNA can be between 10,000 and 5,000,000 bases long. 3  Duplication of genes.