The patient will be in the Operating Room for 20-45 minutes for an upper endoscopy, and 30-120 minutes for a colonoscopy. Many patients have both an upper endoscopy and colonoscopy under the same anesthesia, which takes 40-120 minutes. http://www.cincinnatichildrens.org/health/info/abdomen/procedure/gi-endoscopy.htm. I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. A: I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. The only prep is 8 hr fasting before you have it done. Depending on how busy they are at the time will determine how long it takes for them to check you in.
Depending on the exact nature of the procedure and its objectives, an endoscopy can take anywhere between 15 and 60 minutes to carry out. It will usually be performed on an outpatient basis, which means you will not have to stay in hospital overnight. The endoscopy procedure. An endoscopy is not usually painful, although it may feel uncomfortable. Endoscopies do not usually require a general anaesthetic (with the exception of an arthroscopy). However, you may be given a local anaesthetic to numb a specific area of your body.
Talk with your doctor about any concerns you may have. During the procedure. An upper endoscopy usually takes 20 to 30 minutes to complete. Before the procedure begins, you will take off your shirt and put on a hospital gown. If you wear dentures, you may be asked to remove them. After the procedure. You will stay at the facility where you had the upper endoscopy for up to two hours while the effects of the anesthesia and sedative wear off. You will need a ride home because these medications can temporarily impair your reaction speed and judgment.
An upper endoscopy requires that you have an empty stomach before the procedure. Do not eat or drink anything for at least six hours before the procedure, or as directed by your doctor or nurse. Talk to your doctor about any changes that may be needed to your regular medication regimen. During endoscopy, certain procedures such as taking a small tissue sample (biopsy) for testing may be performed. Sometimes, the procedure is done in emergencies in the hospital or emergency room to both identify and treat upper digestive system bleeding such as from an ulcer.
An upper gastrointestinal (UGI) endoscopy is a procedure that allows your doctor to look at the inside lining of your esophagus, your stomach, and the first part of your small intestine (duodenum). A thin, flexible viewing tool called an endoscope (scope) is used. Why It Is Done. An upper gastrointestinal (UGI) endoscopy may be done to: 1  Find problems in the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  These problems can include: 3  Inflammation of the esophagus (esophagitis) or the stomach (gastritis). 4  Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) . 5  A narrowing (stricture) of the esophagus
A colonoscopy can take 30-60 minutes. An endoscopy can take 15-30 minutes. The procedure time is typically longer depending on the amount of time it takes for your child to fall asleep and wake up. Endoscopy is a procedure that allows a Gastroenterologist to look at the inside of the gastrointestinal tract using an endoscope. An endoscopy is performed to discover reasons for problems including swallowing difficulties, bleeding, indigestion, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, reflux, chest pain or diarrhea.
During an endoscopy. During an upper endoscopy procedure, you'll be asked to lie down on a table on your back or on your side. As the procedure gets underway: 1  Monitors often will be attached to your body. 2  This will allow your health care team to monitor your breathing, blood pressure and heart rate. 3  You may receive a sedative medication. 
Health related question in topics Medicine Treatment .We found some answers as below for this question How long does an endoscopy take,you can compare them. Endoscopy can take from 15-30 minutes. The procedure can take more or less time and varies from person to person. ChaCha! [ Source: http://www.chacha .... A: I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. The only prep is 8 hr fasting before you have it done. Depending on how busy they are at the time will determine how long it takes for them to check you in.