The cecropia caterpillar eats the leaves of many trees and shrubs, including ash, birch, box elder, alder, elm, maple, poplar, wild cherry, plum, willow, apple, and lilac. The cecropia moth does not eat. It's only purpose it to mate. It only lives for a few weeks. The cecropia moth is the largest North American moth. It has a wingspan of 5-6 inches. It is a very colorful moth. it has a red body with white stripes. reddish-brown wings with crescent-shaped white marks and eyespots on the upper tips. The edges of its wings are a light tan. The cecropia caterpillar is about four inches in length and is greenish-blue and it has two rows of red, yellow, and blue spiny tubercles on its body. The cecropia moth can be found in open areas with tree
The cecropia moth caterpillar is the largest larva found in Iowa and is commonly seen in late summer throughout the state. Larvae may be seen feeding on the trees and shrubs where they have spent the summer, or they may be found wandering across lawns, sidewalks and driveways. 
Description: Cecropia moths are beautiful silk moths with reddish bodies and black to brown wings surrounded by bands of white, red, and tan. Size: With a wingspan of 5 to 7 inches, the cecropia moth is the largest moth found in North America. Diet: Caterpillars feed on leaves throughout the summer. The adult moths don’t eat at all. Habitat and Range: These nocturnal moths are found in hardwood forests east of the Rocky Mountains in the U.S. and Canada. 
Diet. The cecropia caterpillar eats the leaves of many trees and shrubs including ash, birch, box elder, alder, elm, maple, poplar, wild cherry, plum, willow, apple, and lilac. The cecropia moth does not eat. It's only purpose it to mate. It has no digestive system and a non-functioning mouth. The cecropia moth is the largest North American moth. It has a wingspan of 5-6 inches. It is a very colorful moth. It has a red body with white stripes, reddish-brown wings with crescent-shaped white marks, and eyespots on the upper tips of its wings.
Cecropia Moth. The cecropia moth caterpillar is the largest larva found in Iowa and is commonly seen in late summer throughout the state. Larvae may be seen feeding on the trees and shrubs where they have spent the summer, or they may be found wandering across lawns, sidewalks and driveways. The caterpillar is about four inches long and nearly 3/4 inch in diameter. The body color is light green with a fluorescent blue tinge.
Cecropia is a Neotropical genus consisting of sixty-one recognized species with a highly distinctive lineage of dioecious trees. The genus consists of pioneer trees in the more or less humid parts of the Neotropics, with the majority of the species being myrmecophytic. Species in the genus Cecropia are some of the most abundant pioneer tree species in natural tree fall gaps inside primary forests. Its geographic distribution extends along the Pacific and Atlantic Mexican coasts and in Central and South American forests and are found over an elevation range of 0 to 2,600 meters.
The Cecropia Moth (Hyalophora cecropia) is North America's largest native moth. It is a member of the Saturniidae family, or giant silk moths. Females with a wingspan of six inches (160 mm) or more have been documented. It is found as far west as the Rocky Mountains and north into the majority of Canadian provinces. The larvae of these moths are most commonly found on maple trees, but they have been known to feed on cherry and birch trees among many others. 
Azteca spp. ants are a particularly aggressive genus of ants that are often found living within Cecropia trees. The prevailing theory is that the Azteca ants are obligately associated with the Cecropia tree in a mutualistic relationship (Agrawal and Dubin-Thaylor, 1999). Studies have shown that Cecropia trees with Azteca ants living within them display increases of between 50% and 100% in the number of ants on a given leaf when the leaf incurred physical damage, thus lending to the theory that the ants may protect the trees from being eaten (Agrawal and Dubin-Thaler, 1999).
C e c r o p i a T r e e. A tropical relative of the mulberry tree that is found in the understory and lower canopy layers of the forest, cecropia are relatively small, umbrella-shaped, quick-growing trees that can increase six feet in height each year. 