If you are unfortunate enough to receive your 3rd drunk driving conviction in Illinois you will receive a minimum 10 year loss of your driving privileges and you may be imprisoned for up to 7 years. In addition, you will also receive a maximum fine of $2,500. 4th, 5th and 6th Illinois DUI Convictions. Please see the State of Illinois DUI Fact book (PDF Download). Lookback Period : (Period of time that prior DUIs are relevant for sentencing) Your driving record goes back to when you got license privileges in Illinois.
You may receive up to 1 year in jail for your second drunk driving conviction in Illinois and a maximum fine of $2,500. If, at the time of the second violation the person was transporting a person under the age of 16, the driver is subject to up to 1-3 years of imprisonment, an additional fine up to $25,000. 4th, 5th and 6th Illinois DUI Convictions. Please see the State of Illinois DUI Fact book (PDF Download). Lookback Period : (Period of time that prior DUIs are relevant for sentencing) Your driving record goes back to when you got license privileges in Illinois.
For a DUI or DWI that's been classified as a felony -- either because the driver killed or injured someone or because it's the driver's third or fourth DUI -- jail sentences of several years are not uncommon. Again, this depends on state law, the facts of the case, and the discretion of the judge at trial. 
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. In Illinois, you can get a DUI (driving under the influence, also known as drunk driving) if you drive with a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of 0.08% or higher, regardless of whether your driving ability was actually impaired. In Illinois, the maximum blood alcohol content (BAC) for drivers who are under 21 (considered minors under some drinking and driving laws) is 0%.
And the law in Illinois says that if you are driving a vehicle, you have given consent to submit to a chemical test for the purpose of determining the amount of alcohol in your blood. Here are some details on the consequences of refusing to take a chemical test in Illinois and other details about Illinois DUI law. In Illinois, the maximum blood alcohol content (BAC) for drivers who are under 21 (considered minors under some drinking and driving laws) is 0%.
Illinois DUI Attorneys. If you have been charged with a DUI in Illinois (Driving Under the Influence), there are two things that you need to consider: Take your drunk driving charge very seriously. A conviction for a DUI in Illinois will have long lasting consequences. But do it now, as time is very critical in a DUI case. If you have been arrested for DUI in Northern Illinois or Chicago Metropolitan area you need to hire a Chicago DUI attorney or a Cook County DUI lawyer. If you were not arrested for a DUI in these areas, please select the county above that your DUI arrest was in.
The State of Illinois drunk driving laws start with the .08 percentage blood alcohol concentration (BAC) limit.Like all states across the country Illinois prohibits driving with a .08 percent BAC or above. If you are under 21 years of age in Illinois there is a Zero tolerance for alcohol and driving. 4th, 5th and 6th Illinois DUI Convictions. Please see the State of Illinois DUI Fact book (PDF Download). Lookback Period : (Period of time that prior DUIs are relevant for sentencing) Your driving record goes back to when you got license privileges in Illinois.
Illinois Drunk Driving Sentences. People in Illinois who are charged with a drunk driving offense aren't eligible for plea deals that would require the charge to be dropped to the lesser charge of reckless driving. The strict drunk driving laws in the state forbid wet reckless plea deals of that nature. 