Albanian (Gjuha shqipe, Template:Pronounced or shqip, Template:Pronounced) is a unique Indo-European language spoken by nearly 6 million people, primarily in Albania and Kosovo but also in other areas of the Balkans in which there is an Albanian population, including western Macedonia, Montenegro, and southern Serbia. 
Albanian is not related to other languages! Like a rare winter plum, Albanian is the sole surviving member on its branch of the Indo-European family tree. 6,000,000 speakers. It's the official language in Albania and Kosovo and is spoken in Serbia, Turkey, Greece, Italy, Bulgaria and Macedonia. 
The Albanian Language Geographical location The Albanian language (shqip) is spoken by over six million people in the southwestern Balkans, primarily in the Republic of Albania and in the neighbouring countries which once formed part of the Yugoslav federation (Kosova, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia). 
It is spoken by 7.3 million people in Albania, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Greece, Turkey, and by immigrant communities world-wide. Albanian was finally proven to be an Indo-European language only in 1854. Status. 1  Standard Albanian (based on the Tosk dialect) is the national language of Albania where it is spoken by 2.9 million people (Ethnologue). 2  Albanian (based on the Gheg dialect) is the de facto provincial language of Kosovo
Radio. Albanian (Gjuha shqipe, or shqip) is an Indo-European language spoken by nearly 7.6 million people, primarily in Albania and Kosovo but also in other areas of the Balkans in which there is an Albanian population, including western Macedonia, Montenegro, southern Serbia and north-western Greece. 
Albanian (shqip / gjuha shqipe). Albanian is an Indo-European language which forms its own branch in the Indo-European family and has no close relatives. It is spoken by about 7.6 million people mainly in Albania and Kosovo, and also in parts of Italy, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania and Serbia. Albanian is thought by some scholars to be a descendent of Illyrian, a group of Indo-European languages spoken in the Western Balkans until perhaps the 6th century AD.
1 Standard Albanian (based on the Tosk dialect) is the national language of Albania where it is spoken by 2.9 million people (Ethnologue). 2  Albanian (based on the Gheg dialect) is the de facto provincial language of Kosovo (Ethnologue). Status. 1 
Albanian is spoken by about 6 million people, mainly in Albania and Kosovo. There are 2 principal dialects: Gheg, the northern dialect, and Tosk, the southern dialect and official language of the Republic of Albania. Pimsleur's Albanian teaches the Tosk dialect. Learn Albanian today with Pimsleur. 