Earth science or geoscience is an all-encompassing term that refers to the fields of science dealing with planet Earth. It can be considered to be a branch of planetary science, but with a much older history. There are both reductionist and holistic approaches to Earth sciences. 
Earth science is a field that includes geology, astronomy, meteorology, and oceanography. Scientists do research in these fields to discover past and future events. Learn about the dynamic field of earth science and how it affects our lives in this lesson. 
Earth Science is the study of the Earth and its neighbors in space. It is an exciting science with many interesting and practical applications. Some Earth scientists use their knowledge of the Earth to locate and develop energy and mineral resources. Earth Science is the study of earth and its neighbors in space. The image above is the first full hemisphere view of Earth captured in the 21st Century. It was acquired by NOAA's GOES-8 satellite on January 1, 2000 at 12:45 AM Eastern Standard Time. Image by the GOES project.
View full size image. “Earth science” is a broad term that encompasses four main branches of study, each of which is further broken down into more specialized fields. Meteorology is the study of Earth’s atmosphere and how changes in temperature, air pressure, humidity and winds affect the weather.
Meteorology is the study of the atmosphere and how processes in the atmosphere determine Earth's weather and climate. Meteorology is a very practical science because everyone is concerned about the weather. How climate changes over time in response to the actions of people is a topic of urgent worldwide concern. Earth Science is the study of earth and its neighbors in space. The image above is the first full hemisphere view of Earth captured in the 21st Century. It was acquired by NOAA's GOES-8 satellite on January 1, 2000 at 12:45 AM Eastern Standard Time. Image by the GOES project.
Earth science is the study of our planet’s physical characteristics, from earthquakes to raindrops, and floods to fossils. It contains many branches, such as GEOLOGY and oceanography (the study of the world’s oceans). 
Noun. 1. earth science-any of the sciences that deal with the earth or its parts. natural science-the sciences involved in the study of the physical world and its phenomena. fossilology, palaeontology, paleontology-the earth science that studies fossil organisms and related remains. earth science. Any of several sciences, such as geology, oceanography, or meteorology, that specialize in the origin, composition, and physical features of the Earth.
Earth Science, also known as 'Geoscience' is a term that all encompasses the science related to the planet Earth.   Within Earth Science there are four major disciplines; …   Geography-The study of the Earth and its features, inhabitants and related phenomena. Science has a lot of branches including math, chemistry, biology, etc. Earth science is the study of the plates of the planet, or sometimes even other planets and their compon … ents. It is a branch of Science which deals with the Earth's components and its natures.
Earth science – all-embracing term for the sciences related to the planet Earth. It is also known as geoscience, the geosciences or the Earth sciences, and is arguably a special case in planetary science, the Earth being the only known life-bearing planet. 