Unauthoris ed TFR transactio n. ‎10-11-2014 12:32 PM. Hi there just enquiring about a TFR transaction i just noticed on my online statement. The description says AA Membership R/T, however I have cancelled my AA membership and emailed the company who have confirmed this. 
Your statement is a record of all money going into and coming out of your account over a period of time. You can access your statements online or on paper. Your statement will show your balance at a given time and the money you have available to take out of the account. Retailers can take up to 4 days to claim the funds from your account and your balance is reduced then. In online banking the transaction will appear as “Debit Card Transaction” on your Account Summary mini-statement.
Confidence votes 72.0K. TRF usually stands for Transfer. A transaction where you transferred funds from one of your accounts to another the comments on the transaction might read TRF in the statements of both the accounts. Sometimes even transfers from or to a third party may be displayed as TRF. A Debit is a transaction wherein money is debited or withdrawn or taken out from your bank account. For Ex: You use your ATM card to withdraw money from an ATM, this transacti … on will be reflected as Debit in your account because you have taken money from your account. + 24 others found this useful. Kelvin Kissoon.
Report Abuse. TFR means transfer, check with your bank if you do not know the source, its imperative you do so. It may be case you have been paid back monies where your have paid too much over a long time on your direct debits to water companies or any one else. Good luck. I was looking at my online bank statement-money has been paid in and i have no idea who from. Under the column that usually has DEB for example, it says TFR and the details say f/flow followed by some numbers.
Best Answer: tfr means transfer & f/flow is short for fundsflow, which is usually used when a CHAPS payment comes in. The numbers will be the reference for this payment. Your bank will be able to tell you where this comes from. I was looking at my online bank statement-money has been paid in and i have no idea who from. Under the column that usually has DEB for example, it says TFR and the details say f/flow followed by some numbers.
A Temporary Flight Restriction (TFR) is a restriction on an area of airspace due to the movement of government VIPs, special events, natural disasters, or other unusual events. On any given day, there are typically several TFRs in place across the National Airspace System (NAS). Normally, an inner ring/outer ring arrangement, similar to a Presidential TFR, is utilized to secure an area around the event. One key difference between these TFRs and VIP TFRs is that special event TFRs are generally released much further in advance – sometimes as much as two weeks ahead of
A TFR moves funds as a transfer type transaction appearing as a transfer-in or transfer-out depending on the class code used. An AJE moves funds as a revenue or expense type transaction depending on the class code used. Uses of the TFR include but are not limited to: • Lump sum support of a program or initiative. Example: the Provost’s Office awards Institutional Excellence Funds to a college using a TFR. • Transfer of a program from one college to another. Example: Oversight of a particular program moves from one college to another. The related funding for that program would move between colleges with a TFR. Uses of the AJE include but are not limited to: • Correction or modification of an existing entry especially when use of a correction voucher or cash receipt adjustment are not practical due to the volume of transactions involved.
Your available funds are usually decreased by the amount of your purchase but there won’t be any immediate impact on your balance and you won’t be able to see the transaction on your statement. Retailers can take up to 4 days to claim the funds from your account and your balance is reduced then. In online banking the transaction will appear as “Debit Card Transaction” on your Account Summary mini-statement.
Presidential VIP TFRs. In the case of Presidential movement, the TFR is usually comprised of an outer ring (usually 30 nautical miles, but sometimes slightly more or less) and one or more inner rings (usually 10 nautical miles, but sometimes 8, 9, or 10 nautical miles). Normally, an inner ring/outer ring arrangement, similar to a Presidential TFR, is utilized to secure an area around the event. One key difference between these TFRs and VIP TFRs is that special event TFRs are generally released much further in advance – sometimes as much as two weeks ahead of
If your regular payment is due to be paid on a Monday, your balance and available funds are usually reduced by the amount of the transaction on the previous Saturday morning. In online banking the transaction will appear as “Standing order” or “Direct debit” on your Account Summary mini-statement. Retailers can take up to 4 days to claim the funds from your account and your balance is reduced then. In online banking the transaction will appear as “Debit Card Transaction