Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: symbiotic (Noun). symbiotic star. symbiotic (Adjective). Of, or relating to symbiosis; living together. A lichen is a fungus with symbiotic algae among its cells. symbiotic (Adjective). Of a relationship with mutual benefit between two individuals or organisms. Origin: From symbiosis, from συμβίωσις, from σύν + βίος. 
Symbiosis is a close, prolonged association between two (or more) organisms of different species that may, but does not necessarily, benefit each member. The specific biolog … ical interactions of symbiosis can be subdivided in three:   * Mutualism, where both organisms benefit. endo= inside; within   symbiosis= A close, prolonged association between two or more  different organisms of different species that may, but does not  necessarily, benef … it each member. 12 people found this useful.
Symbiosis that results in mutual benefit to the interdependent organisms is commonly known as mutualism. An example of mutualism is the coexistence of certain species of algae and fungi that together compose lichens. Source(s): awana · 9 years ago. Symbiosis (noun) - A close association of animals or plants of different species that is often, but not always, of mutual benefit (Zoology). A cooperative, mutually beneficial relationship between two people or groups (General).
• SYMBIOTIC (adjective). The adjective SYMBIOTIC has 1 sense: 1. used of organisms (especially of different species) living together but not necessarily in a relation beneficial to each. Familiarity information: SYMBIOTIC used as an adjective is very rare. 
Commensalism describes a relationship between two living organisms where one benefits and the other is not significantly harmed or helped. It is derived from the English word commensal used of human social interaction. The word derives from the medieval Latin word, formed from com-and mensa, meaning sharing a table. 
Noun. 1. symbiosis-the relation between two different species of organisms that are interdependent; each gains benefits from the other. mutualism. interdependence, interdependency, mutuality-a reciprocal relation between interdependent entities (objects or individuals or groups). 1. Biology A close, prolonged association between two or more different organisms of different species that may, but does not necessarily, benefit each member. 2. A relationship of mutual benefit or dependence.
1 The relationship between two different species of organisms that are interdependent; each gains benefits from the other. 2  A relationship between different species where both of the organisms in question benefit from the presence of the other. symbiosis. 1  Anton de Bary's original definition says: a long-term relationship between two different species. 2  To this can be added, mutualism, (benefit for both), commensalism (benefit for one neutral for the other) and parasitism (benefit for one, costly for the other).
1. a. the living together of two dissimilar organisms, as in mutualism, commensalism, or parasitism. b. (formerly) mutualism. 2. any interdependent or mutually beneficial relationship between two persons, groups, etc. 1. Biology A close, prolonged association between two or more different organisms of different species that may, but does not necessarily, benefit each member. 2. A relationship of mutual benefit or dependence.
• SYMBIOSIS (noun). The noun SYMBIOSIS has 1 sense: 1. the relation between two different species of organisms that are interdependent; each gains benefits from the other. Familiarity information: SYMBIOSIS used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: The relation between two different species of organisms that are interdependent; each gains benefits from the other. Classified under: Nouns denoting relations between people or things or ideas. Synonyms: mutualism; symbiosis