The concept of containerization basically allows virtual instances to share a single host operating system and relevant binaries, libraries or drivers. This approach reduces wasted resources because each container only holds the application and related binaries or libraries. This is often referred to as operating system-level virtualization. The role of a hypervisor is instead handled by a containerization engine, like Docker, which installs atop the host operating system.
The foundation for containerization lies in the LinuX Containers (LXC) format, which is a userspace interface for the Linux kernel containment features. As a result, containerization only works in Linux environments and can only run Linux applications. Docker Not the Only Containerization Option. Docker may have been the first to bring attention to containerization, but it's no longer the only container system option. CoreOS recently released a streamlined alternative to Docker called Rocket.
containerization. The use of containers to unitize cargo for transportation, supply, and storage. Containerization incorporates supply, transportation, packaging, storage, and security together with visibility of container and its contents into a distribution system from source to user. See also container.
Containerization is a technique used to protect sensitive corporate data from theft or loss. By restricting access to this information at the device level, your business security is improved when used outside the corporate firewall. 
Another key difference with containerization as opposed to traditional hypervisors is that containers share the Linux kernel used by the operating system running the host machine, which means any other containers running on the host machine will also be using the same Linux kernel. Docker Not the Only Containerization Option. Docker may have been the first to bring attention to containerization, but it's no longer the only container system option. CoreOS recently released a streamlined alternative to Docker called Rocket.
Based upon this concept of a container, we can say that containerization is technique or a method of distributing goods in unitized form thereby making it convenient to evoive or establish an intermodal transport system which can be a combination of railways, roadways, waterways or airways. 
Containerization is a lightweight alternative to full machine virtualization that involves encapsulating an application in a container with its own operating environment. Docker Not the Only Containerization Option. Docker may have been the first to bring attention to containerization, but it's no longer the only container system option. CoreOS recently released a streamlined alternative to Docker called Rocket.
Containerization is a system of intermodal freight transport using intermodal containers (also called shipping containers and ISO containers) made of weathering steel. The containers have standardized dimensions. Shipping container architecture is the use of containers as the basis for housing and other functional buildings for people, either as temporary or permanent housing, and either as a main building or as a cabin or workshop.
Definition of CONTAINERIZATION. : a shipping method in which a large amount of material (as merchandise) is packaged into large standardized containers. ADVERTISEMENT. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about containerization