Gonorrhea-Symptoms. It is fairly common for gonorrhea to cause no symptoms, especially in women. The incubation period, the time from exposure to the bacteria until symptoms develop, is usually 2 to 5 days. But sometimes symptoms may not develop for up to 30 days. Symptoms may include: 1  Painful or frequent urination. 2  Anal itching, discomfort, bleeding, or discharge. 3  Abnormal vaginal discharge. 4  Abnormal vaginal bleeding during or after sex or between periods. 5  Genital itching. 6  Irregular menstrual bleeding.
Symptoms. It is fairly common for gonorrhea to cause no symptoms, especially in women. The incubation period, the time from exposure to the bacteria until symptoms develop, is usually 2 to 5 days. But sometimes symptoms may not develop for up to 30 days. Gonorrhea may not cause symptoms until the infection has spread to other areas of the body. 
Incubation period. As long as a week if it's the first time you've had pubic lice; as little as a day if this is a recurrence. Gonorrhea-Incubation period 1 to 14 days. A treatable bacterial infection of the penis, vagina or anus, the clap”. Males experience a discharge from the urethra. Women are particularly vulnerable to this asymptomatic form of the disease
The incubation period is 2 to 14 days, with most symptoms appearing between 4 and 6 days after infection. Rarely, gonorrhea may cause skin lesions and joint infection (pain and swelling in the joints) after traveling through the blood stream (see below). Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The infection is transmitted from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Men have a 20% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected woman. The risk for men that have sex with men is higher.
Female genitourinary tract. The most common site of gonococcal infection in women is the endocervix (80%-90%), followed by the urethra (80%), rectum (40%), and pharynx (10%-20%). If symptoms develop, they often manifest within 10 days of infection
Gonorrhea, also known as gonnococcal infection, gonococcal urethritis, gonorrhoea and the clap, is a sexually transmitted infection that is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The usual symptoms in men are a burning sensation with urination and discharge from the penis. Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The infection is transmitted from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Men have a 20% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected woman. The risk for men that have sex with men is higher.
GENITAL INFECTION IN FEMALES. The risk of infection for a woman after a single exposure to an infected man is estimated to be 60% to 90%. Female genital gonorrhea has traditionally been described as an asymptomatic disease, but symptoms of urethritis and endocervicitis may be elicited from 40% to 60% of the women. Urethritis begins with frequency and dysuria after a 3- to 5-day incubation period. GENITAL INFECTION IN MALES. The risk of infection for a man after a single exposure to an infected woman is estimated to be 20% to 35%. After a 3- to 5-day incubation period, most infected men have a sudden onset of burning, frequent urination, and a yellow, thick, purulent urethral discharge. In some men symptoms do not develop for 5 to 14 days
The incubation period -- the time between getting infected and having symptoms -- is one to three weeks for chlamydia in those people who get symptoms. But 80-90% of females a … nd half of males get no symptoms. 3 people found this useful. Natarumah. The incubation period is about 1 week; but it can range from 2 - 10 days.