The average heat cycle for a dog is approximately 3 weeks and since  this an an average, some heats are shorter (as little as 7-10  days), others are longer (4 weeks or more …).    Average times between heat periods is seven months but some dogs  can cycle as early as every 4 months, some once a year.    Lengths of heat cycles and intervals between cycles are different  for each dog but most dogs hit somewhere close to the averages.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Technically, dogs do not have periods, but go into heat. All female dogs are in heat for approximately 21 days about twice a year and is divided into 3 parts. The first part lasts anywhere from 3-14 days during which a bloody discharge and swelling of the vaginal area are usually seen. Next the dog will become receptive to being bred and actively may seek out a male dog. 
Timing. Your dog can come into her first heat any time between 6 and 24 months. According to Webvet.com, small dogs come into heat sooner than larger breeds. Typically she will have two estrus cycles, or heats, a year, and each one lasts for between 18 to 24 days. She is likely to show signs that her heat is about to start by changes in her behavior.
Pregnancy lasts approximately 9 weeks (63 days) in the dog. However, it is not possible to detect pregnancy during the first 3 weeks. An experienced veterinarian may be able to palpate or feel the fetuses in the uterus of a relaxed dog at about 28-32 days of pregnancy. 
Pregnancy in dogs typically lasts 63 days (about nine weeks). The duration of a dog's pregnancy can fall in the range of 58 to 68 days. Though estrus (heat cycles) can vary from breed to breed, the normal gestation period falls within the same range for all dogs, regardless of breed. 
1 On average, dogs have two cycles a year. 2  The estrus cycle lasts on average 12-21 days, but maybe be as short as a few days to four weeks. 3  The estrus period length varies widely between breeds and individual dogs. 4  The length of a cycle varies widely, even for dogs of the same breed. 1 The estrus cycle lasts on average 12-21 days, but maybe be as short as a few days to four weeks. 2  The estrus period length varies widely between breeds and individual dogs. 3  The length of a cycle varies widely, even for dogs of the same breed. 4  If in doubt, assume the longer end of the range for the cycle length.
The average heat cycle for a dog is approximately 3 weeks and since  this an an average, some heats are shorter (as little as 7-10  days), others are longer (4 weeks or more …).    Average times between heat periods is seven months but some dogs  can cycle as early as every 4 months, some once a year. Female dogs do not have periods per se, but they do go through a regular heat cycle if they have not been spayed, or desexed. The average heat cycle for a dog is anywhere fr … om 1 week to 4 weeks in length. The time between heat periods is usually around seven months but can vary from every 4 months to once a year.
Female dogs do not have periods per se, but they do go through a regular heat cycle if they have not been spayed, or desexed. The average heat cycle for a dog is anywhere from 1 week to 4 weeks in length. The time between heat periods is usually around seven months but can vary from every 4 months to once a year. Average times between heat periods is seven months but some dogs  can cycle as early as every 4 months, some once a year.    Lengths of heat cycles and intervals between cycles are different  for each dog but most dogs hit somewhere close to the averages.
Best Answer: Starts at about 6 months, occurs twice a year, and each lasta about 24 to 28 days Estrus (heat) is the mating period of female animals. When estrus occurs, animals are said to be in heat or in season.. Dogs generally have their first estrous cycle at 6-12 months of age. Large breeds may not have their first estrus until they are 12-24 months of age. Female dogs in heat are somewhat similar to a human female in menstruation. During the heat cycle, the dog may became pregnant. The estrous cycle: 1. Proestrus: Starts with the appearance of vaginal bleeding. It normally lasts from 4 to 9 days.