You should eat carbohydrates (such as a piece of fruit, raw veggies or whole-grain crackers) as soon as possible after exercising, and eat some protein (a hard-boiled egg, nuts, turkey, chicken, etc.) within two hours of your workout. Foods that are high in fiber should also be avoided, as they could stimulate your digestive system when your energy is needed elsewhere. How long you need to wait before exercising after eating also depends on the intensity
To replace the glycogen stores in your body quickly and effectively, eat a snack that contains both protein and carbohydrates. This will provide both fast-acting and sustainable energy to your body. Try to eat a snack within two hours of exercising, but wait a minimum of 15 minutes after exercising before you eat. Bring a snack along to the gym with you, so you can eat as soon as your workout is over. Along with your snack, drink 3 cups of water for every pound of weight that you lost during the workout, notes MayoClinic.com, adding that these pounds are water weight and must be replenished to prevent dehydration.
Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy.
How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself
Find out the facts! The Truth: You should always eat something before exercising so your body has enough fuel to power through your workout. The rationale behind this widely accepted myth is that forgoing food before exercise will force your body to burn more fat during your workout. 
The author was clearly stating that if you eat a 'big' meal then you should wait 2-3 hours before exercising but a 'snack' or 'small meal' can and should be eaten an hour before exercising. Damian15154122 1 year. You couldn't be more wrong, as long as ur meal is a smaller portion like you should be eating anyway if your trying t healthy, within 30-40 minutes you should be good to workout. Latest Fitness.
If you’re eating 2-3 hours prior to a moderate workout, a complex meal should do the trick. For example, a sandwich of lean protein, veggies, and avocado on multi-grain bread would be perfect. But, if you need to eat closer to your workout (within an hour), you’ll need to choose a simpler snack. In short, if it’s been more than 3 hours since your last big meal, you’ll want to have a snack about an hour before you workout.