1) In the top left corner of your Firefox browser, click the Firefox menu button. Then choose Options.. 2) Click the Applications tab, type mailto into the search bar, and click the drop-down arrow next to the Action column. Select Use Gmail, click OK, and you're done! Internet Explorer: How to Set Gmail as Your Default Email Client 1) Click here to install the Google Toolbar for Internet Explorer. 2) Once installed, click the wrench icon at the top right corner of your Internet Explorer browser to open the Toolbar Options window. Click the arrow at the top right of your Safari browser, click the download, and click Install in the pop-up window. 2) Select Gmail from the list of options. 3) Restart your browser, and you're all set! Now you can enjoy the ease of opening mailto links in Gmail :-). Tweet. Share. Fellow Gmail users ...
Find the box that says Use Gmail for Internet mailto: links.. Click OK, and all email address links will open a compose window in your web browser. Set Gmail as the default in your operating's settings as well, if you wish. In Windows, open Internet Explorer. Click Tools, then Internet Options, then the Programs tab. They'll be a drop down menu here where you can select whatever program you want as your default email client; pick Gmail Notifier.
Now you're good to go! Safari: How to Set Gmail as Your Default Email Client 1) Click here to download Google's Mailto Extension for Safari. Click the arrow at the top right of your Safari browser, click the download, and click Install in the pop-up window. 2) Select Gmail from the list of options. 3) Restart your browser, and you're all set! Now you can enjoy the ease of opening mailto links in Gmail :-). Tweet. Share. Fellow Gmail users ...
1 While logged in to your Google account(s), click on the drop down menu in the top right corner next to your name and select “ Switch Account 2  “. When the dropdox changes click “ Sign Out Of All Accounts 3  “. Sign back into Google with the account that you want to be the default account. 1 Sign back into Google with the account that you want to be the default account. 2  Use multiple sign in to sign in to your other accounts. 3  Same steps as above except in step 2, click “ Sign in to another account “.
Aug 13, 2014 - 23 Comments. Using Google’s “multiple sign-in” feature is a great way to juggle between multiple Google accounts and Gmail addresses. But a common issue with using multiple Google accounts is being able to determine which is the default account, and it’s easy to get things mixed up with multiple logins. 
Make Gmail Your Default Email Program. To set Gmail as your default email program: Windows. 1  Make sure Gmail Notifier is installed. 2  Click on the Gmail Notifier icon in the Windows system tray with the right mouse button. 3  Select Options from the menu. 4  Make sure Use Gmail for internet mailto: links is checked. 5  Click OK. You can set up Gmail in an email program such as Windows Mail, though, and thus send from your Gmail address by default. Mac OS X. 1  Make sure Google Notifier is installed. 2  Click Google Notifier's Gmail icon in the menu bar. 3  Select Preferences... 4  from the menu. 5  Click the Compose mail in: drop-down menu
1 Click the Settings gear in your Gmail's toolbar. 2  Select the Settings item from the menu that has popped out. 3  Go to the Accounts and Import category. 4  Click make default next to the desired name and email address under Send mail as: . To choose the account and email address that is set as the default when you start composing a new email message in Gmail: 1  Click the Settings gear in your Gmail's toolbar. 2  Select the Settings item from the menu that has popped out
Change the Default Sending Account in Gmail. To choose the account and email address that is set as the default when you start composing a new email message in Gmail: 1  Click the Settings gear in your Gmail's toolbar. 2  Select the Settings item from the menu that has popped out. 3  Go to the Accounts and Import category. To choose the account and email address that is set as the default when you start composing a new email message in Gmail: 1  Click the Settings gear in your Gmail's toolbar. 2  Select the Settings item from the menu that has popped out