Foods that are highest in oxalate include fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, legumes, and grains. High-oxalate fruits include berries, kiwis, figs, and purple grapes. Vegetables that contain high levels of oxalate include rhubarb, okra, leeks, spinach, beets, and Swiss chard. Calcium is also helpful. Getting too little calcium can increase the amount of oxalate that gets to the kidneys, which will then increase the risk of kidney stones. Lowering your salt intake can also lower your risk of kidney stones, since high-salt diets tend to cause more calcium to be lost in the urine.
Oxalates are naturally-occurring substances found in plants, animals, and in humans. In chemical terms, oxalates belong to a group of molecules called organic acids, and are routinely made by plants, animals, and humans. Our bodies always contain oxalates, and our cells routinely convert other substances into oxalates.
Low amounts of calcium in your diet will increase your chances of forming calcium oxalate kidney stones. You need calcium in your diet to bind oxalate in the intestines. This helps reduce the amount of oxalate being absorbed by your body, so stones are less likely to form. Eat calcium rich foods and beverages every day (2 to 3 servings) from dairy foods or other calcium-rich foods. 
Oxalate is a naturally occurring molecule found in abundance in plants and humans. It’s not a required nutrient for people, and too much can lead to kidney stones. In plants, oxalate helps to get rid of extra calcium by binding with the oxalate. That is why so many high-oxalate foods are from plants. Calcium is also helpful. Getting too little calcium can increase the amount of oxalate that gets to the kidneys, which will then increase the risk of kidney stones. Lowering your salt intake can also lower your risk of kidney stones, since high-salt diets tend to cause more calcium to be lost in the urine.
Oxalates and kidney stones. The formation of kidney stones containing oxalate is an area of controversy in clinical nutrition with respect to dietary restriction of oxalate. About 80% of kidney stones formed by adults in the U.S. are calcium oxalate stones. In chemical terms, oxalates belong to a group of molecules called organic acids, and are routinely made by plants, animals, and humans. Our bodies always contain oxalates, and our cells routinely convert other substances into oxalates.
Oxalate, aka oxalic acid, is a naturally-occurring and reactive molecular substance found in a variety of foods, especially if the food is related to plants. That can include all seeds and nuts, most greens, many fruits, even chocolate. A nasty pair–oxalate and calcium. When high oxalate foods are combined with calcium rich foods or supplements, you then create oxalate crystals. Picture razor sharp, jagged edges and you have oxalate crystals (see photo), which can cause a lot of pain as they are eliminated via your stools.
Nutritional recommendations for addressing oxalate as a means of reducing the risk of kidney stones are some of the most complex and misunderstood. Approximately 20 percent of individuals who form calcium oxalate stones have hyperoxaluria (high oxalate in their urine). 
Oxalate is a compound found in some foods, and it is also produced as a waste product by the body. It exits the body through the urine. Too much oxalate may cause kidney stones in some people. Foods high in oxalate include: 
Dietary Changes to Prevent Calcium Oxalate Stones By reducing the concentration of oxalate and calcium in your urine, you may reduce the risk offuture calcium oxalate stone formation. The amount of fluid protein, sodium, and oxalate in yourdiet can affect the concentration of oxalate and calcium in your urine. 
Overview. Oxalates can combine with calcium to form kidney stone. Eating foods that contain oxalates increases your body's oxalate levels, and extra amounts of vitamin C may change into oxalate, further boosting your levels. Following a special diet to reduce the amount of oxalate you eat may help reduce the possibility of developing kidney stones. 