Understanding your cat is an important part of your relationship. By looking at their vocal patterns, you can begin to recognise your cat’s communication techniques. Explore the meaning behind your cat’s meow and find out what they’re trying to tell you. By paying attention to the different meow sounds, you’ll be able to find out what your cat's trying to say. Pleasant sounding meows are generally used as requests for food or attention, whereas unpleasant meowing is usually reserved for demands or to express annoyance.
There’s even evidence that some breeds are more likely to “talk” than others, including Siamese and Burmese cats. But what sounds a cat makes and how vocal it is varies from feline to feline. Cats communicate with meows, chirrups, hisses, purrs, chatters and growls, but the onomatopoeic meow is the most common. Meow. All cats make sounds — from meows and purrs to growls and hisses — but some felines are more vocal than others. Kittens are typically more communicative than older cats, and domestic felines are usually more vocal than feral ones.
As we spent some quality time re-bonding after my travels, and I got to thinking that not only do cat's other sounds (purring, yowling) have specific meanings, but there are a wide variety of types of meows as well, which generally track across the cats I've known. Cats have a variety of ways to let us know what they need (or want)!
How do I know what my cat's sounds mean? Well there are 4 main sounds that a cat makes, the first one is a meow, the second is a purr, the third is a growl and the fourth is a hiss. A cat can purr for a lot of different reasons, but generally it means the cat is happy and content. 
http://www.kittensecret.com/free Cats communicate through their meow and it is important that you understand what each type means. As you listen to your cat's meow, you will learn that there is something that should be done in order to keep your cat happy. 
The Meaning of Meow. Cats communicate to humans in so many ways but the one way that almost always gets our attention is the meow. Of course there are lots of other vocalizations cats do that are usually quite easy to interpret such as the growl, hiss and spit. Whenever your cat growls or hisses at you there’s an excellent chance you understand those sounds to mean kitty is definitely not happy
Chirrup. This trilling sound is a cross between a meow and a purr, and many cat owners say their felines use it as a form of greeting. Growl. These rumbling sounds are meant as a warning. They can be a response to humans, animals or other cats, and most felines make the noise out of fear, anger or territoriality. All cats make sounds — from meows and purrs to growls and hisses — but some felines are more vocal than others. Kittens are typically more communicative than older cats, and domestic felines are usually more vocal than feral ones.
Best Answer: Learning Meow is like learning another language. You have to discern yourself what your cat is communicating without the aid of a translator. There are several sounds that are somewhat universal...broop is a friendly greeting. However, it is up to you to learn what your cat is trying to tell you.
The meow, however, can have so many different meanings and it can sometimes be difficult for a cat parent to interpret just what it is kitty is requesting. Many cat parents, however, have become excellent interpreters of their cats’ meows. Cats communicate to humans in so many ways but the one way that almost always gets our attention is the meow. Of course there are lots of other vocalizations cats do that are usually quite easy to interpret such as the growl, hiss and spit.
Cats meow to people for similar reasons. Your cat depends on you and has learned that you do not respond to scent messages or body language. They use meowing as a way to communicate and scientists believe they have refined this language to specifically converse with humans. By paying attention to the different meow sounds, you’ll be able to find out what your cat's trying to say. Pleasant sounding meows are generally used as requests for food or attention, whereas unpleasant meowing is usually reserved for demands or to express annoyance.