The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. At its founding, the UN had 51 member states; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan, New York City, and experiences extraterritoriality. Further main offices are situated in Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna.
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organisation established on 24 October 1945 to promote international cooperation. It replaced the League of Nations and the organisation was created following World War II to prevent another conflict. On 25th April 1945 in San Francisco, they decided on the name 'United Nations'. The U.N. was created on 24th October 1945 and its first meeting was held in January 1946. Since 1947 the 24th of October has been called 'United Nations Day'.
The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. The name United Nations, coined by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt was first used in the Declaration by United Nations of 1 January 1942, during Second World War.
The Formation of the United Nations, 1945. On January 1, 1942, representatives of 26 nations at war with the Axis powers met in Washington to sign the Declaration of the United Nations endorsing the Atlantic Charter, pledging to use their full resources against the Axis and agreeing not to make a separate peace. The Founding of the UN in San Francisco. Roosevelt also sought to convince the public that an international organization was the best means to prevent future wars. The Senate approved the UN Charter on July 28, 1945, by a vote of 89 to 2. The United Nations came into existence on October 24, 1945, after 29 nations had ratified the Charter.
The United Nations officially came into existence on 24 October 1945, when the Charter had been ratified by China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, the United Sta … tes and a majority of other signatories. United Nation's Day is celebrated on 24 October each year. Basically, after World War II, the world's government felt as  though they needed a way to keep countries in check. The United  Nations was formed as a replacement for the L … eague of Nations and  it promoted international cooperation.
The United Nations as an international organization has its origins in World War II. On April 25, 1945, the United Nations Conference on International Organization began in Sa … n Francisco. Basically, after World War II, the world's government felt as  though they needed a way to keep countries in check. The United  Nations was formed as a replacement for the L … eague of Nations and  it promoted international cooperation.
After the War, the winners formed a new organization for world peace. On 25th April 1945 in San Francisco, they decided on the name 'United Nations'. The U.N. was created on 24th October 1945 and its first meeting was held in January 1946. Since 1947 the 24th of October has been called 'United Nations Day'.
United Nations (UN), international organization established immediately after World War II. It replaced the League of Nations. In 1945, when the UN was founded, there were 51 members; 193 nations are now members of the organization (see table entitled United Nations Members). The United Nations, successor to the League of Nations, was conceived and created by the allies during World War II. In 1944 the USSR and the United States, with other major nations, met at Dumbarton Oaks in Washington, D.C., to plan a postwar organization that would provide a forum for the settlement of disputes.
The term United Nations was first used officially during World War II, on 1 January 1942, when 26 states joined in the Declaration by the United Nations, pledging themselv … es to continue their joint war effort and not to seek peace as separate entities. 
The United Nations was formed in 1945 by the winners of World War II because the League of Nations was not working. The problem with the League of Nations was that it did not prevent its number one objective: to prevent war. Thus, when World War II broke out, the League was dis-banned and the United Nations (UN) was formed.