The closest thing to an aerotropolis in America today is Memphis International, home for 25 years to FedEx. Memphis has been the busiest cargo airport in the world now for 14 years running, a fact visitors learn before they've even left baggage claim. 
According to Kasarda, airports have evolved as drivers of business location and urban development in the 21st century in the same way as highways did in the 20th century, railroads in the 19th century, and seaports in the 18th century. It is similar in form and function to a traditional metropolis, which contains a central city core and commuter-linked suburbs. The term was first used by New York commercial artist Nicholas DeSantis, whose drawing of a skyscraper rooftop airport in the city was presented in the November 1939 issue of Popular Science.
An aerotropolis is a metropolitan subregion where the layout, infrastructure, and economy are centered on an airport which serves as a multimodal  airport city  urban core. It is similar in form and function to a traditional metropolis, which contains a central city core and commuter-linked suburbs. The term was first used by New York commercial artist Nicholas DeSantis, whose drawing of a skyscraper rooftop airport in the city was presented in the November 1939 issue of Popular Science.
With the Memphis International Airport at the core, Memphis’ Aerotropolis region includes Shelby County, northern DeSoto and Tunica counties in Mississippi and western Crittenden County in Arkansas. Click here to see a map. America’s premier Aerotropolis – Memphis – has earned this distinction because our location, at the very heart of North America, provides easy access for moving people and product around the world.
(February 2013). The Detroit Region Aerotropolis (also referred to as the Detroit Aerotropolis or Michigan Aerotropolis) is an initiative to create an “ aerotropolis ” or airport-city in Southeast Michigan surrounding Detroit Metropolitan Airport and Willow Run Airport. The Aerotropolis Task Force along with Detroit Renaissance and Wayne County continue to lead the aerotropolis initiative along with Washtenaw County, the Wayne County Airport Authority, the cities of Romulus, Taylor, Ypsilanti, and Belleville, and the townships of Huron, Van Buren and Ypsilanti.
ATL is also working with local governments and businesses as part of the Atlanta Aerotropolis Alliance, which has as its goal the development of the airport vicinity. A sure sign of success: the first complex to be built in the ATL aerotropolis complex is the 26.4-acre headquarters of Porsche North America. Recent developments associated with the aerotropolis at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport include a 15.3-acre lease for what will be the world's largest Infiniti automobile dealership and rail connection to Dallas via DART.
In 2006, the Greater Memphis Chamber created the Aerotropolis Steering Committee to capitalize on the region’s logistics assets and initiate revitalization efforts of the neighborhoods bordering the airport as outlined in the MemphisED plan. America’s premier Aerotropolis – Memphis – has earned this distinction because our location, at the very heart of North America, provides easy access for moving people and product around the world.
2 What is an Aerotropolis? An Aerotropolis is an emerging type of urban form comprised of aviation-intensive businesses and businesses that need to be readily connected to their customers. They typically extend outward 15-20 miles from a major airport and are powerful economic development engines.
Aerotropolis. A new urban form placing airports in the center with cities growing around them, connecting workers, suppliers, executives, and goods to the global marketplace.