Geothermal energy (from the Greek roots geo, meaning earth, and thermos, meaning heat) is energy made by heat inside the Earth's crust. It's clean and sustainable. Although the Sun does heat the surface of the Earth, heat from inside the Earth is not caused by the Sun. The geothermal energy of the Earth's crust comes 20% from the original formation of the planet, and 80% from the radioactive decay of minerals. The Earth is hottest at its core and, from the core to the surface, the temperature gets gradually cooler
Geothermal energy is energy produced using the heat from under the earth.     Hydrothermal is energy produced by using the different temperatures of water. Pl … aces in the Tropics with warm surface water but also deep cold water are most suitable.   Both geothermal and hydrothermal are renewable and clean. Geothermal sources of hot water can be used to heat buildings.  Hot water is pumped through pipes located in the building walls to  heat the building.  Geothermal hot water can also be used as a household hot water  source.
Geothermal energy is the heat from the Earth. It's clean and sustainable. Resources of geothermal energy range from the shallow ground to hot water and hot rock found a few miles beneath the Earth's surface, and down even deeper to the extremely high temperatures of molten rock called magma. 
If so, then you've seen geothermal energy in action! Geo means from the earth, and thermal means heat, so this type of energy is found under the earth. The hot lava from a volcano and the hot steam from a geyser both come from underground heat and we can use that same type of heat in our homes. Electricity from under the earth. We can also use geothermal energy to make electricity. A geothermal power plant works by tapping into steam or hot water reservoirs underground; the heat is used to drive an electrical generator.
Power plants produce geothermal energy by utilizing geothermal dry  steam or geothermal hot water accessed by digging wells. Dry steam  or hot water is brought to the surfac … e through pipes and processed  into electricity in the power plant. Geothermal sources of hot water can be used to heat buildings.  Hot water is pumped through pipes located in the building walls to  heat the building.  Geothermal hot water can also be used as a household hot water  source.
Geothermal energy is energy produced using the heat from under the earth.     Hydrothermal is energy produced by using the different temperatures of water. Pl … aces in the Tropics with warm surface water but also deep cold water are most suitable.   Both geothermal and hydrothermal are renewable and clean. 
How geothermal energy is captured. Geothermal springs for power plants. Currently, the most common way of capturing the energy from geothermal sources is to tap into naturally occurring hydrothermal convection systems, where cooler water seeps into Earth's crust, is heated up, and then rises to the surface. 
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation. Worldwide, 11,700 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power is online in 2013. An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications in 2010.
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface. Worldwide, 11,700 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power is online in 2013. An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications in 2010.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη (ge) , meaning earth, and θερμος (thermos) , meaning hot. Earth's internal heat is thermal energy generated from radioactive decay and continual heat loss from Earth's formation. Temperatures at the core–mantle boundary may reach over 4000 °C (7,200 °F). Worldwide, 11,700 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power is online in 2013. An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications in 2010.