The symptoms of congenital heart disease in infants and children may include: 1  A bluish tint to the skin, fingernails, and lips (doctors call this cyanosis). 2  Fast breathing and poor feeding. 3  Poor weight gain. 4  Getting a lot of lung infections. 5  Not being able to exercise. 
Overview. Congenital diseases refer to diseases that are present at birth. Sometimes, the congenital condition affects a certain body part or is an inherited condition that affects growth and development. Congenital diseases are typically present at birth, but with the advent of three-dimensional sonograms, congenital diseases may be detected prior to birth. Coarctation of the aorta refers to a medical problem in which the aorta (major blood vessel of the heart) is narrowed, states MedlinePlus
Critical congenital heart disease (CCHD) is a term that refers to a group of serious heart defects that are present from birth. These abnormalities result from problems with the formation of one or more parts of the heart during the early stages of embryonic development. See a list of genes associated with critical congenital heart disease. Read more about Noonan syndrome; Turner syndrome; phenylketonuria; Alagille syndrome; 22q11.2 deletion syndrome; and Down syndrome.
Congenital and Genetic Disorders. Newborn screening tests help to identify potentially treatable or manageable congenital disorders within days of birth. Life-threatening health problems, mental retardation, and serious lifelong disabilities can be avoided or minimized if a condition is quickly identified and treated. 1 Newborn screening tests are usually performed within 24 to 48 hours of life. 2  For some tests, such as phenylketonuria (PKU) and congenital hypothyroidism (CH), it is important that they not be run too soon after birth.
Congenital disorder, also known as congenital disease, birth defect or anomaly, is a condition existing at or before birth regardless of cause. Of these diseases, those characterized by structural deformities are termed congenital anomalies and involve defects in a developing fetus. Birth defects vary widely in cause and symptoms. Any substance that causes birth defects is known as a teratogen. A limb anomaly is called a dysmelia. These include all forms of limbs anomalies, such as amelia, ectrodactyly, phocomelia, polymelia, polydactyly, syndactyly, polysyndactyly, oligodactyly, brachydactyly, achondroplasia, congenital aplasia or hypoplasia, amniotic band syndrome, and cleidocranial dysostosis.
With congenital heart defects, some part of the heart doesn’t form properly before birth. This changes the normal flow of blood through the heart. There are many types of congenital heart defects. Some are simple, such as a hole in the septum. The hole allows blood from the left and right sides of the heart to mix. Another example of a simple defect is a narrowed valve that blocks blood flow to the lungs or other parts of the body.
Symptoms of Congenital Heart Disease. Congenital heart defects may be diagnosed before birth, right after birth, during childhood or not until adulthood. It is possible to have a defect and no symptoms at all. In adults, if symptoms of congenital heart disease are present, they may include: 1  shortness of breath. Treatment is based on the severity of the congenital heart disease. Some mild heart defects do not require any treatment. Others can be treated with medications, invasive procedures or surgery.
Congenital heart disease is a general term for a range of birth defects that affect the normal workings of the heart. The term congenital means the condition is present at birth. Congenital heart disease is one of the most common types of birth defect, affecting up to 9 in every 1,000 babies born in the UK. Congenital heart disease refers to a series of birth defects that affect the heart. A paediatric cardiologist explains the different types of congenital heart disease and how each of them is treated. Media last reviewed: 06/08/2014.
Congenital heart disease is a type of defect in one or more structures of the heart or blood vessels that occur before birth. The heart structures, or vessels, do not form as they should during pregnancy, while the fetus is developing in the uterus. In the United States: Treatment is based on the severity of the congenital heart disease. Some mild heart defects do not require any treatment. Others can be treated with medications, invasive procedures or surgery.