Geography. Iraq, a triangle of mountains, desert, and fertile river valley, is bounded on the east by Iran, on the north by Turkey, on the west by Syria and Jordan, and on the south by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Iraq. Iraq, a triangle of mountains, desert, and fertile river valley, is bounded on the east by Iran, on the north by Turkey, on the west by Syria and Jordan, and on the south by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
(Photo: Jockel Finck/AP/WideWorld). Iraq is divided into four land regions: the lower Tigris-Euphrates Valley (the site of ancient Babylonia); the upper Tigris-Euphrates Valley (ancient Assyria); the mountains and hills of the northeast (inhabited by the Kurds); and the desert upland of the southwest and west. The mountains of northeastern Iraq are a continuation of the Zagros Mountains of Iran. They are high and rugged, with peaks more than 10,000 feet (3,050 meters) high. The western desert uplanda rather level, hard-surfaced plain is part of the much larger Syrian desert.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Iraq is located in the Middle East, between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Iraq is also bordered by Jordan and Syria to the west, Kuwait to the south, and Turkey to the north. A very small sliver of the Persian Gulf (58 kilometers, or 36.04 miles) abuts Iraq on its southeast border. With an area of 437,072 square kilometers (168,753 square miles), Iraq is slightly more than twice the size of Idaho. Iraq's capital city, Baghdad, is located in the center of the country. Other major cities include al-Basra in the south and Mosul in the north
But, in a sense, this is already what the region looks like. The Iraqi government controls the country's Shia-majority east, but Sunni Islamist extremists have seized much of western Iraq and eastern Syria. The Shia-dominated Syrian government, meanwhile, mostly only controls the country's Shia-and Christian-heavy west. Ali was killed in the city of Kufa, in present-day Iraq. 20 years later, his followers traveled with Ali's son Hussein from Islam's center in Mecca up to Karbala, which is in present-day Iraq, where they were killed in battle and the war ended.
Iraq is a country in the middle-east bordered by Jordan on the west, Syria on the north-west, Turkey on the north, Iran on the east, and Kuwait and Saudi Arabia on the south. Iraq is a country in located in western Asia. The country spans the north-western end of the Zagros mountain range, the eastern part of the Syrian Desert and the northern part of the Arabian Desert.
The capital of Iraq is Baghdad. Covering a total area of 872.7 square miles, Baghdad is the largest city in Iraq and the second-largest in western Asia. Iraq is a country in located in western Asia. The country spans the north-western end of the Zagros mountain range, the eastern part of the Syrian Desert and the northern part of the Arabian Desert.
It's in the Middle East; between Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, etc. Check a map of the Middle East for more info. It is located in the middle east Middle East, bordering the … Persian Gulf, between Iran and Kuwait. 34o00 N, 43o00 E Iraq is on the continent of Asia. It is also on a sub-continent called the Middle East
The country borders Turkey to the north, Iran to the east, Kuwait to the southeast, Saudi Arabia to the south, Jordan to the southwest, and Syria to the west. The southern part of Iraq is within the Arabian Peninsula. Between 65,000 BC and 35,000 BC northern Iraq was home to a Neanderthal culture, archaeological remains of which have been discovered at Shanidar Cave This same region is also the location of a number of pre-Neolithic cemeteries, dating from approximately 11,000 BC.