In the instance of dual degree programs, the length of time to receive a master's degree depends on the additional degree program, and may take as few as four years or as many as ten. Part-Time: 2-5 Years. Students enrolled in a master's degree program often hold full-time jobs. Since many schools offer a part-time option as well as distance learning, working students or students with families may prefer part-time evening or weekend programs.
Typical master's degree programs require students to take from nine to 11 classes and complete a final project. Most full-time MAT and MIT programs take around 12 months to complete, while students in part-time programs usually take anywhere from 20 months to five years to complete their coursework. Schools typically designate maximum time periods that part-time students have to complete the program.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Associates = 2 years Bachelors = 4 years or associates + 2 years Masters = bachelors + 2 years PhD = bachelors + masters + 2-6 years 1) You can go straight to a bachelors degree without an associates, but you need a bachelors to apply for a masters degree. Or can I just go... show more How long does it take to achieve the following college degrees? Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Also a couple more questions: 1) If I want to get a Master's degree, would I first have to get an Associate's Degree, then a Bachelor's Degree, THEN my Master's Degree?
Associate's degree- 2 years bachelor's- 3-5 years. Traditionally 4. Masters-Bachelors + another 2-3 years You don't need an associates degree for anything, its just a losers degree. You do need a bachelors before a masters. Or can I just go... show more How long does it take to achieve the following college degrees? Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Also a couple more questions: 1) If I want to get a Master's degree, would I first have to get an Associate's Degree, then a Bachelor's Degree, THEN my Master's Degree?
Most teachers working in the elementary, middle school or high school levels hold at least a bachelor's degree, though some have either a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) or a Masters in Teaching (MIT). Most full-time MAT and MIT programs take around 12 months to complete, while students in part-time programs usually take anywhere from 20 months to five years to complete their coursework. Schools typically designate maximum time periods that part-time students have to complete the program.
Answers. Best Answer: Typically, a Masters is 36 credit hours (12 college classes) beyond your bachelors (degree.) So, if you started now, you'd have your bachelors in 4 years. Then assuming 5 classes a year (2 each term, and one during the summer) you'd have your Masters at the end of another 2 1/2 years. Four things to remember: (1) There are many factors that dictate how quickly you can get your Masters, including time, money (tuition) and family commitments.
Save. Jay Paul/Getty Images News/Getty Images. A master's degree takes anywhere from one to three years to complete, depending on the type of degree and the amount of time you can devote to your studies. It's a sizable investment of time and money, but in many professional fields, it's the degree that can open doors. Traditional Master's Degree Programs. A traditional master's degree program takes one or two years to complete. You'll be required to take anywhere from 30 to 60 credit hours of coursework, write an original thesis based on research in your field and pass final or certification exams.