A buffer is a mixture of molecules that release or bind H + in order to maintain a relatively stable pH. Note that the function of a buffer is NOT to keep a solution neutral (at pH 7); its function is to minimize the change in pH when base or acid is added to the solution. Also note that there are many different buffers, and each one will stabilize the pH of a solution only within a specific pH range.
When you select an acid for a buffer solution, try to choose an acid that has a pK a close to your desired pH. This will give your buffer nearly equivalent amounts of acid and conjugate base so it will be able to neutralize as much H + and OH-as possible. If you add acid or base to a buffered solution, its pH will not change significantly. Similarly, adding water to a buffer or allowing water to evaporate will not change the pH of a buffer.
Buffer. Definition. noun, plural: buffers. (1) (chemistry) A buffer solution: a solution containing either a weak acid and a conjugate base or a weak base and a conjugate acid, used to stabilize the pH of a liquid upon dilution. In ecology, a buffer species is a plant or an animal that becomes an alternate prey to a predator. This happens when the predator's preferable, usual prey species is scarce or absent. A buffer may also refer to a vegetated area near a stream that plays a conservatory role in the environment.
Typically, the data is stored in a buffer as it is retrieved from an input device (such as a microphone) or just before it is sent to an output device (such as speakers). However, a buffer may be used when moving data between processes within a computer. This is comparable to buffers in telecommunication. Buffers can be implemented in a fixed memory location in hardware—or by using a virtual data buffer in software, pointing at a location in the physical memory.
Memory buffer redirects here. It is not to be confused with memory buffer register. In computer science, a data buffer (or just buffer) is a region of a physical memory storage used to temporarily store data while it is being moved from one place to another. However, a buffer may be used when moving data between processes within a computer. This is comparable to buffers in telecommunication. Buffers can be implemented in a fixed memory location in hardware—or by using a virtual data buffer in software, pointing at a location in the physical memory.
When hydrogen ions are added to a buffer, they will be neutralized by the base in the buffer. Hydroxide ions will be neutralized by the acid. These neutralization reactions will not have much effect on the overall pH of the buffer solution. If you add acid or base to a buffered solution, its pH will not change significantly. Similarly, adding water to a buffer or allowing water to evaporate will not change the pH of a buffer.
A buffer is an aqueous solution that has a highly stable pH. If you add acid or base to a buffered solution, its pH will not change significantly. Similarly, adding water to a buffer or allowing water to evaporate will not change the pH of a buffer.
For uses not related to acid-base chemistry, see Buffer (disambiguation). A buffer solution (more precisely, pH buffer or hydrogen ion buffer) is an aqueous solution consisting of a mixture of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or vice versa. A buffer of carbonic acid (H 2 CO 3) and bicarbonate (HCO 3 −) is present in blood plasma, to maintain a pH between 7.35 and 7.45. Industrially, buffer solutions are used in fermentation processes and in setting the correct conditions for dyes used in colouring fabrics.