The symbols for Sagittarius are the hunter and the centaur, a mythical half-man, half-horse. This sign symbolizes the search for wisdom; this is the sign of the philosopher and the explorer. They have an appetite for learning and travel. THE Zodiacal Sign of Sagittarius commences on November 21st, but for seven days it does not come into its full power until on or about November 2Stfi.
The astrological symbol for Sagittarius represents the bow and arrow. Above are some examples of commonly used styles for the Sagittarius symbol. Each of these is equally valid-there is no 'correct' version as long as the general shape is maintained. It does make more sense intuitively to keep the bow line at a right angle to the arrow, but that may be getting a little picky.
Sagittarius symbol. The Sagittarius symbol (also called Sagittarius glyph) is a shorthand representation of the Sagittarius archer (see below). However, as with the archer itself, much is based both in interpretation and the preference of the writer, and can range from simple to extravagant. Above are some examples of commonly used styles for the Sagittarius symbol. Each of these is equally valid-there is no 'correct' version as long as the general shape is maintained. It does make more sense intuitively to keep the bow line at a right angle to the arrow, but that may be getting a little picky.
What is on a Sagittarians mind immediately comes out of their mouths; a Sagittarian is seldom tactful, and when you meet one that is, they thankfully had a bevy of milder and more considerate Zodiacal influences active on their day of birth. The house of Jupiter. Jupiter is the planet that has to do with the expansion of human boundaries, through adventure, travel, philosophy and religion, and Sagittarius is used to symbolize these activities in most astrological writing throughout the world.
Meaning of the Zodiac Sign of Sagittarius. in Zodiac Signs Meanings. The Sun enters the Sagittarius Zodiac House on 23rd of November and stays there up to December 21st. This house is ruled by the planet Jupiter. The symbol of Sagittarius is the Centaur — a mythical creature half human half horse. The Centaur has a bow, and he is ready to fire an arrow. 
Sagittarius (the Centaurian Archer) is the 9th sign of the Zodiac, and the 3rd, and last of the Fire Signs. This fiery nature is different from that of Aries and Leo, in that its directness and honesty isn't used to achieve a goal or prove themselves, it is unconscious and, more often than not, unintentional. The house of Jupiter. Jupiter is the planet that has to do with the expansion of human boundaries, through adventure, travel, philosophy and religion, and Sagittarius is used to symbolize these activities in most astrological writing throughout the world.
Answers. Best Answer: The Sagittarius symbol (an arrow with a line through it) represents the bow and arrow of a man-horse that hunts for it's prey. Sagittarians are known for hunting, and their thirst for excitement and knowledge. They are explorers and adventurers. 
Sagittarius, the ninth sign of the zodiac, is the home of the wanderers of the zodiac. It's not a mindless ramble for these folks, either. Sagittarians are truth-seekers, and the best way for them to do this is to hit the road, talk to others and get some answers. 
In the Sagittarius' character there are combined such qualities as reliance, affability and courtesy. People who were born under this sign come along with the people easily, but it is much more difficult for them to become close friends.They do it very very cautiously. The Sagittarius usually loves sports, nature, traveling, to learn and to win. The Sagittarius likes all doing in the company surrounded by close people. THE Zodiacal Sign of Sagittarius commences on November 21st, but for seven days it does not come into its full power until on or about November 2Stfi.