These two techniques are often used to change unwanted behavior in dogs and cats. Just as the term implies, counter conditioning means conditioning (training) an animal to display a behavior that is counter to (mutually exclusive of) an unacceptable behavior in response to a particular stimulus. Implementing a counter conditioning and desensitization program requires some thought and planning. 1. Define the starting point. Ideally, a behavior modification program of this sort should be designed and carried out in such small steps that the problem behavior never occurs.
Systematic desensitization, also known as graduated exposure therapy is a type of behavior therapy used in the field of psychology to help effectively overcome phobias and other anxiety disorders. Desensitization is widely known as one of the most effective therapy techniques. In recent decades, systematic desensitization has been used less and less as a treatment of choice fo
Systematic Desensitization (SD or Desensitization) is defined by Wikipedia as a type of behavioral therapy used in the field of psychology to help effectively overcome fears, phobias, and other anxiety disorders. Research has shown that systematic desensitization can be effective in treating fears, phobias, other anxiety disorders, and a wide variety of other mental health and behavior problems.
Instructor: Alyssa Gilston. Systematic desensitization is a behavioral technique commonly used to treat fear, anxiety disorders and phobias. Using this method, the person is engaged in some type of relaxation exercise and gradually exposed to an anxiety producing stimulus, like an object or place. Systematic desensitization is a behavioral technique whereby a person is gradually exposed to an anxiety-producing object, event, or place while being engaged in some type of relaxation at the same time in order to reduce the symptoms of anxiety. For example, a very common phobia is the fear of flying.
counter conditioning-conditioning in which a second incompatible response is conditioned to an already conditioned stimulus; counter conditioning lies behind many of the procedures used in behavior therapy. 
It is a common treatment for aggression, fears, and phobias. The use of counter conditioning is widely used for treatment in humans as well as animals. The most common goal is to decrease or increase the want or desire to the stimulus. Mary Cover Jones was the first to show the effectiveness of the counter conditioning process in her rabbit experiments. She was able to eliminate the fear of rabbits from a young boy.
In this article. Systematic desensitization and counterconditioning are two common treatments for fears, anxiety, phobias and aggression—basically any behavior problem that involves arousal or emotional reaction. This treatment will eliminate the underlying reason for the behavior problem in the first place. Desensitization and counterconditioning are treatments that were developed by psychologists. Usually done at the same time, these treatments are used to help both people and animals with fears and phobias.
Two techniques that are used in Counterconditioning are aversion therap y and systematic desensitization. In aversion therapy the client is taught to experience negative in the presence of the stimulus, with the aim that the client will eventually feel repelled by the stimulus. 
NE METHOD that has been consistently proven to be effective in the treatment of anxiety and phobias is systematic desensitization. In this procedure, events which cause anxiety are recalled in imagination, and then a relaxation technique is used to dissipate the anxiety. 
by Saul McLeod published 2008. Systematic desensitization is a type of behavioral therapy based on the principle of classical conditioning. It was developed by Wolpe during the 1950s. This therapy aims to remove the fear response of a phobia, and substitute a relaxation response to the conditional stimulus gradually using counter conditioning. 