Accrual. Definition: An accrual allows an entity to record expenses and revenues for which it expects to expend cash or receive cash, respectively, in a future reporting period. It is nearly impossible to generate financial statements without using accruals, unless the cash basis of accounting is used. Examples of accruals are: 1  Revenue accrual. 2  A consulting company works billable hours on a project that it will eventually bill to a client for $5,000. 3  It can record an accrual in the current period, so that its current income statement shows $5,000 of revenue, even though it has not yet billed the client.
Accounts on a balance sheet that represent liabilities and non-cash-based assets used in accrual-based accounting. These accounts include, among many others, accounts payable, accounts receivable, goodwill, future tax liability and future interest expense. Before the use of accruals only cash transactions were recorded on these statements. But cash transactions don't give information about other important business activities, such as revenue based on credit and future liabilities.
Definition of ACCRUAL. 1. : the action or process of accruing. 2. : something that accrues or has accrued. adjective. : relating to or being a method of accounting that recognizes income when earned and expenses when incurred regardless of when cash is received or disbursed — compare cash.
Definition of ACCRUAL. : relating to or being a method of accounting that recognizes income when earned and expenses when incurred regardless of when cash is received or disbursed — compare cash. adjective. : relating to or being a method of accounting that recognizes income when earned and expenses when incurred regardless of when cash is received or disbursed — compare cash.
Definition. A system of accounting based on the accrual principal, under which revenue is recognized (recorded) when earned, and expenses are recognized when incurred. 
Accrual (accumulation) of something is, in finance, the adding together of interest or different investments over a period of time. It holds specific meanings in accounting, where it can refer to accounts on a balance sheet that represent liabilities and non-cash-based assets used in accrual-based accounting. The proceeds are also an accrued income (asset) on the balance sheet for the delivery fiscal year, but not for the next fiscal year when cash is received. Similarly, a salesperson, who sold the product, earned a commission at the moment of sale (or delivery).
accrual accounting. A method of accounting that recognizes expenses when incurred and revenue when earned rather than when payment is made or received. Thus, it is the act of sending the goods or receiving an inventory item that is important in determining when transactions are posted on financial statements. For example, using accrual accounting, sales are recorded as revenue when goods are shipped even though payment is not expected for days, weeks, or months. Most firms use the accrual basis of accounting in recording transactions.
The most commonly used accounting method, which reports income when earned and expenses when incurred, as opposed to cash basis accounting, which reports income when received and expenses when paid. 
Accrual accounting is an accounting method that measures the performance and position of a company by recognizing economic events regardless of when cash transactions occur. Therefore, the accrual accounting method instead recognizes the TV sale at the point at which the customer takes ownership of the TV. Even though cash isn't yet in the bank, the sale is booked to an account known in accounting lingo as  accounts receivable , increasing the seller's revenue.