Edgefest is an annual concert held in Little Rock, Arkansas. It is produced by 100.3 The Edge radio station. Edgefest 5: The Redemption took place on August 15, 2009 because at the previous Edgefest, many ticket buyers could not get into the show because of rainy and muddy conditions.
The Early Years (1987–1989) [edit]. Edgefest began in 1987 as a conversation between Edge staffers Kneale Mann, Alan Cross, Earl Veale, and Phil Evans in the lunchroom. The station had launched ten years earlier in 1977, and in order to celebrate their tenth birthday and Canada Day, the idea was given to throw a large outdoor rock festival. 1993 was the first time the festival was called Edgefest, a name that's stuck with the festival since; it was also the first year to have more than one day of concerts, taking place on July 1 and 2.
Texas’ Edgefest will be returning for its 25 th year on April 25 at Toyota Stadium in Frisco, and the 2015 silver anniversary celebration will bring a heavy roster of talent to the festival this spring. More About Vivid Seats. As an industry leader for over 10 years, Vivid Seats’ goal is to provide customers with a hassle-free purchase. Accompanied by a first-rate customer service commitment, Vivid Seats is your marketplace for the best Edgefest tickets available.
In 2014, Edgefest was put on as a three date concert series at TD Echo Beach at the Molson Amphitheatre. The first concert on Canada Day was headlined by The Sheepdogs, Monster Truck, Matt Mays, and Head of the Herd. 1993 was the first time the festival was called Edgefest, a name that's stuck with the festival since; it was also the first year to have more than one day of concerts, taking place on July 1 and 2.
Later that year The Edge also hosted the first Edgefest II, held at the Molson Amphitheatre in Toronto, on Saturday August 25. It was headlined by Blink 182 with other bands to perform including New Found Glory and Sum 41 among others. 1993 was the first time the festival was called Edgefest, a name that's stuck with the festival since; it was also the first year to have more than one day of concerts, taking place on July 1 and 2.
We do not have any events listed for Edgefest Tickets at this time.Check with official websites, ticket sources or venues for the latest updates. Edgefest fans also bought tickets for these upcoming local events ... Edgefest is returning to Dallas for the twenty-sixth year in 2016, and it is expected to be a big one.
There’s something for everyone at EdgeFest – come join the party! Come out for EdgeFest on August 1 & 2 and enjoy the best of what Edgewater has to offer! We’ll have two stages with live music, an interactive kids’ zone, local artisans and merchants, plenty of food, beer, and sangria! New this year: the world’s premier aquatic canine competition DockDogs will be at EdgeFest! 
Edgefest tickets from Front Row Tickets.com will make your live entertainment experience magical. We provide world class service and premium seating. Start by finding your city, venue and event date on the Edgefest tickets 2015 2016 schedule of events. We have tickets to meet every budget for Edgefest events. Front Row Tickets.com also provides event schedules, concert tour news, concert tour dates, and box office information. Thank you for choosing Front Row Tickets.com to be your Edgefest live entertainment website. 