Helen survives the assault, and is able to identify her attacker to the police. Helen later faces the apparent real Candyman, who explains that since Helen has been telling people he is just a legend, he must prove he exists. Helen blacks out and wakes up in Anne-Marie's apartment, covered in blood. 
For you see, the Candyman is a vicious killer with a bloody hook for a hand. He appears from the mirror, covered in blood and bees and with nothing but murder on his mind. They say that years ago, Candyman was once a real man. There is a real Candyman, but nothing like this. He was a father who gave his son a pixie stick on Halloween & the son died due to cyanide poisoning. The father claimed that it must have been from one of the houses they went to for trick or treating.
Ok, this is when all the Whites hated the Blacks, (Candyman is Black). So Candyman was a slave, is real name is, Daniel. He fell in love with this White girl and the White gir … l fell in love with him. Then when all the people found out they were after Daniel. He soon found out then, when everyone caught up with him one of them chopped off Daniel's right hand. Then after that. 
The Candyman is a name that is often associated with urban legends for multiple reasons. First off, there have been many real cases of murders where the killer was nicknamed the candyman because the use of candy was part of his M.O. in some way. The previous story that happened in Texas is one example. There is a real Candyman, but nothing like this. He was a father who gave his son a pixie stick on Halloween & the son died due to cyanide poisoning. The father claimed that it must have been from one of the houses they went to for trick or treating.
Report Abuse. The candyman is very real. In 19th century France he was known as homme de sucrerie, which literally means man of sugar refinery.. He terrorized France until 1964, when he made his way to the U.S. to spill the blood of innocent citizens in our own country. back in my day it was bloody Mary. Which most people don't realize was fashioned after Mary Tudor of England. Maybe candyman was a real killer, but I'm sure the only thing that is going to get you in your mirror is your imagination.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: the candy man is an urban legend and the story is actually real but as far as the whole mirror thing... well i doubt that but According to the legend, if you look into a mirror and chant the name “Candyman” five times, the Candyman will appear and kill you with his hook. There is a real Candyman, but nothing like this. He was a father who gave his son a pixie stick on Halloween & the son died due to cyanide poisoning. The father claimed that it must have been from one of the houses they went to for trick or treating.
by scary for kids. The Candyman is an urban myth or legend about the ghost of a slave who returns from the dead in search of revenge if you say his name five times. A horror movie was made in 1992 about the legend, followed by two sequels, starring Tony Todd as the Candyman. They say that many years ago, the Candyman was a real man. Back in the days of slavery, Candyman was a black slave named Daniel Robitaille, who worked on a plantation in New Orleans. He was a talented painter and was chosen by the plantation owner to paint a portrait of his daughter
Submitted by livescifi 3 Comments. Candyman might really be real…listen to the scary, evp recordings from the Candyman mirror ritual that were captured during the live paranormal investigation. As Tim chanted, Candyman, Candyman, Candyman, Candyman, CANDYMAN, five times there were numerous EVPS that came through the recording. 