Butterfly Weed (A. tuberosa). A full-sun perennial with bright orange flowers on a tidy, bushy two foot plant. This butterfly weed is the most popular Asclepias in the nursery trade. Butterfly weed (tuberosa) can be grown from seed or bought as a nusery plant.
Swamp Milkweed is an excellent plant to attract Monarch butterflies....and Monarch Butterfly caterpillars find it very tasty! This perennial plant is: The scientific name for this milkweed is Asclepias incarnata. It blooms from June to August and thrives in sun to partial sun. 1  Top butterfly garden plant.
Common milkweed, Asclepias syriaca, is a perennial crop traditionally considered a nuisance weed by farmers throughout the Midwest. However, the Alternative Crops Research Program at Western Illinois University is currently seeking to add milkweed to the list of agronomic crops grown in the western counties of Illinois.
Flaming orange Butterfly Weed is one of our native plants that is so beautiful, it was taken into the perennial garden just as it appears in the wild. The orange original has been a wild gardener favorite for decades, with its stunning flowers and ability to attract butterflies and hummingbirds.
Butterfly weed, or milkweed, is a native American wildflower that is at home in both the wild garden and the perennial border, as a flower that attracts hummingbirds and butterflies.
Milkweed plants are important to insects. Milkweed perennials (Asclepias spp.) bear many small star-shaped flowers and produce a milky sap; they are named for this sap.
Milkweed is essential for the existence of Monarch butterflies. A Monarch butterfly is pictured at the top of this page. Adult Monarchs (and many other butterfly species) love nectar-rich milkweed as a food source, but there is a more important reason for the Monarch's close attachment to milkweed.
Butterfly weed, also called milkweed, is a See more pictures of perennial flowers.
Technically not native to the United States, Tropical Milkweed is widely popular in butterfly gardens. Growing as a naturalized perennial plant in the southern U.S., it can also be easily started from seeds in the northern U.S. and treated as an annual.