Superfood is a marketing term used to describe foods with supposed health benefits. Blueberries, a so-called 'superfood' that actually does not have unusually dense nutrient content. Definition [edit]. The Macmillan Dictionary defines 'superfood' as a food that is considered to be very good for your health and that may even help some medical conditions.
What is Purple Corn. Purple Corn is a South American superfood, an ancient heirloom strain of corn cultivated for thousands of years and consumed extensively throughout the Inca Empire that spanned South America. is the ancestor of our modern corn, a superfood with higher nutritional value and one of the “lost crops of the Inca”. Purple Corn is still cultivated by the native inhabitants of Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia. From the Pacific coast of South America to the highlands of the Andes Mountains, this ancient Inca superfood remains a nutrient dense staple food of many indigenous inhabitants of
News. America’s appetite for superfoods is at an all-time high, with consumers turning to foods like blueberries, avocado, quinoa, kale, almonds, raw cocoa, and wheatgrass for their powerful health benefits. Maybe it’s got some antioxidants and Omega-3s in it, too. You know, ancient cultures have been surviving off it since before Columbus came to America, so that’s gotta mean something. And they make ethanol from corn, which is fuel, so maybe corn is, like, a fuel for the body or something.
Ahh -- there's nothing quite like a crisp cob of sweet corn in the summer. But even though there's no contesting the deliciousness of corn -- just off the grill is our preference, but also great from the oven or even microwaved -- there seem to be a few myths that persist about the healthfulness of the vegetable. Yellow corn is also a good source of two antioxidants, zeaxanthin and lutein, which are good for eye health, McDaniel says. Myth: The corn you buy at the grocery store is genetically modified. Nope. In fact, most sweet corn available in your grocery store's produce section is not GMO corn
Sure, Why Not. America’s appetite for superfoods is at an all-time high, with consumers turning to foods like blueberries, avocado, quinoa, kale, almonds, raw cocoa, and wheatgrass for their powerful health benefits. Maybe it’s got some antioxidants and Omega-3s in it, too. You know, ancient cultures have been surviving off it since before Columbus came to America, so that’s gotta mean something. And they make ethanol from corn, which is fuel, so maybe corn is, like, a fuel for the body or something.
While not a scientific term, superfood often used to describe dark greens, fruits, nuts and other foods that contain high nutrient or phytochemical content. Popcorn contains a high level of antioxidants called polyphenols which protect against disease by fighting free radicals, according to Dr. Joe Vinson. In fact, it’s those particularly annoying popcorn hulls that contain the highest concentration of fiber and polyphenols. Hardly surprising seeing as we have been fed a lot of garbage about nutrition over the last fifty years. Most of the studies have been funded by the CORN industry so it comes as no surprise that they are now trying to tell us that it is a SUPERFOOD.
Corn is a grain not a vegetable, no matter what form it is in. It also is not very nutritious compared to vegetables and many other foods. While I do enjoy an ear of corn or an occasional bowl of popcorn, it is a treat, not something to rely on for daily consumption. Hardly surprising seeing as we have been fed a lot of garbage about nutrition over the last fifty years. Most of the studies have been funded by the CORN industry so it comes as no surprise that they are now trying to tell us that it is a SUPERFOOD.
Quinoa Superfood. Quinoa Superfood is the single place to be for everything you need to know or want to find out about quinoa. There are many sources on the internet however this is the one place that amalgamates everything under one roof. Here at Quinoa Superfood you will find out: 1  what is quinoa. 2  quinoa nutrition facts & benefits
Ayelie/CC BY 2.0. Although popcorn has taken a beating for its tendency to end up in compromising positions -- like slathered in “golden flavor” at the movie theater or harboring offensive chemicals courtesy of microwave-popping packaging -- new research is showing that it is a super-nutrient powerhouse. 