Bell pepper. Bell pepper, also known as sweet pepper or a pepper (in the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland) and capsicum /ˈkaepsɨkəm/ (ˈkæpsɨkəm In, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Australia singapore And New), zealand is a cultivar group of the Species capsicum. annuum Most often bell peppers are green, yellow, orange, and red (between stages of ripening). More rarely, color can be brown, white, lavender and dark purple, depending on the variety of pepper. Most typically, unripe fruit are green or, less commonly, pale yellow or purple.
Black pepper (Piper nigrum) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning. When dried, the fruit is known as a peppercorn. Peppercorns (dried black pepper) are, by monetary value, the most widely traded spice in the world, accounting for 20 percent of all spice imports in 2002. The price of pepper can be volatile, and this figure fluctuates a great deal year to year; for example, pepper made up 39 percent of all spice imports in 1998.
Definition of PEPPER. 1. a: either of two pungent products from the fruit of an Indian plant (Piper nigrum) that are used chiefly as condiments: (1) : black pepper (2) : white pepper. 2. Medical Definition of PEPPER. 1. a: a woody Indian vine of the genus Piper (P. nigrum) that is widely cultivated in the tropics for its red berries from which black pepper and white pepper are prepared b
Description. Black pepper comes from the berries of the pepper plant. Black pepper, green pepper and white peppercorns are actually the same fruit (Piper nigrum); the difference in their color is a reflection of varying stages of development and processing methods. Pink peppercorns are actually from a completely different plant species (Schinus molle) that is related to ragweed. Black pepper is the most pungent and flavorful of all types of peppers and it is available as whole or cracked peppercorns or ground into powder.
Botanical name: Piper nigrum From the Piperaceae family, the black pepper plant is a trailing, woody vine that grows in tropical climates. After a few years, it bears tiny white blossoms that become berries known as peppercorns. For black peppercorns, the berries are picked before full maturity and turn dark when dried. Procedure: 1  Place peppercorns on a plate and press steak into peppercorns to cover both sides thickly. 2  Sprinkle a skillet with the salt and over medium heat, cook until salt begins to brown. 3  In a separate saucepan, combine butter, tamari, beef stock, and lemon juice. 4  Serve the steak with the sauce on the side.
In the U.S. the term sweet pepper covers a wide variety of mild peppers that, like the chile, belong to the capsicum family. The best known sweet peppers are bell peppers, named for their bell-like shape. They have a mild, sweet flavor and crisp juicy flesh. 
The world's most popular spice, a berry grown in grapelike clusters on the pepper plant (a climbing vine native to India and Indonesia. The berry is processed to produce three basic types: black, white, and green. 
The genus Piper of the pepper family (Piperaceae), including for example: 1  Black pepper, white and green pepper, Piper nigrum. 2  Cubeb, Piper cubeba, also known as Java pepper. 3  Long pepper, Piper longum. 
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a traditional medicine. Black pepper is the world's most traded spice. It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants. Peppercorns (dried black pepper) are, by monetary value, the most widely traded spice in the world, accounting for 20 percent of all spice imports in 2002. The price of pepper can be volatile, and this figure fluctuates a great deal year to year; for example, pepper made up 39 percent of all spice imports in 1998.