X-rays and gamma rays-Higher tier. X-rays are manufactured by an x-ray machine. A hot cathode emits electrons that are attracted to a tungsten anode. When the fast-moving electrons hit the metal target, most of their kinetic energy is transferred to heat but some is transferred to x-rays. X-rays, gamma rays and beta particles are all used in medicine to treat internal organs. X-rays are produced by firing electrons at a metal target and gamma rays are emitted by the nucleus of radioactive atoms. Gamma rays are used to kill cancer cells, to sterilise medical equipment and in radioactive tracers.
The x-rays produced by transitions from the n=2 to n=1 levels are called K-alpha x-rays, and those for the n=3→1 transition are called K-beta x-rays. Transitions to the n=2 or L-shell are designated as L x-rays (n=3→2 is L-alpha, n=4→2 is L-beta, etc. Moseley measured the frequencies of the characteristic x-rays from a large fraction of the elements of the periodic table and produced a plot of them which is now called a  Moseley plot . Characteristic x-rays are used for the investigation of crystal structure by x-ray diffraction.
Imaging using X-rays. When imaging with. , an X-ray beam produced by a so-called X-ray tube passes through the body. On it’s way through the body, parts of the energy of the X-ray beam are absorbed. This process is described as attenuation of the X-ray beam
X-rays are produced when electrons strike a metal target. The electrons are liberated from the heated filament and accelerated by a high voltage towards the metal target. The X-rays are produced when the electrons collide with the atoms and nuclei of the metal target. 
Medical x-ray machines in hospitals use the same principle as the Crookes Tube to produce x-rays. The most common x-ray machines use tungsten as there cathode, and have very precise electronics so the amount and energy of the x-ray produced is optimum for making images of bones and tissues in the body. Here is a good page that shows how x-rays are formed. 1  Go on to page 7. 2  Go back to page 5. 3  Return to the table of contents. 4  Return to the Radiation Information Network's HomePage.
X-rays for medical diagnostic procedures or for research purposes are produced in a standard way: by accelerating electrons with a high voltage and allowing them to collide with a metal target. 
Roentgen discovered that very penetrating radiations were produced from the anode, which he called x-rays. X-ray production whenever electrons of high energy strike a heavy metal target, like tungsten or copper. Here is a good page that shows how x-rays are formed. 1  Go on to page 7. 2  Go back to page 5. 3  Return to the table of contents. 4  Return to the Radiation Information Network's HomePage.
X Rays are produced in labs by directing an energetic beam of particles or radiation, at a target material. The energetic beam can be electrons, protons, or other X rays. X Rays for crystallographic studies are typically generated by bombarding a metal target with an energetic beam of electrons. Introduction. X-Ray photons are electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths typically in the range 0.1 - 100 A. å X rays used in diffraction experiments have wavelengths of.0 - 5.1 8. A å x rays can be produced by, conventional generators, by synchrotrons and by. plasma sources