Limited liability is granted only to charities that organize as a nonprofit corporation. If the charity is run by a few individuals who do not take the formal steps to incorporate the charity as a nonprofit corporation, it will not be afforded limited liability.
Nonprofit organizations, such as charitable organizations, are legal entities separate and distinct from the individuals who control and operate them. The primary difference between a charity and a for-profit corporation is that charities do not operate to make money; they exist to further some public good. Like a corporation, however, charities do enjoy limited liability.
With restricted funding from grants and donations, a charity often does not have the assets and operating cash flow to defend itself against lawsuits or other disputes. Therefore, charities lessen the risk of business failure and protect its managers and employees by maintaining liability insurance.
Assume that Read First is a charity that accepts donations from patrons in the form of money or used books and donates the books to schools and other groups in the community. Next assume Read First secures a loan from a lender to purchase a warehouse and defaults on the loan.
A board of trustees, usually unpaid. The charity is both a company and a charity, meaning it has a legal identity, so it can enter into contracts and borrow money, and trustees have limited liability if the charity is sued or incurs debts. Trustees act as directors of the company. A trustee board
From a charity’s standpoint, limited liability exists between the individual trustees or board of directors and the charity itself, and it shields the individual trustees or board members from being personally liable for the debts and obligations of the charity.
If the charity is an incorporated charity-a charitable company-then the contract is between the charity, as a legal entity in its own right, and the supplier. Since it is the charity, and not its trustees personally, who are party to the contact the trustees have no personal liability under the contract.