Dentists may choose to specialize in a particular field of dentistry, such as orthodontics or pediatric dentistry. To become a specialist, dentists must complete 2-4 years of postdoctoral education, and they might be required to complete a 2-year residency program in their field of choice. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, most students who enter dental schools complete 4-year bachelor's degree programs beforehand (www.bls.gov). Some applicants complete 2-3 years of college prior to applying to dental school and complete their bachelor's degree there.
Report Abuse. I am a dentist and probably can answer your question. After finishing your Bachelors degree, the Dental school if for 4 years. That will get you basic dental degree DDS or DMD. If you want to specialize, it would be another 2-5 years. Oral and Maxillofacial surgery with MD is 5 years. Majority of other specialties are 2 years. There are some schools with combines dental degree with Bachelors degree. You will get BS, DDS after 5 years of this program. Of course this will take an additional year but will save you 2 years to get your bachelors degree. I know that University of Missouri, Kansas city has this BS, DDS program. I hope this answers your question. Good luck.
Generally, dentists must complete a bachelor's degree, pass the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), and complete four years of study to earn a Doctor of Dental Surgery or Doctor of Dental Medicine. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, most students who enter dental schools complete 4-year bachelor's degree programs beforehand (www.bls.gov). Some applicants complete 2-3 years of college prior to applying to dental school and complete their bachelor's degree there.
It takes 5 years at dental hospital to become a dentist and 2 years for hygienist. You can also do a combined course in dental therapy and hygiene which takes 27 months. Good luck. Source(s): Dental Nurse for last 10 years. Report Abuse. In the uk it takes about 5 years to train and qualify to become a dentist, and to become a dental hygeinist it takes 2 years both full time. Not sure how much it would cost to do dentistry, but i know the hygenist course at Kings College Hospital London costs £3,000 because i thought about doing it myself.
1 I am an orthodontist. 2  To be an orthodontist one needs to become a dentist first. 3  To get into dental school you need 2-4 years of college. 4  Most people get into dental school with 4 years of college. Oral surgery tacks on another two, for a total of twelve. 1  You have to have a basic degree first which is typically 4 years but some dental schools will except you with only 90 credits roughly 30 credits away from a BA or one year away.
It takes a long time and many hours of study to become an orthodontist. An average number of years to become an orthodontist is 10 to 11 years after high school graduation. That would be 4 years of undergraduate, 4 years of dental school and 2 to 3 years of an orthodontic graduate program. Yep, that’s right. 
1 To be an orthodontist one needs to become a dentist first. 2  To get into dental school you need 2-4 years of college. 3  Most people get into dental school with 4 years of college. 4  You need to get good grades in certain required courses. Oral surgery tacks on another two, for a total of twelve. 1  You have to have a basic degree first which is typically 4 years but some dental schools will except you with only 90 credits roughly 30 credits away from a BA or one year away.
Essential Information. Generally, dentists must complete a bachelor's degree, pass the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), and complete four years of study to earn a Doctor of Dental Surgery or Doctor of Dental Medicine. Finally, they must obtain licensure from their state board of dentistry to practice in the profession. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, most students who enter dental schools complete 4-year bachelor's degree programs beforehand (www.bls.gov). Some applicants complete 2-3 years of college prior to applying to dental school and complete their bachelor's degree there.
1 Most dental schools are 4 years, a few are 3. About half of the orthodontic schools are 2 years and the rest are 3 years. 2  it takes 4 years of undergraduate education (usually, it can take 2-3 if you have exceptional credentials) and then 3-4 years in dental school (depending on a particular schools curriculum). Oral surgery tacks on another two, for a total of twelve. 1  You have to have a basic degree first which is typically 4 years but some dental schools will except you with only 90 credits roughly 30 credits away from a BA or one year away.