Neurons: 44,139. The winter of our discontent means that the time of unhappiness is past, hard times are over. Here is a link with interesting explanation and origin of this phrase with reference to the Shakespearean verses. Similar description of the expression embedded in context is also available here. There is also another meaning of the phrase above, used in our times and referring to the social unrest.
1 To discuss the changes in colonial society in the 18th century. 2  To examine the changing economic characteristics in 18th century colonial America. 3  To demonstrate how such changes, combined with the growing divisions among the colonists and between the colonies, led to a great deal of discontent and divisiveness. By water, ships relied upon the wind for locomotion; by land, a rider on horseback might cover 30 miles a day while a passenger in coach might cover 20 miles a day. The sole source of heat, aside from sunlight, was fire, usually in an open fireplace.
Example Sentences Including 'discontent'. Marriage, discontent with home, desire for pastures new, departure. The fact that this meant only that no signal had been received reduced neither his concern nor his discontent. There are straws in the wind, a growing discontent with the French
1 To get a glimpse of life in the colonies in 1775, the year before the colonists claimed their independence from Britain. 2  To discuss wealth distribution in colonial America. 3  To discuss the changes in colonial society in the 18th century. 4  To examine the changing economic characteristics in 18th century colonial America. By water, ships relied upon the wind for locomotion; by land, a rider on horseback might cover 30 miles a day while a passenger in coach might cover 20 miles a day. The sole source of heat, aside from sunlight, was fire, usually in an open fireplace.
According to The Cultural Dictionary: Cultural Dictionary. the winter of our discontent definition. A phrase from the historical play King Richard the Third, by William Shakespeare; it describes a civil war in England. Note : ' The winter of our discontent' has come to suggest disaffection in general. Similar description of the expression embedded in context is also available here. There is also another meaning of the phrase above, used in our times and referring to the social unrest.
Another word for discontent. Another word for discontent word list. Below are a number of words whose meaning is similar to discontent. 1  dissatisfaction. 2  inquietude. 3  uneasiness. Hope this list of synonyms for discontent proved helpful. This post may be useful to those searching to find another word for discontent, discontent synonym, and synonyms for discontent.
» Definition of dysphoria. » unsatisfied: pronunciation in phonetic transcription. » Definition of displeased. » dissatisfy: pronunciation in phonetic transcription. The adjective DISCONTENT has 1 sense: 1. showing or experiencing dissatisfaction or restless longing. Familiarity information: DISCONTENT used as an adjective is very rare.
adj. unhappy; critical. 1  annoyed. 2  bad tempered. 3  bellyaching. 4  crabbing. 5  crabby. 6  cranky. 7  disappointed. 8  discontent. 9  discontented. 10  displeased. 11  dissatisfied. 12  griping. 13  grouchy. 14  grousing. 15  grumpy. 16  irritable. 17  irritated. 18  kicking. 19  kvetching. 20  malcontent. 21  malcontented. 22  peeved. 23  peevish. 24  petulant. 25  put out. 26  sulky. 27  sullen. 28  testy. 29  uncontent. 30  ungratified. 31  vexed. 