Here are some facts about stone crab claws. 1  Stone crab claws are sold fully cooked. 2  Stone crab claws are served intact. 3  If the recipe calls for crab meat, you can pick the meat out of the shell. 4  Shells and movable pincers should be cracked before serving the claws as an appetizer. Stone crabs have the ability to regenerate new claws in about 18 to 24 months. Stone crab meat has a firm texture and sweet flavor, is low in fat, and is only sold precooked and frozen. This is because the meat will adhere to its shell if frozen raw. Therefore the claws are cooked as soon as they're harvested.
Step 2: Put the stone crab claws into the water for approximately 5 minutes. You don’t want to submerge them as this can make the meat tough and relatively dry. Instead, you will want to make sure that the meat is juicy and tender for yourself or your guests. Step 3: While the stone crab claws are in the water, you can now begin to prepare the butter that you will eat them with. You will want to microwave the butter mixture until it has completely melted. Generally this may take between 30 seconds and a minute, depending on the strength of your microwave. Step 4: By this time your stone crab claws should be sufficiently cooked and you will want to drain them.
Stone crab claws can be roasted -- from frozen or thawed -- in the oven. This reheating method leads to firm, succulent meat that is less watery than either steaming, microwaving or boiling. 1  Roast the crab claws on a baking sheet in a 350 degree-Fahrenheit oven until they are warmed through. 1 Roast the crab claws on a baking sheet in a 350 degree-Fahrenheit oven until they are warmed through. 2  It will take roughly 15 minutes for 2 pounds of large, thawed crab claws to fully reheat.
Filled with meaty, sweet-tasting flesh, black-tipped stone crab claws are a luxury food item. The claws of stone crabs, which come from Florida, are the only parts of the crab that are harvested and eaten. It is illegal to sell stone crabs whole. Stone crab claws are always sold cooked, and, in many cases, frozen. While they can be eaten cold, the claws can also be reheated before you consume them. Serve the claws whole and in their shell, alongside dipping sauces. You can also remove the meat from the claws to use in a sandwich, pasta dish or salad. 1 Roast the crab claws on a baking sheet in a 350 degree-Fahrenheit oven until they are warmed through. 2  It will take roughly 15 minutes for 2 pounds of large, thawed crab claws to fully reheat.
Store cooked crabs and picked meat in the coldest part of your refrigerator or meat keeper at 32 degrees F and use within two days. Stone crab claws that are completely intact (occasionally claws crack during handling) can be frozen at 0 degrees F for up to six months. 
Step 2. Arrange the stone crab claws in the steamer basket and cook for 2 to 5 minutes to reheat. If you are cooking freshly harvested stone crab claws, increase the cooking time according to the size of the claws. Poke the claws with a sharp knife to determine that the meat has turned opaque and is fully cooked. 
Place the frozen stone crab claws into the boiling water. After two minutes, turn off the heat and allow the crab to continue cooking for eight minutes. The largest claw is cut from the crab and it is released back into the ocean where it can re-grow. Stone crab claws are usually sold frozen after a high-heat cooking to ensure the flesh does not stick to the interior of the shell. The best way to heat frozen stone crab is by boiling it and serving it immediately. Fill a large pot 3/4 full with water. Add 1 tsp. of sea salt for every 6 cups of water
1 Stone crab claws are sold fully cooked. 2  Stone crab claws are served intact. 3  If the recipe calls for crab meat, you can pick the meat out of the shell. 4  Shells and movable pincers should be cracked before serving the claws as an appetizer. Stone crabs have the ability to regenerate new claws in about 18 to 24 months. Stone crab meat has a firm texture and sweet flavor, is low in fat, and is only sold precooked and frozen. This is because the meat will adhere to its shell if frozen raw. Therefore the claws are cooked as soon as they're harvested.