And you can sell the entire annuity or a portion of each annuity payment in exchange for a lump sum while continuing to receive the balance of the payments. For example, let's say you're receiving a monthly annuity payment of $4,000, which is to continue for 20 years.
So the purchaser will give the annuity seller a cash lump sum in return for the income from the annuity company. However, people wanting to sell their annuities will not have the right to simply sell it back to their original provider. And the government said it is not minded to allow the original annuity provider to purchase, and then discontinue, their own customers' annuities. The government will now launch a consultation into how this will work in practice and who should be permitted to purchase the annuity income.
Currently, people wanting to sell on their annuity income to a third party face heavy tax penalties ranging from between 55-70%. If the changes go ahead, they would instead only be taxed at their marginal rate of income tax.
Receiving cash for annuity payments is now an ideal situation. Selling an annuity is a complicated process, but SQ will make this as easy as possible for you. This process usually takes between 6-8 weeks from the day you receive your first quote to the day you receive the check in the mail.
George Osborne has confirmed that some five million existing annuity holders will be given the right to sell their contract in return for a lump sum from April 2016.
And pensioners who have several annuities may want to take a (reduced) tax hit on one or two small annuities in exchange for a cash sum, he said. An annuity is a policy from an insurance company that converts a pension fund, or part of a pension fund, into a regular pension income.
Existing pensioners to be allowed to 'sell' annuities from 2016, UK government announces. Plans to allow UK pensioners more freedom to buy and sell existing annuity contracts will be published alongside Wednesday's Budget, the chancellor of the exchequer has confirmed. 17 Mar 2015.