First angle projection is a method of creating a 2D drawing of a 3D object. It is mainly used in Europe and Asia and has not been officially used in Australia for many years. In Australia, third angle projection is the preferred method of orthographic projection. Note the symbol for first angle orthographic projection. This is important information for the person interpreting the drawing because if you examine the diagram below you will note that in first angle orthographic projection: 1  the view from the front is in the middle. 2  the view from the left is on the right.
Please Note! This is an example of first angle orthographic projection (as used mainly in Europe). There is another type called third angle which is used by countries such as the USA. The front, side and plan views are in different positions. The correct method of presenting the three views, in first angle orthographic projection is shown below. The drawing is composed of a front, side and plan view of the L-shaped object.
1 In third-angle projection, the top view is pulled up to the ceiling, and the front view is pulled forward to the front wall; the intersection line between the two planes is thus closest to the small end of the cone, hence the third-angle symbol shows the cone with its large end away from the donut. 1 In first-angle projection, the top view is pushed down to the floor, and the front view is pushed back to the rear wall; the intersection line between these two planes is therefore closest to the large end of the cone, hence the first-angle symbol shows the cone with its large end open toward
IMPORTANT: There are two ways of drawing in orthographic-First Angle and Third Angle. They differ only in the position of the plan, front and side views. Below is an example of F irst Angle projection. The correct method of presenting the three views, in first angle orthographic projection is shown below. The drawing is composed of a front, side and plan view of the L-shaped object.
Third Angle VS First Angle Description: Both third angle and first angle projection display the standard three orthographic views of a part or assembly. The key difference between third angle and first angle is the layout of the part on the sheet. 
Note the symbol for third angle projection. This is important information for the person interpreting the drawing because in third angle projection: 1  the view from the front is in the middle. 2  the view from the left is on the left. 3  the view from the right is on the right. 4  the view from the top is on the top. 5  the view from the bottom is on the bottom
One is called FIRST ANGLE The other type is called THIRD ANGLE. These are the symbols for them. As you already know, Orthographic Projection is a way of drawing an object from different positions. This is usually; Front. Side. Plan. As you know, one is called First Angle, the other is called Third Angle. They differ only in the position of the plan, front and side views on the page. This is an example of First Angle Projection. This is used mainly in Europe. First Angle Projection Third Angle Projection. Used mainly in the US
So far we have only covered one method of Orthographic Projection, this is known as First Angle Projection. First Angle Projection is used in Europe and most of the world. However America and Australia use a method known as Third Angle Projection. In First Angle Projection we place our object in the First Quadrant (see above figure). This means that the Vertical Plane is behind the object and the Horizontal Plane is underneath the object. In Third Angle Projection the Object is placed in the Third Quadrant. This means that the Vertical Plane is in front of the object and the Horizontal Plane is above the object. To see the effects of this watch the animation below
Report Abuse. Both first angle and third angle projections are used in India. In 2nd angle projection the the front view and top view lie above the ground line and hence overlap. Clarity is lost In 4th angle projection the the front view and top view lie below the ground line and hence overlap. 