The parathyroid glands are two pairs of glands usually positioned behind the left and right lobes of the thyroid. Each gland is a yellowish-brown flat ovoid that resembles a lentil seed, usually about 6 mm long and 3 to 4 mm wide, and 1 to 2 mm anteroposteriorly. There are typically four parathyroid glands. The parathyroid glands are variable in number: three or more small glands, and can usually be located on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland. Occasionally, some individuals may have six, eight, or even more
Parathyroid glands are small glands of the endocrine system which are located in the neck behind the thyroid. Parathyroid glands control the calcium in our bodies--how much calcium is in our bones, and how much calcium is in our blood. The thyroid gland controls much of your body's metabolism, but the parathyroid glands control body calcium. They have no relationship except they are neighbors.
The body has four parathyroid glands. They are small, pea-sized glands, located in the neck just behind the butterfly-shaped thyroid gland. Two parathyroid glands lie behind each 'wing' of the thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands release a hormone called parathyroid hormone. 
The parathyroid glands are small endocrine glands in the neck of humans and other tetrapods that produce parathyroid hormone. Humans usually have four parathyroid glands, variably located on the back of the thyroid gland, although considerable variation exists. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin (one of the hormones made by the thyroid gland) have key roles in regulating the amount of calcium in the blood and within the bones. The parathyroid glands are variable in number: three or more small glands, and can usually be located on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland. Occasionally, some individuals may have six, eight, or even more parathyroid glands.
The parathyroid glands are usually located in the neck behind the thyroid gland, although there are exceptions. While the baby is developing inside the mother's womb, the four parathyroids travel from the head area down to the lower neck, and usually end up near the thyroid gland. 
The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands, located in the neck, that control the body's calcium levels. Each gland is about the size of a grain of rice (weighs approximately 30 milligrams and is 3-4 millimeters in diameter). The parathyroids produce a hormone called parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTHPTH-parathyroid hormone raises the blood calcium level by: 1  breaking down the bone (where most of the body's calcium is stored) and causing calcium release. 2  increasing the body's ability to absorb calcium from food.
Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that lies in front of the windpipe (trachea), just below the voice box (larynx). The thyroid gland uses iodine from food to make two thyroid hormones that regulate the way the body uses energy. The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands located behind the thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands produce a substance (parathyroid hormone) that helps control the amount of calcium in the blood. By Healthwise Staff. 
1 Parathyroid hormone regulates the body’s calcium levels. 2  There are four parathyroid glands, and they are each about the size of a grain of rice. 3  Though they’re located near each other, the parathyroid glands are not related to the thyroid gland. Parathyroid Glands: Essentials. 1 
The superior parathyroid glands are most commonly located in the posterolateral aspect of the superior pole of the thyroid gland at the cricothyroidal cartilage junction. They are most commonly found 1 cm above the intersection of the inferior thyroid artery and the recurrent laryngeal nerve (see the image below). 
The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ made of mostly glandular tissue and located in the base of the neck.... Click to read more below. The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels. 