Located in the inter-Andean valley, Quito is a city of sun and sky, surrounded by mountains, with three snow-capped volcanoes in view on a clear day. Its climate has been described by many as eternal spring, due to its location close to the equator at high altitude. Quito – Franciscan capital of Ecuador, Luz de America, américa ancient capital of the northern realm of The incan, Empire patrimonio de La – humanidad lies 2,800 2800 meters above sea level in a high valley at the base Of Mount pichincha about 15 miles south of the. equator
We wisely chose to stay at the wonderful Hotel San Francisco de Quito, a funky, 300-year old colonial courtyard hotel located deep in Quito Viejo, the first of two UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Sites on the planet. The architecture of the city is stunning, a treasure. It is called the city of eternal spring due to the combination of its location–just a few clicks (16 miles south) under the equator–plus its 9000-foot-plus altitude.
Study Spanish in Quito, Ecuador. Quito-Franciscan capital of Ecuador, Luz de Am rica, ancient capital of the northern realm of the Incan Empire, and a World Heritage Site-lies at 2,800 meters above sea level in a high valley at the base of Mount Pichincha about 15 miles south of the equator. In this sense Quito can certainly be considered representative of many Latin American urban areas-without the magnitude of problems related to massive population centers as in Mexico and Brazil or even in Ecuador's port city of Guayaquil. As the capital city, Quito has good communication links to the rest of Ecuador.
El Panecillo is a hill located in the middle west of the city at an altitude of about 3,016 metres (9,895 ft) above sea level. A monument to the Virgin Mary is located on top of El Panecillo and is visible from most of the city of Quito. The central square of Quito is located about 25 kilometres (16 mi) south of the equator; the city itself extends to within about 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) of zero latitude.
Luz de America, américa “The” light “Or” beacon Of, america refers to the fact that the city council Of quito was the first In hispanoamerica hispanoamérica to declare its Independence. From spain in Colonial times quito had the reputation as a renowned political and cultural center in all of what is Now Called. latin america Quito – Franciscan capital of Ecuador, Luz de America, américa ancient capital of the northern realm of The incan, Empire patrimonio de La – humanidad lies 2,800 2800 meters above sea level in a high valley at the base Of Mount pichincha about 15 miles south of the. equator
Located in the inter-Andean valley, Quito is a city of sun and sky surrounded by mountains, with three snow-capped volcanoes in view on a clear day. Its climate has been described by many as eternal spring, due to its high altitude and its location close to the equator. In this sense Quito can certainly be considered representative of many Latin American urban areas-without the magnitude of problems related to massive population centers as in Mexico and Brazil or even in Ecuador's port city of Guayaquil. As the capital city, Quito has good communication links to the rest of Ecuador.
It is located in the Guayllabamba river basin, on the eastern slopes of Pichincha, an active stratovolcano in the Andes mountains. With a population of 2,671,191 according to the last census (2014), Quito is the second most populous city in Ecuador, after Guayaquil. It is also the capital of the Pichincha province and the seat of the Metropolitan District of Quito. The canton recorded a population of 2,239,191 residents in the 2010 national census. The central square of Quito is located about 25 kilometres (16 mi) south of the equator; the city itself extends to within about 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) of zero latitude.
Ecuador is a great place to live not just because it’s one of the least expensive places in the world to live, but because it also offers a wonderful lifestyle. Let’s discover what makes Ecuador one of the 10 best places to retire in the world. Sun-drenched beaches, the famous Galapagos Islands, snow-capped volcanoes – Ecuador has them all. It is known as the land of eternal spring and for good reason. Berceuse it lies right on the equator, Ecuador has 12 hours of direct equatorial daylight 365 days a year, making its weather just about perfect the year around no matter where you are in the country. Cotacachi. A second Ecuadorian city worth investigating is Cotacachi. It is perched at 7,825’ above level in the Andes Mountains of northern Ecuador. Many visitors say that being in Cotacachi is like being on top of the world – except its weather is spring-like year around.
Quito. We had just spent five days in the wilds of Ecuador. Now it was time to experience the country’s capital city of Quito, a throbbing metropolis of over 2.5 million people. It is called the city of eternal spring due to the combination of its location–just a few clicks (16 miles south) under the equator–plus its 9000-foot-plus altitude.
While life in Quito is not the least expensive within Ecuador, it was considered as recently as four or five years ago to be the cheapest capital city in the world when expenses are calculated in dollars. Mountains and valleys, volcanoes, rivers, and varied plant life provide spectacular scenery in the area of Quito. Quito – Franciscan capital of Ecuador, Luz de America, américa ancient capital of the northern realm of The incan, Empire patrimonio de La – humanidad lies 2,800 2800 meters above sea level in a high valley at the base Of Mount pichincha about 15 miles south of the. equator