Descriptions. Colchicine is used to prevent or treat attacks of gout (also called gouty arthritis). This condition is caused by too much uric acid in the blood. An attack of gout occurs when uric acid causes inflammation (pain, redness, swelling, and heat) in a joint. Colchicine is also used to treat a rare condition called familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children older than 4 years of age. Colchicine may be used in 2 ways.
Colchicine works by decreasing swelling and lessening the build up of uric acid crystals that cause pain in the affected joint(s). This medication is also used to prevent attacks of pain in the abdomen, chest, or joints caused by a certain inherited disease (familial Mediterranean fever). Uses. This medication is used to prevent or treat gout attacks (flares). Usually gout symptoms develop suddenly and involve only one or a few joints. The big toe, knee, or ankle joints are most often affected. Gout is caused by too much uric acid in the blood
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANSIM: Colchicine is an oral drug used for treating acute gout and familial Mediterranean fever (FMF). In acute gout there is severe inflammation in response to the presence of uric acid crystals that form in bony joints. This causes severe pain, redness, and swelling of the affected joint(s). PRESCRIBED FOR: Colchicine is used for the treatment of acute flares of gout. It also is used for treating FMF in adults and children 4 years of age or older. Other unapproved uses of colchicine include treatment of pseudogout, amyloidosis, and scleroderma. These unapproved uses of colchicine require further evaluation
Colchicine is a medication most commonly used to treat gout. It is a toxic natural product and secondary metabolite, originally extracted from plants of the genus Colchicum (autumn crocus, Colchicum autumnale, also known as meadow saffron). Adverse effects are primarily gastrointestinal upset at high doses. Colchicine is an alternative for those unable to tolerate NSAIDs in gout. At high doses, side effects (primarily gastrointestinal upset) limit its use. At lower doses, which are still effective, it is well tolerated.
Colchicine is also used in adults and children ages 4 and older to treat familial Mediterranean fever (FMF), which is a condition that causes fever, pain, and swelling of the stomach, lungs, and joints. The drug is in a class of medicines called anti-gout agents. 
Generic forms of colchicine have been used to treat or prevent attacks of gout, or to treat symptoms of Behcets syndrome (such as swelling, redness, warmth, and pain). Colchicine is not a cure for gouty arthritis or Behcets syndrome, and it will not prevent these diseases from progressing. 
Probenecid and colchicine combination is used to treat gout or gouty arthritis. The probenecid in this medicine helps to prevent gout attacks by removing extra uric acid from the body. The colchicine in this medicine also helps to prevent gout attacks. 
Featured article ». Colchicine is used to prevent or treat attacks of gout (also called gouty arthritis). This condition is caused by too much uric acid in the blood. An attack of gout occurs when uric acid causes inflammation (pain, redness, swelling, and heat) in a joint. 