Calcium sulfate (or calcium sulphate) is a common laboratory and industrial chemical. In the form of γ- anhydrite (the nearly anhydrous form), it is used as a desiccant. It is also used as a coagulant in products like tofu. In the natural state, unrefined calcium sulfate is a translucent, crystalline white rock. When sold as a color-indicating variant under the name Drierite, it appears blue or pink due to impregnation with Cobalt(II) chloride, which functions as a moisture indicator.
Anhydrous calcium sulfate is used as a desiccant, to remove moisture where dry conditions are required — commercial forms may contain a compound that changes color in the presence of water to indicate when it has been exhausted. @dill1971: There are other foods that calcium sulfate is used in. In the baking industry, calcium sulfate is used in flour, cereal, yeast, bread conditioners, baking powder, and cake icing. Also, in the brewing industry, calcium sulfate is used to make a smoother tasting beer
Gypsum sheets are used in construction because they are fire resistant. Plaster of Paris is made of calcium sulfate that's been ground to a fine white powder. Hydrochloric acid can be used to distinguish calcium carbonate from gypsum. @dill1971: There are other foods that calcium sulfate is used in. In the baking industry, calcium sulfate is used in flour, cereal, yeast, bread conditioners, baking powder, and cake icing. Also, in the brewing industry, calcium sulfate is used to make a smoother tasting beer
(August 2014). Calcium sulfite, or calcium sulphite, is a chemical compound which is the calcium salt of sulfurous acid with the molecular formula CaSO 3. Some common uses areits production in flue gas desulfurization (FGD), as a food additive, and in the production of calcium sulfate. It can, however, be oxidized toproduce gypsum or calcium sulfate dihydrate, which can be used commercially. This oxidation reaction is the reason it is not stable in things like drywall, as it uses water and oxygen, common conditions in Earth's atmosphere.
water plaster gypsum occurs. Calcium sulfate (CaSO. ) occurs in nature in both the anhydrous and the hydrated form. The former is found primarily as the mineral known as anhydrite, while the latter is probably best known as alabaster or gypsum. Calcium sulfate also occurs in forms known as selenite, terra alba, satinite, satin spar, and light spar.
Most calcium sulfate comes from these deposits, which are mined in many parts of the world. Some is recovered as a byproduct of various industrial processes, especially those involving the treatment of calcium-containing rocks with sulfuric acid. @dill1971: There are other foods that calcium sulfate is used in. In the baking industry, calcium sulfate is used in flour, cereal, yeast, bread conditioners, baking powder, and cake icing. Also, in the brewing industry, calcium sulfate is used to make a smoother tasting beer
Anhydrous calcium sulfate, Anhydrous gypsum, Anhydrous sulfate of lime, Calcium salt of sulfuric acid [Note: Gypsum is the dihydrate form and Plaster of Paris is the hemihydrate form.]. 
Definition of CALCIUM SULFATE. : a white salt CaSO4 that occurs especially as anhydrite, gypsum, and plaster of paris and that in hydrated form is used as a building material and in anhydrous form is used as a drying agent. See calcium sulfate defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of CALCIUM SULFATE. : a white calcium salt CaSO4 used especially as a diluent in tablets and in hydrated form as plaster of paris.