Myeloid. The term myeloid is an adjective that relates to the granulocyte precursor cell in bone marrow or spinal cord, or a resemblance to the marrow or spinal cord. For example, myeloid leukemia is leukemia that arises from abnormal growth in the blood-forming tissue of the bone marrow. In hematopoiesis, the term myeloid cell describes any blood cell that is not a lymphocyte. This terminology is often seen when classifying cancers, especially leukemia.
In AML, the myeloid stem cells usually become a type of immature white blood cell called myeloblasts (or myeloid blasts). The myeloblasts in AML are abnormal and do not become healthy white blood cells. Sometimes in AML, too many stem cells become abnormal red blood cells or platelets. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a white blood cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells: 1  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.
All blood cells start as the same type of cell, called a stem cell. Stem cells then develop into one of four different types, which in turn become red blood cells, platelets, or different types of white blood cells. In acute myeloid leukaemia, the bone marrow makes too many white cells called monocytes or granulocytes. The cells made are not fully developed and do not work normally.
Myeloid cells originate in bone marrow or spinal cord, or a resemblance to the marrow or spinal cord. For example, myeloid leukemia is leukemia that arises from abnormal growth in the blood-forming tissue of the bone marrow. This term should not be confused with  myelin , which is an insulating layer covering the axons of many neurons.
In leukaemia the white blood cells are abnormal and they don't give the protection from infection that they should. In chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) the bone marrow makes too many of a certain type of white blood cell called granulocytes. So CML is sometimes also called chronic granulocytic leukaemia or CGL. 
1 Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. 2  Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. 3  There are different subtypes of AML. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a white blood cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells: 1  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), also known as chronic myelogenous leukemia, is a type of cancer that starts in certain blood-forming cells of the bone marrow. Once in the blood, leukemia cells can spread to other organs, where they can prevent other cells in the body from functioning normally. Leukemia is different from other types of cancer that start in organs such as the lungs, colon, or breast and then spread to
The term myeloid (myelogenous) is an adjective that can refer to a progenitor cell for granulocytes, monocytes, erythrocytes, or platelets. Myeloid can be distinguished from the lymphoid progenitor cells that give rise to B cells and T cells. Myleloid is thus associated with the innate immune system, in contrast to lymphoid, which is associated with the adaptive immune system. For example, myeloid leukemia is leukemia that arises from abnormal growth in the blood-forming tissue of the bone marrow. This term should not be confused with  myelin , which is an insulating layer covering the axons of many neurons.
“Myeloid” refers to the type of cell this leukemia starts from. Most cases of AML develop from cells that would turn into white blood cells (other than lymphocytes), but some cases of AML develop in other types of blood-forming cells. Any of the blood-forming myeloid or lymphoid cells from bone marrow can turn into a leukemia cell. Once this change takes place, the leukemia cells no longer mature in a normal way. Leukemia cells often reproduce quickly, but in most cases the problem is that they don’t die when they should.