1 In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 3  Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. 1 Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. 2  Pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniaeMycoplasma pneumoniae is sometimes mild and called  walking pneumonia 3  .. Viruses, such as influenza A (the flu virus) and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) can
All known types of organisms are capable of some degree of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development and homeostasis. An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism. Most unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. Humans are multicellular organisms composed of many trillions of cells grouped into specialized tissues and organs. An organism may be either a prokaryote or a eukaryote.
A virus is a microscopic organism that can replicate only inside the cells of a host organism. Most viruses are so tiny they are only observable with at least a conventional optical microscope. Unlike prions and viroids, viruses consist of two or three parts: a helical molecule, protein coat and sometimes a viral wrapper. All viruses have genes constructed from either deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA)—long helical molecules that carry genetic information.
Viruses. Viruses are very tiny – they are much smaller than bacteria or fungi. They measure only a few thousand millionths of a metre (nanometres). All natural viruses cause disease including the common cold, influenza (flu), measles, mumps and rubella. They are not living cells themselves, and they can only reproduce inside other living cells. Viruses can attack all different types of living organisms – they invade animal, plant and even bacterial cells. Different viruses attack specific cells – so the 'flu virus attacks the cells of the respiratory system while the virus which causes meningitis attacks the cells of the membranes which cover your brain
A wide variety of organisms, including bacteria, viruses, prions, and parasites can be transmitted through blood transfusions. The use of a standard donor screening questionnaire as well as laboratory tests help to reduce the risk of an infectious organism being transmitted by blood transfusion. 
Viruses spread in many ways; viruses in plants are often transmitted from plant to plant by insects that feed on plant sap, such as aphids; viruses in animals can be carried by blood-sucking insects. These disease-bearing organisms are known as vectors. Influenza viruses are spread by coughing and sneezing. Some viruses cause no apparent changes to the infected cell. Cells in which the virus is latent and inactive show few signs of infection and often function normally. This causes persistent infections and the virus is often dormant for many months or years.
Viruses, bacteria, a fungus, or (in rare cases) parasites or other organisms can cause pneumonia. 1  In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 1 Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. 2  Pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniaeMycoplasma pneumoniae is sometimes mild and called  walking pneumonia 3  .. Viruses, such as influenza A (the flu virus) and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
Best Answer: All living organisms can be infected by viruses. At least, every organism that we've checked has been found to contain viruses. Each specific virus has a narrow host range, meaning that it can only infect a handful of organisms. But for every living organism, there is a virus out there that can infect it. Source(s):
There are many types of plant virus, but often they cause only a loss of yield, and it is not economically viable to try to control them. Plant viruses are often spread from plant to plant by organisms, known as vectors. Some viruses cause no apparent changes to the infected cell. Cells in which the virus is latent and inactive show few signs of infection and often function normally. This causes persistent infections and the virus is often dormant for many months or years.
Viruses differ, however, from the simpler autonomous replication of chemical crystals. This is due to the fact that a virus can inherit a genetic mutation and is also subject to similar natural selection processes of cellular organisms. Unlike prions and viroids, viruses consist of two or three parts: a helical molecule, protein coat and sometimes a viral wrapper. All viruses have genes constructed from either deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA)—long helical molecules that carry genetic information.