Pay during maternity leave You may qualify for Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP) if:  you have been continuously employed for at least one day a week by the same employer for at least 26 weeks up to the end of the 15th week before your baby is due. The only exception is that you will not get your normal pay unless your contract allows for it. You can also take an additional 26 weeks' maternity leave called Additional Maternity Leave (AML). This makes a total of 52 weeks' maternity leave. Again, this doesn't depend on how long you have worked for your employer.
Maternity leave. All pregnant employees are currently entitled to 26 weeks' ordinary maternity leave. You may then take an extra 26 weeks' additional maternity leave, giving you a year's leave in total. If you take a year off, you'll have taken your full statutory maternity leave. You have the right to maternity leave regardless of how long you've been in your job, how many hours you work, or how much you're paid. You can start maternity leave any time from 11 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby's due. You can bring the date forward if you need to take time off work for pregnancy-related reasons within four weeks of the expected birth date.
Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP). To qualify for SMP you must: 1  earn on average at least £112 a week. 2  give the correct notice. 3  give proof you’re pregnant. 4  have worked for your employer continuously for at least 26 weeks up to the ‘qualifying week’ - the 15th week before the expected week of childbirth.
Second, you must have worked for the employer for at least 1250 hours in the 12 months before you take leave. That works out to an average of about 24 hours per week over the course of a year. Lastly, you must work at a location where the employer has at least 50 employees within 75 miles of your worksite. 
If you’ve been working for same employer continuously for at least 26 weeks before that date and earning enough (£112 a week in the tax year 2015-16), you’re eligible for Statutory Maternity Pay. 1  For the first six weeks, Statutory Maternity Pay is equal to 90% of your average weekly earnings before tax. 1 For the first six weeks, Statutory Maternity Pay is equal to 90% of your average weekly earnings before tax. 2  For the remaining 33 weeks, it’s £139.58 in 2015-16 – or 90% of your earnings if that’s less.
First off though, you need to be employed by a company. If that’s the case, you have the right to 26 weeks of Ordinary Maternity Leave and 26 weeks of Additional Maternity Leave, making one year in total. The combined 52 weeks is known as Statutory Maternity Leave (SML). You should tell your employer you want to take SML at least 15 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby is due. So long as you have given the correct notice, you are entitled to this no matter: 1  How long you have been with your employer.
Eligible employees can take up to 52 weeks’ maternity leave. The first 26 weeks is known as ‘Ordinary Maternity Leave’, the last 26 weeks as ‘Additional Maternity Leave’. The earliest that leave can be taken is 11 weeks before the expected week of childbirth, unless the baby is born early.
This does not depend on how long you have worked for your employer. The first 26 weeks of maternity leave are called Ordinary Maternity Leave (OML). During OML, you will still get all the same rights under your contract of employment as if you were still at work. The only exception is that you will not get your normal pay unless your contract allows for it. You can also take an additional 26 weeks' maternity leave called Additional Maternity Leave (AML). This makes a total of 52 weeks' maternity leave. Again, this doesn'
To claim your right to maternity leave, you must tell your employer about your pregnancy no later than 15 weeks before your baby is due. You can work this out by finding the Sunday before your baby is due, and then counting back 15 weeks. You should tell your employer: Your employer may want you to put this in writing. You can start maternity leave any time from 11 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby's due. You can bring the date forward if you need to take time off work for pregnancy-related reasons within four weeks of the expected birth date.
Rating Newest Oldest. To qualify for maternity benefits you need to have worked 600 hours, doesnt matter how long you work as long as you have that number of hours. At 40 hours a week its only like 15 weeks. 