Gaucher disease is the most common of the lipid storage diseases. It is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase. Fatty material can collect in the spleen, liver, kidneys, lungs, brain, and bone marrow. Lipids are fat-like substances that are important parts of the membranes found within and between each cell and in the myelin sheath that coats and protects the nerves. Lipids include oils, fatty acids, waxes, steroids (such as cholesterol and estrogen), and other related compounds.
You need the essential fatty acids for keeping your skin healthy, so not getting enough fat in your diet can cause skin problems. An essential fatty acid deficiency increases the loss of water from your skin, which results in a dry, scaly rash. This type of deficiency can also make it harder for your wounds to heal. Two types of omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, are essential for brain development. Vitamin A deficiency symptoms can include dry skin, night blindness, increased susceptibility to infections and problems with bone and tooth
Gaucher's Disease. Gaucher's disease is the most common type of lipid storage disease. It is by caused by a deficiency of an enzyme called glucocerebrosidase. In this inherited disease fat collects in the brain, lungs, liver, spleen, kidneys and bone marrow. Lipid or fatty acid oxidation disorders are caused by a deficiency or lack of the enzymes needed to break down fats to produce energy. This decreases energy in the body and leads to delayed physical and mental development, according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
The GM1 gangliosidoses are caused by a deficiency of the enzyme beta-galactosidase, resulting in abnormal storage of acidic lipid materials particularly in the nerve cells in teh central and peripheral nervous systems. Lipids are fat-like substances that are important parts of the membranes found within and between each cell and in the myelin sheath that coats and protects the nerves. Lipids include oils, fatty acids, waxes, steroids (such as cholesterol and estrogen), and other related compounds.
In addition to lipid storage diseases, other lysosomal storage diseases include the mucolipidoses, in which excessive amounts of lipids and sugar molecules are stored in the cells and tissues, and the mucopolysaccharidoses, in which excessive amounts of sugar molecules are stored. Lipids are fat-like substances that are important parts of the membranes found within and between each cell and in the myelin sheath that coats and protects the nerves. Lipids include oils, fatty acids, waxes, steroids (such as cholesterol and estrogen), and other related compounds.
Lipoprotein lipase deficiency (also known as  familial chylomicronemia syndrome , chylomicronemia, chylomicronemia syndrome and  hyperlipoproteinemia type Ia) is caused by a mutation in the gene which codes lipoprotein lipase. 
Lipid storage disorders are a family of diverse diseases related by their molecular pathology. In each disorder, a deficiency of a lysosomal hydrolase is inherited, which leads to lysosomal accumulation of the enzyme's specific sphingolipid substrate. 
Chylomicronemia syndrome is a general term for the symptoms that develop due to the accumulation of chylomicrons in the plasma. There are many causes of chylomicronemia syndrome. The term familial chylomicronemia is sometimes used synonymously with familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency. However, there are different causes of familial chylomicronemia. In the past, familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency has also been called hyperlipoproteinemia type I. Familial LPL deficiency was first described in the medical literature in 1932 by Drs.
Lipid storage diseases, or the lipidoses, are a group of inherited metabolic disorders in which harmful amounts of fatty materials (lipids) accumulate in various cells and tissues in the body. Lipids are fat-like substances that are important parts of the membranes found within and between each cell and in the myelin sheath that coats and protects the nerves. Lipids include oils, fatty acids, waxes, steroids (such as cholesterol and estrogen), and other related compounds.
3. ESSENTIAL NUTRIENTS-LIPIDS. The lipids are a heterogenous group of substances found in plant and animal tissues, which share the property of being relatively insoluble in water, and soluble in organic solvents, such as ether, choloroform and benzene. Lipids are essential components of all cellular and subcellular mambranes (lipid classes that are involved include the polyunsaturated fatty acid containing phospholipids, and sterol esters).