It's not against the law, but it's not a good idea to use an expired car seat. During my birthing classes a police officer explained car seat safety to us. He said the reason car seats have an expiration date (usually 6 years) is that the integrity of the plastic might be compromised after a few years. The reason why there are expiration dates is most likely driven by the manufacturers and retailers who need to make and sell more car seats. Otherwise, there would be reduced demand, and it would be hard to sell a car seat for $300 when someone could get a used one for $50.
Seat expiration is determined by the number of years after the seat was made, not from the date it was purchased. All car seats are imprinted with either an expiration date or the date of manufacture. Finding the Expiration Date. Look underneath the bottom of the car seat. You should find either the date of manufacture or the date of expiration stamped in the plastic or printed on a label under the seat. If an expiration date is listed, use that to determine when you should stop using the seat.
It's not as if you'll hit the expiration date and the plastic will become weak, he said. The plastic is good for at least 10 years. But regulations and standards are constantly changing.. For example, in both 1999 and 2002, car seats incorporated new methods of buckling in children and attaching the seat to the car. The reason why there are expiration dates is most likely driven by the manufacturers and retailers who need to make and sell more car seats. Otherwise, there would be reduced demand, and it would be hard to sell a car seat for $300 when someone could get a used one for $50.
Do NOT use your booster seat after nine (9) years from the date of manufacture. The date of manufacture for Olli can be found on the label on the bottom of the frame which is underneath the seat cover. For Oobr the date of manufacture can be found on the underside of the seat base. 
The type of materials used in a car seat effect the expiration date and how the seat will perform in a crash or wear over time. Depending on the type, the design, the kind of installation, and the materials used to make the car seat all affect how long the seat will last and how safe it is in a crash. Most infant car seats are the same. You can also find the expiration date molded in the car seat or printed on the shell, along with labels listing contact information and other necessary safety information.
Expiration Date: Most car seats expire after 6 years from the date of manufacture. If you can’t find an explicit expiration date printed anywhere on the seat (shown below), check the owner’s manual. 
Where To Find Car Seat Expiration Information. Most car seats have an expiration date on one of the manufacturer labels that can be found on the sides or bottom of the car seat. To find out if a car seat is expired, you should look for that expiration date label first. If there's no expiration date listed, use the date of manufacture and consult the car seat owners' manual. The rule of thumb, if no expiration date is given on the seat, is that car seats expire six years from the date of manufacture.
Every car seat is different, so always read the user guide to find out the seat’s expiration date and other important information. Most car seats last between five to nine years after they were manufactured (not necessarily after they were bought); that’s why it is important to check the user guide. Most infant car seats are the same. You can also find the expiration date molded in the car seat or printed on the shell, along with labels listing contact information and other necessary safety
Graco stamps an expiration date into the bottom of each car seat so you know when it is time to replace it. Expiration dates can range anywhere from six to ten years or more depending on the car seat – so it’s important to check your particular seat. Used or expired car seats can be dangerous, especially if you don’t know the car seat’s history. For more information on how to find the age of your car seat, click here
Each manufacturer sets an expiration date for its car seats that should be visible on one of the labels on the seat. Most car seats should be replaced every six years, with the exception of car seats made with extended use periods such as the Evenflo Symphony, Transitions and Evolve. How to locate model number and expiration date on a car seat: On larger seats the label could be on the upper back. The label should clearly read the child restraint name, model number, manufacture date and expiration date.