MDMA [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: A stimulant drug that is chemically related to mescaline and amphetamine and is used illicitly for its euphoric and hallucinogenic effects; it was formerly used in psychotherapy but in 1985 it was declared illegal in the United States. 1. a stimulant drug that is chemically related to mescaline and amphetamine and is used illicitly for its euphoric and hallucinogenic effects; it was formerly used in psychotherapy but in 1985 it was declared illegal in the United States. Familiarity information: MDMA used as a noun is very rare.
MDMA is often considered the drug of choice within the rave culture and is also used at clubs, festivals and house parties. In the rave environment, the sensory effects from the music and lighting are often highly synergistic with the drug. MDMA use has been shown to produce brain lesions, a form of brain damage, in the serotonergic neural pathways of humans and other animals. In addition, long-term exposure to MDMA in humans has been shown to produce marked neurotoxicity in serotonergic axon terminals.
MDMA (contracted from 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine) is a psychoactive drug of the substituted methylenedioxyphenethylamine and substituted amphetamine classes of drugs that is consumed primarily for its euphoric and empathogenic effects. MDMA use has been shown to produce brain lesions, a form of brain damage, in the serotonergic neural pathways of humans and other animals. In addition, long-term exposure to MDMA in humans has been shown to produce marked neurotoxicity in serotonergic axon terminals.
MDMA has become widely known as  ecstasy  (shortened to  E ,  X , or  XTC ), usually referring to its tablet form, although this term may also include the presence of possible adulterants. MDMA use has been shown to produce brain lesions, a form of brain damage, in the serotonergic neural pathways of humans and other animals. In addition, long-term exposure to MDMA in humans has been shown to produce marked neurotoxicity in serotonergic axon terminals.
Possession of MDMA is illegal in most countries. Some limited exceptions exist for scientific and medical research. In 2013 between 9 and 28 million people used ecstasy recreationally (0.2% to 0.6% of the global population between the ages of 15 and 65). MDMA use has been shown to produce brain lesions, a form of brain damage, in the serotonergic neural pathways of humans and other animals. In addition, long-term exposure to MDMA in humans has been shown to produce marked neurotoxicity in serotonergic axon terminals.
354. Ecstasy is the street term for a range of drugs similar in structure to MDMA (methylenedioxymethamphetamine). Ecstasy is similar in structure and effect to amphetamines and other hallucinogens. These substances are stimulants that speed up activity in the nervous system. The effects of ecstasy usually begin within 20 minutes of taking the drug, and may last up to 6 hours, but there are no rules and some people report symptoms persisting for 32 hours after using ecstasy.
methylenedioxymethamphetamine, MDMA (noun). a stimulant drug that is chemically related to mescaline and amphetamine and is used illicitly for its euphoric and hallucinogenic effects; it was formerly used in psychotherapy but in 1985 it was declared illegal in the United States. see more on Definitions.net ».
• MDMA (noun). The noun MDMA has 1 sense: 1. a stimulant drug that is chemically related to mescaline and amphetamine and is used illicitly for its euphoric and hallucinogenic effects; it was formerly used in psychotherapy but in 1985 it was declared illegal in the United States. Familiarity information: MDMA used as a noun is very rare.