The Battle of Chickamauga was fought during the American Civil War. Battle of Chickamauga-Dates: The Army of the Cumberland and Army of Tennessee battled on September 18-20, 1863. Armies & Commanders at Chickamauga: Union. 1  Major General William Rosecrans. 
November 23 - 25, 1863. Hamilton County and City of Chattanooga, Tennessee. After taking charge of the Union’s western armies in October of 1863, General Ulysses S. Grant focused on lifting the Confederate siege of Chattanooga, Tennessee, which had been in place since the Battle of Chickamauga in September.
The campaign that brought the Union and Confederate armies to Chickamauga began in late June 1863, when the Union Army of the Cumberland, under Maj. Gen. William S. Rosecrans, advanced southwestward from Murfreesboro, Tennessee, against the Confederate Army of Tennessee, commanded by Gen. Braxton Bragg. By Sept. 17, two of Rosecrans' corps were reunited and were moving north toward Lee and Gordon's Mill on Chickamauga Creek to join the third Union corps. Bragg believed the Union troops at Lee and Gordon's Mill constituted the northernmost elements of Rosecrans' force.
The battle was fought between the Union Army of the Cumberland under Maj. Gen. William Rosecrans and the Confederate Army of Tennessee under Gen. Braxton Bragg, and was named for West Chickamauga Creek, which flows into the Tennessee River about 3.5 miles (5.6 km) northeast of downtown Chattanooga. Battle of Chickamauga-Day 1. The Battle of Chickamauga, fought September 19–20, 1863, marked the end of a Union offensive in southeastern Tennessee and northwestern Georgia called the Chickamauga Campaign. The battle was the most significant Union defeat in the Western Theater of the American Civil War.
On September 19-20, 1863, Braxton Bragg’s Army of Tennessee defeated a Union force commanded by General William Rosecrans in the Battle of Chickamauga, during the American Civil War. The “Rock of Chickamauga”. On the first day of battle, Bragg’s men repeatedly attacked the Union left, anchored by a large Union corps led by George Thomas. With reinforcements sent in by Rosecrans, Thomas was able to hold his position for the most part, with heavy losses on both sides
After his successful Tullahoma Campaign, Rosecrans renewed the offensive, aiming to force the Confederates out of Chattanooga. In early September, Rosecrans consolidated his forces scattered in Tennessee and Georgia and forced Bragg's army out of Chattanooga, heading south. Polk's Right Wing assaults, morning of September 20. The battle on the second day began at about 9:30 a.m. on the left flank of the Union line, about four hours after Bragg had ordered the attack to start, with coordinated attacks planned by Breckinridge and Cleburne of D.H. Hill's Corps, Polk's Right Wing.
Battles For Chattanooga: Background. After the Confederate victory at Chickamauga in northwest Georgia in September 1863, the Union army retreated to the vital railroad junction of Chattanooga, Tennessee. Confederate General Braxton Bragg (1817-76) quickly laid siege to the city, cutting off access to Union supplies. 
The Battle of Chickamauga, the. biggest battle ever fought in Georgia, took place on September 18-20, 1863, during the Civil War (1861-65). With 34,000 casualties, it is generally accepted as the second bloodiest engagement of the war; only the Battle of Gettysburg in Pennsylvania, with 51,000 casualties, was deadlier.