If it’s a emergency passport renewal or maybe just a new passport then there are a couple of options for you to get your passport quickly. If you are traveling within the next 14 days or need a VISA within the next 30 days then you would have more options to get your emergency passport on time for your trip.
Emergency passport renewals are usually necessary when you only have 24-48 hours to renew an expired passport or one that does not meet the validity requirement for the countries you plan to visit. In a situation such as this, you only have two ways to get your travel document so quickly. You can either submit your application at a regional agency or you can request emergency passport renewal through an authorized expediting service.
Emergency or limited-validity passports can be issued the same day. They are usually valid for one year but can be replaced before the expiration date for a full-validity passport at no additional cost. If you find yourself in this situation, you can find a U.S. embassy or consulate general here.
If for any reason you cannot visit the nearest passport agency you could hire the help of a private expediting company such as Fastport Passport these companies would be able to get your passport same day ! Expedited Passport Service Options: 1  Same days services – $349.00, 2  24 Hours Next Day – $299.00,
Before you processed in getting your emergency passport you would have to determine how much time you have before your trip this would determine where you will have to go to get your passport, and what services you will need in getting your emergency U.S. passport on time.
When you are ina hurry, you needRushMyPassport.com. We're the #1 most trusted U.S. Passport Service. We save you time and a trip to the passport office. Our network of registered couriers nationwide are able to get your expedited passport in as little as 24 hours.
RushMyPassport.com is registered, but not affiliated, with the US Government. We charge an additional fee to expedite your passport in 1-12 days. If you are not in a rush, you can obtain a passport directly from the U.S. Department of State in 4-7 weeks.