Rice comes in long-grain, medium-and short-grain textures. It grows easily in your backyard, in a garden bed or in buckets, given the right amount of soil, water, and other nutrients. Short-grain, medium-grain and long-grain rice thrive in wet conditions, specifically standing puddles of water or swamp-like conditions. 
TODAY Today, rice is grown and harvested on every continent except Antarctica, where conditions make its growth impossible. The majority of all rice produced comes from India, China, Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, Burma, and Bangladesh. Asian farmers still account for 92-percent of the world's total rice production. HISTORY There are many unproven mythological tales as to how rice came to be, though historians hold little or no stock in any. Most believe the roots of rice come from 3000 BC India, where natives discovered the plant growing in the wild and began to experiment with it.
Rice is a plant on its own. Only Rice comes from the rice plant. Most rice comes from India, China Pakistan, Bangladesh, Japan and other Asian countries. Rice is also grown in Australia and Italy. 
Best Answer: Rice is a grain belonging to the grass family. The plant, which needs both warmth and moisture to grow, measures 2-6 feet tall and has long, flat, pointy leaves and stalk-bearing flowers which produce the grain known as rice. HISTORY There are many unproven mythological tales as to how rice came to be, though historians hold little or no stock in any. Most believe the roots of rice come from 3000 BC India, where natives discovered the plant growing in the wild and began to experiment with it.
In terms of the foods we eat, rice is considered a grain, even though the plant it grows from is a grass. Rice grows in lots of different places including China, India, Japan, Brazil, and the U.S. Fields of rice are called “rice paddies.” Rice paddies are covered in water and the plants grow immersed in water! In many countries, rice is a staple food that is eaten regularly by a large number of people, and which those people rely on. Rice is a popular choice because it’s tasty and also healthy. Brown rice, for example, contains lots of protein as well as vitamins and minerals 1  ! Share.
Rice is harvested from the rice plant or grass. It is the seed that grows at the top of the plant. There are two species of rice Oryza sativa and Oryza glaberrima. The seeds of the rice plant are first collected and then milled to remove the husks. After this process the rice is called brown rice. Where Does Rice Come From. 24 Nov, 2010 where does 1. Rice is a type of grain or grass that’s seed is harvested and eaten. It is a complex carbohydrate that does not contain gluten. Rice is a good source of energy. Rice comes in many different varieties and is often used as a side dish for main meals. In most countries around the world it is a staple food source, especially in Asian countries where it grows
Rice is a plant on its own. Only Rice comes from the rice plant. Most rice comes from India, China Pakistan, Bangladesh, Japan and other Asian countries. Rice is also gro … wn in Australia and Italy. K-A-J. 
· just now. Report Abuse. rice comes from the rice plant. it originated in China, grown on flooded terraces, and became an integral part of basically all asian cultures, not just the consumption of it, but also the backbreaking work associated with it and the seasonal happenings such as monsoons. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Here is the first two paragraphs of an entire page from wikipedia: Rice is two species in the Poaceae (true grass) family, Oryza sativa and Oryza glaberrima. These plants are native to tropical and subtropical southern and southeastern Asia and in Africa.