Definition: The Oort Cloud is a theoretical spherical cloud of predominantly icy planetesimals that is believed to surround the Sun at a distance of up to around 100,000 AU (2 ly). In time, these observations led to the theory that far beyond the Sun and planets, there exists a large cloud of icy material and rock where most of these comets come from. This existence of this cloud, which is known as the Oort Cloud (after its principal theoretical founder), remains unproven.
A giant shell of icy bodies known as the Oort Cloud encircles the solar system. When its inhabitants interact with passing stars, molecular clouds, and gravity from the galaxy, they may find themselves spiraling inward toward the sun, or cast completely out of the solar system into distant regions of space. The two regions vary primarily in terms of distance and location. The Kuiper Belt orbits in approximately the same plane as the planets, ranging from 30 to 50 times as far from the Sun as Earth. But the Oort Cloud is a shell that surrounds the entire solar system, and is a hundred times as distant.
The Oort Cloud is an extended shell of icy objects that exist in the outermost reaches of the solar system. It is named after astronomer Jan Oort, who first theorized its existence. The Oort Cloud is roughly spherical, and is the origin of most of the long-period comets that have been observed. This cloud of particles is theorized to be the remains of the disc of material that formed the Sun and planets. Astronomers now refer to those primeval objects as a protoplanetary disk
The Oort cloud is thought to comprise two regions: a spherical outer Oort cloud and a disc-shaped inner Oort cloud, or Hills cloud. Objects in the Oort cloud are largely composed of ices, such as water, ammonia, and methane. Astronomers conjecture that the matter composing the Oort cloud formed closer to the Sun and was scattered far into space by the gravitational effects of the giant planets early in the Solar System's evolution. The Kuiper belt and the scattered disc, the other two reservoirs of trans-Neptunian objects, are less than one thousandth as far from the Sun as the Oort cloud. The outer limit of the Oort cloud defines the cosmographical boundary of the Solar System and the region of the Sun's gravitational dominance.
The outer Oort cloud is only loosely bound to the solar system – this means that it is easily effected by gravitational pull from passing stars and the Milky Way galaxy. In fact, the outer limit of the Oort cloud defines the cosmographical boundary of the solar system on the edges of the Sun’s gravitational dominance. The Kuiper Belt and the scattered disc are less than one thousandth as far from the Sun as the Oort cloud is. It is believed that this cloud of particles are the remains of the disc material which formed the Sun and the eight planets.
Structure and Composition: The Oort Cloud is thought to extend from between 2,000 and 5,000 AU (0.03 and 0.08 ly) to as far as 50,000 AU (0.79 ly) from the Sun, though some estimates place the outer edge as far as 100,000 and 200,000 AU (1.58 and 3.16 ly). In time, these observations led to the theory that far beyond the Sun and planets, there exists a large cloud of icy material and rock where most of these comets come from. This existence of this cloud, which is known as the Oort Cloud (after its principal theoretical founder), remains unproven.
The Oort Cloud is a hypothetical sphere of comets left over from the birth of the solar system. It is named after the scientist who proposed its existence, and lies in a loose orbit far outside our Solar System. 
Definition of OORT CLOUD. : a spherical shell of cometary bodies believed to surround the sun far beyond the orbits of the outermost planets and from which some are dislodged when perturbed to fall toward the sun — compare kuiper belt. See Oort cloud defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Oort cloud. A sphere-shaped mass of comets that makes up the outer edge of the solar system, surrounding the Kuiper belt and the planets. The more than 100 billion comets in this region orbit the sun at a distance of one to two light-years. 
All rights reserved. The Oort cloud is an immense spherical cloud surrounding the planetary system and extending approximately 3 light years, about 30 trillion kilometers from the Sun. This vast distance is considered the edge of the Sun's orb of physical, gravitational, or dynamical influence. The Oort Cloud. 