Systemic canine lupus can affect nearly any part of the body, so the symptoms can vary greatly. According to W.H. Miller, Jr., VMD, DACVD, the most common organs affected are the skin, joints, and kidneys. Lupus in dogs is an autoimmune disease that can occur in two different forms. When the disease occurs, the immune system forms structures called antigen-antibody complexes which can lodge in the body's organs and cause additional symptoms.
Commonly known as canine systemic lupus, or canine lupus, this type of lupus is a dog-specific autoimmune disease that occurs rarely. Discoid lupus in dogs is a more common form of lupus. It is an autoimmune skin disease. Lupus in Dogs. Lupus in dogs is an autoimmune disease affecting different body organs, including the skin, kidneys, heart, and joints. This page looks at the two types of canine lupus (discoid lupus and systemic lupus) including their symptoms and treatment. The exact cause of the disease is unknown
There are two types of lupus in dogs. Discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE), sometimes called “collie nose” or “nasal solar dermatitis,” is a common immune-mediated skin disease that usually affects the face, bridge of the nose, ears, lips, mouth and occasionally the genitalia, feet and skin around the eyes. 
Other symptoms of canine lupus may include extreme tiredness, or easily tired due to simple activities. The gums of a dog suffering from canine lupus are pale in color, and you can almost be sure that this is one of the signs of anaemia. Canine lupus usually attacks the most vital internal organs of a dog. Depending on the severity of the condition, this illness may even cause fatality. Some of the symptoms of lupus in dogs may include losing of fur and development of crusty and rough skin.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease that occurs in humans but can be seen in dogs as well. System lupus is a rare disease and can affect any part of the body, causing inflammation of tissues and damage to them. 
While a large number of autoimmune symptoms can be caused by SLE, the most common include one or more of the following: 1  Shifting leg lameness (the most common sign of this disease). 2  Arthritis; polyarthritis (swollen, painful joints; non-septic; non-erosive; common). 3  Stiff, stilted gait. 4  Lethargy. 5  Depression. Dogs with DLE usually are otherwise healthy. The symptoms of DLE can include one or more of the following: 1  Depigmentation (paleness) of the skin on the bridge of the nose. 2  Skin redness (erythema), especially on the bridge of the nose, face and lips.
Discoid (cutaneous) lupus erythematosus is a relatively benign variant of systemic lupus erythematosus that primarily affects facial skin. The most common site is the hairless surface of the bridge of the nose, called the nasal planum or planum nasale. Dogs with DLE usually are otherwise healthy. The symptoms of DLE can include one or more of the following: 1  Depigmentation (paleness) of the skin on the bridge of the nose. 2  Skin redness (erythema), especially on the bridge of the nose, face and lips.
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a much more serious condition than its cutaneous counterpart. SLE is a multi-system, immune-mediated disease characterized by the formation of antibodies against normal body cells and tissues. Basically, the dog’s body attacks itself, from the inside out. Dogs with DLE usually are otherwise healthy. The symptoms of DLE can include one or more of the following: 1  Depigmentation (paleness) of the skin on the bridge of the nose. 2  Skin redness (erythema), especially on the bridge of the nose, face and lips.