I use fencing that is called goat fencing.. It is about 4-5 ft. tall and is a wire mesh made up of squares. It can be used with metal (T) posts or wood (which I prefer). I also run a strand of barbless wire along the top to secure it and also because I have big horses next to them. 
Height of the Fence. The heights of fences used for other livestock do not necessarily apply to horse fences. Horses are more athletic and more likely to jump a fence than to go through or under it when spooked or herded. The minimum recommended height for perimeter pasture fences for horses is 5 feet (60 inches). This height will deter most horses from attempting to jump and will also reduce the temptation for people to reach over the fence to pet or feed horses. A 5-foot minimum height fence is both horse-safe and people-safe.
A Miniature Horse is a scaled down version of a full size horse. Purebred minis can be registered in various associations like the American Miniature Horse Registry (AMHR) or the American Miniature Horse Association (AMHA); many qualify for registry in both. One bale of hay will usually last one miniature horse for a week. Of course they do require the same care, with normal veterinarian and farrier attention. Minis have the same gestation period as their full-sized kin -- 11 months or 345 days.
Visibility is one of the most important safety features of horse fencing. Horses are more likely to accidentally run into fences that have low visibility. This is why it is recommended that all types of wire fences have a top sight rail on which the horse may focus. Certain types of wire fencing may be safely used for horse enclosures if certain precautions are taken. The safest, but most expensive, type of wire horse fence is the v-mesh wire weave fence.
Best Answer: As long as the fence is no less than 4 feet high than it should be fine for all of the animals. When choosing the type of fence it is really on preference as long as it is safe for horse and goats. wood fence: this is the expensive option. it looks really nice, but requires upkeep(painting, fixing the boards etc).
Determining What Type of Horse Fencing You Need. The type of horses you need to corral will determine the type of fencing you need. Obviously, miniature horses or ponies may not need as tall of a fence, while standard horses must be protected by a higher fence to discourage jumping. 
The main difference in the two is while the AMHA registers only Miniature Horses under 34 inches, the AMHR has two divisions; the “under” Miniatures are under 34 inches and “over” division Miniatures can be 34 to 38 inches. One bale of hay will usually last one miniature horse for a week. Of course they do require the same care, with normal veterinarian and farrier attention. Minis have the same gestation period as their full-sized kin -- 11 months or 345 days.
Features of safe horse fencing. Fence height is an important aspect of horse fencing safety. Perimeter fencing for a horse property should be a minimum of 5 feet tall for most light breeds of horses and 6 feet tall for taller breeds or for horses that have shown a willingness to jump shorter fences. Certain types of wire fencing may be safely used for horse enclosures if certain precautions are taken. The safest, but most expensive, type of wire horse fence is the v-mesh wire weave fence.
A run-in shelter is a must have for a miniature horse's pasure area/paddock. A shelter will give them a cool place to stand in the summer and a dry spot in the rain. Horses are naturally herd animals and it is best for your mini to have a companion in the pasture. 
Visit our horse fence adviser to see which type fence system or combination is right for you, or call in to speak with the horse fencing and stall experts at RAMM. They can offer assistance and installation questions too. At RAMM, we fully understand there are many factors that determine what type of horse fence will work best for you. We have horse fencing systems to meet nearly every need; high tensile wire fence, flexible rail fencing, electric fencing and electric fence systems, Rigid PVC fence, Non-Climb and Wire Mesh Fence.