Browse or run a search for Benjamin V. Storr in the American Encyclopedia of Law, the Asian Encyclopedia of Law, the European Encyclopedia of Law, the UK Encyclopedia of Law or the Latin American and Spanish Encyclopedia of Law. You might be interested in the historical meaning of this term. Benjamin V. Storr in Historical Law. You might be interested in the historical meaning of this term. Browse or search for Benjamin V. Storr in Historical Law in the Encyclopedia of Law. For more information about Historical Law definitions, see Historical Definitions
The derivation, in this instance, is from the Old Norse storr, big, large, used to denote someone of strong build and powerful stature. The personal bynames Stori and Estori, from the Old Norse storr, Old Danish stor, great, large, are recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Geoffrey Stor, which was dated 1200, in the Pipe Rolls of Norfolk, during the reign of King John, known as Lackland, 1199 - 1216. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
There is more to Storr family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Storr family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. 
Origins of the Storr Surname. It is quite possible for two people with the Storr last name to have been given that surname for entirely different reasons. Discovering the country from which your Storr ancestors originated can often yield additional clues for the meaning of the s
This interesting name derives from the Olde Norse personal\nickname Stori, a derivative of Storr meaning big or large. The forenames Stori and Estori (without surname) are recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086. The surname form this source first appears at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below). The variant forms of the name Storr, Storre, Storres and Storrs, also Stor(e)y are well recorded in northern English county records, especially in Yorkshire, from the mid 16th century onwards. The marriage of Elizabeth Storrs and Holland Cooksey was recorded on the 16th November 1751 at St. George's, Mayfair.
The surname Story (and its variant spelling Storey) originates from the Old Norse personal epithet “Stori”, stóri a derivative “Of” storr which “means” large “or”. Big even though it has been established that the root of the name “Is”, Storr.R.E. k Story coat of arms (impression). The surname Story (and its variant spelling Storey) originates from the Old Norse personal epithet “Stori”, stóri a derivative “Of” storr which “means” large “or”. big
Meaning of Storr. Norwegian name. In Norwegian, the name Storr means-a great man.The name Storr originated as an Norwegian name. The name Storr is most often used as a boy name or male name. Norwegian Name Meaning-a great man