How popular is Orman? Orman is an unusual given name for males but a very prominent last name for all people (#9703 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Orman for boys. Orman has yet to make it into the Top 1000 so far. (2014 Birth Statistics). Orman is pronounced similarly to Arman, Armen, Armin, Armon, Erman and Ermin. Other recommended similar baby names are Oran ▼ , Orlan, Ormond, Orran and Osman. Like Orman, these names are not frequently used.
You can find out where the majority of the Orman families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can see how Orman families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. 1  England (25). 2  Ireland (13).
You can find out when most of the Orman families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. You can see how Orman families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. 1  England (25). 2  Ireland (13).
ORMAN Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname ORMAN. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database. They will be useful to find and to determine the ORMAN meaning. We invite you to post your knowledge and familiar tradition about your surnames. JUST DO IT at the end of the following posts.
Norman is both a surname and a given name. The surname has multiple origins including English, Irish (in Ulster), Scottish and Dutch, Swedish and Ashkenazi Jewish and Jewish American. The given name Norman is mostly of English origin, though in some cases it can be an Anglicised form of a Scottish Gaelic personal name. A pet form of the Scottish given name is Norrie. There are several Scottish feminine forms of the given name Norman. These include: Normanna, Normina, Norma, Nora, and Mona. In England and Wales, the use of Norman as a given name is dying out.
At first it was known as O' Rooe but was altered by folk etymology to resemble a region in east Munster known as Ormond. The surname beinfg mainly recorded in the counties of Cork and Waterford. A second possible origin is English, 14th century and a derivation of the personal name Osmond. This derives from the pre 7th century word os meaning God and mund, a protector, to mean literally either protected by god, or a protector of god. A famous namebearer was Sir James Ormonde, lord-treasurer of Ireland and was knighted for his services during Simnel's Rising. He died in 1497.
1 After the Norman Invasion of England in 1066, the name Norman took on a new meaning as England was invaded by Normans from Normandy (in northern France). 2  As a surname of French origin the name is a regional name denoting someone from Normandy. A pet form of the Scottish given name is Norrie. There are several Scottish feminine forms of the given name Norman. These include: Normanna, Normina, Norma, Nora, and Mona. In England and Wales, the use of Norman as a given name is dying out.
Orman /or-man/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old German and Old English origin, and the meaning of Orman is sea man; spear man. Kreatif forms: Ofirman, Osaman, Otman. Orman is pronounced similarly to Arman, Armen, Armin, Armon, Erman and Ermin. Other recommended similar baby names are Oran ▼ , Orlan, Ormond, Orran and Osman. Like Orman, these names are not frequently used.
Using the Daitch-Mokotoff Soundex Code we can obtain some variants of scripture of the same surname. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database. They will be useful to find and to determine the ORMAN meaning. We invite you to post your knowledge and familiar tradition about your surnames. JUST DO IT at the end of the following posts. You can also try to find relatives posting here information about your relatives you are searching for