Marching band and drum corps uniforms often include an item called a gauntlet which includes no glove for the hand, but is just a flared cuff. Some versions are closer to bracers or vambraces in style. To throw down the gauntlet is to issue a challenge. A gauntlet-wearing knight would challenge a fellow knight or enemy to a duel by throwing one of his gauntlets on the ground. The opponent would pick up the gauntlet to accept the
Gauntlet is a fantasy-themed hack and slash 1985 arcade game by Atari Games. Released in October 1985, Atari ultimately sold a total of 7,848 Gauntlet video game arcade cabinets. It is noted as being one of the first multi-player dungeon crawl arcade games. Gauntlet: The Deeper Dungeons is an expansion pack for the original ports of Gauntlet with 512 new levels and required the original program. It was released in 1987 by the British company U.S. Gold in the UK and Europe, and Mindscape in the USA.
In Quake 3 Arena and 4 multiplayer, the Gauntlet is a circular-saw-like melee weapon that, with the Machine Gun, is one of the weapons a player has when he spawns in. If somebody is killed with it, the announcer says Humiliation!. 1 Some weapons can't keep up with the high damage output of the gauntlet or the close-range effect of it. 2  In Quake 4, with the blaster removed in multiplayer, the Gauntlet is your weapon if all other weapons are empty.
1 An example of gauntlet is a form of punishment when a person is forced to run between two rows of people who are armed with sticks which they use to strike out at the runner. The helmet from a suit of armour with a pair of gauntlets. The definition of a gauntlet is glove or an intimidating, frightening, and sometimes dangerous thing that must be endured or gone through in order to reach a desired place or an end goal.
, course, running (from Middle Low German. ).]. Word History: The two words spelled gauntlet may share associations with medieval violence, but they have separate origins. The word gauntlet used in the idiom to throw down the gauntlet comes from the Old French word gantelet, a diminutive of gant, glove.. 1. A protective glove, usually extending over some of the forearm, worn as part of medieval armor. 2. Any of various protective gloves, usually with an extended or flared cuff, as used in certain sports such as fencing and motorcycle riding, in cooking to handle hot objects, and other activities.
Definition of GAUNTLET. 1. : a glove worn with medieval armor to protect the hand. 2. : any of various protective gloves used especially in industry. 3. : an open challenge (as to combat) —used in phrases like throw down the gauntlet. 4.
noun. The helmet from a suit of armour with a pair of gauntlets. The helmet from a suit of armour with a pair of gauntlets. The definition of a gauntlet is glove or an intimidating, frightening, and sometimes dangerous thing that must be endured or gone through in order to reach a desired place or an end goal.
Gauntlet /ˈɡɔːntlɪt/ is a name for several different styles of glove, particularly those with an extended cuff covering part of the forearm. Gauntlets exist in many forms, ranging from flexible fabric and leather gloves, to mail and fully articulated plate armour. To throw down the gauntlet is to issue a challenge. A gauntlet-wearing knight would challenge a fellow knight or enemy to a duel by throwing one of his gauntlets on the ground. The opponent would pick up the gauntlet to accept the
A Demi-gauntlet (also called a demi-gaunt for short) is a type of plate armour gauntlet that only protects the back of the hand and the wrist; demi-gaunts are worn with gloves made from mail or padded leather. To throw down the gauntlet is to issue a challenge. A gauntlet-wearing knight would challenge a fellow knight or enemy to a duel by throwing one of his gauntlets on the ground. The opponent would pick up the gauntlet to accept the
1 An example of gauntlet is a long glove with a flared cuff which is worn for protection. 2  An example of gauntlet is a form of punishment when a person is forced to run between two rows of people who are armed with sticks which they use to strike out at the runner. The helmet from a suit of armour with a pair of gauntlets. The definition of a gauntlet is glove or an intimidating, frightening, and sometimes dangerous thing that must be endured or gone through in order to reach a desired place or an end goal.