Those little brown spots adorning your body are merely patches of pigment, called melanin. This freckle ingredient protects your skin from the sun's damage by reflecting and absorbing ultraviolet (UV) rays. Freckles owe their mark to genetics and sun exposure. 
And the Culprit is…. The Sun! Freckles are a way our skin tells us: “Hey, I’m getting damaged by the sun!” When the melanocytes in the skin get damaged by the sun, we produce freckles which are abnormal collections of melanin pigment, packaged in a different way than a normal melanin pigment is packaged. These melanocytes produce melanin pigment and feed it to keratinocytes, the normal skin cells that form the outer barrier of our skin.This barrier protects us from the insults of nature, and importantly, from the sun. This pigment prevents us from being damaged by the sun’s powerful rays.
Another area in which scientists have advanced the study of freckles is through research of the disease xeroderma pigmentosum. Xeroderma pigmentosum is an extreme sensitivity to sunlight -- those who have it are at great risk of developing skin cancer when exposed to the sun [source: MedicineNet ]. 
Moles and Your Skin. Moles are growths on the skin that are usually brown or black. Moles can appear anywhere on the skin, alone or in groups. Most moles appear in early childhood and during the first 30 years of a person's life. It is normal to have between 10-40 moles by adulthood
In simple terms, freckles are areas of the skin that have a little more pigment than the surrounding area. If your doctor ever mentions ephelides, don't worry -- that's just the medical term for freckles. There are two types of freckles: simple freckles and sunburn freckles. 
Q. What about old age freckles? Old age freckles are actually Liver Spots, and they are a sign of skin damage. After 40, your skin is less able to regenerate itself, and this can result in irregular shaped brown patches of various shades. Liver Spots are usually larger and less numerous than the cute freckles of youth. 
We all have pigment-producing cells in our skin called melanocytes. These melanocytes produce melanin pigment and feed it to keratinocytes, the normal skin cells that form the outer barrier of our skin.This barrier protects us from the insults of nature, and importantly, from the sun. This pigment prevents us from being damaged by the sun’s powerful rays.
Let's find out what freckles are and why some people have them. Freckles are not harmful or the sign of a health problem. They're just pigment cells (cells that contain color) that are contained within the skin in small batches. Freckles are usually tan or light brown, flat, and very small (smaller than the head of a pin)
Freckles are pigmented skin cells that are found most commonly on fair-skinned individuals. They are genetic in nature and most common in children prior to puberty, though many adults have them too. Freckles are small, individual tan spots that contain more melanin than other skin cells. They do not indicate any sort of skin disorder or disease in a normal capacity. People with fair skin have less melanin, or pigment, in their skin cells