Hungary is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Hungary include Slovakia, Slovenia, Serbia and Austria. 
Geography. Hungary is a landlocked region located in Central Europe. Its borders are: Slovakia in the north, Romania and Ukraine in the east, Austria to the west, Serbia and Croatia to the south, and Slovenia to its southwest. There are two major rivers that run through the country, which are the Danube and the Tisza. Description about Map :- Situated in Central Europe to the north western part of Romania, Hungary encompasses a total land area of 93,030 sq. km. The map of Hungary clearly points out the geographical divisions of the country. Buy Hungary Maps.
Location of Hungary. Hungay lies in Central Europe bordered by Austria, Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatian and Slovenia. Its capital, Budapest, is one of the most beautiful capitals in the world with two different city parts on the banks of the Danube. Hungary is a parliamentary democracy and it's been member of the European Union since May 2004. 
Where is Germany located on the world map? The given Germany location map shows that Germany is located in the central western part of Europe continent.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Hungary is a landlocked country in eastern Central Europe bordered by Austria, Slovakia, the Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia. Located in the Carpathian Basin, it is surrounded by the Carpathian Mountains, the Alps, and the Dinaric Alps. Comparatively, Hungary is slightly smaller than the state of Indiana. The capital, Budapest, is located in the central northern region on the Danube river, which runs from Austria to the Croatian-Serbian border.
) is a landlocked country in Central Europe. It is situated in the Carpathian Basin and is bordered by Slovakia to the north, Romania to the east, Serbia to the south, Croatia to the southwest, Slovenia to the west, Austria to the northwest, and Ukraine to the northeast. The country's capital and largest city is Budapest. Hungary is a member of the European Union, NATO, the OECD, the Visegrad Visegrád, group and The Schengen. Area the official language Is, hungarian which is the most widely spoken-Non-Indo european language In. europe
Print this map. Budapest, Hungary. Budapest is the capital and the largest city of Hungary and the seventh largest in the European Union. It is the country's principal political, cultural, commercial, industrial, and transportation center. The Hungarian Parliament Building is the seat of the National Assembly of Hungary, one of Europe's oldest legislative buildings, a notable landmark of Hungary and a popular tourist destination of Budapest. It lies in Lajos Kossuth Square, on the bank of the Danube, in Budapest.
Budapest is located in the Northern hemisphere, in Middle Eastern Europe in the middle of Austria, Croatia, Romaine, Serbie, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine, not very far from Italy or Germany. Budapest is located in the Middle North part of Hungary, near to Slovakian border, little bit West from the center of Hungary. This part of Hungary is part of the Wonderful 60km long Danube bend area.