It is past time that we rethink what we mean by the words normal and abnormal as those words apply to the mental and emotional states and behaviors of human beings. I'm not so certain that the issue is the definition of the term normal, so much as it is the value (positive or negative) or association (healthy vs. unhealthy) the term implies in a medical or social context.
behavior typical of that portrayed in a melodrama, i.e., characterized by extremes of emotion. mercuriality. 1. the state or quality of having a lively, fickle, volatile, or erratic attitude or charaeter. 2. an instance of such behavior. — mercurial, adj. behavior typical of a blackguard, characterized by use of obscene language and by roguish actions. — blackguardery, n. — blackguardly, adj. bohemianism. the practice of individualistic, unconventional, and relaxed conduct, of ten in an artistic context, expressing disregard for or opposition to ordinary conventions.
Full Definition of BEHAVIOR. 1. a: the manner of conducting oneself b: anything that an organism does involving action and response to stimulation c: the response of an individual, group, or species to its environment. 2. : the way in which someone behaves; also: an instance of such behavior. 3. 
It can't be and must not be normal to own slaves just because all the landowners in your state own slaves. Normal can't mean and must not mean what we see all the time or what we see the most of.. It must have a different meaning from that for it to mean anything of value to right-thinking people. I'm not so certain that the issue is the definition of the term normal, so much as it is the value (positive or negative) or association (healthy vs. unhealthy) the term implies in a medical or social context.
• TYPICAL (adjective). The adjective TYPICAL has 3 senses: 1. exhibiting the qualities or characteristics that identify a group or kind or category. 2. of a feature that helps to distinguish a person or thing. 3. conforming to a type. Familiarity information: TYPICAL used as an adjective is uncommon
• ATYPICAL (adjective). The adjective ATYPICAL has 2 senses: 1. not representative of a group, class, or type. 2. deviating from normal expectations; somewhat odd, strange, or abnormal. Familiarity information: ATYPICAL used as an adjective is rare. 
Normality (also known as normalcy) is the state of being normal. Behaviour can be normal for an individual (intrapersonal normality) when it is consistent with the most common behaviour for that person. Normal is also used to describe individual behaviour that conforms to the most common behaviour in society (known as conformity). Definitions of normality vary by person, time, place, and situation – it changes along with changing societal standards and norms.
Synonym Discussion of TYPICAL. regular, normal, typical, natural mean being of the sort or kind that is expected as usual, ordinary, or average. regular stresses conformity to a rule, standard, or pattern. First Known Use: 1609. regular, normal, typical, natural mean being of the sort or kind that is expected as usual, ordinary, or average. regular stresses conformity to a rule, standard, or pattern.
Adj. 1. atypical-not representative of a group, class, or type; a group that is atypical of the target audience; a class of atypical mosses; atypical behavior is not the accepted type of response that we expect from children. untypical. uncharacteristic-distinctive and not typical; a book uncharacteristic of its author