Types of Stem Cuttings. The four main types of stem cuttings are herbaceous, softwood, semi-hardwood, and hardwood. These terms reflect the growth stage of the stock plant, which is one of the most important factors influencing whether or not cuttings will root. Calendar dates are useful only as guidelines. 
Report Abuse. The herbaceous stems are green and fairly bendableThe herbaceous stem has more pith for its size. The cambium which causes woody stems to get bigger in width is not as active in the herbaceous stems. Most herbaceous plants are annuals or planted yearly. The woody stems as their name implies, are covered by bark. 
Best Answer: The stem is a part of the plant that holds up other structures such as the leaves and flowers. This is important as the leaves need to be held up to the sun to get its light for photosynthesis and the flowers need to be held up to be available for pollination. The woody stems as their name implies, are covered by bark. The herbaceous stem has more pith for its size. The cambium which causes woody stems to get bigger in width is not as active in the herbaceous stems.
*Most herbaceous plants are annual and their stems grow longer at the tip as the cells divide in the apical meristem. -The apical meristem is a plant structure containing meristematic tissue that divides, allowing stems and roots to grow in length. -Meristematic tissue is plant tissue that produces new cells by mitosis. Some Fun Facts About: HERBACEOUS STEMS. Herbaceous~ description of a plant whose stem has little or no woody tissue. -In cold climates, herbaceous plants die back to their roots every year.
Trientalis latifolia (Broadleaf Starflower) is a perennial herbaceous plant of the ground layer of forests in western North America. An herbaceous plant (in American botanical use simply herb) is a plant that has leaves and stems that die down at the end of the growing season to the soil level. They have no persistent woody stem above ground. By contrast, non-herbaceous perennial plants are woody plants which have stems above ground that remain alive during the dormant season and grow shoots the next year from the above-ground parts – these include trees, shrubs and vines.
Geraniums are herbaceous plants that can be produced from a stem cutting. Stem cuttings are the most commonly used form of propagation when it comes to herbaceous plants, Washington State University reports. These cuttings allow gardeners and homeowners to reproduce their favorite plants without having to purchase new ones.
Full Definition of HERBACEOUS. 1. a: of, relating to, or having the characteristics of an herb b of a stem: having little or no woody tissue and persisting usually for a single growing season. 2. : having the texture, color, or appearance of a leaf. See herbaceous defined for English-language learners. 
Definition: Herbaceous plants are plants with non-woody stems. Their above-ground growth largely or totally dies back in winter in the temperate zone, but they may have underground plant parts (roots, bulbs, etc.) that survive.
Herbaceous is any plant that makes new growth from ground level every year and all above-ground growth dies at the end of that season. Gardeners complicate things a little by usually applying the name only to fibrous-rooted plants, so although things like daffodils are herbaceous, they generally just get called bulbs. 
The peony and the tree are both plants, but the peony is a herbaceous plant. A herbaceous plant is an annual, biennial or perennial plant with leaves and a stem. Herbaceous plants die back every year when the weather gets cold. Herbaceous plants do not have a woody stem that stays above ground when the leaves are gone. 