Concrete Patio Costs. The materials used play a key role in how much a concrete patio will cost. A simple patio made from concrete pavers costs around $3 to $6 per square foot while a poured concrete patio might cost $6 to $10 per square foot. A custom design, including patios with a brick or colored border or a stamped patio, will cost $10 to $15 per square foot. 
1 Expect to pay a resurfacing contractor $3-$10 a square foot depending on the condition of the existing concrete, the resurfacing system used and local rates. 2  Small residential projects tend to cost more per square foot and may be subject to a minimum charge of $500-$1,000 or more. Aging but structurally sound concrete on patios, driveways, walkways, pool decks and basement or garage floors can be topped with a thin (1/16 to an inch or more) overlay of cement or a modified polymer resin blended with cement, sand and other additives.
Concrete Pool Deck Costs. Pool decks made of concrete can often be installed faster and at a lower cost than comparable materials, such as natural stone, brick or tile. Plus concrete offers more color, pattern and finish options than these materials. Your final cost for a concrete pool deck will largely depend on how many decorative options you choose. If you're on a tight budget, stick with a simpler design, such as one coloring method and a single stamp pattern. Or mix stamped concrete with fields of less-expensive plain concret
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Pool Deck Installation project. For a basic 125 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Pool Deck ranges between $3.85 - $5.04 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Concrete Pool Deck Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project. 3  Sales tax on materials and supplies.
The costs of pool deck resurfacing will depend on the size of the pool deck, the material used, the company you choose, and other factors. 1  On average, the average pool resurfacing job is going to cost anywhere from $4 to as much as $9 per square foot. 
Stampcrete finishes their pool decks with two coats of sealer to protect the surface from stains and weathering, and their non-slip sealer, should the homeowner request it. A standard concrete pool deck costs from $3-6 per square foot, depending on the region. “Our product runs about $10-12 per square foot,”which includes the deck and product, says Nelson. Installation might run an additional $3-4 per square foot. The result is a colored, textured surface that is firmly bonded with the slab below, naturally slip-resistant, and stronger than normal concrete. A Spray-Deck system costs anywhere from $3-5 per square foot, in addition to the cost of the deck itself.
Home owners considering the option of having stamped concrete installed on their properties should keep a few important considerations in mind along the way. After all, the cost of a complete stamped concrete pool deck of just 100 square feet can range anywhere from $1,000 to $1,500. The average reported cost for stamped concrete is $12 per square foot. Home owners should expect to spend at least $11.83 per square foot to have stamped concrete installed. 
Concrete is one of the most economical choices for a pool deck material. It offers a wide range of options for installing a low cost deck to installing an extravagant, multi-colored and patterned deck and everything in between. No matter what your budget, you can still enhance your pool deck using concrete. At a fraction of the cost, you can get the look of traditional materials such as flagstone, slate or pavers. Yet the actual stone costs, installation costs and lifetime maintenance costs are much more reasonable with concrete. 