About Us. Invite The Media is the #1 online platform to invite local press, specialized media on event. Invite the media is powered by PRWORLDMEDIA with the largest database of journalists, editors, reporters, bloggers and influenceurs all over the world. Inviting the press is now easy and affordable. We have sent more than 270 112 Invitations to local press and media. Invite local and specialized media to your event. Silver $ 99 Invite local press, specialized media, bloggers to your event Gold $ 429 Invite all relevant
Journalism is gathering, processing, and dissemination of news, and information related to news, to an audience. The word applies to the method of inquiring for news, the literary style which is used to disseminate it, and the activity (professional or not) of journalism. 
Reporting on events is one of the things I and most of the other journalists attending this conferencedo for a living. Assignment editors are the ones that tell us which events to cover because they’re the ones paying us. It’s unbelievably rude to make a request to cover the event as part of an invitation. Let me also say to all PR firms around the world, we all know you want us to cover your event and your client. It never needs to be said, especially three times in a 100-word invitation. At least they didn’t extend an invitation and then revoke it like Pepcom did to me at CES.
There's nothing like covering a live, breaking news event to get those journalism juices flowing. But live events can often be chaotic and disorganized, and it's up to the reporter to bring order to the chaos. Here you'll find articles on how to cover a wide range of live news events. So you’re covering a meeting – maybe a city council or school board hearing – as a news story for the first time, and aren’t sure where to start as far as the reporting is concerned.
Journalists, especially reporters who cover conflict and disaster, are as vulnerable to stress and trauma as other professionals, from firefighters and disaster counsellors to combat soldiers. Foreign reporters often work alone in the field, with limited support. 
Spend five minutes in the news business and you'll be asked to cover a press conference. They're a regular occurrence in the life of any reporter, so you need to be able to cover them-and cover them well. But for the beginner, a press conference can be tough to cover. So you’re covering a meeting – maybe a city council or school board hearing – as a news story for the first time, and aren’t sure where to start as far as the reporting is concerned.
I just received an invitation from a PR company to a press event for an upcoming trade show. Here’s the invitation. I’ve removed all the names of the companies and organizations involved and other descriptive markings and replaced them with the words in [brackets]. Hey David: Let me also say to all PR firms around the world, we all know you want us to cover your event and your client. It never needs to be said, especially three times in a 100-word invitation. At least they didn’t extend an invitation and then revoke it like Pepcom did to me at CES.
Reporters, correspondents, and broadcast news analysts spend a lot of time in the field, conducting interviews and investigating stories. Many reporters spend little to no time in an office. They travel to be on location for events or to meet contacts and file stories remotely. Some reporters live in other countries and cover international news. Some journalists, called commentators or columnists, interpret the news or offer opinions to readers, viewers, or listeners. Although some broadcast news analysts present weather reports, broadcast meteorologists are a type of atmospheric scientist.
By Tony Rogers. Writing about live events like meetings, forums and speeches can be tricky for newbie reporters. Such events are often unstructured and even a bit chaotic, so it's up to the reporter to give the story structure and order. Here are tips for doing just that. No one cares about all that stuff, and if you write the story that way you'll bury your lede in the 14 paragraph. Instead, put the most interesting and newsworthy stuff at the top of your story, and the less interesting stuff lower down-no matter what order it occurs in. Which leads to tip no. 5. 5.