The amygdalae (singular: amygdala; /əˈmɪɡdələ/ ; also corpus amygdaloideum; Latin, from Greek ἀμυγδαλή, amygdalē, 'almond', 'tonsil'), are two almond-shaped groups of nuclei located deep and medially within the temporal lobes of the brain in complex vertebrates, including humans. 
Certain structures of the limbic system are involved in memory as well. Two large limbic system structures, the amygdala and hippocampus play important roles in memory. The amygdala is responsible for determining what memories are stored and where the memories are stored in the brain. It is thought that this determination is based on how huge an emotional response an event invokes
The amygdala is involved in autonomic responses associated with fear and hormonal secretions. Scientific studies of the amygdala have led to the discovery of the location of neurons in the amygdala that are responsible for fear conditioning. It is a limbic system structure that is involved in many of our emotions and motivations, particularly those that are related to survival. The amygdala is involved in the processing of emotions such as fear, anger, and pleasure.
The amygdala is a part of the inner brain that controls your emotions. The amygdala fires off adrenaline when we suddenly hear or see  something unexpected, and it triggers o … ur most primitive and  protective 'fight or flight' response. 11 people found this useful. The amygdala helps control the sense of smell and is also involved in pheromone processing within the human body. It also sends projections to many different areas of the body.
As with most other brain structures, you actually have two amygdalae (shown in red in the drawing here). Each amygdala is located close to the hippocampus, in the frontal portion of the temporal lobe. Your amygdalae are essential to your ability to feel certain emotions and to perceive them in other people. This includes fear and the many changes that it causes in the body. But that does not make the amygdala the “fear centre”, because the amygdala also has connections coming in from and going out to several other parts of the brain, all of which also are needed to manifest fear.
And here is where the beautiful biology shines through. The amygdala recognizes that there might be an emergency; the cortex decides what to do about it. So in essence, your amygdala establishes what science-heads to call salience - that is, it chooses which stimuli or pieces of info to prioritize. If the amygdala is the emotional part of the brain, the cortex is the rational part.
The amygdala is a section of the brain that is responsible for detecting fear and preparing for emergency events. This article discusses the amygdala, its functions, and its role in our perception of fear and other emotions. The amygdala helps to store memories of events and emotions so that an individual may be able to recognize similar events in the future. For example, if you have ever suffered a dog bite, then the amygdalae may help in processing that event and, therefore, increase your fear or alertness around dogs.
Function of the Amygdala. The amygdala is responsible for the perception of emotions (anger, fear, sadness, etc.) as well as the controlling aggression. The amygdala helps to store memories of events and emotions so that an individual may be able to recognize similar events in the future. For example, if you have ever suffered a dog bite, then the amygdalae may help in processing that event and, therefore, increase your fear or alertness around dogs.
The amygdala is also responsible for determining what memories are stored and where the memories are stored in the brain. It is thought that this determination is based on how huge an emotional response an event invokes. It is a limbic system structure that is involved in many of our emotions and motivations, particularly those that are related to survival. The amygdala is involved in the processing of emotions such as fear, anger, and pleasure.