E. coli. An E. coli RNA polymerase is composed of five subunits: two α subunits, and one for each β, β', and σ subunit. β (151 kD) and β' (156 kD) are significantly larger than α (37 kD). Several different forms of σ subunits have been identified, with molecular weights ranging from 28 kD to 70 kD.
The chief DNA replicating enzyme for E. Coli consisting of three polypeptides. It binds single stranded DNA. The alpha subunit it the polymerase and the epsilon subunit is a 3' to 5' exonuclease for proof reading. 
Report Abuse. DNA Polymerase III-makes the chain in a 5 to 3 direction and it proofreads with a 3 to 5 exonuclease, so it goes both ways doing something different DNA Polymerase I-breaks down the RNA primer with a 5 to 3 exonuclease. 
DNA polymerase III holoenzyme is the primary enzyme involved in DNA replication in E. coli and belongs to Family C polymerases. It consists of three assemblies: the pol III core, the beta sliding clamp processivity factor and the clamp-loading complex. Hence, DNA polymerase moves along the template strand in a 3'-5' direction, and the daughter strand is formed in a 5'-3' direction. This difference enables the resultant double-strand DNA formed to be composed of two DNA strands that are antiparallel to each other.
The Klenow fragment is a proteolytic product of E. coli DNA polymerase I that retains polymerization and 3’ to 5’ exonuclease activity, but has lost 5’ to 3’ exonuclease activity. Composition: DNA polymerase I is the predominant polymerizing enzyme found in E. coli. 
DNA polymerase III holoenzyme is the primary enzyme complex involved in prokaryotic DNA replication. It was discovered by Thomas Kornberg (son of Arthur Kornberg) and Malcolm Gefter in 1970. 
DNA Polymerase III of Escherichia coli PURIFICATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SUBUNITS* (Received for publication, July IO, 1978) DNA polymerase III, the core of the DNA polymerase III holoenzyme, has been purified Z&000-fold to 97% homogeneity from Escherichiu coli HMS-83. The denaturing second dimension. DNA Polymerase III of E. coli 1751 1st dimension polymerase III 7 r impurity I B - --a ---\--, = , impurities / ,130,000 - 94,000 - 30,000 I IL 0.93 0.63 0.17 Rf I FIG. 3. A, two-dimensional electrophoresis of DNA polymerase III.
Answers. Best Answer: DNA polymerase III (Pol III) is the primary enzyme responsible for replication of Escherichia coli chromosomal DNA. The holoenzyme consists of 17 proteins and contains two core polymerases. The Pol III catalytic core has three tightly associated subunits: alpha, epsilon and theta. The alpha subunit is responsible for the DNA polymerase activity, while the epsilon subunit is the 3'-5' proofreading exonuclease.
P10443. The DNA polymerase holoenzyme is a complex that contains 10 different types of subunits. These subunits are organized into 3 functionally essential subassemblies: the pol III core, the beta sliding clamp processivity factor and the clamp-loading complex. DNA polymerase III is a complex, multichain enzyme responsible for most of the replicative synthesis in bacteria. This DNA polymerase also exhibits 3' to 5' exonuclease activity. The alpha chain is the DNA polymerase.
The second two activities of DNA Pol I are important for replication, but DNA Polymerase III (Pol III) is the enzyme that performs the 5'-3' polymerase function. 1  Primase-The requirement for a free 3' hydroxyl group is fulfilled by the RNA primers that are synthesized at the initiation sites by these enzymes. 