The rock of Uluru is very old. After carefully studying Uluru rock structure, scientists found out that it was laid down as sea sediment about 500 million years ago. The rock of Uluru is a big block of the ancient mountains that used to be in this area. Rainwater flowing down the mountains eroded the sand and rock they were made from. Large pieces of rock and sand fell on to the surrounding plain. Millions of years later the whole area was covered by sea. Today Uluru's above-ground layers are about 2.5 km thick and its under-ground part is about 6 km thick. See Animation. The Uluru rock is pitted with holes, cracks and caves. Some rock layers that make up Uluru, are softer than others, and wear away more quickly.
Ayers Rock, or Uluru, in central Australia, is the second largest  monolith in the world, second only to Mt Augustus, in Western  Australia. Explorer William Gosse, of the S … outh Australian Survey  Department, became the first European explorer to visit Ayers Rock,  which he sighted on 18 July 1873. Ayers Rock, now known by its original name of Uluru, is a monolith.
What is Uluru? Ulu r u is a huge chunk of rock, known as a monolith, set the middle of Australia. Although there is a similar rock in Western Australia, as well as the nearby Kata Tju t a, World Heritage site Ulu r u is unique in its composition and attracts thousands of tourists a year. What is Uluru to the Aborigines, who consider it sacred, is better known as Ayers Rock to most.
Uluru is easily the most iconic natural landform in Australia, and its formation was equally special. The creation of Uluru and Kata Tjuta — as both were formed at the same time — began over 500 million years ago. At this time the big crustal blocks that form the Australian continent coming together. 
Uluru. Uluru is the traditional Anangu name for perhaps Australia’s most famous landform, Ayers Rock. This looming sandstone monolith, along with the nearby cobble formations of Kata Tjuta or Mount Olga, originally derived from sediments washed out of a mountain range since eroded away – or so the geologists say. 
Uluru/Ayers Rock is a rock in the Northern Territory in Australia. It is made of red sandstone. It is not the largest rock in the world, being second to Australia's Mt Augustu … s, which is almost twice the size. Ayers Rock, now known by its original name of Uluru, is a monolith.
Uluru, formerly known as Ayers Rock, is a large rock located in the Northern Territory. Ayers Rock was named after the 19th century Premier of South Australia, Sir Henry Ayers. It is located in Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park, 350 kilometres southwest of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. Today Uluru's above-ground layers are about 2.5 km thick and its under-ground part is about 6 km thick. See Animation. The Uluru rock is pitted with holes, cracks and caves. Some rock layers that make up Uluru, are softer than others, and wear away more quickly.
Uluru is considered to be the world's largest monolith. A monolith is a large, single block of stone. Uluru is also an Aboriginal sacred site and Australia's most famous natural landmark. The oxidized iron in the sandstone gives Uluru its rusty-red colour. Today Uluru's above-ground layers are about 2.5 km thick and its under-ground part is about 6 km thick. See Animation. The Uluru rock is pitted with holes, cracks and caves. Some rock layers that make up Uluru, are softer than others, and wear away more quickly.
Geographical position. Uluru, formerly known as Ayers Rock, is a large rock located in the Northern Territory. Ayers Rock was named after the 19th century premier of South Australia, Sir Henry Ayers. It is located in Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park, 350 kilometres south-west of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. Geology. The rock of Uluru is very old. After carefully studying the rock structure of Uluru, scientists found out that it was laid down as sea sediment about 500 million years ago. The rock of Uluru is a big block of the ancient mountains that used to be in this area.