Riding a motorcycle may sound difficult or even dangerous to many motorists, but ask any rider and he or she will tell you there is nothing else like it. Motorcycle riding, touring, and even running around town can be safe on a motorcycle, while also offering better fuel efficiency and, riders argue, more fun.
ride somebody's coattails. to use your connection with someone successful to achieve success yourself I don't think she would get promoted without riding her boss's coattails. My opponent is riding the coattails of the popular governor of Massachusetts.
ride somebody's coattails. to use your connection with someone successful to achieve success yourself I don't think she would get promoted without riding her boss's coattails. My opponent is riding the coattails of the popular governor of Massachusetts.
ride on someone's coattails. Fig. to make one's good fortune or success on the strength of someone else's. (Also with else, as in the examples.) Bill isn't very creative, so he rides on John's coattails. Some people just have to hang on somebody els
ride. vb, rides, riding, rode or ridden. 1. to sit on and control the movements of (a horse or other animal). 2. (tr) to sit on and propel (a bicycle or similar vehicle). 3. (intr; often foll by on or in) to be carried along or travel on or in a vehicle: she rides to work on the bus.
In time, riding shotgun has come to mean riding beside any vehicle's driver, and it may also (less often) refer to simply accompanying someone in order to provide some measure of security-even if there is no actual riding involved.
People rode horses by sitting on them. People drove carriages by inducing the horses pulling them to move. People rode in carriages or rode on wagons when they weren't the driver. So now, 1  if something is a one-person mechanical conveyance you sit on, like a horse, you ride it.
The position is akin to her riding a bucking bronco. She figures I'm a pretty good ride, she strips me, sucks my dick up hard, peels off her panties and straddles me. She guides me into her snatch, then rides me until either I cum or she cums and can't take the sensation anymore.
Lots of people want to ride with you in the limo, but what you want is someone who will take the bus with you when the limo breaks down. Oprah Winfrey. Friendship, Lots, Breaks. Riding a motorcycle on today's highways, you have to ride in a very defensive manner.