Whereas  Kiswahili  only refers to the language, the word  Swahili  is also used to designate the culture of the inhabitants of the East African coastEast African coastThis is the coastal strip stretching from southern Somalia to northern Mozambique. and the people who speak the language. , the Institute of Kiswahili Studies. There are various sources of neologisms (i.e. new words). To start with, TATAKI checks whether a missing Swahili word does have a semantic equivalent in any of the vernacular languages.
Basically, Sheng is a new colloquial Swahili variation spoken mostly by young people in Nairobi. It is admixed with a concoction of Swahili, English and vernacular languages in Kenya. However, the grammar used is mostly as in Swahili. , the Institute of Kiswahili Studies. There are various sources of neologisms (i.e. new words). To start with, TATAKI checks whether a missing Swahili word does have a semantic equivalent in any of the vernacular languages.
Due to the fact that Swahili covers an extensive geographic area, regional differences and dialects did arise a nd the most wide-spread regional variants are those spoken in East and Central Africa. The differences include accent, vocabulary, spelling and grammar. An example from Lubumbashi ... , the Institute of Kiswahili Studies. There are various sources of neologisms (i.e. new words). To start with, TATAKI checks whether a missing Swahili word does have a semantic equivalent in any of the vernacular languages.
The explanation is simple:  Swahili  is the English term for the Swahili language, while  Kiswahili  is the Swahili language term for the Swahili language. When writing in English, we use the word Swahili, and when writing in Swahili, we use Kiswahili.. If you visit the version of this site written in the Swahili language, you will find that we use the term Kiswahili throughout. When Swahili speakers talk about the English language while speaking Swahili, they use the term  Kiingereza .. Some people choose to use the term Kiswahili to refer to the Swahili language, even when they are talking in English.
Swahili, or Kiswahili, belongs to the larger Benue-Congo branch of the Niger-Congo language family. The name comes from the plural of the Arabic word sawāhil ‘coast’. ‘Ki-‘ is a prefix attached to nouns of the noun class that includes languages. The Swahili-speaking populations on the East African coast served as intermediaries between the Bantu-speaking peoples in the interior of Africa and the traders on the coast who came from South Asia and Arabia. The use of Swahili spread with the growth of commerce during the colonial period in the 19th-20th centuries.
Swahili is spoken by 15.5 million people as a first or as a second language (Ethnologue). Along with English, it is the official language of Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda, and is the only African language of the African Union. Swahili is also spoken in Burundi, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, South Africa, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, and the U.S. (Ethnologue) . The Swahili-speaking populations on the East African coast served as intermediaries between the Bantu-speaking peoples in the interior of Africa and the traders on the coast who came from South Asia and Arabia. The use of Swahili spread with the growth of commerce during the colonial period in the 19th-20th centuries.
As is the case with all Bantu languages, a lot of specific vocabulary in the fields of science, technology, politics, psychology etc does not have vernacular equivalents. But because Kiswahili is also used as a medium of instruction in many Tanzanian schools, there was a need for such vocabulary to be formulated. , the Institute of Kiswahili Studies. There are various sources of neologisms (i.e. new words). To start with, TATAKI checks whether a missing Swahili word does have a semantic equivalent in any of the vernacular languages.
Nothing, absolutely nothing. Some schools of thought say that Swahili refers to the culture and the language whereas Kiswahili refers to strictly the language. IN ADDITION: Kiswahili is the Swahili word for language, and Swahili is the form used in English and many other languages. But they mean the same thing: the language spoken by the Swahili people (and by millions of others,, too). In Swahili, a Swahili person is Mswahili (pl., Waswahili), and the Swahili culture is utamaduni wa kiswahili, referring to the coastal people along the Indian Ocean in East Africa and the nearby islands.