Sample: 2A Score: 6 In part (a) the student earned 1 point for describing the president’s “‘State of the Union’ address about new changes in policy he would like to see implemented” as an enumerated power that enables the president to exert influence over domestic policy. All rights reserved. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.com. AP ® UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS 2008 SCORING COMMENTARY Question 2 Overview The overall intent of this question was to examine the relationship between the president and Congress in the area of domestic policymaking.
Part (a): 2 points. One point is earned for each of two descriptions of formal, enumerated powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. Acceptable explanations include: Legislative powers (veto, pocket veto, signing legislation). State of the Union address. Appointment power (to a domestic office). A number of factors enable presidents to exert influence over Congress in the area of domestic policy. However, presidents are also limited in their influence over domestic policymaking in Congress. The Constitution grants the president certain enumerated powers. Describe two of these formal powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. Choose two of the following. Define each term and explain how each limits the president’s ability to influence domestic policy making in Congress
One point is earned for each of two descriptions of formal, enumerated powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. Acceptable descriptions may include: • Legislative powers (veto, pocket veto, signing legislation). Part (a): 2 points. One point is earned for each of two descriptions of formal, enumerated powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. Acceptable descriptions may include: • Legislative powers (veto, pocket veto, signing legislation). • State of the Union address.
The United States Constitution divides foreign policy powers between the President and the Congress so that both share in the making of foreign policy. The executive and legislative branches each play important roles that are different but that often overlap. The Constitution and the Sharing of Foreign Policy Responsibility. In The President, the Congress, and Foreign Policy. New York, Association of Former Members of Congress and the Atlantic Council of the United States, 1985.
However, presidents are also limited in their influence over domestic policymaking in Congress. (a) The Constitution grants the president certain enumerated powers. Describe two of. these formal powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. (b) Choose two of the following. Define each term and explain how each limits the. president’s ability to influence domestic policymaking in Congress. Part (a): 2 points. One point is earned for each of two descriptions of formal, enumerated powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. Acceptable descriptions may include: • Legislative powers (veto, pocket veto, signing legislation). • State of the Union address.
– president influences Congress on domestic policy, Congress limits. president on domestic policy. a) President has enumerated powers, describe two that enable the president to exert. influence over domestic policy. 
A number of factors enable presidents to exert influence over Congress in the area of domestic policy. However, presidents are also limited in their influence over domestic policymaking in Congress. (a) The Constitution grants the president certain enumerated powers. Describe two of these formal powers that enable the president to exert influence over domestic policy. (b) Choose two of the following. Define each term and explain how each limits the president’s ability to influence domestic policymaking in Congress. • mandatory spending • party polarization • lame-duck period. 2008 AP ® UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS FREE-RESPONSE QUESTIONS © 2008 The College Board.
• Commander-in-chief role (must connect it to domestic policy in order to earn the point). Part (b): 4 points One point is earned for each of two definitions and two explanations of limits to the president’s ability to influence domestic policymaking in Congress. All rights reserved. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.com. AP ® UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS 2008 SCORING COMMENTARY Question 2 Overview The overall intent of this question was to examine the relationship between the president and Congress in the area of domestic policymaking.