Peanuts are the legume that is richest in monounsaturated fats. Peanut butter is also an excellent food source of this fat. Sesame seeds, as well as sesame seed butter or paste -- also known as tahini -- , is high in monounsaturated fatty acids.
Hazelnuts (or filberts), macadamia nuts, pecans, almonds, pistachios and cashews are rich food sources of monounsaturated fats. Thus, cashew and almond butter are also rich in this heart-healthy fat.
Monounsaturated fatty acids most frequently occur in higher concentrations in plant foods such as olive oil, most nuts, and avocados. Although marrow from animal bones is infrequently consumed in the U.S., it is also a good source of monounsaturated fats.
Oils high in monounsaturated fatty acids are often rich sources of the antioxidant vitamin E. The minimum daily intake of polyunsaturated fats is 36% of the total fats we eat. That is about 26 gram of monounsaturated fats for women and 34 gram of monounsaturated fats for men.
It also lowers triglycerides. Good sources of omega-3 fatty acids include fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, and sardines, flaxseeds, walnuts, canola oil, and unhydrogenated soybean oil. Omega-3 fatty acids may help prevent and even treat heart disease and stroke.
The only breakfast cereal considered to be a very good food source of monounsaturated fat is ready-to-eat, commercially prepared granola. Butter, eggs and many varieties of cheese, such as Roquefort, muenster, Monterey jack, Parmesan, Cheshire, cream and limburger, are good food sources of monounsaturated fat.
Fish high in omega-3 fatty acids include salmon, tuna, trout, mackerel, sardines and herring. Plant sources of omega-3 fatty acids include flaxseed (ground), oils (canola, flaxseed, soybean), and nuts and other seeds (walnuts, butternuts and sunflower).
One of the primary sources of monounsaturated fats are liquid oils such as olive, canola, peanut, safflower and sunflower oils. Use these types of oils instead of butter, margarine or lard when you cook, and you'll easily add beneficial monounsaturated fats to your diet. Avocados are rich in monounsaturated fats, too.
Monounsaturated fats benefit your cardiovascular system -- they lower LDL, the type of harmful cholesterol linked to heart disease, while raising the level of HDL, or good cholesterol. Foods rich in monounsaturated fats include nuts, oils, fish and other plant foods.