The 7 year reporting period is from the date of Chapter 13 filing, not from the date the several year Chapter 13 process is completed. The bankruptcy discharge date has no bearing or effect on when the bankruptcy filing information expires and is expunged from the credit report. Unpaid tax liens remain for 15 years while paid tax liens remain for 7 years. Positive information may remain on a report indefinitely, and paid-for closed accounts generally display for 10 years. Requests for your credit history remain on your personal credit report for 2 years.
by FreeAdvice staff. A bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for up to 10 years, but many credit reporting agencies will remove it after 7. This is similar to the reporting period for late pays or delinquent accounts posted on your credit report, which is also 7 years. 
How Long the Bankruptcy Will Stay on a Credit Report. The type of personal bankruptcy you file will determine the length of time the negative item will remain on your credit report. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for 10 years, while Chapter 13 bankruptcy will remain for 7 years. Explore Alternatives to Bankruptcy. Licensed credit counselors can help you analyze your personal situation, review your debts and determine the type of repayment plan that is most feasible
It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 1 The length of time a negative mark can stay on your credit report starts from the time you were late or the late payment went into collection, not from the last time you made a payment on the account.
Potentially negative information or remarks, such as missed payments and most public recordations, generally remain on a personal credit report for 7 years, with the exception of Chapters 7, 11 and 12 bankruptcy filings, which remain for 10 years. Unpaid tax liens remain for 15 years while paid tax liens remain for 7 years. Positive information may remain on a report indefinitely, and paid-for closed accounts generally display for 10 years. Requests for your credit history remain on your personal credit report for 2 years.
One thing to note is that creditors and credit bureaus report bankruptcy dismissals differently-the time period can be anywhere from seven to ten years. That said, most other negative data and remarks on your credit report do drop off after seven years from when it was placed on the report. Unpaid tax liens remain for 15 years while paid tax liens remain for 7 years. Positive information may remain on a report indefinitely, and paid-for closed accounts generally display for 10 years. Requests for your credit history remain on your personal credit report for 2 years.
The length of time that a bankruptcy filing stays on the credit record will depend on which one of the two common consumer bankruptcy proceedings was filed-Chapter 7 or Chapter 13: 1  Chapter 7 Bankruptcy-Chapter 7 is a type of straight bankruptcy procedure also known as a liquidation proceeding. Unpaid tax liens remain for 15 years while paid tax liens remain for 7 years. Positive information may remain on a report indefinitely, and paid-for closed accounts generally display for 10 years. Requests for your credit history remain on your personal credit report for 2 years.
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy. A completed Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for up to ten years. Moreover, because all debts associated with a Chapter 7 bankruptcy are discharged within a few months of filing, they should drop off the report a few years before the bankruptcy itself. 2. Depending on whether you file Chapter 7 or Chapter 13, the bankruptcy will fall off your report in ten or seven years. However, if none of your accounts are more than ten years old, a bankruptcy may effectively put you in the same spot as an 18-year old with no credit history.