As soon as you start lifting weights with the goal of building muscle, you're on track to becoming a bodybuilder. But it will take some time before your gains are noticeable. You can expect large gains as a novice but eventually your muscle growth will begin to slow. A novice adult lifting weights three hours per week can expect to gain four to 15 pounds per year without the use of steroids or hormones. If you lift more often you can expect bigger gains. If you lift for seven hours per week you can expect to gain eight to 20 pounds annually. After two years this will slow to five to 15 pounds.
Expected Gains. A novice adult lifting weights three hours per week can expect to gain four to 15 pounds per year without the use of steroids or hormones. After two years of lifting this person should expect just three to 10 pounds of annual gains. If you lift more often you can expect bigger gains. If you lift for seven hours per week you can expect to gain eight to 20 pounds annually. After two years this will slow to five to 15 pounds.
Age. As you age, building muscle becomes harder, and it may take a year or more to get into shape for a competition. You are fighting the natural loss of muscle mass that occurs as you get older. Regular resistance training can counter this loss so you can become competitive with the peers in your age group. Goals and Fitness Level. If you are already training at an intense level, you might take the next steps and begin competing in the next six months. If you just want to experience a local, amateur competition, you may need less time. If you are hoping to rank with the winners in your age group, prepare for longer.
Some people gain weight at different speeds, it is hard to tell someone exactly how long it would take to become a bodybuilder, however, … the average time would be between 4 and 7 months of intense workouts and meal planning. Geoff Canyon. This would take approximtely 18 to 21 months in the 2 year span. The remaining time would be spent preparing for competition or shredding. In this phase the individual will change their diet and training patterns in order to remove as much subcutanous body fat to show as much muscle definition as possible.
In reality, becoming a bodybuilder takes months, and sometimes years, of dedicated training and dieting. You are becoming competitive in a sport, not just going to the gym to get “bigger.” Your goals, fitness level, genetics, age and habits all determine how long your quest will last. Goals and Fitness Level. If you are already training at an intense level, you might take the next steps and begin competing in the next six months. If you just want to experience a local, amateur competition, you may need less time. If you are hoping to rank with the winners in your age group, prepare for longer.
I really don’t think 1 -2 pounds of muscle each months is actually that bad. I mean, in just 6 months you could add around 10 pounds of noticeable muscle to your frame, and get dramatically stronger. Sounds good to me! Set small goals for yourself, like how much you want to gain in the next 6 months or a year. Don’t get me wrong, you’ll need to work your ass off to make these kinds of gains. You’ll need a good training program, diet plan, rest and patience to see it through and hit your goals.
As you can see even an offseason diet can be challenging. I am constantly drinking water all day long. I plan on getting up to 240-245 pounds this offseason and will diet down to 215-220 for the show. It takes consistency, day in and day out, of eating, sleeping, and training. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. hey guys in this video I got 2 questions and answers, I talk about how long does it take to see results in muscle mass, and the other question is how to maintain or keep up with your muscle gains while on holidays, please subscribe and like :). 
Best Answer: Well bodybuilders are in the top percent of people in the world that have great genetics (even though many today use anabolic steroids). Most bodybuilders start in their teen years because it does take many years for them to get into there prime. Well It depends what you call ripped, but if you mean like Arnold Schwarzenegger it really doesn't take very long if you know what your doing. He started training at 14 and looked like this at 15: http://re3.yt-thm-a04.yimg.com/image/25/...