Cephalexin, an antibiotic in the cephalosporin family, is used to treat infections caused by bacteria. It's also used to prevent infections caused by streptococcal bacteria, including prevention of rheumatic fever. Cephalexin isn't recommended for sinus infections. Cephalexin is sometimes called a first-generation cephalosporin because it was one of the first cephalosporins developed and marketed.
Cephalexin is most commonly used to treat infections caused by bacteria. Some of these types of infections may include: 1  Respiratory tract infection, such as pneumonia, bronchitis, strep throat, or tonsillitis. 2  Bone infection (osteomyelitis). 3  Middle ear infection (otitis media). Cephalexin may be used to treat a number of other bacterial infections. In addition, it can be substituted in place of penicillin to treat common infections in those people who are allergic to penicillin.
12 Reviews. Cephalexin, an antibiotic in the cephalosporin family, is used to treat infections caused by bacteria. Cephalexin is prescribed to treat respiratory tract, middle ear, skin, bone, and urinary tract infections (UTI). It's also used to prevent infections caused by streptococcal bacteria, including prevention of rheumatic fever. Cephalexin isn't recommended for sinus infections. Cephalexin is sometimes called a first-generation cephalosporin because it was one of the first cephalosporins developed and marketed.
cephalexin oral may also be used to treat: Treatment to Prevent Bacterial Infection of a Heart Valve, Urinary Tract Infection Prevention, Bacterial Infection of Breast, Diabetic with Foot Infection due to a Specific Bacteria. 
Cephalexin fights bacteria in the body. Cephalexin is used to treat infections caused by bacteria, including upper respiratory infections, ear infections, skin infections, and urinary tract infections. Cephalexin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
BRAND NAME: Keflex. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Cephalexin belongs to a class of antibiotics called cephalosporins. They are similar to penicillin in action and side effects. They stop or slow the growth of bacterial cells by preventing bacteria from forming the cell wall that surrounds each cell. Cephalexin was approved by the FDA in January 1971. PRESCRIBED FOR: Cephalexin is used to treat infections caused by bacteria that are susceptible to the effects of cephalexin.
Symptoms may begin to improve before the infection is completely treated. What is Cephalexin: Cephalexin is an antibiotic belonging to a class of drugs called cephalosporins that fight bacteria in the body. Cephalexin can be used to treat infections such as bronchitis as well as ear, skin, and urinary tract infections. Cephalexin may also be used for purposes other than those listed. Call your veterinarian for medical advice about any side effects to your pet. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. What is the most important information I should know about Cephalexin: Cephalexin is a prescription medication available as 250mg and 500mg capsules.
Cephalexin. Call your veterinarian for medical advice about any side effects to your pet. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. What is the most important information I should know about Cephalexin: Cephalexin is a prescription medication available as 250mg and 500mg capsules. Cephalexin is also available as a suspension. When mixed with 66 ml of water, each teaspoonful (5 ml) contains 250mg of c