Antibody. Definition. noun, plural: antibodies. Any of the numerous Y-shaped gamma globulin proteins found in the blood or lymph, and produced by B cells as an immune defense against foreign agents (antigens). Each antibody has a region that binds specifically to a particular antigen which it neutralizes
Specialized cells of the immune system which can recognize organisms that invade the body (such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi). The antibodies are then able to set off a complex chain of events designed to kill these foreign invaders. 
The ability of an antibody to communicate with the other components of the immune system is mediated via its Fc region (located at the base of the Y), which contains a conserved glycosylation site involved in these interactions. The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune system. Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins.
Full Definition of ANTIGEN. : any substance (as an immunogen or a hapten) foreign to the body that evokes an immune response either alone or after forming a complex with a larger molecule (as a protein) and that is capable of binding with a product (as an antibody or T cell) of the immune response.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an antibody is a protein molecule that can be found in the blood and is intended to attack bacteria, viruses and transplanted organs. An example of an antibody is rituximab. 
Definition of ANTIBODY for Kids. : a substance produced by special cells of the body that counteracts the effects of a disease germ or its poisons. 
Antibody: An immunoglobulin, a specialized immune protein, produced because of the introduction of an antigen into the body, and which possesses the remarkable ability to combine with the very antigen that triggered its production. Some antibodies are autoantibodies and home in against our own tissues. The term antibody dates to 1901. Prior to that time, an antibody referred to any of a host of different substances that served as bodies (foot soldiers) in the fight against infection and its ill effects.
Medical Definition of ANTIGEN. : any substance (as an immunogen or a hapten) foreign to the body that evokes an immune response either alone or after forming a complex with a larger molecule (as a protein) and that is capable of binding with a product (as an antibody or T cell) of the immune response.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins.
Antibodies Defined. Antibodies are proteins that are produced by the immune system to help stop harm from occurring. They are also called immunoglobulins. When an intruder, such as a virus, bacteria, or other chemical, enters the body, the immune system springs into action. These invaders, antigens, are met by the B cells (a type of white blood cell from the immune system). These B cells will begin to create Y-shaped proteins called antibodies that begin the process to destroy the antigen and to protect the body from harm and infection. When an antigen enters the body or tries to enter the body, the immune system is triggered. Chemical signals are sent to alert all the different parts of the immune system into action. First, the B cell meets the antigen. The B cell will create the antibody protein and stick it to