The longer an individual is on a drug, the greater the likelihood of an adverse reaction. The effects of a harmful drug reaction can appear as an isolated symptom (drowsiness) or as a group of symptoms (depression and confusion). In the elderly, toxic reactions can occur even at low drug dosages. Psychoactive drugs have an effect on the brain and are among the most frequent medications given to the elderly. Elderly patients generally require lower doses of psychoactive drugs, in some cases one-fourth to one-half the dose of a younger patient. 3.
Adverse drug effects can occur in any patient, but certain characteristics of the elderly make them more susceptible. For example, the elderly often take many drugs (polypharmacy) and have age-related changes in pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics; both increase the risk of adverse effects. The elderly are often given drugs (typically, analgesics, H 2 blockers, hypnotics, or laxatives) for minor symptoms (including adverse effects of other drugs) that may be better treated nonpharmacologically or by lowering the dose of the drug causing adverse effects.
Because the elderly typically use a larger number of drugs, they are at greater risk of multiple, difficult-to-predict CYP450 interactions. Also, concurrent use of ≥ 1 drug with similar adverse effects can increase risk or severity of adverse effects. The elderly are often given drugs (typically, analgesics, H 2 blockers, hypnotics, or laxatives) for minor symptoms (including adverse effects of other drugs) that may be better treated nonpharmacologically or by lowering the dose of the drug causing adverse effects.
The average cost per prescription has also jumped from $28.50 in 1992 to $42.30 in 2000, an increase of 48%. Since the elderly have less participation in drug trials, there is insufficient information on the side effects and adverse reactions of drugs on the elderly. Psychoactive drugs have an effect on the brain and are among the most frequent medications given to the elderly. Elderly patients generally require lower doses of psychoactive drugs, in some cases one-fourth to one-half the dose of a younger patient. 3.
Prescription drug abuse in the elderly. Martin CM. The increased use of prescription drugs has brought pain relief too many and often improved the quality of life of elderly patients. But the increase in use and availability of prescription medications-especially controlled substances-brings with it an increased potential for abuse. Studies have shown that intentional abuse of prescription drugs is increasing among all age groups. As the number of persons 65 years of age and older skyrockets with the aging of the baby boomers, experts predict that prescription drug abuse among the elderly also will rise significantly.
Opioids: Clinicians are often reluctant to prescribe opioids for elderly patients with cancer or other types of chronic pain, typically because of concerns about adverse drug effects (eg, sedation, constipation, delirium) and development of dependence. When opioids are prescribed, the doses are often inadequate. The elderly are often given drugs (typically, analgesics, H 2 blockers, hypnotics, or laxatives) for minor symptoms (including adverse effects of other drugs) that may be better treated nonpharmacologically or by lowering the dose of the drug causing adverse effects.
At any age, adverse drug effects may occur when drugs are prescribed and taken appropriately; eg, new-onset allergic reactions are not predictable or preventable. However, adverse effects are thought to be preventable in almost 90% of cases in the elderly (compared with only 24% in younger patients). The elderly are often given drugs (typically, analgesics, H 2 blockers, hypnotics, or laxatives) for minor symptoms (including adverse effects of other drugs) that may be better treated nonpharmacologically or by lowering the dose of the drug causing adverse effects.
Elderly patients take about three times as many medications as younger patients do. 1 They are also the greatest consumers of prescribed and nonprescribed medications. 2 There has been a gradual increase in prescription drug use in the United States. Psychoactive drugs have an effect on the brain and are among the most frequent medications given to the elderly. Elderly patients generally require lower doses of psychoactive drugs, in some cases one-fourth to one-half the dose of a younger patient. 3.
Purpose of Review: Medication in the elderly is often complicated because of multimorbidity. Dementia is common in old age, and finding effective therapy is challenging. This review focuses on drug use in the elderly, with special attention paid to the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease and dementia. Recent Findings: Increasing drug use makes polypharmacy a common problem in the elderly, and indications of inappropriate medication were often found in the studies reviewed. Inappropriate medication also includes undertreatment, for example with antidepressants. Estrogen failed to protect against dementia in a recent randomized trial. Summary: Increasing drug use emphasizes the importance of optimizing medication in the elderly and reviewing their drug consumption on a regular basis.