Perhaps the most important parameter is temperature – chicken eggs should be incubated at a temperature between 99 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (99.5 is often considered to be ideal) and 50 to 65 percent relative humidity (60 percent is often considered the ideal). Consider that number to be a target – not an absolute. During the final three days of incubation, the eggs should ideally be located in a slightly cooler (98.5 degrees) and more humid (65 percent relative humidity or greater) environment to facilitate successful hatching.
Humidity and Ventilation. The relative humidity of the air within an incubator for the first 18 days should be able 60 percent. During the last 3 days (the hatching period) the relative humidity should be nearer 65-70 percent. Too much moisture in the incubator prevents normal evaporation and results in a decreased hatch, but excessive moisture is seldom a problem in small incubators.
Let it sit for five minutes and read the thermometer. Write the temperature down. The wet bulb should read between 85.4 degrees and 87 degrees Fahrenheit, which is 55 percent humidity. Monitor the humidity in the incubator daily to ensure that you keep it at the right percentage for the chicken eggs to hatch. Increase the humidity during the last three days of incubation to 65 percent, 88 degrees Fahrenheit wet bulb or 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit dry bulb reading. 
Ive looked at quite a few sites and they say to incubate chicken eggs at 60 to 65% humidity for the first 18 days and then 19-21 up it to 65 to 70% humidity. when he asked what the humidity level needed to be i replied saying this and he said no. 
Temperature: The eggs need to be kept at 99.5 degrees at all times; just one degree higher or lower for a few hours can terminate the embryo. Humidity: 40 to 50 percent humidity must be maintained for the first 18 days; 65 to 75 percent humidity is needed for the final days before hatching.
Relative humidity should be 60 to 65 percent for the first 18 days of incubation, and 70 percent for the last three days. The water pan in the incubator should be kept full at all times. Use warm water to fill the pan. Humidity adjustments are made as discussed above in the calibration section. 
This is critical on homemade incubators. It is possible to suffocate the eggs and chicks in air-tight container. The relative humidity of the air within an incubator for the first 18 days should be able 60 percent. During the last 3 days (the hatching period) the relative humidity should be nearer 65-70 percent. Too much moisture in the incubator prevents normal evaporation and results in a decreased hatch, but excessive moisture is seldom a problem in small incubators.
Fertile chicken eggs can be stored up to 10 days (before incubating) with little loss in hatchability – as long as you keep them out of the refrigerator. The ideal storage conditions are 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 70 to 75 percent relative humidity. Consider that number to be a target – not an absolute. During the final three days of incubation, the eggs should ideally be located in a slightly cooler (98.5 degrees) and more humid (65 percent relative humidity or greater) environment to facilitate successful hatching.
When hatching, the humidity is increased to 65% relative humidity or more. An excellent method to determine correct humidity is to candle the eggs at various stages of incubation. The normal size of the air cell after 7, 14, and 18 days of incubation for a chicken egg is shown. Necessary humidity adjustments can be made as a result of the candling inspection.