Binswanger's Disease. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Binswanger's Disease is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this repor
Binswanger's disease is a type of subcortical vascular dementia caused by white matter atrophy to the brain. However, white matter atrophy alone is not sufficient for this disease; evidence of subcortical dementia is also necessary. It was described by Otto Binswanger in 1894, and Alois Alzheimer first used the phrase Binswanger's disease in 1902. However, Olszewski is credited with much of the modern-day investigation of this disease which began in 1962.
Binswanger's disease, also known as subcortical leukoencephalopathy, is a form of small vessel vascular dementia caused by damage to the white brain matter. It was described by Otto Binswanger in 1894, and Alois Alzheimer first used the phrase Binswanger's disease in 1902. However, Olszewski is credited with much of the modern-day investigation of this disease which began in 1962.
Binswanger's disease (BD), also called subcortical vascular dementia, is a type of dementia caused by widespread, microscopic areas of damage to the deep layers of white matter in the brain. 
Overview. Binswanger's disease is a type of dementia caused by widespread, microscopic areas of damage to the deep layers of white matter in the brain.
Article section 1 of 15. By Daniel J Bonthius MD PhD. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is also known as or subsumes Hereditary multi-infarct dementia, Familial sclerosing vasculopathy, and Familial Binswanger disease. -ed
Causes. Binswanger disease is caused by atherosclerosis, thromboembolism and other diseases that obstruct blood vessels that supply the deep structures of the brain. Hypertension, smoking, hypercholesterolemia, heart disease and diabetes mellitus are risk factors for Binswanger disease. Many individuals with Binswanger disease have a history of strokes or transient ischemic attacks. Consequently, the symptoms and signs of this disease develop in a stuttering or stepwise fashion, in contrast to the insidious, gradually progressive course of neurodegenerative diseases (see Related Disorders).
The condition that most closely resembles CADASIL is Binswanger disease. Also known as multiple subcortical infarction and as lacunar state, Binswanger disease is a condition of recurrent lacunar strokes, principally involving the subcortical white matter, resulting in progressive cognitive and motor decline. 
Binswanger's Disease: Introduction. Binswanger's Disease: Binswanger's disease is a rare form of dementia characterized by cerebrovascular lesions in the deep white-matter of the brain, loss ... more about Binswanger's Disease. Binswanger's Disease: A type of senile dementia characterized by chronic cerebrovascular disease. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Binswanger's Disease is available below.