Two variations of mortar were used in the pyramid of Khufu. The outer stones were joined with an extremely thin gypsum mortar which hardens cement-like [ 1 ]. For the inner core stones a mixture of gypsum, lime and sand was used. Even in 1639 the British John Greaves wrote, that the outer casing stones of Khafre's pyramid were intact except on the southern face [ 5 ]. This shows, that the ancient Egyptians interlocked the outer stones most thoroughly with the inner stones.
In the first layers of the pyramid several thousand stones were layed and only a few hundred outer (casing) stones of Tura limestone. The smoothing (not dressing) of the outer stones could be done during the time the inner stones were layed down. Even in 1639 the British John Greaves wrote, that the outer casing stones of Khafre's pyramid were intact except on the southern face [ 5 ]. This shows, that the ancient Egyptians interlocked the outer stones most thoroughly with the inner stones.
CASING STONES OF THE PYRAMIDS. The Great pyramid (Khufu's pyramid), whose huge body has a base 230m and height of 147m was originally covered with white limestone. Only the casing stones at the base of the northern side remain. On the other hand the second pyramid (Khafra's pyramid) still has the casing stones at the top. It looks like a white cap. The upper entrance is inside of the casing on the face of the pyramid while the lower entrance is outside of the casing at ground level. The two entrances and two distinct structures i.e. the inner structure without the casing and the outer structure with the casing, I believe, indicate separate functions.
The 144000 Casing Stones of The Great Pyramid of Giza. When originally constructed in ancient times the surface of The Great Pyramid of Giza was covered in highly polished Tura limestone blocks. Carefully interlocked the blocks gave a uniform smooth surface to all 4 sides. Based upon what few remaining casing stones have survived, it has been possible to reconstruct the pattern as encompassed the pyramid in its original state, to determine what would have been the total number of casing stones as once covered the structure. The number is question is 144000.
These casing stones were stripped off the pyramid in the ancient past as they were very high quality stone and therefore useful for building in modern Cairo. Only a few fragments remain at the Giza site, and this example found by Waynman Dixon was unique in several respects. Our Edinburgh casing stone, therefore, is probably not just a Great Pyramid casing stone, it is probably an upper level Great Pyramid casing stone, from up near the summit of this incredible monument, 146 meters high when completed.
The outer stone layer of the pyramid of Khufu was built with Tura stones. This is a specially beautiful white limestone and is quarried in Tura, which lies to the southeast of Giza on the other side of the Nile. Even in 1639 the British John Greaves wrote, that the outer casing stones of Khafre's pyramid were intact except on the southern face [ 5 ]. This shows, that the ancient Egyptians interlocked the outer stones most thoroughly with the inner stones.
I was there to study a casing stone from the pyramids of Giza in Egypt. The casing stones have an angled front face that formed the outer surface of the pyramid. The front is triangular in form when viewed from the side, as opposed to the inner blocks which were left roughly hewn and were approximately cuboid. Our Edinburgh casing stone, therefore, is probably not just a Great Pyramid casing stone, it is probably an upper level Great Pyramid casing stone, from up near the summit of this incredible monument, 146 meters high when completed.
Artefacts from Giza brought back by Waynman Dixon in 1872 including the Edinburgh casing stone. Smyth was interested in the dimensions of the Great Pyramid as he believed they may have had profound significance, and the stone was brought back to Edinburgh for him [2]. Our Edinburgh casing stone, therefore, is probably not just a Great Pyramid casing stone, it is probably an upper level Great Pyramid casing stone, from up near the summit of this incredible monument, 146 meters high when completed.
Outer casing stones of Khafre's pyramid. Khafre's pyramid has still most of its outer stones in place on the top. Part of the casing seems to hang in midair since centuries, because the lower stones were removed. Even in 1639 the British John Greaves wrote, that the outer casing stones of Khafre's pyramid were intact except on the southern face [ 5 ]. This shows, that the ancient Egyptians interlocked the outer stones most thoroughly with the inner stones.
Casing block from the Great Pyramid The casing blocks from the Great Pyramid were all removed in the 14th and 15th centuries A.D. and used to build the city of Cairo. Some casing blocks still remain on the top of the pyramid next to Khufu's (belonging to Khafra). Casing blocks at the top of Khafra's pyramid back... Casing block When the pyramid was almost finished, casing blocks of white limestone were laid on top of the main pyramid blocks. Each casing block was then trimmed so that the outer surface of the pyramid would be smooth and white