Hives or urticaria are a type of rash consisting of itchy, swollen, red welts. The itching may be mild or severe. Foods, medications, infections, exercise, scratching, alcoholic beverages, emotional stress and many other factors may worsen hives. Foods such as eggs, nuts and shellfish are common causes of urticaria. Medications such as aspirin and antibiotics (especially penicillin and sulfa) also are common causes of hives. Infections causing hives include the common cold, and other viral infections.
1 The most common causes are foods, medicines, latex, or infections. 2  Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. 3  The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, soy, wheat, and milk. 4  Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods. 1 Drugs that can cause hives and angioedema include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen), high blood pressure medications (ACE inhibitors), or painkillers such as codeine.
Hives lasting less than six weeks are called acute urticaria.. With this type of hives, the cause can often be found. Certain foods, medications, viruses and other illness, and even things in your home (cats, dogs, dust) can cause hives. Insect bites and internal diseases may also be responsible. Sometimes hives will occur in individuals repeatedly without an obvious cause
Often, the cause of chronic hives is not clear. In some cases, chronic hives are a sign of an underlying health problem, such as thyroid disease or lupus. You can try various treatments to relieve your symptoms. For many people, antihistamine and anti-itch medications provide relief from chronic hives. 
The most common causes are certain foods, medications, or infections. Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, and milk. Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods. Certain food additives and preservatives may also be to blame. Drugs that can cause hives and angioedema include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen, high blood pressure drugs (ACE inhibitors), or painkillers such as codeine. Chronic urticaria and angioedema: Hives lasting more than six week
1 The most common causes are foods, medicines, latex or infections. 2  Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. 3  The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, soya, wheat and milk. 4  Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods. 1 Chronic urticaria: Hives or swelling lasting more than six weeks. 2  The cause of this type of hives is usually more difficult to identify than those causing acute urticaria. 3  The causes can be similar to those of acute urticaria but can also include autoimmunity, chronic infections, hormonal disorders and malignancy.
Acute episodes of urticaria last for six weeks or less. Acute urticaria can be due to infections foods, medications, insect stings, blood transfusions and infections. The most common cause of hives is infections. Foods such as eggs, nuts and shellfish are common causes of urticaria. Medications such as aspirin and antibiotics (especially penicillin and sulfa) also are common causes of hives. Infections causing hives include the common cold, and other viral infections.
1 Certain food additives and preservatives may also be to blame. 2  Drugs that can cause hives and angioedema include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen), high blood pressure medications (ACE inhibitors), or painkillers such as codeine. 1 Drugs that can cause hives and angioedema include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen), high blood pressure medications (ACE inhibitors), or painkillers such as codeine.