Why Not To Shave Your Husky. Siberian Huskies are a beautiful breed. Just looking at them is a delight. But the gorgeous dogs you see at dog shows got that way because of the work the owner put into the dog in maintaining the coat. If you don’t like grooming or hair in your house, this is NOT the breed for you! The Siberian Husky should never be clipped / shaved except in medical emergencies. Yes, there are “professional” groomers out there who will tell you to shave your Husky.
The Siberian Husky has little to no pigmentation in its skin. If you shave the Husky, you expose it to the sun without protection. Now you have a dog that can come up with a variety of skin problems including skin cancer. Another reason to NOT clip / shave your Husky is that the fur acts as a protection against insects and parasites. There are vets who will tell you to shave your Husky. These vets are uninformed about the breed. Dogs do not sweat like humans. Their cooling process is done via panting from the mouth, sweating at the paws and cooling the blood in their ears. Shaving the dog does nothing to keep the dog cool.
Shaving a Husky. Ok so first off, I know huskies have two coats and it insulates her from extreme hot and cold. I also know they blow their undercoats twice a year. Secondly, the entire world of husky owners has told me not to shave her. 
I have a Siberian husky too and I wanted to shave her, I thought it would make her cooler during the summer, but the truth was quite the opposite. It could make them very uncomfortable-They have an undercoat that keeps them warm when it's cold, and it also keeps them cool when it's hot. It keeps them dry as well. Also, I work with a dog groomer, and I've seen huskies shaved. It looks absolutely ridiculous! A lot of customers request to have them shaved down, but it's definitely not pretty-the undercoat stays packed in and they look like a shaved sheep. It's not what you would expect.
There are vets who will tell you to shave your Husky. These vets are uninformed about the breed. Dogs do not sweat like humans. Their cooling process is done via panting from the mouth, sweating at the paws and cooling the blood in their ears. Shaving the dog does nothing to keep the dog cool. If you don’t like grooming or hair in your house, this is NOT the breed for you! The Siberian Husky should never be clipped / shaved except in medical emergencies. Yes, there are “professional” groomers out there
Now you have a dog that can come up with a variety of skin problems including skin cancer. Another reason to NOT clip / shave your Husky is that the fur acts as a protection against insects and parasites. If you don’t like grooming or hair in your house, this is NOT the breed for you! The Siberian Husky should never be clipped / shaved except in medical emergencies. Yes, there are “professional” groomers out there who will tell you to shave your Husky.
Huskies have very coarse hair and if a husky needs to be shaved, it won’t destroy his coat bc of it. If he had an injury, a vet would have to shave the area to perform what is needed. The coat takes longer to grow than a poodle type dog. I bathe my cats, yes you heard right, my cats. Some Huskies may develop skin problems after having all of their fur shaved off. It is also possible for the topcoat and the undercoat to grow back unevenly in patches. Please read our article, Never Shave A Husky, for a more in depth description of the Husky coat and why you should never ever shave a Snow Dog.
Here we present you some tips about why not to shave your siberian husky. Huskies are a beautiful breed, Just looking at them is a delight, but it depends from you that how beautiful your husky looks and a part depends from the coat. 
In the town we just moved to there is a couple who have a beautiful black and white husky. Well the other day they were walking the dog past the house and they had shaved the poor pup. All the fur the poor dog has is on its head and tail. I was wondering why its wrong to shave the fur off a husky. The problem when you shave a dog is that BOTH kinds of hairs are cut. The inner coat will grow in faster than the outer coat, and without the outer coat protecting it, it will get matted and lose its softness. Without the outer coat hairs to give it structure, the coat just doesn't lie right either.
Huskies need regular grooming but not haircuts or shaving. Since the Siberian husky is a northern breed, you might think you're doing your dog a favor by cutting or shaving his hair if you live in a warmer climate. Think again. Groom your dog regularly, but forgo the clippers altogether and take it easy on the scissors. 