As stated, bacteria of the genus Borrelia are the cause of Lyme disease. Borrelia spp. are relatives of Treponema pallidum, the infectious agent that causes syphilis. Both kinds of bacteria are spirochetes, and both cause an initial skin irritation followed by long-term systemic (e.g., neurologic) manifestations. 
Introduction to the Spirochetes. Although spirochetes are not a large group -- there are only six genera -- they have had tremendous impact on our lives. Both syphilis and Lyme disease are caused by these bacteria, and other species are important symbionts in the stomachs of cows and other ruminants. Spirochetes are long and slender bacteria, usually only a fraction of a micron in diameter but 5 to 250 microns long. The ecological roles of spirochetes are varied; the group includes both aerobic and anaerobic species, and both free-living and parasitic forms. One species, in the genus. Perhaps the best-known spirochetes are those which cause disease. These include syphilis and Lyme disease, as well as other less well-known ones.
Lyme disease is a systemic infection that results from the bite of a tick and the bacteria, borrelia burgdorfi may be carried by other biting insects such as fleas, mosquitoes and more. It is false to believe that only the Deer tick is a carrier of Lyme, all species can be disease carriers. 2 people found this useful. 1  All About Lyme Disease and How It Affects Your Pet Lyme disease is a disease in dogs caused by infection from bacteria of the genus Borrelia. 2  Lyme disease can affect both humans and animals, like dogs.
The genus Borrelia includes bacteria with all the above characteristics and specifies that the bacterium acts as parasites or pathogens in human and other animals (Singleton, P., & Sainsbury, D., 2006). Borrelia burgdorferi is a species that is known to cause Lyme Disease. These organisms respresent the species that are very similarly related to Borrelia burgdorferi. All of these organisms are found in the genus Borrelia and are distinct from one another in the symptoms that they cause. Genus: Borrelia. Species: Borrelia burgdorferi. Borrelia burgdorferi is classified in the domain Bacteria because it's an unicellular microorganism with a cell wall made of peptidoglycan, and unique RNA polymerase (As opposed to Achaea's cell wall made of polysaccharides and RNA polymerase similar to Eukaryotes).
Borrelia burgdorferi is a bacterial species of the spirochete class of the genus Borrelia. B. burgdorferi exists in North America and Europe and is the predominant causative agent of Lyme disease. Borrelia species are considered diderm (double-membrane) bacteria rather than Gram positive or negative.
Borrelia burgdorferi the causative agent of Lyme disease (borreliosis). Magnified 400 times. Lyme disease, or borreliosis, is caused by spirochetal bacteria from the genus Borrelia, which has at least 37 known species, 12 of which are Lyme related, and an unknown number of genomic strains. Borrelia species known to cause Lyme disease are collectively known as Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato. Until recently, only three genospecies were thought to cause Lyme disease (borreliosis): B. burgdorferi sensu stricto (the predominant species in North America, but also present in Europe); B. afzelii; and B. garinii (both predominant in Eurasia).
There are hundreds of species of ticks found throughout the world, but a tick named  Ixodes  (X-oh-dees) is the one that carries the bacteria that cause Lyme disease in dogs and humans. 
Borrelia is a genus of bacteria of the spirochete phylum. It causes borreliosis, a zoonotic, vector-borne disease transmitted primarily by ticks and some by lice, depending on the species. The 36 known species of Borrelia are named after the French biologist Amedee Amédée. borrel Of the 36 known species of Borrelia, 12 are known to cause Lyme disease or borreliosis and are transmitted by ticks. The major Borrelia species causing Lyme disease are Borrelia burgdorferi, Borrelia afzelii, and Borrelia garinii.