A contract clause is a specific provision or section within a written contract. Each clause in a contract addresses a specific aspect related to the overall subject matter of the agreement. Contract clauses are aimed at clearly defining the duties, rights and privileges that each party has under the contract terms. Contract clauses can take many forms and can cover nearly aspect of business and commercial interests. A common example is a non-disclosure clause in an employment contract, where the employer agrees not to disclose any confidential information belonging to the company.
clause. n. 1. (Grammar) grammar a group of words, consisting of a subject and a predicate including a finite verb, that does not necessarily constitute a sentence. See also main clause, subordinate clause, coordinate clause. 2. (Law) a section of a legal document such as a contract, will, or draft statute. [C13: from Old French, from Medieval Latin clausa a closing (of a rhetorical period), back formation from Latin clausula, from claudere to close]. clause. n. 1. Grammar A group of words containing a subject and a predicate and forming part of a compound or complex sentence. 2. A distinct article, stipulation, or provision in a document. [Middle English, from Old French, from Medieval Latin.
The Contracts Clause is in a section of our Constitution that lists certain prohibitions on the states. These prohibitions are meant to protect individuals from intrusion by state governments and to keep the states from intruding on the Federal government's duties. Application of the Contracts Clause. The Contracts Clause applies to ordinary contracts made between private citizens or entities, including partnerships and corporations. This includes a variety of business contracts, such as vendor contracts and lease contracts.
Definition. Stipulation, subdivision, or a numbered part or section of a document, that clarifies, defines, or explains the subject matter. Clauses are the 'ifs,' 'buts,' and ' ands ' of a contract, proposal, or statute. Use clause in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The clause located in section 5 of the contract implicitly states that the school system bears no legal responsibility toward the students or parents when accidents happen outside of the property of the system.
Provision provided in a scripted agreement or deal. A deal clause will approach a side of the deal between parties, specifying the agreement for ensuring that all parties comprehend what they should expect of each other. 
clause. CLAUSE, contracts. A particular disposition which makes part of a treaty; of an act of the legislature; of a deed, written agreement, or other written contract or will. When a clause is obscurely written, it ought to be construed in such a way as to agree with what precedes and what follows, if possible. Vide Dig
Full Definition of CLAUSE. 1. : a group of words containing a subject and predicate and functioning as a member of a complex or compound sentence. 2. : a separate section of a discourse or writing; specifically: a distinct article in a formal document. See clause defined for English-language learners. 
7 people found this helpful. The last part of the contract clause indicated that both parties were subject to litigation if any aspect of the contract was violated and that these violations could be subject to a penalty which could be in excess of $5,000. A contract clause will address an aspect of the contract between parties, detailing the agreement to ensure all parties understand what is expected of the other.
Clause. A section, phrase, paragraph, or segment of a legal document, such as a contract, deed, will, or constitution, that relates to a particular point. A document is usually broken into several numbered components so that specific sections can be easily located. CLAUSE, contracts. A particular disposition which makes part of a treaty; of an act of the legislature; of a deed, written agreement, or other written contract or will.