A: Cymbalta (duloxetine) is a medication used to treat depression, nerve pain, anxiety, and fibromyalgia. It works to balance out the chemicals, serotonin and norepinephrine, in the brain that cause symptoms of depression.
A: Cymbalta (duloxetine) is a medication that is used to treat depression, anxiety, neuropathy (nerve pain) and fibromyalgia. It is in the class of medications called selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).
A: Cymbalta (duloxetine) is used to treat depression, a chronic pain disorder called fibromyalgia, and nerve damage in people with diabetes (diabetic neuropathy). A reported side effect of Cymbalta is weight changes — typically weight loss due to decreased appetite.
Cymbalta (duloxetine) is an antidepressant used for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia is a chronic disorder that causes widespread muscle pain and tenderness, trouble sleeping, and overwhelming tiredness.
FDA clears Cymbalta to treat chronic musculoskeletal pain Indications include osteoarthritis, chronic lower back pain. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Cymbalta (duloxetine hydrochloride) to treat chronic musculoskeletal pain, including discomfort from osteoarthritis and chronic lower back pain. Cymbalta was first used to treat major depressive disorder in 2004.
A: Cymbalta is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) used for the treatment of depression, anxiety, diabetic neuropathy (nerve pain), and fibromyalgia. When antidepressants or other medicines for mental illnesses are stopped abruptly, symptoms of the illness may return and it may be harder to treat.
View Sources. Duloxetine is used to treat depression and anxiety. In addition, duloxetine is used to help relieve nerve pain (peripheral neuropathy) in people with diabetes or ongoing pain due to medical conditions such as arthritis, chronic back pain, or fibromyalgia (a condition that causes widespread pain).
A: Cymbalta (duloxetine) is an antidepressant that belongs to a class of drugs known as the serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Cymbalta is used to treat major depression, anxiety disorders, and certain types of pain, such as nerve pain and fibromyalgia.