The normal creatine kinase levels in a man are between 38 and 174 units/L while a woman's normal range extends from between 96 units/l to 140 units/L. There are also known differences between ethnicity as African Americans show a higher normal range of creatine kinase levels overall. Creatine levels in a specific person are identified through a blood test performed on a sample of the blood extracted from the vein of the patient. Normal creatine kinase levels range from between 38 to 174 units /L in men and between 96 - 140 units/L in women.
If this test shows that your CK levels are high, you may have muscle or heart damage. CK is made up of three enzyme forms. These are CK-MB, CK-MM, and CK-BB. CK-MB is the substance that rises if your heart muscle is damaged. CK-MM rises with other muscle damage. CK-BB is found mostly in the brain. 
Creatine Kinase. Creatine kinase formerly known as creatine phosphokinase is primarily found in muscle cells including the heart, striated muscles and the brain. The normal range of creatine kinase for men is 38 - 174 units/L and for women 96 - 140 units/L. Men typically have more muscle mass than women which accounts for the higher range values. African Americans have been found to have higher normal range for creatine kinase as well
However, a small percentage of B-subunit can be found in skeletal muscle. Thus, muscle breakdown can also increase the both total CK and CK-MB level. The normal value for CK-MB is 3-5% of total CK, but peak CK-MB level can range from 15-30% of total CK in post-myocardial infarction. Therefore, percentage criteria were proposed to distinguish between skeletal muscle and myocardial damage. 
The amount of CK in the serum is reported in units (U) of enzyme activity per liter (L) of serum. In a healthy adult, the serum CK level varies with a number of factors (gender, race and activity). The normal range is generally up to 250 U/L (units per liter) but varies by laboratory. 
Creatine kinase, more commonly known as CK, is an enzyme that is present in all muscle tissue of the body including the heart and the brain. The normal creatine kinase levels in a man are between 38 and 174 units/L; while a woman's creatine kinase levels range from between 96 to 140 units/L. Creatine levels in a specific person are identified through a blood test performed on a sample of the blood extracted from the vein of the patient. Normal creatine kinase levels range from between 38 to 174 units /L in men and between 96 - 140 units/L in women.
See also creatine kinase elevation. The creatine kinase normal range varies from males to females. For adult males, the normal values are between 38 and 174 units per liter of blood whereas for adult females, the normal level is between 90 and 140 units per liter of blood. An elevation beyond this point is likely to be diagnostically relevant
Cardiac enzyme studies measure the levels of the enzyme creatine kinase (CK), and the proteins troponin I (TnI) and troponin T (TnT) in the blood. Values and units for reporting the results of cardiac enzyme tests vary considerably. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. 
Increased CK-MB can usually be detected in someone with a heart attack about 3-6 hours after the onset of chest pain. The level of CK-MB peaks in 12-24 hours and then returns to normal within about 48-72 hours. If there is a second heart attack or ongoing damage, then levels may rise again and/or stay elevated longer. ^ Back to top.