An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. fibers When an action potential reaches a presynaptic terminal, it activates the synaptic transmission process. The first step is rapid opening of calcium ion channels in the membrane of the axon, allowing calcium ions to flow inward across the membrane.
The terminals release transmitter substances into a gap called the synaptic cleft between the terminals and the dendrites of the next neuron. The information is received by the dendrite receptors of the postsynaptic cell that are connected to it. Activity at an axon terminal: Neuron A is transmitting a signal at the axon terminal to neuron B (receiving). Features: 1. Mitochondrion. 2. Synaptic vesicle with neurotransmitters. 3. Autoreceptor
Neurotransmitters are packaged into synaptic vesicles that cluster beneath the axon terminal membrane on the presynaptic side of a synapse. The axonal terminals are specialized to release the electrical impulse of the presynaptic cell. Activity at an axon terminal: Neuron A is transmitting a signal at the axon terminal to neuron B (receiving). Features: 1. Mitochondrion. 2. Synaptic vesicle with neurotransmitters. 3. Autoreceptor
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. Fibers the function of the axon is to transmit information to different, neurons muscles and. glands When an action potential reaches a presynaptic terminal, it activates the synaptic transmission process. The first step is rapid opening of calcium ion channels in the membrane of the axon, allowing calcium ions to flow inward across the membrane.
noun, singular: axon terminal. Button-like endings of axons through which axons make synaptic contacts with other nerve cells or with effector cells. Supplement. Axon terminals refer to the axon endings that are somewhat enlarged and often club-or button-shaped. Axon terminals are that part of a nerve cell that make synaptic connections with another nerve cell or with an effector cell (e.g. muscle cell or gland cell). Axon terminals contain various neurotransmitters and release them at the synapse. 
In beta cells of the pancreas, they provoke release of insulin. Action potentials in neurons are also known as  nerve impulses  or spikes, and the temporal sequence of action potentials generated by a neuron is called its  spike train . A neuron that emits an action potential is often said to fire. 
An axon nerve fiber is a long, slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, that conducts electrical impulses (called action potentials) away from the neuron's cell body, or soma, in order to transmit those impulses to other neurons. Activity at an axon terminal: Neuron A is transmitting a signal at the axon terminal to neuron B (receiving). Features: 1. Mitochondrion. 2. Synaptic vesicle with neurotransmitters. 3. Autoreceptor
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. body When an action potential reaches a presynaptic terminal, it activates the synaptic transmission process. The first step is rapid opening of calcium ion channels in the membrane of the axon, allowing calcium ions to flow inward across the membrane.
The sequence of events at a synapse is as follows : 1) A nerve impulse reaches the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron; the membrane is depolarised by an action potential. 2) Depolarisation of the axon terminal during the action potential causes voltage sensitive calcium ion channels to open in the terminal knob. 2) Synaptic Cleft: This is the narrow gap between the axon terminal of the presynaptic neuron, and the post-synaptic membrane of another excitable cell. It is filled with extracellular fluid. 3) Postsynaptic membrane: The membrane across the synaptic cleft is called the postsynaptic membrane.