Guide to Caye Caulker. Located around a mile from Belize’s famed Barrier Reef system, the tiny island of Caye Caulker is a popular stop for backpackers and budget travelers, and those just looking to escape the hustle and bustle of daily life back home. 
Go Caye Caulker-Official Site of the Caye Caulker BTIA-Belize C.A. This website is a comprehensive site providing all you need or want to know of Caye Caulker, Belize. Inside lies a library of information, from the rich history of the island to the activities and conservation efforts that entice many tourists visiting Belize to experience the island's wonders and fun. Location: One mile west of Belize Barrier Reef. Length: From North to South, 8.2 km (5 Miles)
Caye Caulker is a small limestone coral island off the coast of Belize in the Caribbean Sea measuring about 5 miles (8.0 km) (north to south) by less than 1 mile (1.6 km) (east to west). The town on the island is known by the name Caye Caulker Village. Caye Caulker is located approximately 20 miles (32 km) north-northeast of Belize City, and is accessible by high-speed water taxi or small plane. In recent years the island has become a popular destination for backpackers and other tourists. There are over 30 tiny hotels, and a number of restaurants and shops
Belize travel destination. This beautiful island lies just south of Ambergris Caye and about one mile west of Belize’s barrier reef. Caye Caulker is a laid back destination. If you catch a taxi, a golf cart is what you'll get. Caye Caulker is reachable with a short 10-minute flight from Belize's international and municipal airport or with a water taxi in about 45 minutes. The island is rather small with 5 miles of extension and with a population of about 1300 people that is made up mostly of Mestizo, but also a mix of Garifuna and Creole.
About these ratings. Just 20 miles north of Belize City sits Caye Caulker, a four-mile-long, sun-soaked island that boasts superb diving and snorkeling opportunities and a relaxed tropical ambience. 
Caye Caulker is popular with divers and there are several dive shops on the island. Contact them a few days in advance to find out what their schedule is. PADI certified dive shops are available offering both recreational diving and open water courses. These courses normally take 3-4 days, providing the weather is fair. Caye Caulker is a small, very laid-back Caribbean island. In fact, its motto is Go Slow and that is exactly what you should do. It is an ideal place to spend a few days while taking a break from travelling around the rest of Central America. Chill out at the split.
Like her neighbor to the north, Caye Caulker’s original settlers were fleeing the Caste War. Caye Caulker residents made a name for themselves with shipbuilding but the coconut has also featured prominently in the island’s history. Fishing, especially for lobster, remains the primary occupation on the island but many Caye Caulker residents diversify into tourism during that industry’s high season. Tour guides take pride in taking visitors to the island to premier snorkel and dive sites just off shore.
By Airplane. Tropic Air flies from the Belize International Airport to and from Caye Caulker connecting conveniently with International flights. Scheduled service is also available from San Pedro, Corozal, and Belize City Municipal Airstrip. Call for reservations. 
Sand and Sun: Located one mile west of Belize Barrier Reef, Caye Caulker is a four mile long island, part of a chain of islands forming the Belize Barrier Reef. Caye Caulker has a relaxing atmosphere with white sand streets, golf carts for transportation, and casual dress with no shoes. 