Intel Socket 2011: The Consumer-CPU Pinnacle. Socket 2011 is Intel’s maximum-performance platform, and home to the fastest consumer, non-server processor you can buy today from a raw benchmarking point of view: the Intel Core i7-4960X Extreme Edition. This socket debuted with the Sandy Bridge-E (for “Extreme”) line of processors in late 2011. 
Your CPU speed, also known as the speed of your computer processor, determines how fast everything happens on your computer. If your CPU speed is slow, there isn’t much you can do about it (although we will discuss some options later). Finding your CPU speed on Windows is easy: 1  Go to the start menu. 2  Right-click the My Computer link for Windows XP or “Computer” for Vista and Windows Seven. 3  Choose Properties from the context menu that appears.
Processor (CPU). The overall speed or clock speed of the computer and how fast it is capable of processing data is managed by the computer processor (CPU). The computer will be much faster and more powerful when it is capable of executing more instructions every second. For example, the first computer processor was the Intel 4004, which was only a 740 kHz processor and capable of processing approximately 92,000 instructions per second.
BUS speed. The bus speed of the motherboard can increase or decrease the speed at which data is being transferred between all the hardware components in the computer. For example, a Front Side Bus (FSB) of 66 MHz is going to be much slower than a 400 MHz FSB. The computer will be much faster and more powerful when it is capable of executing more instructions every second. For example, the first computer processor was the Intel 4004, which was only a 740 kHz processor and capable of processing approximately 92,000 instructions per second.
On one level, choosing a processor speed for your business' computers is simple. The faster your processor speed, the faster your computer will move, and, all things being equal, the more it will cost. Every time that the clock ticks, the processor can execute an instruction or read and write data. A 3.0 GHz processor has 3 billion opportunities per second to do something, while a 3.6 GHz processor has 3.6 billion chances -- making it roughly 20 percent faster.
When you purchase a computer the processor speed is the most important thing to look for. Many people will say that RAM or hard drive stats are more important, but a computer can have 5GB of RAM but a slow processor and you still won’t get a lot done. Think of the processor speed as the brain speed of your PC. You need a balanced and well rounded PC for the processor speed to actually make a significant difference. If you have a 3.2 Ghz processor speed but weak statistics on everything else, then it isn’t worth all of the money spent. Having a system with good balance is ideal.
Why You Can’t Just Compare Clock Speeds. CPU clock speed, or clock rate, is measured in Hertz — generally in gigahertz, or GHz. A CPU’s clock speed rate is a measure of how many clock cycles a CPU can perform per second. For example, a CPU with a clock rate of 1.8 GHz can perform 1,800,000,000 clock cycles per second. This seems simple on its face. 
The speed of a computer's processor is measured in megahertz, or cycles per second. But higher megahertz doesn't always mean better performance. Though a 600-MHz chip has a clock speed that is twice as fast as a 300-Mhz chip, it doesn't mean that the computer with the 600-Mhz chip will run twice as fast. 
In the old days, choosing a computer was easy: you bought the one with the fastest processor you could afford. And you knew which processor was fastest (more or less) by its numerical clock-speed rating. These days it's a lot trickier. Only hard-core techies (and those with the patience to search in Google) know the difference between, say, an AMD A4-3305M and an Intel Core i3-2350M. 
The CPU. “CPU” stands for Central Processing Unit, and is also known as a “processor”. The CPU speed, or processor speed, is the amount of cycles that a CPU can perform per second. This is otherwise known as a Hertz. For example, one Hertz means that one cycle can be completed in one second. 