Hollow organs in the GI tract include the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, including the rectum, and anus. Solid organs of the digestive system are the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder. However, the hollow and solid organs are not alone in the process of digesting food. There are other areas of the body that assist with digestion. They include bacteria in the GI tract and parts of the nervous and circulatory systems.
The human digestive system is a series of organs that converts food into essential nutrients that are absorbed into the body and eliminates unused waste material. It is essential to good health because if the digestive system shuts down, the body cannot be nourished or rid itself of waste. Even the smell of food can generate saliva, which is secreted by the salivary glands in the mouth, contains an enzyme, salivary amylase, which breaks down starch. Teeth, which are part of the skeletal system, play a key role in digestion.
There are many parts of the digestive system, including the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, also called the digestive tract, the liver, the pancreas, and the gallbladder. The gastrointestinal tract is a long, twisting tube of hollow organs that start at the mouth and end at the anus. Solid organs of the digestive system are the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder. However, the hollow and solid organs are not alone in the process of digesting food. There are other areas of the body that assist with digestion. They include bacteria in the GI tract and parts of the nervous and circulatory systems.
The digestive system is a group of organs working together to convert food into energy and basic nutrients to feed the entire body. Food passes through a long tube inside the body known as the alimentary canal or the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). The six primary processes of the digestive system include: 1  Ingestion of food. 2  Secretion of fluids and digestive enzymes. 3  Mixing and movement of food and wastes through the body. 4  Digestion of food into smaller pieces. 5  Absorption of nutrients. 6  Excretion of wastes.
The human gastrointestinal tract is the stomach and intestine, sometimes including all the structures from the mouth to the anus. (The  digestive system  is a broader term that includes other structures, including the accessory organs of digestion). In an adult male human, the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is 5 metres long in a live subject, or up to 9 metres without the effect of muscle tone, and consists of the upper and lower GI tracts.
Main article: Psychology and digestion. Main article: Effects of stress on digestion. Digestion is the process of metabolism undertaken in the digestive system where an organism processes a substance in order to chemically and mechanically convert the substance for the body to use. In most vertebrates, digestion is a multi-stage process in the digestive system, following ingestion of the raw materials, most often other organisms. The process of ingestion usually involves some type of mechanical manipulation.
Digestion Process Overview. Food enters the mouth and passes to the anus through the hollow organs of the GI tract. Digestion happens when food moves through the GI tract. Muscles in the hollow organs contract and relax, moving like a wave that travels through the ocean. This moves food along. Solid organs of the digestive system are the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder. However, the hollow and solid organs are not alone in the process of digesting food. There are other areas of the body that assist with digestion. They include bacteria in the GI tract and parts of the nervous and circulatory systems.
Digestion is usually divided into mechanical manipulation and chemical action. In most vertebrates, digestion is a multi-stage process in the digestive system, following ingestion of the raw materials, most often other organisms. The process of ingestion usually involves some type of mechanical manipulation.
Mixing and Movement. The digestive system uses 3 main processes to move and mix food: 1  Swallowing. 2  Swallowing is the process of using smooth and skeletal muscles in the mouth, tongue, and pharynx to push food out of the mouth, through the pharynx, and into the esophagus. 3  Peristalsis. The six primary processes of the digestive system include: 1  Ingestion of food. 2  Secretion of fluids and digestive enzymes. 3  Mixing and movement of food and wastes through the body. 4  Digestion of food into smaller pieces. 5  Absorption of nutrients. 6  Excretion of wastes.
Digestive Organs. The digestive system is a group of organs (Buccal cavity (mouth), pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, liver, gall bladder, jejunum, ileum and colon) that breakdown the chemical components of food, with digestive juices, into tiny nutrients which can be absorbed to generate energy for the body. 