The Carbohydrate Fermentation test uses Phenol Red Broth to test for the fermentation of different sugars. It is one of the fermentation tests, others include the Methyl Red test and the Voges-Proskauer test. Different people use different sugars, but glucose, sucrose, lactose, and mannitol are often studied. One inoculates bacteria into each tube, if the strain of bacteria ferments that sugar, an acid will build up, changing the color of Phenol Red.
Phenol Red Broth. Phenol Red Broth is a general-purpose differential test medium typically used to differentiate gram negative enteric bacteria. It contains peptone, phenol red (a pH indicator), a Durham tube, and one carbohydrate. We use three different kinds of phenol red broths. One contains glucose; one contains lactose, and the last contains sucrose. The objective of the exercise is to determine which organisms can utilize each sugar. Phenol red is a pH indicator which turns yellow below a pH of 6.8 and fuchsia above a pH of 7.4.
Enteric bacteria that have the ability to ferment lactose can be detected using the carbohydrate lactose, and the pH indicator neutral red. MacConkey agar is one of the most common agar plates found in a clinical microbiology lab. Using neutral red pH indicator, the agar distinguishes those Gram-negative bacteria that can ferment the sugar lactose (Lac+) from those that cannot (Lac-). This medium is also known as an indicator medium and a low selective medium. Presence of bile salts inhibits swarming by Proteus species.
Triple sugar iron agar (TSI) is a differential medium that contains lactose, sucrose, a small amount of glucose (dextrose), ferrous sulfate, and the pH indicator phenol red. It is used to differentiate enterics based on the ability to reduce sulfur and ferment carbohydrates. 
A useful test to identify bacteria is a carbohydrate fermentation test. Fermentation is defined as an ATP generating process where organic compounds, in this case lactose, acts as both an electron donor and acceptor. A phenol red medium, with sucrose as the sole carbohydrate source, is used to detect fermentation. Phenol red indicator gives the medium a red-orange appearance. As lactose is fermented, acidic products are generated that causes the indicator to change from red-orange to yellow. An inverted tube (Durham tube) is sometimes placed in the medium to capture gas formed as a result of fermentation.
Several media are available for this. Most commonly used is phenol red lactose broth. The medium is a nutrient broth to which 0.5-1.0% lactose is added. The p H indicator phenol red is red at neutral p H but turns yellow at p H H. If lactose is fermented to produce acid end products, the p H of the medium will drop. A p H indicator in the medium changes color to indicate acid production.
The selective ingredients are the bile salts and the dye, crystal violet which inhibit the growth of Gram-positive bacteria. The differential ingredient is lactose. Fermentation of this sugar results in an acidic pH and causes the pH indicator, neutral red, to turn a bright pinky-red color. Thus organisms capable of lactose fermentation such as Escherichia coli, form bright pinky-red colonies (plate pictured on the left here). 
With the help of bacteria, lactose fermentation -- the breaking down of the sugar lactose into an acid -- is used to make fermented dairy foods and to test for food poisoning. Lactose fermentation also occurs in your body if you are lactose-intolerant. In Foods. Examples of foods made using lactose fermentation include yogurt, cheese and fermented milk beverages such as kefir. The fermentation process helps limit the spread of unwanted bacteria and other pathogens because it increases the acidity of the food. It also enhances flavors.
An inoculum from a pure culture is transferred aseptically to a sterile tube of phenol red lactose broth. The inoculated tube is incubated at 35-37 C for 24 hours and the results are determined. A positive test consists of a color change from red to yellow, indicating a p H change to acidic. If lactose is fermented to produce acid end products, the p H of the medium will drop. A p H indicator in the medium changes color to indicate acid production.