Square. 4 congruent sides. 4 right angles (90°). Opposite sides are parallel. All angles are congruent. Trapezoid. Only one pair of opposite sides is parallel. Summary. A quadrilateral is a mathematical name for a four-sided polygon. Parallelograms, squares, rectangles, and trapezoids are all examples of quadrilaterals. All parallelograms are quadrilaterals, so if it is a parallelogram, it is also a quadrilateral. The correct answer is that all trapezoids are quadrilaterals. You can use the properties of quadrilaterals to solve problems involving trapezoids.
3. If one pair of opposite sides of a quadrilateral are both parallel and congruent, then it is a parallelogram. 4. If the diagonals of a quadrilateral bisect each other, then the it is a parallelogram. 5. If both pairs of opposite angles of a quadrilateral are congruent, then it is a parallelogram. Proving That a Quadrilateral is a Rectangle One can prove that a quadrilateral is a rectangle by first showing that it is a parallelogram and then using either of the following methods to complete the proof. 1. If a parallelogram contains a pair of consecutive sides that are congruent, then it is a rhombus (definition). 2. If either diagonal of a parallelogram bisects two angles of the parallelogram, then it is a rhombus.
5 Ways to Prove a quadrilateral a parallelogram: 1. both pairs of opposite sides parallel 2. both pairs of opposite sides congruent 3. both pairs of opposite angles congruent 4. 1 pair of opposite sides both parallel and congruent 5. diagonals bisect each other. a trapezoid in which the nonparallel sides are congruent the legs are congruent by definition the bases are parallel (by def. of trapezoid) the lower base angles are congruent the upper base angles are congruent the diagonals are congruent any lower base angle is supplementary to any upper base angle.
1 How to prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given congruent opposite angles. 2  How to prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given that the diagonals bisect each other. 3  How to prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram if one pair of sides is both congruent and parallel. 1 Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given congruent opposite sides. 2  Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given congruent opposite angles. 3  P
A quadrilateral is a polygon with four sides. There are many special types of quadrilateral. A parallelogram is a quadrilateral in which both pairs of opposite sides are parallel. A parallelogram also has the following properties: 1  Opposite angles are congruent; 2  Opposite sides are congruent; 3  Adjacent angles are supplementary; 4  The diagonals bisect each other
Types of Quadrilaterals--Parallelograms. If a quadrilateral has two pairs of parallel opposite sides, then it is called a parallelogram. Parallel sides in a parallelogram are also congruent in length. In addition, because opposite sides are parallel, opposite angles are congruent as well. An example of a parallelogram, with congruent parts identified, is shown below. As with the trapezoid, we can derive a formula for the area of a parallelogram by dividing it into a rectangle and two triangles.
A rhombus is a four-sided shape where all sides have equal length. Also opposite sides are parallel and opposite angles are equal. Another interesting thing is that the diagonals (dashed lines in second figure) meet in the middle at a right angle. In other words they bisect (cut in half) each other at right angles. A rhombus is sometimes called a rhomb or a diamond. The Parallelogram. A parallelogram has opposite sides parallel and equal in length. Also opposite angles are equal (angles a are the same, and angles b are the same). NOTE: Squares, Rectangles and Rhombuses are all Parallelograms!
1 Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given congruent opposite angles. 2  Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given that the diagonals bisect each other. 3  Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram if one pair of sides is both congruent and parallel. 1 Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given congruent opposite sides. 2  Prove a quadrilateral is a parallelogram given congruent opposite angles. 3
rectangle. a parallelogram with at least one right angle opposite sides are parallel opposite sides are congruent opposite angles are congruent diagonals bisect each other any pair of consecutive angles are supplementary All angles are right angles the diagonals are congruent. a trapezoid in which the nonparallel sides are congruent the legs are congruent by definition the bases are parallel (by def. of trapezoid) the lower base angles are congruent the upper base angles are congruent the diagonals are congruent any lower base angle is supplementary to any upper base angle.
A rectangle is a parallelogram with four right angles, so all rectangles are also parallelograms and quadrilaterals. On the other hand, not all quadrilaterals and parallelograms are rectangles. A rectangle has all the properties of a parallelogram, plus the following: 1  The diagonals are congruent. A parallelogram is a quadrilateral in which both pairs of opposite sides are parallel. A parallelogram also has the following properties: 1  Opposite angles are congruent; 2  Opposite sides are congruent; 3  Adjacent angles are supplementary;