Introduction. The solubility of aromatic hydrocarbons, such as toluene, in water, and the decrease in solubility in aqueous salt solutions is an important factor controlling the behavior of hydrocarbons in a variety of environments. 1. Variation of toluene solubility (expressed as C 0 / C salt, where C 0 =toluene solubility in distilled water, and C salt =toluene solubility in salt solution) versus salt concentration for various inorganic salts.
Hydrocarbons are non-polar. Water is polar. So from “like dissolves like” you wouldn’t expect any of these three to be very soluble in water. In fact, unsaturated and aromatic hydrocarbons are slightly soluble in water-the solubility of toluene in water is ~500mg/L – not very much. Cyclohexene is even less than that. Cyclohexane is completely insoluble in wate
Explain your answer. The compounds NaI, NaBr, and NaCl are far more soluble in water than NaF, a substance that is used to fluoridate drinking water. In fact, at 25°C the solubility of NaI is 184 g/100 mL of water, versus only 4.2 g/100 mL of water for NaF. Ionic substances are generally most soluble in polar solvents; the higher the lattice energy, the more polar the solvent must be to overcome the lattice energy and dissolve the substance. Because of its high polarity, water is the most common solvent for ionic compounds. Many ionic compounds are soluble in other polar solvents, however, such as liquid ammonia, liquid hydrogen fluoride, and methanol
The solvents included a number of aliphatic compounds, aromatic compounds including benzene, toluene and xylene, alcohols, esters, ketones and organic sulfur compounds. The experimental data are presented in Table I. Solubility ranged from a high of 5.59% Fe for benzene to 0.09% for 1-Butanol. 
Toluene /ˈtɒljuːiːn/ , formerly known as toluol /ˈtɒljuːɒl/ , is a colourless, water-insoluble liquid with the smell associated with paint thinners. It is a mono-substituted benzene derivative, consisting of a CH3 group attached to a phenyl group. As such, its IUPAC systematic name is methylbenzene. Toluene is widely used as an industrial feedstock and as a solvent. Like other solvents, toluene is sometimes also used as an inhalant drug for its intoxicating properties; however, inhaling toluene has potential to cause severe neurological harm. Toluene is an important organic solvent
Concept: Solubility is the ability of a compound to be dissolved in a solvent. The solubility of organic compounds are very important in organic reaction and purification. Theory: The solubility of organic compounds is a function of the polarities of both the solvent and the solute (dissolved material). A general rule is  Like dissolves like.. This means if the solute is very polar, a very polar solvent is needed to dissolve it; if it is nonpolar, a nonpolar solvent is needed.