Arthritis in the spine is called Ankylosing Spondylitis..... It is a chronic inflammatory form of arthritis that mainly affects the joints of the spine (vertebrae). Inflammation, swelling and irritation cause back pain and stiffness. Over time, people living with AS tend to stoop forward.
Osteoarthritis of the spine is a breakdown of the cartilage of the joints and discs in the neck and lower back. Sometimes, osteoarthritis produces spurs that put pressure on the nerves leaving the spinal column. This can cause weakness and pain in the arms or legs. Osteoarthritis of the spine may cause stiffness or pain in the neck or back. It may also cause weakness or numbness in the legs or arms if it is severe enough to affect spinal nerves or the spinal cord itself. Usually, the back discomfort is relieved when the person is lying down.
Osteoarthritis of the Spine and Disc Degeneration. Medical practitioners often refer to osteoarthritis in the spine as spinal arthritis, degenerative joint disease, or arthritis of the facet joints. Spinal arthritis is relatively common and is most likely to occur in people over age fifty. 
There are many types of arthritis, but the most common, most painful and most frequently limiting type of arthritis is osteoarthritis. “Osteo-” means “bone,” and this type of arthritis mostly affects the weight-bearing joints, such as the hips and knees, as well as joints in the hands, feet and spine. There are several types of joints in the body. The most common is the hinge joint. Type of arthritis: Spinal arthritis. Arthritis can affect any joint in the body, including the joints in the spine. Generally speaking, spinal arthritis occurs in the facet joints (also called vertebral joints). These joints connect vertebrae together and are located in the posterior (rear) portion of the spine.
Other forms of arthritis and related conditions that can affect the back include: • Osteoarthritis. The most common form of arthritis of the back, osteoarthritis is a chronic condition characterized by the breakdown of the cartilage that cushions the ends of the bones where they meet to form joints.
In some cases arthritis, a degenerative (gets worse over time) condition can cause spinal stenosis. Two forms of arthritis may affect the spine: osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis: 1  The most common form of arthritis. 2  Most often occurs in middle-aged and older people. 
Osteoarthritis is also known as degenerative joint disease. It is a condition in which the protective cartilage that cushions the tops of bones degenerates, or wears down. This causes swelling and pain. It may also cause the development of osteophytes, or bone spurs. Osteoarthritis of the spine may cause stiffness or pain in the neck or back. It may also cause weakness or numbness in the legs or arms if it is severe enough to affect spinal nerves or the spinal cord itself. Usually, the back discomfort is relieved when the person is lying down.
Arthritis of the spine can be a very painful and debilitating problem that often affects individuals 40 or older. If left untreated, it can lead to physiological problems such as muscle breakdown or weakness, as well as psychological problems such as anxiety and depression. Let your doctor if any of these movements causes pain. Because symptoms of arthritis of the spine are similar to other spinal conditions, it is important for your doctor to rule out other – possibly more serious – problems. To do this, you may need to undergo a variety of tests such as blood tests and x-rays.