As time marches on, most consumers within the watch market will continue to learn about Skagen watches and become fond of their products. Skagen watches are often not known about among the common consumer market as they are generally a higher end fashion design. Skagen is a name that is becoming increasingly well known in the watch fashion industry as being a leader of functional practicality and luxurious design.
I've got a Skagen Chrono dress watch... I like it a lot. They make clean looking and very low profile (thin) watches. If you like the design I say go for it, because you won't be dissapointed with the quality. I have one Skagen (can't remember what model), and I love it. I love how thin and light it is. The battery died after about a year-and-a-half/two years into owning it. I keep forgetting to get it replaced.
Skagen Watch. I used to be a Skagen fan. 3 days ago, I bought another Skagen watch. When I tried to put it on for the first time at home, it accidentally dropped to the floor, something not uncommon as it was difficult to hold onto the ends of the band with the weight of the watch on the other side. To my surprise, the surface of the watch immediately cracked:
Skagen Men’s 433LSL1 Watch. The next watch in this Skagen mens watches series that I want to share is this 433LSL1. Unlike the 233LTMN that we talked about before, this watch has for its own a high quality and beautiful brown leather strap with an elegant and minimalist white dial. The strong points of Skagen mens watches are elegant simplicity and high level of craftsmanship. Their products also have a wide range of choices in both design and price to fit everyone’s needs and styles.
Skagen, the Danish-originated watch maker is one great example. The strong points of Skagen mens watches are elegant simplicity and high level of craftsmanship. Their products also have a wide range of choices in both design and price to fit everyone’s needs and styles.
At that fair, they were encouraged by several retailers to market the watches under their own brand, which they chose as Skagen Denmark, Skagen (/'skeɪ-ən/) for the Danish fishing village (and peninsula) of that name. The title brand represents Fossil 's subsidiary, Skagen Designs Ltd. (first word pronounced /'skeɪ-ən/), which has as its stated corporate aim to bring Danish-inspired ideals to the world through design imbued with purpose, honesty and simplicity..
Living with my Skagen for a while has told me a lot about a brand that I was missing in my collection. It isn't a watch like the other ones that I have; so obsessed with function, materials, and construction. It is a simple and elegant timepiece, about as simple as you'd want while working to perform its task well. 
This is kind of what I like about them. I think that I can get the one above (Model:809XLTBLN) for around $120 at a reputable online dealer. I don't think that's too much. I am just looking for something with a nice dark blue dial and chronograph for around $150 dollars max. I am not particularly attached to any brand. I have one Skagen (can't remember what model), and I love it. I love how thin and light it is. The battery died after about a year-and-a-half/two years into owning it. I keep forgetting to get it replaced.
Skagen Denmark is the name given to a brand, initially of watches produced by Skagen Designs Ltd. (currently a subsidiary of Fossil (East) Limited), that has grown into being a wider American contemporary accessories brand based on Danish design. The title brand represents Fossil 's subsidiary, Skagen Designs Ltd. (first word pronounced /'skeɪ-ən/), which has as its stated corporate aim to bring Danish-inspired ideals to the world through design imbued with purpose, honesty and simplicity..
I love my skagen watches... I have 3. They are my go to watch when I wear a dress shirt becuase they are so light and thin they to not impede sleeve movement. I find they keep good time but they do go through batteries faster than any of my other watches for some reason. Last edited by JerryVO; 05-27-2011 at 09:27 AM. I have one Skagen (can't remember what model), and I love it. I love how thin and light it is. The battery died after about a year-and-a-half/two years into owning it. I keep forgetting to get it replaced.