1 It is unusual that the gestational period will be lower than 300 days in this case, but it can happen. 2  This is thought to be as a result of elevated cortisol levels-due to fetal stress-causing accelerated fetal development. 1 340 or 341 days are accepted as the most common foaling days, but they are not a due date, merely an average of the average. 2  Foaling days after 370 days of gestation are not uncommon and usually do not represent a problem.
1 The closer to 300 days the foaling, the more intensive the needed care will be; 2  Foals born from mares that suffered from infectious placentitis during pregnancy may be born between days 300 and 320 and yet not show prematurity as there is an accelerated developmental rate in utero with many of these foals; 1 340 or 341 days are accepted as the most common foaling days, but they are not a due date, merely an average of the average. 2  Foaling days after 370 days of gestation are not uncommon and usually do not represent a problem.
my mare is now 2 weeks overdue she is very healthy and in a good condition for foaling she is acting normal and looks very normal she bagged right up about 4 weeks ago so i thought she was really close and then about 2 weeks ago her teets went right down again and now she is only just starting to bag up now...... Two weeks is nothing to worry about. Even humans can vary by more than that. Occasionally a mare will even go 12 months (not 12 months overdue just a gestation of 12 months). Which is almost 4 weeks overdue. The oldtimers say that longer gestations are more likely to be stud colts, though I have not found that true for my mares. Check for wax on the nipples
My friend is freaking out because her mare is 7 days overdue. She had only ONE breeding date (positive) and she would have been due last Saturday, Febuary 16th. So that makes her 7 days overdue. The mare is boarded at my property (foal's ownership will actually be mine but thats another story). Anyways, this is the mares 2nd foal. We aren't sure how the first foaling went, because it was like, 3 owners ago. Mare is a 10 year old, Paint
Sandy (64.158.241.214). Megan, my mare is 3 weeks overdue today. There is no reason to think the foal is dead because they are overdue. A mare can still safely have a healthy foal up to 400 days. I had a mare go to 370 days last year and she delivered a healthy foal without complications. You should still be able to see the foal moving around quite a bit in your mare.
Our record for overdue mares is mare that foaled 40 days past her due date and had a normal foal and foaling: and no, there was not a mistake on the last date of service because she was at the stud right through! The nuisance value of the very overdue mare is that it sets back her breeding program. Just to put your mind at ease, last year (2009) 33% of our mares foaled two weeks plus over their due date, 10% went three weeks and over and 2% went the full 30 days or more!
1 Foals born from mares that suffered from infectious placentitis during pregnancy may be born between days 300 and 320 and yet not show prematurity as there is an accelerated developmental rate in utero with many of these foals; 2  The average range of gestation is between 320 and 370 days. 1 340 or 341 days are accepted as the most common foaling days, but they are not a due date, merely an average of the average. 2  Foaling days after 370 days of gestation are not uncommon and usually do not represent a problem.
Posts: 2,101. The placenta may not actually stop functioning at 2 weeks overdue. . .your due date could be wrong They can run tests/monitoring to check the health of the placenta, and I would say that as long as you are staying informed and checking the health of baby, you have a right to refuse induction. 
The specifics of feeding depend on the breed and age of the mare and her condition as she enters this stage of pregnancy. The mare uses more energy – and requires more nutrition – from the last 6 weeks of pregnancy through the first 6 weeks after foaling than she does at any other time. For a mare that enters the last months of pregnancy in poor condition, it can be very difficult to feed enough to improve her condition. 