Our Sparta, NC showroom is located at 1070 Hwy 21 North. It is stocked with all the latest heating equipment to make your life in the mountains warm and pleasant. 
View our NC Fraser Fir Photo Gallery from our Farm. “Starting a Tree Lot” Resources Reeves Ridge Christmas Tree Farm is a family owned and operated wholesale and retail Fraser Fir Christmas tree farm located in the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains of Northwestern North Carolina in Sparta, NC. 
Interactive Map of Sparta. Sparta, North Carolina is a step back in time-friendly people, relaxing atmosphere and beautiful vistas. Sparta is located in the northwest mountains of North Carolina less than 3 hours' drive from Charlotte, Raleigh, Greensboro and Winston-Salem. Debit/Credit Card Payments of Utility Bills. Effective May 1, 2014 the Town of Sparta will be able to accept credit and debit card payments for utility bills. Please be advised that a transaction fee of 2.15% will be charged to your card at the time of payment.
Alleghany /aelɪˈɡeɪniː/ ælɪˈɡeɪniː county is a county located in The.U. s state Of North. Carolina as of the 2010, census the population 11,155. 11155 its county seat Is. sparta The county is located entirely within the Appalachian Mountains region of western North Carolina. Most of the county is located atop a rolling plateau that ranges from 2,500 feet (760 m) to 3,000 feet (910 m) above sea level.
The Alleghany County Sheriff's Office is led by Sheriff Bryan Maines. His office is located in the Law Enforcement Center at 40 Alleghany Street in Sparta. The Law Enforcement Center also houses offices of the County Magistrates office and Drivers License Examiner. 
From US 421: Take exit 282 onto US 421 Bus./NC 115 north for 2.9 miles. Turn right onto NC 18 North/Second Street. Follow NC 18 north up the Blue Ridge Mountains for 20 miles to Laurel Springs, NC, and 31 miles to the intersection with US 21 in the center of Sparta, NC. From Mt. Airy, NC: Head west on NC 89 north for 20 miles to the intersection with NC 18. Turn left on NC 18 and follow for 15 miles to the intersection with US 21 in the center of Sparta, NC. From Virginia: Take US 21 south and follow into Alleghany County and Sparta, NC. From Jefferson, NC, and Ashe County: Take NC 88 north to Laurel Springs to where it dead-ends into NC 18. Go left on NC 18 and follow for 12 miles to
(Reservations Only). That's the story for this entire mountain area of Alleghany County, located in the northwest mountains of North Carolina. The Alleghany Inn is located in Sparta, North Carolina, just four miles from the New River (second oldest river in the world) and seven miles from the Blue Ridge Parkway. 
Sparta is a town in Alleghany County, North Carolina, United States. The population was 1,770 at the 2010 census. 
Sparta, NC. Located at the crossroads of the county's two main corridors -- US 21 and NC 18 -- Sparta is the physical center as well as the focus of community life for Alleghany County. Like many southern towns, the Courthouse is the center of town. With a variety of motels, bed and breakfast inns and vacation rental properties in and around Sparta, NC, and the Blue Ridge Mountains as a backdrop, the area offers the traveler a welcome respite from the hectic pace of modern life.
Go To Town of Sparta Site. Alleghany County is located in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Northwestern North Carolina and was formed out of Ashe County by an act of the 1858-1859 session of the North Carolina legislature.