History and Cultivation. Bananas originated in South Asia, where they were domesticated. Their presence in Papua New Guinea dates back to at least 5000 B.C. Africa also has a long history of banana cultivation, particularly in Cameroon and Madagascar. Cultivation Today. The main cultivars of bananas are all descended from two wild bananas: Musa acuminata, and Musa balbisiana. Wild bananas have large seeds and little pulp, and are quite difficult to eat. Wild bananas were bred over many years to achieve the tiny seeds they have today.
Bananas originated in South Asia, where they were domesticated. Their presence in Papua New Guinea dates back to at least 5000 B.C. Cultivation Today. The main cultivars of bananas are all descended from two wild bananas: Musa acuminata, and Musa balbisiana. Wild bananas have large seeds and little pulp, and are quite difficult to eat. Wild bananas were bred over many years to achieve the tiny seeds they have today.
Worldwide, there is no sharp distinction between bananas and plantains. Especially in the Americas and Europe, banana usually refers to soft, sweet, dessert bananas, particularly those of the Cavendish group, which are the main exports from banana-growing countries. By contrast, Musa cultivars with firmer, starchier fruit are called plantains. In some countries, bananas used for cooking may be called plantains. The fruit is variable in size, color and firmness, but is usually elongated and curved, with soft flesh rich in starch covered with a rind which may be green, yellow, red, purple, or brown when ripe.
A. A common misconception is that bananas come from banana trees, when in fact the banana is closely related to ginger and ornamental plants such as birds of paradise, amaranths and canna lilies. The banana plant is not a tree, but the world's largest perennial herb and grows up to 25 feet, developing massive banana leaves that may extend 9 feet in the air. Edible bananas are technically berries and do not produce mature seeds [1] . Their rhizomes, or roots, can be hundreds of years old.
ecuador Ecuador is the world’s leading banana exporter. It sends its fruit from banana farms to the U.S., Europe, Japan, Chile and Argentina. The banana industry in North America sources its bananas from tropical regions. Chiquita owns farms in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama. Most of the bananas you buy are grown within 20 degrees on either side of the equator. Delicious bananas are grown at banana farms in tropical regions of the world. The banana industry in North America sources its bananas from tropical regions. Chiquita owns farms in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama. Most of the bananas you buy are grown within 20 degrees on either side of the equator.
There is also evidence of domestication in Africa dating from about the 6th century. Today, wild bananas can be found in New Guinea, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. Domestic banana growing now extends to over 107 countries with the top producers being India, China, Philippines, Brazil, Ecuador and Indonesia. Bananas have been domesticated for thousands of years and are native to south-east Asia. Recent evidence suggests they were first domesticated in Papua New Guinea sometime around 5000-8000 BC.
Bananas are the fruit of the banana plant that are of the genus Musa. They are native to tropical Southeast Asia, and are likely to have been first domesticated in Papau New Guinea. Today, bananas are cultivated throughout the tropics. They are grown in at least 107 countries, primarily for their fruit, and also, to a lesser extent, to make fiber and as ornamental plants. they are native to tropical south east Asia, first cultivated in Papua New Guinea. 1 Bananas are a tasty treat that 2  …. Using the Fruit Diet for Weight Loss Fruit has a large array of benefits to aid in healthy weight loss. 3  Containing minerals, vitamins, and phytochemicals, fruits can boost your health. 4  They have a low level of s….
India, Brazil, China, Ecuador, and The Philippines are the top five exporters of bananas. Today, wild bananas can be found in New Guinea, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. Bananas are the fruit of the banana plant that are of the genus Musa. They are native to tropical Southeast Asia, and are likely to have been first domesticated in Papau New G … uinea. Today, bananas are cultivated throughout the tropics.
Where Do Bananas Come From. 09 Mar, 2010 food, where do 0. The banana is a tropical fruit that has been cultivated for human consumption for thousands of years. It is a popular and healthy fruit that is available in both desert (the common yellow types of banana) and green cooking bananas. Bananas have been domesticated for thousands of years and are native to south-east Asia. Recent evidence suggests they were first domesticated in Papua New Guinea sometime around 5000-8000 BC.