* * *45 percent untreated. In 2010, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) estimated that 40 percent of adults with schizophrenia and 51 percent of individuals with severe bipolar disorder receive no treatment in a one-year period. NIMH also estimated that there are 2.6 million adults with schizophrenia (1.1% of the adult population) and 5.1 million adults with severe bipolar disorder (2.2% of adult population).
About half of these mass killings are being done by people with severe mental illness, mostly schizophrenia. In 2007, Virginia Tech student Seung-Hui Cho was behaving so irrationally that a court ordered him to seek mental health care. The order was never carried out. Cho killed himself and 32 others. 
In fact, they are more common than cancer, diabetes, or heart disease. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, about 25% of American adults (those ages 18 and older) and about 13% of American children (those ages 8 to 15) are diagnosed with a mental disorder during a given year.
One in five Americans experienced some sort of mental illness in 2010, according to a new report from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. About 5 percent of Americans have suffered from such severe mental illness that it interfered with day-to-day school, work or family. Only about 60 percent of people with mental illness get treatment each year, according to the report, and whites and Native Americans were more likely to seek help than African-Americans, Latinos and Asians.
About 50% of individuals with severe psychiatric disorders (3.5 million people) are receiving no treatment. SUMMARY: For the past 20 years, studies have consistently estimated that almost half of all individuals with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder are receiving no treatment for their mental illness at any given time. NIMH also estimated that there are 2.6 million adults with schizophrenia (1.1% of the adult population) and 5.1 million adults with severe bipolar disorder (2.2% of adult population).
Geneva, 4 October— One in four people in the world will be affected by mental or neurological disorders at some point in their lives. Around 450 million people currently suffer from such conditions, placing mental disorders among the leading causes of ill-health and disability worldwide. There is only one psychiatrist per 100 000 people in over half the countries in the world, and 40% of countries have less than one hospital bed reserved for mental disorders per 10 000 people.
Mental illness itself is not life-threatening. However, up to 15% of people seriously affected by mental illness eventually die by suicide (compared to an approximate figure of 1% for the whole population). Effective, ongoing treatment is essential to minimise the risk of suicide. 1 Nearly half (45%) of the population will experience a mental disorder at some stage in their lives. 2  Almost one in five Australians (20%) will experience a mental illness in a 12-month period. 3  During a one-year period, anxiety disorders will affect 14% of the population and depression will affect 6%.
Posted: 11/13/2014 8:16 am EST Updated: 01/01/2015 10:59 pm EST. It's no secret there's a serious stigma attached to mental illness. According to the CDC, only 25 percent of people with mental health issues feel that other people are compassionate and sympathetic toward them. It's a shameful statistic when one in four people have been touched by some form of mental illness. 