A Purchasing Manager is an employee within a company, business or other organization who is responsible at some level for buying or approving the acquisition of goods and services needed by the company. A Purchasing Manager may oversee the acquisition of materials needed for production, general supplies for offices and facilities, equipment, or construction contracts.
The annual salary for someone with the job title IT Procurement Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical IT Procurement Manager in the United States is $97,423, so 50% of the people who perform the job of IT Procurement Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $97,423. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A procurement manager, also known as a purchasing manager or procurement specialist, is a person who is in charge of getting anything a company might need. Procurement is a broad term that describes purchasing and buying in many different industries, and for many different sized companies. Purchasing agents and managers can work for a small retail outfit, or a large multinational corporation. Purchasing managers can work in retail or they can work in the engineering field.
Whether purchasing goods for use or resale, procurement/purchasing managers play an important role in an organization. A procurement manager plans and coordinates the work of buyers and purchasing agents. A procurement manager is also responsible for maintaining and reviewing all records of purchased goods, including their costs, deliveries and inventories. He should lead the procurement department in ensuring that it maintains updated data such as information about suppliers’ products and prices.
Enforcing policy compliance is one of the most important responsibilities of a procurement manager. A company's rules for buying are designed to protect the company from legal challenges, as well as to obtain the best possible combination of price, quality and service. Procurement is a broad term that describes purchasing and buying in many different industries, and for many different sized companies. Purchasing agents and managers can work for a small retail outfit, or a large multinational corporation. Purchasing managers can work in retail or they can work in the engineering field.
(October 2010). Procurement is the act of acquiring, buying goods, services or works from an external source. It is favourable that the goods, services or works are appropriate and that they are procured at the best possible cost to meet the needs of the acquirer in terms of quality and quantity, time, and location. 
A procurement manager is the primary point of contact between a business and its suppliers. Job Description for Procurement Manager. Read More... A procurement manager is the primary point of contact between a business and its suppliers. Using superb analytical skills, a procurement manager identifies potential suppliers, screens them, and negotiates favorable payment terms with selected suppliers.
Procurement managers, also known as purchasing managers, work for large companies and are in charge of managing and coordinating procurement agents, buyers or purchasing agents, as well as working on the most complex purchases for the company. 1 Analytical Skills: Procurement managers work with multiple vendors to determine the best deals for the company, and have to evaluate the many pros and cons of each, based on price, quality, speed of delivery and other factors.