Top Definition. Leave-Behind. When someone casually leaves an object or article of clothing in the home of a person they have just randomly slept with-thereby ensuring that they have an excuse to see this person again.
V n prep/adv 12 verb If you leave food or drink, you do not eat or drink it, often because you do not like it. If you don't like the cocktail you ordered, just leave it and try a different one. V n 13 verb If something leaves a mark, effect, or sign, it causes that mark, effect, or sign to remain as a result.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
12 verb If you leave food or drink, you do not eat or drink it, often because you do not like it. If you don't like the cocktail you ordered, just leave it and try a different one. V n. 13 verb If something leaves a mark, effect, or sign, it causes that mark, effect, or sign to remain as a result.
a. leave someone/something behind to forget to take someone or something with you. It wasn’t until she was halfway home that she realized that she’d left her purse behind. Synonyms and related words. To forget, or to try to forget: forget, blot out, blank out...
to deliberately not think about something, especially an unpleasant experience, and not let it affect what you do in the future. 3. a young woman trying to leave behind a difficult adolescence. Synonyms and related words. To forget, or to try to forget: forget, blot out, blank out...
leave sth/sb behind. — phrasal verb with leave uk us /liːv/ verb (left, left). B1 to ​leave a ​place without taking someone or something with you: We ​left in a ​hurry and I must have ​left my ​keys behind. He was ​forced to ​leave the ​country, ​leaving behind his ​wife and ​children.
leave behind-leave unchanged or undisturbed or refrain from taking; leave it as is; leave the young fawn alone; leave the flowers that you see in the park behind.