Then the students could plant the lima bean seeds about one inch below the surface of the soil. They would add three tablespoons of water to each cup. One cup would be set on the windowsill or some bright spot in the room. One cup would be put in a closet or in a box that is sealed off from light. 
Other Factors. Along with full sunlight, bean plants need adequate water for proper growth and to be healthy and productive. Soaking the soil to a depth of 1 inch once per week is necessary. Sunlight. Bean plants need to be in an area that receives full sunlight, which means eight to 10 hours of sunlight daily. Planting beans in an area that receives six to seven hours of full sunlight daily can reduce the plants' expected yield.
First, I gathered all my materials. I used bean seeds, potting soil, water, a watering can, a 1 Cup measuring cup, a 1/4 Cup measuring cup, 4 pie plates, and a place to record information. Then, I numbered the plates 1 though 4. 1 next put 3 cups of soil and 5 seeds in each pot. Then, I watered each plate with 1/4 cup of water. 
Answer by case (1261). You can over water a plant. It is important to keep the soil moist and make sure the plant get plenty of sunshine. If you plant the bean plants in good quality soil this will help retain some water and provide nutrients to the plant to help it grow faster. add a comment. 
Sun and Soil. Lima beans are a full-sun plant, so choose a spot that gets direct sun for most of the day. Plants in partial or full shade have trouble producing pods and seeds. Moist, rich, well-draining soil is also essential for healthy lima bean growth. 
Overview. According to Sunset Western Garden Book, beans need full sun to grow. Full sun means at least six hours of sunlight per day. Plant bean seeds as soon as the soil is warm, in full sun and in good soil. Beans come in two types--pole beans and bush beans. 
Pole: Direct sowing is recommended. Each seed (bean) should be sowed 1-2 inches deep near a stake, trellis, or fence that they can cling to and grow up. If you want to thin out your garden bed later on: Plant seeds 1-2 inches apart at the base of your support structure.
Because bean plants require full sun, they can experience problems if they do not receive at least six hours of sunlight daily. Plants that receive fewer than six hours of sunlight each day may flower, but they will not produce as many beans. That is because the inadequate amount of sunlight causes the blossoms to drop. Sunlight. Bean plants need to be in an area that receives full sunlight, which means eight to 10 hours of sunlight daily. Planting beans in an area that receives six to seven hours of full sunlight daily can reduce the plants' expected yield.
Natural Light. Like most warm season crops, beans need a minimum of around six hours of full sunlight each day to produce the biggest yields, but they grow best with more sun than that. As long as soil is kept moist and temperatures are not too high, beans thrive in direct sun even during the long days of summer. 