10 most extreme places on Earth. Sexualization is the process by which a person, group of people, or object comes to be seen or interpreted as sexual in nature. This occurs, for instance, when children are exposed to highly sexual materials or behavior. Sexualization particularly, but not exclusively, in women and girls has been linked to a variety of psychological disorders and mental health issues that are nearly ubiquitous in modern society.
Sexualization (or sexualisation) is to make something sexual in character or quality, or to become aware of sexuality, especially in relation to men and women. Sexualization is linked to sexual objectification. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned evidence and is saturated in the languages of concern and regulation.
Research has linked sexualization of young girls to negative consequences for girls and society as a whole, finding that the viewing of sexually objectifying material can contribute to body dissatisfaction, eating disorders, low self-esteem, depression and depressive affect. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned evidence and is saturated in the languages of concern and regulation.
The final two qualities of sexualization are based primarily on the treatment by others of the sexualized individual. If others sexually objectify an individual by using that person exclusively for a sexual purpose, such as pornography or prostitution, that person has been sexualized. This occurs, for instance, when children are exposed to highly sexual materials or behavior. Sexualization particularly, but not exclusively, in women and girls has been linked to a variety of psychological disorders and mental health issues that are nearly ubiquitous in modern society.
A result of the sexualization of girls in the media is that young girls are learning how to view themselves as sex objects. When girls fail to meet the thin ideal and dominant culture’s standard of beauty they can develop anxieties. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned evidence and is saturated in the languages of concern and regulation.
Despite all of this, a lot of critics believe that girls either push sexualization upon ourselves, or that sexualization is a normal part of growing up. Sexualization has been linked to a culture of rape and to the increase in harm against women and young girls. This happens when women are dehumanized. Seeing someone as an object makes it is easier to treat them violently. Sexualization in the media teaches boys and men that it is okay for them to see girls as objects. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, sexualization is a derivative of the verb “to sexualize,” which means to “make sexual; attribute sex or sex role to.” The suffix “ization” means the act, process, or as a result of making or doing.
Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls. PDF, 804KB. The proliferation of sexualized images of girls and young women in advertising, merchandising and media is harming girls' self-image and healthy development. Journalists, child advocacy organizations, parents and psychologists have argued that the sexualization of girls is a broad and increasing problem and is harmful to girls. The APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls was formed in response to these expressions of public concern. What Parents Can Do.
Sexualization. Sexualization, is a derogatory term used by those opposed to it, in particular the way that it relates to women and girls. 
According to the Media Education Foundation, the sexualization of girls in media, and the ways women are portrayed in the dominant culture, is detrimental to the development of young girls as they are developing their identities and understanding themselves as sexual beings. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned evidence and is saturated in the languages of concern and regulation.