Definition. Polenta hails from Northern Italy and is basically a cornmeal porridge. In America, it is also called cornmeal mush. What's especially enticing about this humble, three-ingredient dish is its flexibility. You can substitute broth, or a mix of broth and white wine, for the cold water and salt. 
Polenta is cooked by simmering in a water-based liquid, with other ingredients or eaten with them once cooked. It is often cooked in a large copper pot known in Italian as a paiolo. Boiled polenta may be left to set, then baked, grilled or fried; leftover polenta may be used this way. Quick-cooking (cooked, instant) polenta is widely used and can be prepared in a few minutes; it is considered inferior to cooking polenta from unprocessed cornmeal and not ideal for eating unless baked or fried after simmering. It is also possible to cook polenta in a pressure cooker.
Polenta is best made with either medium-or coarsely-ground cornmeal. Finely-ground cornmeal flour can also be used to make polenta, but we don't like the texture as much and often find that it retains a floury taste. Masa harina is also a finely-ground cornmeal, but with one extra step added. Before the corn is ground, it gets soaked in lime water (or lye water)
In our opinion, polenta refers to the dish and not the grain that goes into it. Polenta can actually be made from a whole range of grains. In Northern Italy, for instance, polenta is traditionally made from semolina wheat. Finely-ground cornmeal flour can also be used to make polenta, but we don't like the texture as much and often find that it retains a floury taste. Masa harina is also a finely-ground cornmeal, but with one extra step added.
Skipping over the polenta dish on the menu just because you're not familiar with it is a crime -- and it stops today. Folks, if you've been living without polenta in your life, you have not been living fully. We are here to right that wrong with a quick introduction to this Italian comfort food. Polenta is made from a corn variety that grows in Italy known as flint corn. It holds its shape better than the Southern US corn used for grits, which is called dent corn. This means that grits often come out on the mushier side while polenta is generally a little coarser.
Polenta is not an ingredient—it's a a dish. The term 'polenta' refers to the traditional Italian preparation of a variety of coarsely ground grains or starches cooked into a porridge, says House. For example, Northern Italy is known for polenta taragna, a porridge of cornmeal and buckwheat meal.. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Polenta is a popular food dish that has long been common in Italian and other European cuisine, but it has gained attention in the United States as well. It is made from ground cornmeal, which is then boiled in water to create a porridge-like substance. Cooked polenta can be used as a base for toppings, such as sauces, cheeses, vegetables, and meat, much the same way that pasta can. In Northern Italy, it is even more popular than pasta is.
In most cases you could use the same cornmeal to make a polenta dish as you would a grits dish, but the type of corn traditionally used to make each food is different. Polenta is made from a corn variety that grows in Italy known as flint corn. It holds its shape better than the Southern US corn used for grits, which is called dent corn. This means that grits often come out on the mushier side while polenta is generally a little coarser.
Made with (medium to coarse) stone-ground cornmeal, polenta is often dubbed “Italian grits.” Like grits, polenta is a traditional hearty porridge with a grainy texture. Polenta originated in Northern Italy, where it was essential to the diets of many peasant and working class people—being both simple and satisfying. 
If you are wondering what is polenta made from and how is it used, then the answer is very simple. Polenta is made from ground corn and can be used in a wide variety of ways. Polenta is a versatile type of food. It is perfect for both vegetarians and vegans because it is made from just cornmeal and water. Polenta is part of the staple diet of Italy. 