It was created with families, educators, and resident care providers in mind, so is readily used in a range of settings. PECS begins by teaching an individual to give a picture of a desired item to a “communicative partner, who immediately honours the exchange as a request. The system goes on to teach discrimination of pictures and how to put them together in sentences. PECS was developed in 1985 as a unique augmentative/alternative communication intervention package for individuals with autism spectrum disorder and related developmental disabilities.
The Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is a form of augmentative and alternative communication produced by Pyramid Educational Consultants, Inc. 1 Phase 1: How to Communicate During Phase I, the focus is on teaching the student to initiate social communication. 2  The student is taught to approach the communicative partner with a picture of a desired object or food item and place the picture in the trainer's hand, in order to receive the desired reward.
Pyramid is the exclusive home of the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) and the Pyramid Approach to Education. Pyramid Educational Consultants, Inc offers a wide range of consulting services and products for educators and parents of children and adults with autism and related disabilities. Our philosophy emphasizes the individual needs of each learner. We are the exclusive source of training and consultation for
Pyramid is the exclusive home of the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) and the Pyramid Approach to Education. Pyramid Educational Consultants UK Ltd offers a wide range of consulting services and products for educators and parents of children and adults with autism and related disabilities. We are the exclusive source of training and consultation for the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) and the Pyramid Approach to Education. Both PECS and the Pyramid are evidence-based strategies, with supportive research from countries around the world.
The Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is an invaluable resource, which can be used with children and young people with Autism Spectrum Conditions and other communication difficulties. PECS does not require complex or expensive materials and can easily be used in school, home or in the community. PECS is a type of Augmentative and Alternative Communication that uses visual symbols to teach the learner to communicate with parents, carers, teachers and peers. The aim is to teach intentional, functional communication and to allow users to communicate their wants and needs. The PECS approach occurs in 6 phases.
The Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) was developed over a decade ago as a unique augmentative, alternative training package that allows children and adults with Autism and other communication difficulties to initiate communication. PECS begins with teaching students to exchange a picture of a desired item with a teacher, who immediately honours the request. For example, if they want a drink, they will give a picture of 'drink' to an adult who directly hands them a drink.
First used at the Delaware Autistic Program, PECS has received worldwide recognition for focusing on the initiation component of communication. PECS does not require complex or expensive materials. It was created with families, educators, and resident care providers in mind, so is readily used in a range of settings. Verbal prompts are not used, thus building immediate initiation and avoiding prompt dependency. PECS has been successful with individuals of all ages demonstrating a variety of communicative, cognitive and physical difficulties. Some learners using PECS also develop speech.
The Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is a system to assist people in communication who are unable to do so through speech. 
Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is a great tool in helping all nonverbal children with or without autism communicate without words. PECS is used in a variety of ways–starting with pictures–to allow the child to make choices and communicate his/her needs. 
The Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) is described by its authors as a unique AAC training package developed for use with young children with autism and other social-communication deficits. (Frost & Brody 1994). 