The Urinary organs include the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. The Urinary system works with the other systems of the body to help maintain homeostasis. The kidneys are the main organs of homeostasis because they maintain the acid base balance and the water salt balance of the blood. Urinary System: a group of organs in the body concerned with filtering out excess fluid and other substances from the bloodstream. 1  Graaff, Van De (2002). 2  Mader, Sylvia S. (2004). 3  Smith, Peter (1998). 4  McCance, Katherine L., Heuther, Sue E. (1994).
1 Decreased water intake or increased exercise by decreasing urine output. 2  To do this your body’s nervous system has to communicate with the endocrine system. 3  Water balance is regulated by antidiuretic hormone (ADH). 4  ADH regulates osmotic pressure of body fluids by causing the kidneys to increase water reabsorption. The body adjusts to: 1  Increased water intake by increasing urine output. 2  Decreased water intake or increased exercise by decreasing urine output. 3
Renal (kidney) failure results when the kidneys are not able to regulate water and chemicals in the body or remove waste products from your blood. Acute renal failure (ARF) is the sudden onset of kidney failure. From the kidneys, urine travels down two thin tubes called ureters to the bladder. The ureters are about 8 to 10 inches long. Muscles in the ureter walls constantly tighten and relax to force urine downward away from the kidneys. If urine is allowed to stand still, or back up, a kidney infection can develop.
decreased cardiac output. A state in which the blood pumped by the heart is inadequate to meet the metabolic demands of the body. Cardiac output and tissue perfusion are interrelated. When cardiac output is decreased, tissue perfusion problems will develop. Normal values are 4 to 8 liters per minute. decreased cardiac output a nursing diagnosis accepted by the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association, defined as a state in which inadequate blood is pumped by the heart
Kidney Failure patients always experience a series of urine changes like frequent urination at night, decreased urine output, bubbly urine, blood urine and urgent urine and so on. All these symptoms are related with urinary system. Also, they can realize the strong smell of urine. Kidney failure is a life-threatening medical condition. Aside from affecting patient’s urinary system, it also can affect patient’s digestive system, nerve system, respiratory system and cardiovascular system
Certain types of medications can also affect the amount of urine eliminated. The urinary system removes a type of waste called urea from your blood. Urea is produced when foods containing protein, such as meat, poultry, and certain vegetables, are broken down in the body. From the kidneys, urine travels down two thin tubes called ureters to the bladder. The ureters are about 8 to 10 inches long. Muscles in the ureter walls constantly tighten and relax to force urine downward away from the kidneys. If urine is allowed to stand still, or back up, a kidney infection can develop.
The organs, tubes, muscles, and nerves that work together to create, store, and carry urine are the urinary system. The urinary system includes two kidneys, two ureters, the bladder, two sphincter muscles, and the urethra. From the kidneys, urine travels down two thin tubes called ureters to the bladder. The ureters are about 8 to 10 inches long. Muscles in the ureter walls constantly tighten and relax to force urine downward away from the kidneys. If urine is allowed to stand still, or back up, a kidney infection can develop.
Introduction. The Urinary System is a group of organs in the body concerned with filtering out excess fluid and other substances from the bloodstream. The substances are filtered out from the body in the form of urine. Urine is a liquid produced by the kidneys, collected in the bladder and excreted through the urethra. Urinary System: a group of organs in the body concerned with filtering out excess fluid and other substances from the bloodstream. 1  Graaff, Van De (2002). 2  Mader, Sylvia S. (2004). 3  Smith, Peter (1998). 4  McCance, Katherine L., Heuther, Sue E. (1994).