The T wave represents ventricular repolarization and is longer in duration than depolarization (i.e., conduction of the repolarization wave is slower than the wave of depolarization). Sometimes a small positive U wave may be seen following the T wave (not shown in figure at top of page). The brief isoelectric (zero voltage) period after the P wave represents the time in which the impulse is traveling within the AV node (where the conduction velocity is greatly retarded) and the bundle of His. Atrial rate can be calculated by determining the time interval between P waves.
Wave of atrial repolarization is invisible because of low amplitude. In sinus rhythm when the SA node is the pacemaker, the mean direction of atrial depolarization (the P wave axis) points downward and to the left, in the general direction of lead II within a coordinate between 15 o and 75 o and away from lead aVR. 
In Cardiovascular Health. The P Wave on and ECG shows depolarization of the Atria, and the characteristics should be smooth, round, no more than 2.5 mm in height, no more than .11 seconds in duration, … and positive in leads I,II, aVF, and V2 through V6. Answered. In Health. 
P wave. the first complex of the electrocardiogram, during sinus and atrial rhythms, representing depolarization of the atria; if the P wave is retrograde or ectopic in axis or form, it is labeled P'. P wave, the component of the cardiac cycle shown on an electrocardiogram as an inverted U-shaped curve that follows the T wave and precedes the QRS complex. It represents atrial depolarization.
This wave is much larger than the P wave, and it represents the depolarization of the ventricles. This, in turn, stimulates contraction of the ventricles and ejection of blood from the ventricles to the large arteries leaving the heart. So you can think of the QRS wave as representing ventricular systole. 
The P wave is a summation wave generated by the depolarization front as it transits the atria. Normally the right atrium depolarizes slightly earlier than left atrium since the depolarization wave originates in the sinoatrial node, in the high right atrium and then travels to and through the left atrium.
The P wave is the first positive deflection on the ECG It represents atrial depolarisation. Smooth contour Monophasic in lead II Biphasic in V1. Normal P wave axis is between 0° and +75° P waves should be upright in leads I and II, inverted in aVR. The first 1/3 of the P wave corresponds to right atrial activation, the final 1/3 corresponds to left atrial activation; the middle 1/3 is a combination of the two. In most leads (e.g. lead II), the right and left atrial waveforms move in the same direction, forming a monophasic P wave.
The P wave in the ECG represents atrial depolarization, which results in atrial contraction. Normally the right atrium depolarizes slightly earlier than left atrium since the depolarization wave originates in the sinoatrial node, in the high right atrium and then travels to and through the left atrium.
The Electrical and Mechanical Equivalents. P wave-this represents atrial depolarization. It is followed by an isoelectric segment, which is due to a conduction delay at the AV node. QRS-the complex represents the depolarization of the ventricles. This is followed by an isoelectric segment. T wave-this represents ventricular repolarization. Atrial Contraction-the atria mechanically contract starting at the beginning of the P wave, until the beginning of the QRS complex.
P Wave. The P wave represents atrial depolarization. In a normal EKG, the P-wave precedes the QRS complex. It looks like a small bump upwards from the baseline. The amplitude is normally 0.05 to 0.25mV (0.5 to 2.5 small boxes). Normal duration is 0.06-0.11 seconds (1.5 to 2.75 small boxes). 