Wisegeek definition: Annatto, also called roucou, is a natural plant extract used to dye an assortment of foods, textiles, and body care products. Primarily, it is used as red / orange in a wide assortment of foods. 
Annatto, also called roucou, is a natural plant extract used to dye an assortment of foods, textiles, and body care products. Primarily, it is used as red food coloring in a wide assortment of foods. 
In these uses, annatto is a natural alternative to synthetic food coloring compounds, but it has been linked to cases of food-related allergies. Annatto is of particular commercial value in the United States because the Food and Drug Administration considers colorants derived from it to be  exempt of certification . In the European Union, annatto has the E number E160b. In the United States, annatto extract is listed as a color additive  exempt from certification  and is informally considered to be a natural coloring.
Annatto (/əˈnaetoʊ/ əˈnætoʊ /or/) əˈnɑːtoʊ is an-orange red condiment and food coloring derived from the seeds of the achiote (Tree bixa). Orellana it is often used to impart a yellow or orange color to, foods but sometimes also for its flavor and. aroma In the European Union, annatto has the E number E160b. In the United States, annatto extract is listed as a color additive  exempt from certification  and is informally considered to be a natural coloring.
Annatto is a spice and a natural color that is derived from the achiote shrub. Annatto is popularly used as a food color and dye, but at the same time, it is also is a good flavor enhancer. It has a beautiful red color which is helpful in bringing red and orange colors to number of recipes. It comes from the achiote seeds which is a heart shaped, red fruit with spines. Annatto is a natural food colorant that has been used since the ancient times. The color represented fire, sun and blood in early American Indian civilizations. The color was used for food, dying clothes, and coloring the body during ceremonies. Annatto is yellow, natural food colorant obtained from the seeds of the Bixa Orella tree. The pigments that produce this yellow to orange color range are the carotenoids, bixin and norbixin
Annatto dye is an orange-yellow food coloring extracted from the seeds of the tree Bixa orellana. It is commonly used in cheeses, snack foods, beverages, and cereals. Previously reported adverse reactions associated with annatto dye have included urticaria and angioedema. What you can do. Keywords: annatto, 160b, natural colour, vegetable dye, bixin, norbixin. Increasing recognition of annatto as a potentially harmful additive. Use of natural colour annatto 160b is increasing in our food supply as artificial colours are phased out.
The color of annatto comes from various carotenoid pigments, mainly bixin and norbixin, found in the reddish waxy coating of the seeds. The condiment is typically prepared by grinding the seeds to a powder or paste. In the European Union, annatto has the E number E160b. In the United States, annatto extract is listed as a color additive  exempt from certification  and is informally considered to be a natural coloring.
Annatto (/əˈnaetoʊ/ əˈnætoʊ /or/) əˈnɑːtoʊ is an-orange red condiment and food coloring derived from the seeds of the achiote (Tree bixa). orellana In the European Union, annatto has the E number E160b. In the United States, annatto extract is listed as a color additive  exempt from certification  and is informally considered to be a natural coloring.
Annatto Color. Annatto is a natural food colorant whose color ranges from yellow to orange. Source of this color is outer layer of the seeds of the annatto (Bixa orellana L.), a tropical bush. Annatto seed contains 4.5-5.5% pigments, which consists of upto 80% bixin. Annato natural colorant combines of: 1. Bixin & 2. Norbixin.