adjective. The definition of emphatic is something that is said or done with strong emotion or action. An example of emphatic is the response of children when asked if they want ice cream.
Many English verbs have an emphatic form consisting of to do + the infinitve and one can make sentence emphatic by using it. Examples. I do think you are mistaken. He does remember the incident clearly. I do visit them once a month. 
emphatic. adj. 1. expressed, spoken, or done with emphasis. 2. forceful and positive; definite; direct: an emphatic personality. 3. sharp or clear in form, contour, or outline. 4. important or significant; stressed: the emphatic points in an argument. 5.
: constituting or belonging to a set of tense forms in English consisting of the auxiliary do followed by an infinitive without to that are used to facilitate rhetorical inversion or to emphasize something. — em·phat·i·cal·ly \-ˈfa-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See emphatic defined for English-language learners. 
The Emphatic Diaglott is a diaglot, or two-language polyglot translation, of the New Testament by Benjamin Wilson, first published in 1864. It is an interlinear translation with the original Greek text and a word-for-word English translation in the left column, and a full English translation in the right column. It is based on the interlinear translation, the renderings of eminent critics, and various readings of the Vatican Manuscript.
Mar, 2013 by Gabriele in English Grammar. An empathic expression is one that is said with emphasis and stress to indicate importance. This type of expression is used to show you have strong feelings about what you are saying. Often emphatic expressions that are written have an exclamation point (!) at the end of the sentence. While spoken emphatic phrases have stress on the word that is used to emphasize or intensify your feelings. Creating an emphatic expression involves adding an adverb intensifier to your existing sentence or expression to make your feelings even stronger. In an emphatic phrase the adverb intensifier is always added before the verb. The most common emphatic intensifiers in English (in my opinion) are “really” and “very much.” I am sure you have heard people use these words frequently, in fact I used one in the title of this post
1 British English: emphatic An emphatic response or statement is one made in a forceful way, because the speaker feels very strongly about what they are saying. 2  ADJECTIVEHis response was immediate and emphatic. 1 Also : : emphatical expressed, spoken, or done with emphasis. 2  forceful and positive; definite; direct ⇒ ■ an emphatic personality. 3  sharp or clear in form, contour, or outline. 4  important or significant; stressed ⇒ ■ the emphatic points in an argument
1. uttered with emphasis; strongly expressive. 2. using emphasis in speech or action. 3. forceful; insistent. 4. clearly or boldly outlined. 5. of or pertaining to a word or form used to add emphasis, as the stressed auxiliary do in affirmative statements, as in I do like it. 2. forceful and positive; definite; direct: an emphatic personality. 3. sharp or clear in form, contour, or outline. 4. important or significant; stressed: the emphatic points in an argument. 5.