Cytosol, a fluid similar to nucleoplasm in both function and composition, is the main component of cytoplasm, making up about 70% of the cell's total volume. A nuclear membrane around the cell's nucleus separates the nucleoplasmic fluid from the cytoplasm in the rest of the cell. Nucleoplasm is the fluid found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. When chromatin is suspended in the nucleoplasm, it condenses during cell division to form chromosomes.
Best Answer: The nucleoplasm is the rich organic soup that fills the interior of the nucleus. The nucleoplasm functions like the cytoplasm of the cell. The prominent structure in the nucleus is the nucleolus. The nucleolus produces ribosomes, which move out of the nucleus to positions on the rough endoplasmic reticulum where they are critical in protein synthesis. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Nucleoplasm, also called nuclear sap or karyoplasm, is the fluid usually found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. This fluid contains primarily water, dissolved ions, and a complex mixture of molecules. Its primary function is to act as a suspension medium for the organelles of the nucleus. Nucleoplasm is the fluid found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. When chromatin is suspended in the nucleoplasm, it condenses during cell division to form chromosomes.
Confidence votes 96. Similar to the nucleoplasm of a cell, the nucleus contains cytoplasm or nuclear waste. The nucleoplasm is one of the types of particulates, and it is enveloped by the nuclear bell or nuclear knot. The nucleoplasm is a highly soluble gas that surrounds the chromosomes and the cell wall. Many substances such as nucleowaves (necessary for purposes such as the replication of DNA) and enzymes (which direct activities that take place in the nucleus) are dissolved in the nucleoplasm.
Similar to the cytoplasm of a cell, the nucleus contains ' nucleoplasm' (nucleus sap) or karyoplasm. The nucleoplasm is one of the types of protoplasm, and it is enveloped by the nuclear membrane or nuclear envelope. The nucleoplasm is a highly viscous liquid that includes the chromosomes and nucleoli. Many substances such as nucleotides (necessary for purposes such as the replication of DNA) and enzymes (which direct activities that take place in the nucleus) are dissolved in the nucleoplasm. The soluble, liquid portion of the nucleoplasm is called the nucleosol or nuclear hyaloplasm.
Nucleoplasm vs Cytoplasm. In order to understand the basic difference between nucleoplasm and cytoplasm, you also have to have a basic understanding of the structure of a cell. A cell is created with layers, starting with an outer wall. 