Their nervous system is spread through their arms and their “blood” is actually filtered sea water. Size relative to a tea cup: Marine scientists have undertaken the difficult task of replacing the beloved starfish’s common name with sea star because, well, the starfish is not a fish. It’s an echinoderm, closely related to sea urchins and sand dollars. 
It is sometimes referred to as Asterias vulgaris, which was the scientific name originally used for the sea star in the western North Atlantic off the eastern coast of the U.S. and Canada, while Asterias rubens referred to the common sea star in the eastern North Atlantic. 
The starfish (commonly as a sea star) is generally found with 5 arms that are attached to a central disc. This central disc is the activity center of the starfish and also contains the mouth of the starfish. The starfish has the incredible ability to regenerate itself into a new starfish, with a single lost arm attached to a portion of the central starfish body disc!
Starfish are marine invertebrates. They typically have a central disc and five arms, though some species have a larger number of arms. The aboral or upper surface may be smooth, granular or spiny, and is covered with overlapping plates. The fossil record for starfish is ancient, dating back to the Ordovician around 450 million years ago, but it is rather poor, as starfish tend to disintegrate after death.
The tropical crown-of-thorns starfish (Acanthaster planci) is a voracious predator of coral throughout the Indo-Pacific region, and the northern Pacific sea star is considered to be one of the world's 100 worst invasive species. The fossil record for starfish is ancient, dating back to the Ordovician around 450 million years ago, but it is rather poor, as starfish tend to disintegrate after death.
The common starfish or common sea star (Asterias rubens) is the most common and familiar starfish in the north-east Atlantic. It has five arms and usually grows to between 10–30 cm across, although larger specimens (up to 52 cm across) are known. The common starfish is usually orange or brown, and sometimes violet; deep-water specimens are pale. The starfish is usually orange or brick red on the aboral surface and paler on the oral surface but can also be purple or pale brown. Individuals from deep water are usually paler. It grows to a maximum diameter of about 52 centimetres (20 in) but a more normal size is 10 to 30 cm (4 to 12 in).
Starfish belong to the class Asteroidea. The scientific name of a particular species consists of the Genus name followed by the species name. An example for starfish would be … Asterina miniata (where Asterina is the Genus name and miniata is the species name). 2 people found this useful
Starfish belong to the class Asteroidea. The scientific name of a particular species consists of the Genus name followed by the species name. An example for starfish would be … Asterina miniata (where Asterina is the Genus name and miniata is the species name). 2 people found this useful. Well a starfish is called a starfish because,it is shaped like a star. (answer found by 10 year old Katie Shymonowicz(Shy-mon-o-witz) Katie is right, but I must add that a … starfish is no longer called a starfish.
About 1,500 species of starfish occur on the seabed in all the world's oceans, from the tropics to frigid polar waters. They are found from the intertidal zone down to abyssal depths, 6,000 m (20,000 ft) below the surface. The fossil record for starfish is ancient, dating back to the Ordovician around 450 million years ago, but it is rather poor, as starfish tend to disintegrate after death.