Even with your basic small bathroom, a full bathroom remodel can run to up to $8000 in expenses-this is usually the cost estimated if you're hiring a contractor to do the work for you, which may seem like a lot but in the end it does save you a lot of time and frustration. When you have your bathroom remodeling estimate ready, remember to always take into account any extras such as decorating-towel racks and towels alone can run up to $500 in costs. In the end, this is a costly project but it's much rewarding and worthy of all of your money and efforts.
This site compares average cost for 36 popular remodeling projects with the value those projects retain at resale in 102 U.S. markets. Check out this year's trends and how they compare to prior years. 
In 2012, Remodeling Magazine estimated that the average cost of a bathroom remodel in the Southeast was a little over $16,000, which included labor and materials. Their job description for updating a 5-by-7 foot bathroom included the following: 
The materials for the average small bathroom remodel will cost between $8,000 and $10,000. This includes new fixtures like a new toilet, new sink, and a new bathtub. It also includes the cost of new tiling, new cupboards, and a countertop for the sink. When you are remodeling a small bathroom, you need to make sure that your costs are always in the forefront of your mind. Using this guide, you will be able to develop a reasonably accurate estimate of how much a small bathroom remodel costs.
Typical Hourly Rate = $50-$75 per hour. When you are remodeling a small bathroom, you need to make sure that your costs are always in the forefront of your mind. Using this guide, you will be able to develop a reasonably accurate estimate of how much a small bathroom remodel costs.
And the average cost of a bathroom remodel in New York City is roughly $9,500 to $13,000. Once you have ideas for your renovation planned out, the next step is to find bath remodel accessories in your price range. Find more information below on the costs of common accessories included in a bathroom remodel, along with design ideas and considerations concerning hiring a remodeling contractor. You want to get the best bathroom possible for your dime, so make sure you are armed with plenty of knowledge before you start calling.
Homeowners have many options when it comes to bathroom remodels and the total cost depends on style and budget. The average bathroom remodel costs $9,254, but you can spend less-between $3,500 and $7,000 - to fix up the essentials in a small-to medium-sized bathroom. Find more information below on the costs of common accessories included in a bathroom remodel, along with design ideas and considerations concerning hiring a remodeling contractor. You want to get the best bathroom possible for your dime, so make sure you are armed with plenty of knowledge before you start calling.
According to Remodeling magazine's 2005 Cost vs. Value Report, a mid-range bathroom remodel is approximately $10,499, higher or lower depending on where you live (and how you define mid-range). Redoing your bathroom will cost you less in the South and more in the West and Northeast. An upscale bathroom remodel is estimated to cost $26,052 — a hefty jump in price — and to recoup about 93 percent of that on resale. Here are some considerations to keep in mind when planning a bath remodel.
The average cost to remodel a bathroom in Dallas is approximately $7,300 to $10,000. by Beyond Designs and Remodeling, Inc. , a Bathroom Remodeling Contractor in Brooklyn, NY. For most homeowners in Brooklyn, the average cost for a bathroom remodel is approximately $9,800 to $13,000. Find more information below on the costs of common accessories included in a bathroom remodel, along with design ideas and considerations concerning hiring a remodeling contractor. You want to get the best bathroom possible for your dime, so make sure you are armed with plenty of knowledge before you start calling.
So what are the average costs of bathroom remodeling? This is a hard question to answer as prices range anywhere from $5,000 up to $30,000 depending on the amount of work and change you want to implement into your bathroom remodeling project. When you have your bathroom remodeling estimate ready, remember to always take into account any extras such as decorating-towel racks and towels alone can run up to $500 in costs. In the end, this is a costly project but it's much rewarding and worthy of all of your money and efforts.