HVAC technicians at entry-level positions, often serve as apprentices to more experienced technicians. Their pay entirely depends on the job requirements, but it can be anywhere from $22,000 to $25,000 a year. Experienced HVAC salary. When these technicians get certified, their prospects brighten considerably. They can expect to earn anywhere from $30,000 to $55,000 annually, again, depending on their level of expertise. HVAC stands for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning and this accurately describes the type of work HVAC technicians deal with. HVAC salary. According to various sources, including the Bureau of Labor Statistics, this is one industry that definitely benefits from education and experience.
Salary of a HVAC technician depends on many factors. Anyway, the median pay for this kind of specialist in the United States is $41,000. Experience. HVAC technician salary by years of experience. Source: Payscale. According to our research, this is the main influencer. As you can see from the graph on the left, the starting wage increases as you gain more
Average Certified HVAC Technician salaries for job postings nationwide are 23% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
HVAC Salary. Salary of a HVAC technician depends on many factors. Anyway, the median pay for this kind of specialist in the United States is $41,000. In this research we have tried to analyze the main variables that influence HVAC salary, and below you can find them, most important are placed on top. Experience. HVAC technician salary by years of experience. Source: Payscale. According to our research, this is the main influencer. As you can see from the graph on the left, the starting wage increases as you gain more
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average salary for an HVAC technician in 2008, was $42,000 per year – or $20.31 per hour. While $42,000 is the average salary, the typical wages for general HVAC technicians varies widely depending on the type of job and you’re the area in which you reside.
Other Job specific salaries include refrigeration technician with an annual pay rate of $45,000, HVAC controls technician with annual earnings of $60,000, air conditioning tech who earns on average $47,000 per year as well as a HVAC air balancing technician who can see upwards of $70,000 annually. HVAC stands for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning and this accurately describes the type of work HVAC technicians deal with. HVAC salary. According to various sources, including the Bureau of Labor Statistics, this is one industry that definitely benefits from education and experience.
In October 2009, the average salary for an HVAC technician was $52,000. However, the salary varies widely depending on whether or not you choose to specialize in one area of the industry, where you live and what type of work you do. HVAC technicians and mechanics can choose to specialize in one of numerous fields. While $42,000 is the average salary, the typical wages for general HVAC technicians varies widely depending on the type of job and you’re the area in which you reside.
So, in order to get a stable career with a good salary in the ever changing economic times, HVAC technician job is always a good option. As per the resources, the lowest salary received by a fresh certified HVAC technician is 22 to 25 dollars per hour. In case the person has completed any additional courses then, he may also get up to 30 to 35 dollars per hour. 
Average hvac technician salaries for job postings nationwide are 29% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
An HVAC installer can earn an average of $42,000 a year, with four or more years of experience, while those new to the field make an average of $26,000 the first three years. Working in the motor vehicle manufacturing industry can offer the highest salary, with the average employee earning $68,000 a year. The HVAC salary will typically depend on an individual’s skill level, years of experience and place of employment. The tech will working by installing, repairing and maintaining air conditioning, ventilation and heating units for commercial or residential buildings.