Best Answer: It's pronounced Owen and is a Gaelic name (used in both Irish and Scottish cultures). Gaelic names are always difficult to pronounce because they are said differently to how they are spelt. How do you pronounce the name Eoghan? Update: i don't like the name much i just know someone online called it and i've been pronouncing it ee-oh-an which i know isnt right at all....
[ 2 syll. eo -(g) han, eog-h- an ] The baby boy name Eoghan is pronounced as YowehN †. Eoghan is used mostly in Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish, and its language of origin is Celtic and Old Greek. From Celtic roots, its meaning is born of the yew. It is derived from the element 'ebor' which is of the meaning yew. The name is of debated origin and meaning.
Eoghan. Meaning of the Irish name Eoghan. Listen and learn how to pronounce Eoghan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. 
Eoghan /eo-ghan/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced YEW-en, YO-wen. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Eoghan is born of yew . Derived from i r meaning yew tree. Also possibly means youth or noble. Eoghan is an uncommonly occurring given name for males. Eoghan is an unusual last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Eoghan for boys. Eoghan reached its highest position of #39 in Ireland in the year 2009, and is at #62 currently.
Personal experiences with the name Eoghan: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Eoghan: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Eoghan: | Edit. The boy's name Eoghan \e(o)-ghan\ is pronounced Oh-wen. It is of Gaelic origin, and its meaning is born of yew; youth. In Irish legend, Eoghan eóghan was the name of one of the two sons Of niall of The Nine (hostages the other Was). conall 
An Android app is available for download. Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names
Eoghan is a derivative of the English and French name Eugene. The English and Scottish Euan, the Scottish Euen, the Scottish Evan, the English and Scottish Ewan, the English and Scottish Ewen, the English Ewing, the English, Gaelic, and Welsh Owain, and the English, Irish, and Welsh Owen are derivatives of the name. Eoghan is used mostly in Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish, and its language of origin is Celtic and Old Greek. From Celtic roots, its meaning is born of the yew. It is derived from the element 'ebor' which is of the meaning yew. The name is of debated origin and meaning.
Please try again later. Audio and video pronunciation of Eoin brought to you by Pronounce Names (http://www.PronounceNames.com), a website dedicated to helping people pronounce names correctly. For more information about this name, such as gender, origin, etc., go to http://www.PronounceNames.com/Eoin. 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License