Hate to disagree with you Mary, but a year is the generally recommended shelf life for ground spices. Personally, I think that's far too long. Most whole spices will last two days longer than forever. The entire history of the spice trade is written in that fact. Spice caravans often lasted two to three years before even reaching what we'd now call a wholesaler, and it could be another year before a consumer got them. Didn't affect the quality of the spices.
1 Store in cool, dark cupboard, away from direct heat or sunlight; keep tightly closed when not in use. 2  Spices and herbs bought in bulk will better retain flavor and potency if stored in containers with tight-fitting lids. 1 Spices and herbs bought in bulk will better retain flavor and potency if stored in containers with tight-fitting lids. 2  Storage time shown is for best quality only — commercially dried spices and herbs do not spoil, but they will lose their potency over time and not flavor food as intended.
Unopened dried spices have a shelf life of up to two or three years, depending on the specific spice and whether it is a whole spice or a ground spice. A rule of thumb is that whole spices (such as peppercorns, cinnamon sticks, and cloves) have the longest life. Ground herbs and spices are generally more fragile. 
They can last up to four years in an airtight container that is stored in a cool, dry place. It will keep even better in the dark. Extremely strong spices, such as whole cloves, cinnamon, and pepper, may last even longer. Spices, both whole and ground, do have a shelf life, although it is longer than some people might imagine. They do not go bad in the sense of becoming rancid or spoiled, but they do lose potency and complex layers of flavor.
Ground cinnamon that’s three years old will not carry as much flavor as cinnamon that’s only three months old. There are some people who recommend tossing out spices after six months, but I think that is ridiculous. Whole spices like cinnamon sticks, whole cloves, and peppercorns last for years and years. Ground spices have a shorter shelf life because their surfaces are more exposed to the elements, but can still be good for 1-2 years, easily. If you’re concerned about a particular spice, try these two tricks: 1. Smell it
Black pepper should be kept in a tightly sealed glass container in a cool, dark and dry place. Whole peppercorns will keep almost indefinitely, while ground pepper will stay fresh for about three months. Pepper can also be frozen although this will make its flavor more pronounced. 
Keep it whole. Whole spices, peppercorns and whole leaf herbs [where available] last longer than ground or crushed. If you can, purchase ingredients whole [like nutmeg, cloves, chiles, peppercorns etc.] and crumble, grind, crush, or shave them as needed. Keep it small. Keep it fresh. * Rubs and Blends – 1-3 years [depends on the shelf-life of the component ingredients]. More specifically, here are some storage recommendations for some common herbs and spices, measured in years 1  : Allspice: 2 – 3. 2  Anise: whole, 3-4; ground, 2-3.
Yesterday I received a gift sampler pack of whole black pepper corns from http://www.pepper-passion.com/ (a highly recommended source for pepper) and that started me wondering about how long black and white pepper will keep before losing potency. Most whole spices will last two days longer than forever. The entire history of the spice trade is written in that fact. Spice caravans often lasted two to three years before even reaching what we'd now call a wholesaler, and it could be another year before a consumer got them. Didn't affect the quality of the spices.
Stored in an airtight container [like our glass jars and bottles], these dry ingredients will be usable for a long time. Expert opinions vary, but, if you average all the opinions out, here’s approximately how long you should keep “Old Spice[s]” on your spice shelf: * Herbs – 1-3 years. * Spices – Whole 2-4 years. * Rubs and Blends – 1-3 years [depends on the shelf-life of the component ingredients]. More specifically, here are some storage recommendations for some common herbs and spices, measured in years 1  : Allspice: 2 – 3. 2  Anise: whole, 3-4; ground, 2-3.