Histology slide of a solar lentigo. Liver spots (also known as age spot, solar lentigo, Lentigo senilis, Old age spot, Senile freckle) are blemishes on the skin associated with aging and exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun. 
Abnormalities of the genitalia occur most often in males with multiple lentigines syndrome. The most common abnormality in affected males is undescended testes (cryptorchidism). Other males may have a urethra that opens on the underside of the penis (hypospadias). 
Exposure to the sun seems to be the major cause of lentigines. Lentigines most often appear on parts of the body that get the most sun, including the face and hands. Some lentigines might be caused by genetics (family history) or by medical procedures such as radiation therapy. A skin tag is a small flap of tissue that hangs off the skin by a connecting stalk. Skin tags are benign and are not dangerous. They are usually found on the neck, chest, back, armpits, under the breasts, or in the groin area.
A. Lentigines are also called age spots. Age spots are small flat pigmented spots that are most often seen on areas of the body that have been exposed to the sun over a period of years. Age spots usually occur after the age of 40. This answer should not be considered medical advice...
A lentigo (/lɛnˈtaɪɡoʊ/) (plural lentigines, /lɛnˈtɪdʒɨniz/) is a small pigmented spot on the skin with a clearly defined edge, surrounded by normal-appearing skin. It is a harmless (benign) hyperplasia of melanocytes which is linear in its spread. Lentigines are distinguished from freckles (ephelis) based on the proliferation of melanocytes. Freckles have a relatively normal number of melanocytes but an increased amount of melanin. A lentigo has an increased number
Lentigines (pleural of lentigo) are flat brown lesions which do not darken following sun exposure (thus differentiating them from ephelides or true freckles). One study of Caucasian women found that lentigines were signs of photo-damage whereas there was a genetic component in true freckles. 1 Lentigines profusa-in this condition, there are widespread lentigines over the arms, legs and genitalia. 2  There are no trigger factors or associated abnormalities (thus differentiating them from a number of lentigo-associated syndromes, see below).
A lentigo (plural: lentigines) is a spot on the skin that is darker (usually brown) than the surrounding skin. Lentigines are more common among Caucasian patients, especially those with fair skin, but can occur in anyone. A skin tag is a small flap of tissue that hangs off the skin by a connecting stalk. Skin tags are benign and are not dangerous. They are usually found on the neck, chest, back, armpits, under the breasts, or in the groin area.
A solar lentigo is a benign, flat, light to darkish brown growth that may appear on the skin singly. Alternately some people have many of them and in the plural form, these are called lentigines. 