Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired. Creatinine is a chemical waste molecule that is generated from muscle metabolism. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day.
A low GFR or creatinine clearance demonstrates kidney disease. The decline in kidney function can be either acute (sudden, often reversible) or chronic (long-term and irreversible). Repeated GFR or creatinine clearance measurements over time can identify kidney disease as acute or chronic. Stage 3: GFR 30-59 (moderate decline in kidney function). Stage 4: GFR 15-29 (severe decline in kidney function). Stage 5: GFR less than 15 (kidney failure, usually requiring dialysis). People over age 60 may have an apparently normal creatinine blood level, but still have a low GFR and creatinine clearance. The 24-hour urine collection method, or one of the GFR estimation formulas, can more accurately identify the decline in kidney function
The normal range for creatinine level is 0.5mg/dL-1.3mg/dL. Creatinine level 4mg/dL is higher than the normal range. Generally speaking, high creatinine level occurs when at least half of kidney function has been damaged. The normal range of creatinine is 0.5-1.3mg/dL. Creatinine level is 12.11mg/dL is extremely higher than the normal range. If left untreated, high creatinine level can be dangerous and even life-threatening.
The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease. As the kidneys become impaired for any reason, the creatinine level in the blood will rise due to poor clearance of creatinine by the kidneys. Abnormally high levels of creatinine thus warn of possible malfunction or failure of the kidneys. Creatinine is a chemical waste molecule that is generated from muscle metabolism. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
In this article. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys
When there is kidney damage or kidney disease, and the kidneys are not able to filter waste efficiently, there will likely be a rise in creatinine levels in the blood. For adults with kidney disease, dialysis is recommended when creatinine levels reach 10.0 mg/dL. Creatinine is a chemical waste product in the blood that passes through the kidneys to be filtered and eliminated in urine. The chemical waste is a by-product of normal muscle contractions. Creatinine is made from creatine, a supplier of energy to the muscle.
In kidney failure, the creatinine must be high, but not high creatinine level indicate kidney failure. Your creatinine level may be far beyond the normal level when you are in stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease. Creatinine is the metabolic product of muscles and it should be filtered by kidneys and discharged through urine. Due to the compensatory ability of kidneys, creatinine level will not go up unless half of kidney function is lost.