The extraocular muscles are the six muscles that control movement of the eye (there are four in bovines) and one muscle that controls eyelid elevation (levator palpebrae). The actions of the six muscles responsible for eye movement depend on the position of the eye at the time of muscle contraction. 
Cranial Nerve 2. Cranial nerve 2 is also called the optic nerve. This nerve exits the eye through an area in the back of the eye called the optic disk and goes to the brain stem. Once it is there, some of the nerve fibers that are from the right eye will go to the left side of the brain. There are actually 12 cranial nerves; three of them stimulate the eye muscles, while three others affect the eye in other ways. “LR 6” is the lateral rectus muscle stimulated by cranial nerve 6. “SO 4” is the superior oblique muscle stimulated by cranial nerve 4. The “3” is for cranial nerve 3 which stimulates, innervates, the remaining eye muscles. Cranial nerve 2 is also called the optic nerve
Here is an easy way to remember the cranial nerves that innervate the muscles of the eyes. CN IV innervates the lateral rectus muscle of the eye. This muscle abducts the eye, the nerve then is called abducens. CN VI innervates the superior rectus muscle of the eye. This muscle goes through a pulley called the trochlea, so this nerve is called the trochlear nerv
It provides somatic motor innervation to four of the extrinsic eye muscles: the superior rectus, inferior rectus, medial rectus, and the inferior oblique muscles. It also innervates the muscles of the upper eyelid and the intrinsic eye muscles Together, CN III, CN IV and CN VI control the six muscles of the eye. 
Trochlea means pulley and this nerve innervates an extrinsic eye muscle called the. superior oblique. that hooks through a pulley-shaped ligament (called the trochlea) on the medial aspect of the orbit. It causes the eye to move down and outward (inferolaterally). 
The muscles of the eye are innervated by 3 different nerves; cranial nerve III, cranial nerve IV, and cranial nerve VI. Cranial nerve III innervates most of the muscles, while … IV and VI each innervate one. 10 people found this useful. Cranial nerves that have a motor function tend to be  bilaterally innervated. In other words, the right  accessory nerve (XI) receives input from both the right and the  le … ft motor cortex.
When the trochlear nerve (cranial nerve IV) is damaged, a palsy of the superior oblique muscle may occur. Typically, this will resut in an excyclotorsion (outward rotation), along with a lesser hypertropia and esotropia (upward and inward movement) of the affected eye. When the abducens nerve (cranial nerve VI) is damaged, a palsy of the lateral rectus (LR) muscle may occur, resulting in an esotropia of the affected eye. That eye generally will not be able to look outward past the midline, and it will be somewhat turned inward when the other eye is fixating straight ahead.