Surface Mining Law & Legal Definition. Surface mining is a type of mining in which soil and rock overlying the mineral deposit (the overburden) are removed. It is used when deposits of commercially useful minerals or rock are found near the surface. However surface mining operations result in disturbances of surface areas that burden and adversely affect commerce and the public welfare by destroying or diminishing the utility of land for commercial, industrial, residential, recreational, agricultural, and forestry purposes.
Surface mining is a method of mining used to extract minerals and metals which are near the surface of the Earth. There are three basic types of surface mining: open pit mining, strip mining, and quarry mining. This type of surface mining, also known as hard rock mining, is typically employed to extract metal ores, like copper, gold, iron, and aluminum, and other minerals. Strip mining is a form of surface mining that is primarily used for coal excavation. The rock and dirt covering the ore is removed one strip at a time. Once the ore has been taken from the first strip, a second strip is cut next to it, and the waste from the second strip is used to back fill the first
Surface mining is a form of mining in which the soil and the rock covering the mineral deposits are removed. It is the other way of underground mining, in which the overlying rock is left behind, and the required mineral deposits are removed through shafts or tunnels. Mountaintop removal: Mountaintop removal mining (commonly termed as MTR) is a relatively new form of coal mining that engages the mass restructuring of earth in order to get in touch with the coal seam which is as deep as 1,000 feet below the surface.
Coal strip mine in Wyoming. Surface mining, including strip mining, open-pit mining and mountaintop removal mining, is a broad category of mining in which soil and rock overlying the mineral deposit (the overburden) are removed. Strip mining is only practical when the ore body to be excavated is relatively near the surface. This type of mining uses some of the largest machines on earth, including bucket-wheel excavators which can move as much as 12,000 cubic meters of earth per hour.
Surface mining is safer than underground mining because the miners are not exposed to such potential hazards as roof falls, explosions caused by methane gas or dust ignitions, and coal-worker pneumoconiosis (black lung) caused by long-term exposure to respirable coal dust. However surface mining operations result in disturbances of surface areas that burden and adversely affect commerce and the public welfare by destroying or diminishing the utility of land for commercial, industrial, residential, recreational, agricultural, and forestry purposes.
It is the opposite of underground mining, in which the overlying rock is left in place, and the mineral removed through shafts or tunnels. Surface mining began in the mid-sixteenth century and is practiced throughout the world, although the majority of surface mining occurs in North America. It gained popularity throughout the 20th century, and is now the predominant form of mining in coal beds such as those in Appalachia and America's Midwest. Strip mining is only practical when the ore body to be excavated is relatively near the surface. This type of mining uses some of the largest machines on earth, including bucket-wheel excavators which can move as much as 12,000 cubic meters of earth per hour.
Strip mining is the practice of mining a seam of mineral, by first removing a long strip of overlying soil and rock (the overburden). It is most commonly used to mine coal and lignite (brown coal) . Strip mining is only practical when the ore body to be excavated is relatively near the surface. This type of mining uses some of the largest machines on earth, including bucket-wheel excavators which can move as much as 12,000 cubic meters of earth per hour.
Surface mining is a highly-regulated, highly-sophisticated mining method used to mine coal that is near the surface of the earth. It relies on advanced hydrological and civil engineering techniques to safely extract coal in an environmentally and economically responsible manner. This rock is then placed on previously mined areas, or within engineered “fill” areas. The cut and fill process used in surface mining is the same process that has been used for years in highway construction and real estate development projects.