1 Samo seeds or Mario seeds popularly known as Bhagar in India are seeds of a grass Echinochloa Colonum. 2  Echinochloa Colonum was described in 1833, as a type of wild grass which originated from tropical Asia. 3  It was formerly classified as a type of panicum grass. 1 It grows amongst the rice paddy as it requires damp and moisture laden soil. 2  In Rajasthan in India the seeds are used as rice, hence its common name in English is jungle rice (wild rice). 3  The wild rice is p repared in different styles across various states of India.
The cooked samo seeds when fluffed look alike to semolina. I like to cook my samo seeds with bits of potato but you can cook without them. What prompted me to write this post is queries from family if samo could be cooked in any other way than the traditional 20 min cooking over a gas stove. Some trick to cut time for someone rushing to office after cooking the regular meal for a family and her fasting meal plus packing it for lunch. Put the washed seeds into the pan. Coat well with the ghee and cumin seeds. Add the salt and then top up with water. For Gas stove top cooking I use a 1:3 samo seeds to water ratio. Cover and cook till done. The well cooked seed is plump and translucently pale.
Also known as Shama Millet. Samo is a seed of a grass namely Echinochloa Colonum grows amongst the rice paddy as it requires damp and moisture laden soil. With digestible fibers, high nutritional content and excellent nourishment, it is immensely popular amongst the Indian majority.
Wash 1 cup of samo seeds. Put the washed seeds into the pan. Coat well with the ghee and cumin seeds. Add the salt and then top up with water. For Gas stove top cooking I use a 1:3 samo seeds to water ratio. Cover and cook till done. The well cooked seed is plump and translucently pale.
1 It was formerly classified as a type of panicum grass. 2  It grows amongst the rice paddy as it requires damp and moisture laden soil. 3  In Rajasthan in India the seeds are used as rice, hence its common name in English is jungle rice (wild rice). 4  The wild rice is p repared in different styles across various states of India. 1 It grows amongst the rice paddy as it requires damp and moisture laden soil. 2  In Rajasthan in India the seeds are used as rice, hence its common name in English is jungle rice (wild rice). 3  The wild rice is p repared in different styles across various states of India.
Method. 1  Wash and soak Samo Seeds for 2 hours. 2  Drain and keep aside. 3  Heat the ghee in a pan over medium flame. 4  Add cumin seeds, bay leaf, cloves and whole red chili to the ghee. 5  When cumin seeds stop spluttering, add potato, capsicum, chopped green chilies and Vrat Ka Chawal. Vrat Ke Chawal (Samo Seeds) Pulao. Today is the fourth day of Navratri and I made Samo Seeds Pulao, and Makhane Ki Kheer. Here is the simple recipe of
Common Indian Name (Hindi): Bhagar/ Samo Seeds. 1  Samo seeds or Mario seeds popularly known as Bhagar in India are seeds of a grass Echinochloa Colonum. 2  Echinochloa Colonum was described in 1833, as a type of wild grass which originated from tropical Asia. 1 It grows amongst the rice paddy as it requires damp and moisture laden soil. 2  In Rajasthan in India the seeds are used as rice, hence its common name in English is jungle rice (wild rice). 3  The wild rice is p repared in different styles across various states of India.
Sama/ Samo rice one of the food eaten during the fasting days in India. These rice grains are smaller in comparison to any other rice grain, and look somewhere between semolina and daliya (broken wheat), or may be couscous… This recipe is for a savory preparation of samo rice. 1 Now add samo/ sama rice and mix well. 2  Fry the rice for couple of minutes. 3  Now add salt and add water. 4  Take a boil after the first boil reduce the heat and cover the lid. 5  Let the rice cook until rice and potatoes are tender.
Samo Seeds. Samo seeds or Mario seeds popularly known as Bhagar in India are seeds of a grass namely Echinochloa Colonum that grows amongst the rice paddy as it requires damp and moisture laden soil. With digestible fibers, high nutritional content and excellent nourishment, Samo is immensely popular amongst the Indian majority. Prepared in different styles across various states, it forms a heavy and a filling meal. In the west it is also known as Jungle rice