Other cause of cartilage ear piercing infection include. 1  Physical injuries especially when wearing a jewelry, partying, sporting etc. 2  Over cleaning of the piercing. 3  Avoid using a piercing gun as it distorts your cartilage and increase changes of you getting a bump behind your year. 3. Poor personal hygiene and aftercare. A third cause of infected pierced ear cartilage is poor personal hygiene during the healing process or even years after. Ensure you follow the aftercare routine and never touch your piercing with dirty hands.
Cartilage piercings on ears and noses are prone to getting bumps - small, raised scars around the exit holes of the piercing. Sometimes they are caused by loose or incorrect jewelry, by rough handling, or by piercing with a piercing gun. Often it is just bad luck. If you want to get rid of a cartilage piercing bump, you will have to have patience as they can take a while to disappear. However, if you are consistent, they should disappear with two to three months, and your piercing will be good as new. See Step 1 below to get started.
Symptoms of Cartilage Piercing Infection. Getting a cartilage piercing bump is usually an indicator that you've developed an infection, but there are several other symptoms that will appear after 3-4 weeks of the piercing. You will experience severe pain upon touching the pierced area. Also, ensure that your hair doesn't touch your piercing because it can cause infections. In addition, you may end up getting a cartilage piercing bump as a result of some physical injuries, over cleaning of the piercing, and the use of a piercing gun. Regularly touching your jewelry may also cause an infection
If your piercing is of an allergenic material, is snagged and pulled or slept on, it may cause boils. Sometimes, the piercings may migrate from the original area and cause skin irritation and bumps. The use of incorrect disinfectant solutions or their overuse may also cause bumps. Here we tell you what causes these bumps and how to treat them. Piercings done by a piercing gun may damage the soft tissue between the cartilage and the back of the skin. Also, piercing guns can cause a piece of cartilage to be pushed out, thus leaving a shapeless lump on the piercing site.
Piercing bumps are common and a normal after-effect of piercing. They may take some time to heal. Here we tell you what causes these bumps and how to treat them. Piercings done by a piercing gun may damage the soft tissue between the cartilage and the back of the skin. Also, piercing guns can cause a piece of cartilage to be pushed out, thus leaving a shapeless lump on the piercing site.
1 Sea salt soaks: apply water mixed with sea salt on the cartilage piercing bumps. 2  You can use a cotton ball to soak in the prepared sea salt soak. 3  Regularly apply two times in a day. 4  If there is a boil, using sea salt soak will allow the boil to drain. This is mainly attributed to poor and unhygienic piercing practices. There could be a plain bump on the pierced site or it can be a boil filled with pus. Cartilage is thick, tough and elastic tissue mainly found in nose, ears.
A salt soak is the safest, most effective way to deal with cartilage bumps-it will reduce the size of the bump and help it to disappear over time. To use: 1  Add 1/4 teaspoon of sea salt to one cup of boiling water. 2  Stir until the salt is completely dissolved. If you want to get rid of a cartilage piercing bump, you will have to have patience as they can take a while to disappear. However, if you are consistent, they should disappear with two to three months, and your piercing will be good as new. See Step 1 below to get started.
The most common type of bump that is formed after ear or nose cartilage piercing is a boil. The infection is caused mainly by pathogenic organisms such as staphylococcus and Pseudomonas. If the infection is left untreated, it can form scars tissue and deform the ear. This condition is also known as auricular chondritis. This is mainly attributed to poor and unhygienic piercing practices. There could be a plain bump on the pierced site or it can be a boil filled with pus. Cartilage is thick, tough and elastic tissue mainly found in nose, ears.
As someone has rightly said ‘no gain-no pain’, cartilage piercing has its own problems such as pain, swelling and infection of the ears or nose. This is mainly attributed to poor and unhygienic piercing practices. There could be a plain bump on the pierced site or it can be a boil filled with pus. Cartilage is thick, tough and elastic tissue mainly found in nose, ears. Cartilage piercing usually comprises of nose piercing and ear piercing