In any situation where there is a tenancy in common, all the tenants in common collectively own the common areas, meaning that any one individual owner does not possess more control over the land than any other owner. In Texas and other parts of the United States, it is An area inside a housing development that is owned by all residents or by an overall management structure which charges each tenant for maintenance and upkeep.. Common areas often exist in apartments, gated communities, condominiums, cooperatives and shopping malls
Landlord Tenant Common Areas Law & Legal Definition. A common area in landlord-tenant law, a common area is shared by all owners of a condominium or cooperative housing unit or owned by the management organization, rather than being owned by an individual owner. 
Ky. 2007)]. Common area refers to property that is commonly used by one or more persons. According to landlord-tenant law, common area is considered a realty that all tenants may use although a landlord retains control and responsibility over it. Generally, common areas are found in apartments, condominiums, cooperatives and planned-unit development
common areas. Amenities such as corridors, hallways, lobby, pool, toilets provided for the comfort and use of all occupants, owners, tenants, or users of a building or building complex. http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/common-areas.html
A common area is, in real estate or real property law, the area which is available for use by more than one person.... The common areas are those within a building that are available for common use by all tenants, groups of tenants and their invitees.. 
Examples of Building Common Area include the main building lobby, secondary lobbies and egress corridors, building mechanical and electrical rooms, fire control center and similar areas. Generally, all FF&E that is located in Building Common Area is covered by the landlord’s insurance policies, not the tenants. As we shall see, this is part of the key to distinguishing Common Area from Usable Area. The other kind of Common Area, besides Building Common Area, is Floor Common area. It is the result of simply subtracting Usable Area (including Building Common Area) from Floor Rentable Area 4 on each floor of a building. On a multi-tenant floor, the corridors and elevator lobby are Floor Common Area. As with Building Common Area, the landlord’s insurance covers the FF&E located in rooms that are classified as Floor Common Area. For example, damage to a water closet or lavatory located Floor Common toilet would be covered by the landlord’s insurance policy, not the tenant’s.
Definition. Amenities such as corridors, hallways, lobby, pool, toilets provided for the comfort and use of all occupants, owners, tenants, or users of a building or building complex. http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/common-areas.html
A common area is, in real estate or real property law, the area which is available for use by more than one person.... The common areas are those within a building that are available for common use by all tenants, (or) groups of tenants and their invitees.. In Texas and other parts of the United States, it is An area inside a housing development that is owned by all residents or by an overall management structure which charges each tenant for maintenance and upkeep.. Common areas often exist in apartments, gated communities, condominiums, cooperatives and shopping malls
n. in condominium and some cooperative housing projects, the areas not owned by an individual owner of the condominium or cooperative residence, but shared by all owners, either by percentage interest or owned by the management organization. Management is by a homeowners' association or cooperative board, which collects assessments from the owners and pays for upkeep, some insurance, maintenance and reserves for replacement of improvements in the common area.