Gythion Hotels. Gythion http://www.greece.com/destinations/Peloponnese/Laconia/Ancient_Location/Gythion.html http://www.greece.com/destinations/Peloponnese/Laconia/Ancient_Location/Gythion.html#map. Gythion is an Ancient city in Laconia in the Peloponnese Region of Greece. Gythion is also an Underwater archaeological site, an Archaeological site and a Roman theatre. The postal code of Gythion is 23200 and its telephone access code is +3027330. Gythion Hotels. Gythion http://www.greece.com/destinations/Peloponnese/Laconia/Ancient_Location/Gythion.html http://www.greece.com/destinations/Peloponnese/Laconia/Ancient_Location/Gythion.html#map. Gythion is an Ancient city in Laconia in the Peloponnese Region of Greece. Gythion Laconia Peloponnese 23200 Greece.
Travel guide to Gythio, Greece. Gythio is a beautiful fishing town in the southern side of Peloponnese. This place is surrounded by nice beaches and constitutes a convenient base for day excursions in the region of Laconia. Things to see and do. Gythio is an area of mainland Greece which belongs to Peloponnese region. Former port of Sparta in the antiquity, the town of Gythio Greece has a long history and many interesting sites.
The Mani Peninsula (Greek: μάνη, Manē), mánē also long known by its medieval Name maina Or (MAINA), maïna μαΐνη is a geographical and cultural Region. in greece The Mani Peninsula (Greek: μάνη, Manē), mánē also long known by its medieval Name maina Or (MAINA), maïna μαΐνη is a geographical and cultural Region. In greece the capital City of Mani. Is areopoli mani is the central peninsula of the three which extend southwards From the peloponnese In. southern greece
Gytheio (Greek: γύθειο, [ˈʝiθio]), the ancient Gythium or Gytheion (Ancient Greek: γύθειον), is a town and a former municipality in Laconia, Peloponnese, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality East Mani, of which it is a municipal unit. It was the seaport of Sparta, some 40 kilometres (25 miles) north. Gytheio used to be an important port until it was destroyed in 4th century AD, possibly by an earthquake. Today it is the largest and most important town in Mani. It is also the seat of the municipality of East Mani.
Peloponessos Gythio. One of my favorite places in Greece is Gythio in the southern Peloponessos. It is a port town with lots of good fish restaurants, some great ouzeries and is within driving distance of the Mani, Mystras, and much of the south-eastern coast of the Peloponessos. Gythion was the original port for Sparta in the days of the Illiad and the Odyssey. On Kranai you can visit the Tzanetakis Tower, built during the Ottoman rule and which now houses the Ethnological Museum. The lighthouse of Gythio was built in 1873 and is 25 meters tall with a range of 9 nautical miles.
For cruise tours that visit Gythion, Greece, click. Truly one of the world’s original great urban centers, the port city of Gythion was founded by the ancient Phoenicians prior to 400 B.C. 
Gythio in Greece is a beautiful seaside town on the southern side of Peloponnese, in the peninsula of Laconia. Constructed on the hill slopes around a natural bay, Gythio is the largest town in the region of Mani, a secluded barren place with ghost villages and wild landscape. Things to see and do. Gythio is an area of mainland Greece which belongs to Peloponnese region. Former port of Sparta in the antiquity, the town of Gythio Greece has a long history and many interesting sites.
I don't recommend for families. Drakopanagos, Greece. Staff very courteous and helpful Very central location Breakfast. Lina, United Kingdom. The traditional Hotel Gythion is located right on the main coastal street of Gythion, right in front of the picturesque harbor. Housed in a 1864 neoclassical building, the former House of Commerce of Gythion, the hotel offers spacious, high-ceilinged rooms and apartments with kitchen.
Gythio is a seaside town on the south of Peloponnese. It is the capital of Mani, a mountainous and barren area known for its brave fighters during the Greek War of Independence. 
Sightseeing: Gythion is a town in the prefecture of Laconia in Greece, long known as the seaport of Sparta some 40 km away. Gytheio used to be an important port for many centuries until it was destroyed by an earthquake. Today it is the largest and most important town in Mani. It is also the capital of the municipality of Gytheio. 