The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. 
Right upper quadrant abdominal pain usually originates in the gallbladder or liver. Photo Credit Photos.com/Photos.com/Getty Images. Health care workers mentally divide the abdomen into quadrants to localize complaints of abdominal pain. The right side of your abdomen contains your liver, gallbladder and parts of your intestines, including the appendix. The triad of right-sided abdominal pain, elevated liver enzymes and fatigue, narrows the list of possible causes to those organs in the right-upper quadrant of the abdomen.
When right upper quadrant pain is due to inflammation of the liver, it is usually during the acute stage of liver disease or during a flare-up. In either case, the pain is due to liver inflammation that causes irritation and distention of the liver’s surface. Liver cancer may be the cause of abdominal or right upper quadrant pain. People with a history of chronic Hepatitis B or C, and those with cirrhosis due to any chronic liver disease are at an increased risk for developing liver cancer.
The liver is an abdominal glandular organ in the digestive system. It is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, under the diaphragm. The liver is a vital organ that supports nearly every other organ to some capacity. The liver is the body’s second-largest organ (skin is the largest organ), according to the American Liver Foundation, weighing about 3 pounds (1.4 kilograms). Liver pain. Liver pain is felt in the upper right area of the abdomen, just below the ribs. Usually, it is a dull, vague pain though it can sometimes be quite severe and may cause a backache. Sometimes people perceive it as pain in the right shoulder.
Liver. The liver is the largest organ in the body. It appears as a reddish-brown, cone-shaped organ, which is located at the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm and above the stomach, intestines, and right kidney. It weighs approximately 3 pounds. [1].
A number of disorders can cause right upper quadrant, or liver, pain. Causes of pain originating in the liver itself include chronic hepatitis (liver inflammation), fatty liver disease, liver abscess, and liver cancer. Even then, right upper quadrant pain can be due to gallstones, intestinal pain, pancreatitis, or other abdominal disorders. Because pain in the liver area can be caused by many different conditions, some of which are serious, it is important for you to contact your health care provider to determine the underlying cause.
The fatty liver pain is usually felt at the right upper quadrant of the abdomen. This is characterized as a dull ache in the initial stages of the disease but as it progresses, patients may feel it as sharp and severe pain. For patients with this kind of pain, medical attention should be sought immediately. The liver is the largest organ in the body. It appears as a reddish-brown, cone-shaped organ, which is located at the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm and above the stomach, intestines, and right kidney. It weighs approximately 3 pounds. [1].
Liver pain refers to the pain felt at the right upper quadrant or right hypochondriac portion of the abdomen [6]. This is usually described as heavy, dull, and steady kind of pain [7]. Also, liver pain may be felt as severe and sharp in character that generally occurs with back ache. The liver is the largest organ in the body. It appears as a reddish-brown, cone-shaped organ, which is located at the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm and above the stomach, intestines, and right kidney. It weighs approximately 3 pounds. [1].