For example, becoming a school psychologist can take a little as two years of graduate-level education, and only requires a master’s degree. On the other hand, if you want to become a child psychologist you will need to earn a doctorate degree, which can require up to seven additional years of psychologist schooling. 1 Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 2  Social Worker: Bachelor’s Degree (4 to 5 years of undergraduate school). 3  Licensed Counselor: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school)
1 Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 2  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 1 Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 2  Social Worker: Bachelor’s Degree (4 to 5 years of undergraduate school). 3  Licensed Counselor: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school)
Psychologists must be registered/licensed with their Canadian provincial regulatory body or American state psychology board. Typically, it will take four years to complete an undergraduate degree in psychology, one to two years for a master’s degree and, if required, another three to four years for a PhD. You will need to first complete a four year undergraduate degree in psychology followed by graduate studies. Most university graduate programs require a four year undergraduate degree as an entrance requirement.
Education & Training. Forensic psychologists, whether working in applied or research forensic psychology, need to earn a doctoral degree in forensic psychology. To be eligible for a doctoral program, you will need to first earn a bachelor’s degree, in psychology or a related area, from an accredited institution. Completing a doctoral program may take up to four years of graduate coursework, usually also requiring you to complete an internship prior to graduation.
1 Clinical Psychologist: Doctorate Degree in Psychology (4 to 7 years of graduate school). 2  Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 3  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 1 Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 2  Social Worker: Bachelor’s Degree (4 to 5 years of undergraduate school). 3  Licensed Counselor: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school)
The BLS does not publish salary data specifically on forensic psychologists, however, the closest related profession-a traditional psychologist-was reported to be $86,510 in 2010. PayScale.com lists the salary range of forensic psychologists as $35,333 to $103,576. Research is often a big part of a forensic psychology career. Forensic psychologists will often study and analyze research from other professionals, as well as conduct their own research. They might study criminals and their crimes, for instance, to determine what traits certain types of criminals have.
Forensic psychology is the intersection of psychology and the legal system. If you are interested in forensic psychology, you will need to become a licensed psychologist and receive specialized forensic training. In order to practice forensic psychology, you will need graduate training at the master’s and doctoral levels and often a variety of post-doctorate training. 
Education and Training. All psychologists need at least a master's degree or a doctoral degree, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The majority of forensic psychologists have doctoral degrees along with forensic-specific clinical experience. This typically involves clinical work in a law enforcement forensics lab. 
The training and licensing of clinical psychologists ranges from 4 year undergraduate degree plus a 4 to 6 year doctorate program. Most programs in the U.S. are PhD programs that have a strong focus on research and are typically housed in universities. 