Dukan Diet Food List. Twitter. The Dukan Diet plan is very effective because you can eat as much as you want and still lose weight. Below is the updated list of the 100 allowed foods for the Dukan Diet: 68 Pure Proteins and 32 Vegetables. 
There are 4 phases to the Dukan diet. The first phase, also known as the 7 day plan is where you experience the biggest weight loss results. But if you examine this phase, you’ll see that it’s really nothing more than just eating a lot of protein and oat bran. The 7 day plan in the Dukan diet is known as the “Attack phase”, where you basically have to follow 3 rules: 1. You must eat only eat protein for 7 days. Details: There is no limit to the amount of protein you can consume.
This often has the desirable effect of weight loss, though high levels of ketones in the body can be problematic and may lead to a state known as ketosis. The four phases of the Dukan diet summarised from dukandiet.co.uk: 1  Attack phase. 2  This first stage lasts between five-ten days and promises immediate results. 3  Dieters have 72 high-protein foods to choose from, with absolutely no carbohydrates allowed. 4  Cruise phase. The Dukan diet is similar to a ketogenic diet as both emphasise the consumption of fat and protein but omit carbohydrates. The body will turn to glycogen stores (carbohydrates) for energy first if supplies are plentiful.
Here’s what you need to know: The 7 day plan in the Dukan diet is known as the “Attack phase”, where you basically have to follow 3 rules: 1. You must eat only eat protein for 7 days. Details: There is no limit to the amount of protein you can consume.
Phase 2: The Cruise Phase. 1  In this phase of the Dukan Diet, days of protein only are alternated with days of protein and vegetables. 2  The types of vegetables allowed in this phase are limited to those that do not contain starch such as lettuce, spinach, celery, cucumber, asparagus and tomato. 
The Dukan Diet is a diet plan originating in France. It is a protein-based diet designed by French doctor Pierre Dukan. Dr Dukan has been promoting his diet for over 30 years; it gained a wider audience after the 2000 publication of his book, The Dukan Diet, which has sold more than 7 million copies globally.
Dukan’s latest book, ‘The Dukan Diet Made Easy,’ was released in May. If you're thinking this weight loss plan sounds a lot like another caveman diet out there, you're not alone. Paleo came 10 to 15 years after me, but it's nearly the same, Dukan said. But they are the better name. Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge used the Dukan Diet to get skinny before her wedding in 2011, back when she was still Kate Middleton — but the founder of the diet, Pierre Dukan, thinks she took it too far. I think she lost too much, Dukan, whose latest book is The Dukan Diet Made Easy, told the Daily News.
You'll be eating a lot of protein and oat bran. The diet has four phases. 1  During the “Attack” phase (1-10 days), you eat all the lean protein you can handle, plus 1.5 tablespoons of oat bran and at least 6 cups of water daily. 
The Dukan Diet is a protein based nutritional approach designed by Pierre Dukan, a French nutritionist and dietician. The Dukan Diet, or Dukan method proposes a healthy eating plan which is based on how primitive man used to eat when we were hunter-gatherers. It includes 100 foods, of which 72 are animal sourced and 28 come from plants. And you can eat as much as you like, as long as you stick to those 100 foods.