Iontophoresis. Iontophoresis is a method of delivering medication with electrical current. This treatment which is primarily used for inflamed joint and muscle problems, is regaining popularity as an alternative to injections and other treatments. The technique involves introduction of various medications (in the form of ions) through the skin by means of electricity. We use iontophoresis to help treat the symptoms of hyperhidrosis. 1  Hyperhidrosis is a medical condition in which a person sweats excessively and unpredictably. 2  People with hyperhidrosis may sweat even when the temperature is cool or when they are at rest.
Iontophoresis is a technique which uses an electric current to deliver a medicine or other chemical through the skin. In popular (lay) terms it is sometimes called an injection without the needle. Iontophoresis is used in therapy, but is not exclusive to this arena, and there are applications in medicine, dentistry, lab sciences and physiology.
Iontophoresis is to be distinguished from the carriage of uncharged molecules by diffusive fluxes of other molecules, especially of solvent molecules, for example by electro-osmosis, that is to say by flux of uncharged solvent molecules carried as a cross-effect of iontophoresis. Iontophoresis of acetylcholine is used in research as a way to test the health of the endothelium by stimulating endothelium-dependent generation of nitric oxide and subsequent microvascular vasodilation.
Iontophoresis is a safe and effective in-home treatment for hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating), particularly in the hands and the feet. Dr. Stolman found Iontophoresis to be effective in about 83% of the subjects treated in his study. Iontophoresis treatment has not shown to have any side effects, except in cases where a cut, sore, or wound in the hand or feet pre-existed, and the Iontophoresis treatment may have aggravated it.
Overview. Iontophoresis is a safe and effective treatment used primarily to reduce excessive sweating of the hands and feet. The procedure sends a mild electrical current through the surface of an individual’s skin. The current is conducted to skin through water, but is not strong enough to give you an electric shock. Most people undergo iontophoresis treatment at a doctor’s office. However, you can perform the treatments at home if you purchase the required machine. The treatment process is fairly simple. Place the affected body part in a basin of water.
Medical Definition of IONTOPHORESIS. : the introduction of an ionized substance (as a drug) through intact skin by the application of a direct electric current. — ion·to·pho·rese \-ˈrēs\ transitive verb, ion·to·pho·resed ion·to·pho·res·ing. — ion·to·pho·ret·ic \-ˈret-ik\ adjective. — ion·to·pho·ret·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. 
Iontophoresis For Physical Therapy. Iontophoresis is a treatment for inflamed joint and muscle troubles, is regaining recognition as a substitute to injections and other treatments. 
Iontophoresis is a physical process in which ions flow diffusively in a medium driven by an applied electric field. Iontophoresis of acetylcholine is used in research as a way to test the health of the endothelium by stimulating endothelium-dependent generation of nitric oxide and subsequent microvascular vasodilation.