The AST test is commonly used to check for liver diseases. It is usually measured together with alanine aminotransferase (ALT). The AST to ALT ratio can help your doctor diagnose liver disease. Symptoms of liver disease that may cause your doctor to order an AST test include: 1  fatigue. 2  weakness. 3  loss of appetite.
The AST/ALT ratio is the ratio between the concentrations of the enzymes aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) in the blood of a human or animal. It is measured with a blood test and is sometimes useful in medical diagnosis to differentiate between causes of liver damage, or hepatotoxicity. 
AST stands for aspartate transaminase. It is an enzyme found in various cells, including liver cells, and elevated levels may indicate liver damage, but must be interpreted in the context of other liver tests, as it is not only found in liver cells, but other cell types as well.
Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST). Guide. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. AST is normally found in red blood cells, liver, heart, muscle tissue, pancreas, and kidneys. AST formerly was called serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT). Low levels of AST are normally found in the blood. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. 4  Find out whether jaundice was caused by a blood disorder or liver disease. 5  Keep track of the effects of medicines that can damage the liver.
References. This blood test measures an enzyme called aspartate aminotransferase (AST). Enzymes are chemicals that help the cells of your body work. AST is found in red blood cells, liver cells, and muscle cells, including the heart. It is released into the blood when these cells are damaged. This enzyme is also called serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, or SGOT. The AST level is measured to check the liver, kidneys, heart, pancreas, muscles, and red blood cells. This test is also done to check medical treatments that may affect the liver.
Your doctor may also order the alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test. It's commonly used along with the AST test to look at your liver's function. ALT is an enzyme found in the liver. High levels of ALT can mean hepatitis. This blood test is used to diagnose liver damage. Aspartate transaminase (AST) is an enzyme that is released when your liver or muscles are damaged. Although AST is found mainly in your liver and heart, AST can also be found in small amounts in other muscles. This test can also be used to monitor liver disease.
The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test is typically used to detect liver injury. It is often ordered in conjunction with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or as part of a liver panel to screen for and/or help diagnose liver disease. ALT is often performed together with a test for AST or as part of a liver panel. For more about ALT results in relation to other liver tests, see the Liver Panel article.
An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Liver disease may produce symptoms such as pain in the upper abdomen, nausea, vomiting, and sometimes jaundice. 4  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. 4  Find out whether jaundice was caused by a blood disorder or liver disease. 5  Keep track of the effects of medicines that can damage the liver.
They include aspartate aminotransferase (AST or SGOT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT or SGPT). These enzymes are normally contained within liver cells. If the liver is injured, the liver cells spill the enzymes into blood, raising the enzyme levels in the blood and signaling the liver damage. It is an enzyme found in various cells, including liver cells, and elevated levels may indicate liver damage, but must be interpreted in the context of other liver tests, as it is not only found in liver cells, but other cell types as well.