The general reaction equation for incomplete combustion of one mole of a hydrocarbon in oxygen is: The simple word equation for the incomplete combustion of a hydrocarbon in oxygen is: For stoichiometric (complete) combustion, z = x + ¼ y. Complete combustion is stoichiometric with respect to the fuel, where there is no remaining fuel, and ideally, no remaining oxidant.
Incomplete combustion. Incomplete combustion occurs when the supply of air or oxygen is poor. Water is still produced, but carbon monoxide and carbon are produced instead of carbon dioxide. In general for incomplete combustion: hydrocarbon + oxygen → carbon monoxide + carbon + water. The carbon is released as soot. Carbon monoxide is a poisonous gas, which is one reason why complete combustion is preferred to incomplete combustion. Gas fires and boilers must be serviced regularly to ensure they do not produce carbon monoxide. Most of the energy is released as heat, but light energy is also released. About 21 per cent of the air is oxygen. When a fuel burns in plenty of air, it receives enough oxygen for 
Complete combustion is the reaction with oxygen of a material  containing at least one of carbon and hydrogen to convert all of  the carbon content of the material to carbon … dioxide and all of the  hydrogen content to water.    For methane, CH4 + 2 O2 = CO2 + 2  H2O. 
You should be able to write balanced symbol equations for the complete combustion, or incomplete combustion, of a simple hydrocarbon fuel, if you are given its molecular formula. The formula of oxygen gas is O 2. 
1 The balanced chemical equation for the complete combustion of methane gas is: CH4(g) + 2O2(g) → CO2(g) + 2H2O(g). 2  Write the word equation for the incomplete combustion of methane: general equation: reactants → products word equation: methane + oxygen gas → solid carbon + water vapour. O atoms balanced. 1  The balanced chemical equation for the complete combustion of methane gas is: CH4(g) + 2O2(g) → CO2(g) + 2H2O(g).
The Complete Combustion of Natural Gas-Methane. Complete combustion happens when the hydrocarbon burns in an excess of air. An excess of air means that there is more than enough oxygen to cause all of the carbon to turn into carbon dioxide. The methane gas burns with a clear blue flam
Combustion /kəmˈbʌs.tʃən/ or burning is a high-temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant, usually atmospheric oxygen, that produces oxidized, often gaseous products, in a mixture termed as smoke. Complete combustion is stoichiometric with respect to the fuel, where there is no remaining fuel, and ideally, no remaining oxidant.
Write a balanced chemical equation to represent the complete combustion of methane gas. In a particular experiment, excess methane was combusted in limited oxygen to produce soot (solid carbon) and water vapour. Write a balanced chemical equation to represent the incomplete combustion of methane in this experiment. O atoms balanced. 1  The balanced chemical equation for the complete combustion of methane gas is: CH4(g) + 2O2(g) → CO2(g) + 2H2O(g).
Example of Incomplete Combustion. 1  Write the word equation for the incomplete combustion of methane: general equation: reactants → products word equation: methane + oxygen gas → solid carbon + water vapour. O atoms balanced. 1  The balanced chemical equation for the complete combustion of methane gas is: CH4(g) + 2O2(g) → CO2(g) + 2H2O(g).