Fitness is one of the most rewarding careers. Get your career started with one of the area’s most successful fitness companies in Richmond, Fredericksburg or Williamsburg. There are part or full time employment opportunities in sales, fitness, child care and more. To view available positions by locations, click here and complete this online form. 
Employees are close and work well together. The management tries their best to work with the employees on what they need. Overall if you work hard and do what is asked of you it is a great place with great people. 
American Family Fitness Jobs Available. Whether you are looking for a part-time, entry-level position at a fitness club, or wish to start a professional career in the health and exercise industry, American Family Fitness may well have the job position for you. With all these benefits, and the ease and convenience of the American Family Fitness online application, there are no longer any excuses to not start seeking a job at this successful fitness company. To visit American Family Fitness’s website click here.
And one day, while your working your crappy college retail job, it hit... 5 Salary Negotiation Lessons From Amy Schumer. Unless you're a huge standup comedy nerd – the kind who can justifiably brag that you've seen everyone before they were cool – you probably hadn't h... 
You must be at least 18 years old to work at American Family Fitness. American Family Fitness wants its employees to be fit and healthy all day long, so it is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. With all these benefits, and the ease and convenience of the American Family Fitness online application, there are no longer any excuses to not start seeking a job at this successful fitness company. To visit American Family Fitness’s website click here.
American Family Fitness Cente Salary. American Family Fitness Cente average salary is $33,950, median salary is $33,950 with a salary range from $33,950 to $33,950. American Family Fitness Cente salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. American Family Fitness Cente salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. American Family Fitness Cente salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
A job at American Family Fitness is far more than just a job – employees are offered a range of fantastic benefits, including paid on the job training, opportunities for career advancement, paid vacation leave and a 401(k) retirement savings plan. With all these benefits, and the ease and convenience of the American Family Fitness online application, there are no longer any excuses to not start seeking a job at this successful fitness company. To visit American Family Fitness’s website click here.
$54,000. Average American Family Fitness salaries for job postings nationwide are 6% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.