You usually have to stay completely off the foot 6 to 8 weeks after surgery. Then they're in a boot for six weeks. Then they can begin the rehabilitation process, which can take about three months after that. Tennessee Titans quarterback Jake Locker became the latest victim of a Lisfranc injury last Sunday when he sustained the foot ailment, knocking him out for the rest of the season. The injury was named after Jacques Lisfranc de St. Martin, a surgeon during the Napoleonic Wars.
Lisfranc’s joint is located at the junction of the forefoot and the midfoot. Specifically, Lisfranc’s ligament refers to a specific ligament that originated from the medial cuneiform (one of the small bones in the midfoot region) and attaches to the base of the 2nd metatarsal (second long bone of the forefoot). The timing of surgery depends on the amount of swelling and the status of the skin overlying the injured foot. If there is too much swelling or the skin is in poor condition from the injury, a short period of elevation and swelling control is warranted prior to surgery.
Surgery for a Lisfranc injury is indicated when there is significant displacement of the midfoot joints with instability. Most commonly this displacement is identified on X-ray. CT and MRI scans can also be helpful in diagnosis. Surgery is needed to realign and stabilize the joints. Figure 2: X-ray of a patient who had surgery to fuse the bones of her foot. A decision was made to realign and fuse the joints in proper position with the help of plates and screws. The arrow points to the area of bone that is now fused at the Lisfranc joint.
My accident occurred on July 15, 2008. All the joints of my right foot were affected and was diagnosed as having a lisfranc fracture. 2 weeks after my accident (had to wait for the swelling to go down as my foot suffered much trauma) I had surgery. I had foot surgery back in April and the screws were removed 3 weeks ago. I am still walking with a severe limp and a lot of pain. I am just wondering how long it will take for me to be able to walk with out a limp and with little or no pain.
Summary. A Lisfranc (midfoot) injury is a significant injury that often has a prolonged recovery time. Fracture of the midfoot bones and/or disruption of the midfoot ligaments (Figure 1) leads to pain, swelling, and often an inability to weight-bear. 
Prior to surgery. Before the surgery, you need to prepare to be out of work for anywhere from 3 weeks to 6 months, (depending upon the level of physical exertion needed in your work and the type of surgery you are having). Your physician will discuss a realistic time frame with you. 
The Lisfranc is a ligament of the foot that runs between two bones called the medial cuneiform and the second metatarsal. The name comes from French surgeon Jacques Lisfranc de St. Martin (1790-1847), who was the first physician to describe injuries to this ligament. Figure 2: X-ray of a patient who had surgery to fuse the bones of her foot. A decision was made to realign and fuse the joints in proper position with the help of plates and screws. The arrow points to the area of bone that is now fused at the Lisfranc joint.
I had a Lisfranc fracture and surgery in August and am now 6 weeks post ORIF surgery. My injury was less severe than yours-only 2 screws. You seem so unsure about walking that you should call or email your doctor and ask to be referred for PT. Hello, I suffered a Lisfranc Fracture on July 14, 2012. I tore all five metatarsals on my left foot and went in for an ORIF surgery the next morning, where they placed four screws. I was put in a cast for ten days, which was taken off on on July 26th and saw my surgeon who explained the severity of this injury.
You do not need surgery for a Lisfranc injury if you have a sprain of the ligaments of the foot that do not create instability. Such injuries typically require you to restrict activity and use a boot or cast for as long as six or eight weeks. Figure 2: X-ray of a patient who had surgery to fuse the bones of her foot. A decision was made to realign and fuse the joints in proper position with the help of plates and screws. The arrow points to the area of bone that is now fused at the Lisfranc joint.