Dogs diagnosed with canine lymphoma, a type of cancer, often seem fine beforehand. That's why the diagnosis often comes as a shock to the owner. Unfortunately, lymphoma spreads rapidly throughout an affected dog's body. While chemotherapy can prolong a dog's life, there's no cure for lymphoma. Early signs of lymphoma include lymph node swelling. These lumps don't cause your dog pain. The swollen nodes might occur under your dog's legs -- canine armpits -- beneath his jaw, on his chest or on the hind legs above the hocks.
Enlarged lymph nodes or “glands” are the most common symptom of lymphoma. Dogs still may feel normal at this point in the disease or they may have vague symptoms. Nonspecific signs may include: 1  Distended abdomen. 2  Lethargy. 3  Coughing. 4  Shortness of breath. 5  Fever. 6  Poor appetite. 
Other common lymphomas in dogs include cutaneous lymphoma (lymphoma of the skin), alimentary or gastrointestinal lymphoma (lymphoma of the stomach and/or intestines) and mediastinal lymphoma (lymphoma involving organs within the chest, such as lymph nodes or the thymus gland). The most common initial symptom of multicentric lymphoma in dogs is firm, enlarged, non-painful lymph nodes. A lymph node affected by lymphoma will feel like a hard, rubbery lump under your dog’s skin.
Although swollen lymph nodes are by far the most common Canine Lymphoma Symptoms, dogs with Canine Lymphoma often show other, more generalized, signs and symptoms that something may be wrong. For example, dogs with Canine Lymphoma may show some or all of the following symptoms…. 1  Weight Loss. 2  Loss of Appetite. 3  Vomiting. 
Other common lymphomas in dogs include cutaneous lymphoma (lymphoma of the skin), alimentary or gastrointestinal lymphoma (lymphoma of the stomach and/or intestines) and mediastinal lymphoma (lymphoma involving organs within the chest, such as lymph nodes or the thymus gland). What causes lymphoma in dogs? The most common initial symptom of multicentric lymphoma in dogs is firm, enlarged, non-painful lymph nodes. A lymph node affected by lymphoma will feel like a hard, rubbery lump under your dog’s skin. To see where on your dog’s body you may find. enlarged lymph nodes, click here.
Symptoms of Lymphoma in Dogs. Clinical signs depend on the location of the tumor(s), and the extent to which the disease has developed. For tumors that occur in the lymph nodes, we can notice a painless enlargement of the dog patient's lymph nodes, with no other symptoms. For lymphoma that occurs in the stomach or intestines, the dog patient may show signs that are typical of gastrointestinal problems, such as: 1  vomiting; 2  diarrhea; 3  appetite loss; 4  weight loss; 5  lethargy.
Symptoms of Canine Lymphoma. The symptoms of lymphoma usually commonly mimic the symptoms of many other diseases or disorders. Most owners of dogs with multicentric or disseminated lymphoma first find pronounced enlargement of the lymph nodes on the underside of their dog’s neck, beneath and slightly behind the chin. Affected dogs normally do not seem painful when their submandibular lymph nodes are palpated and show no other unusual symptoms. Other signs that owners may notice include one or more of the following: 1  Depression. 2  Lethargy (profound). 3  Exercise intolerance. 4  Fever. 5  Dehydration. 6  Weight loss. 7  Loss of appetite (inappetance; anorexia).
Lymphoma in dogs is a common cancer of lymphocytes. Between 15% and 20% of malignant tumors in dogs are lymphomas. Lymphomas can occur in the lymph nodes, spleen, liver, and other organs. Lymphoma in dogs is diagnosed with a combination of diagnostic tests. Blood tests, fine needle aspirates of the tumor, biopsies, x-rays, and ultrasound are all used to confirm the diagnosis and location(s) of the lymphoma.
The symptoms of lymphoma in dogs are related to the location of the tumor(s) . Tumors that develop in the lymph nodes often present as swellings with no other symptoms. When the lymphoma is present in the gastrointestinal tract, vomiting, diarrhea, weight loss, and lack of appetite are commonly seen. Lymphoma in dogs is diagnosed with a combination of diagnostic tests. Blood tests, fine needle aspirates of the tumor, biopsies, x-rays, and ultrasound are all used to confirm the diagnosis and location(s) of the lymphoma.
General signs and symptoms include depression, fever, weight loss, loss of appetite, loss of hair or fur and vomiting. Lymphoma is the most common cancerous cause of hypercalcemia (high blood calcium levels) in dogs. It can lead to the above signs and symptoms plus increased water drinking, increased urination, and cardiac arrhythmias.