The concept explores the ways in which organisations use their procurement function to foster sustainable development and reviews strengths, weaknesses and success factors embedded in this practice. Sustainable Procurement References (4 of up to 20) *. 1  Adams, C.A. and McNicholas, P. (2007) Making a Difference: Sustainability Reporting, Accountability and Organisational Change, Accounting. 2  Auditing and Accountability Journal, Vol. 20(3), pp. 3  382-402.
1 UK Governments Sustainable Procurement Task Force. Adapted from the definition by UK Governments Sustainable Procurement Task Forceto which Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS) was a contributor. Combined with National Institute of Governmental Purchas-ing, Inc. (2012). Public procurement dictionary of terms. Organizations should recognize the need tofoster stakeholder goodwill and proactively and effectively addressexpectations and concerns in regard to sustainable procurement. • Organizational policy commitments and targets: An expression of the culture, values, and vision by which an organization operates.
Sustainable procurement involves a higher degree of collaboration and engagement between all parties in a supply chain. Sustainable procurement is as applicable to the private sector as the public sector, and certainly its proponents aspire to seeing its application across all areas of the economy.
(January 2010). Sustainable procurement (or Green procurement) is a spending and investment process typically associated with public policy, although it is equally applicable to the private sector. Sustainable procurement is as applicable to the private sector as the public sector, and certainly its proponents aspire to seeing its application across all areas of the economy.
sustainable procurement noun [U]. › the ​process by which an ​organization ​buys ​supplies ​produced in a way that is not harmful to the ​environment: The council's ​purchase of Fairtrade ​goods is one aspect of its ​sustainable ​procurement ​policy. 
A. Definition Green procurement is the purchase of environmentally friendly products and services, the selection of contractors and the setting of environmental requirements in a contract. B. Main Features Green procurement steams from pollution prevention principles and activities. Also known as green or environmental purchasing, green procurement compares price, technology, quality and the environmental impact of the product, service or contract. Green procurement policies are applicable to all organisations, regardless of size.
Organizations practicing sustainable procurement meet their needs for goods, services, utilities and works not on a private cost–benefit analysis, but with a view to maximising net benefits for themselves and the wider world. Sustainable procurement is as applicable to the private sector as the public sector, and certainly its proponents aspire to seeing its application across all areas of the economy.
sustainable procurement noun [U]. › the ​process by which an ​organization ​buys ​supplies ​produced in a way that is not harmful to the ​environment: The council's ​purchase of Fairtrade ​goods is one aspect of its ​sustainable ​procurement ​policy. 
This definition aligns with the sustainable procurement principles contained in the SPP and the Australia-New Zealand (ANZ) Government Framework for Sustainable Procurement, and forms the basis of a working definition for Queensland Government. Working definition for the Queensland Government The SPP contains provisions intended to facilitate the integration of the practice of sustainability into the procurement of goods, services and construction, supported by an operational concept to assist in implementing these provisions.