Sedimentary rock is rock that is formed in layers by the depositing and pressing of sediments on top of each other. Sediments are any loose material that gets broken away and carried: pieces of rocks, pebbles, sand, clay, silt, boulders, dead organisms, animals, plants, shells, insects. . . . When, over a long time, layers and layers of sediments get deposited on top of each other, the weight of the top layers presses down on the bottom layers, forming them into rock called sedimentary rock. The oldest layers are on the bottom, and the youngest layers are on the top.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.
Locate the geologic time scale in the Earth Science Reference Tables. At the right-hand side of the chart the New York State rock record is illustrated. This shows that during the Permian Period there was uplift and erosion, and no rock layers were preserved in New York State. 
Basically, scientists have learned that rocks are stacked in layers containing fossils with the oldest fossils at the deepest layers, and the youngest, or most recent fossils, near the top. It's as if rock layers are a vertical timeline. At the bottom of the timeline there are no fossils of modern animals. As you move towards the surface, you find fish, then amphibians, then reptiles, mammals, birds, and finally modern mammals including humans.
Explain why. The red cake is igneous rock so when the third layer was at the surface of the earth there was volcanic activity. If your piece of cake has a red plume of cake the igneous intrusion may come to the surface in the green or yellow layers. 
ROCKS AND LAYERS. Most of the rocks exposed at the surface of Earth are sedimentary --formed from particles of older rocks that have been broken apart by water or wind. The gravel, sand, and mud settle to the bottom in rivers, lakes, and oceans. Gravel becomes a rock called conglomerate, sand becomes sandstone, mud becomes mudstone or shale, and the animal skeletons and plant pieces can become fossils. An idealized view of a modern landscape and some of the plants and animals that could be preserved as fossils.
Granite and basalt are both igneous rocks-they are formed from magma extruded into another rock layer or from expulsion from a volcano. The heat of the cooling rock would completely melt any fossils they came into contact with and destroy them, so you don't see fossils in these rocks. Basalt is the foundation of oceanic crust. Granite is an intrusive igneous rock made from visible mineral crystals, a result of cooling over a longer period of time under the surface of the Earth. Another difference between basalt and granite include their joints.
Basalts are formed by the rapid/ slow cooling of molten lava when they are expelled from the crust. This means that any fossilable (that is not a proper word, but does help the purpose) comes in contact with hot-molten lava, it is obvious that it comes to extinction as far as its fossil-value is concerned. But, hard as you may call it fossil, but the world won't acknowledge as fossil in its pure form in basalt rocks because it would actually be found along with other soil layers and the whole assembly including the basalt-rock-cover of your fossil will be called a fossil.
Both basalt and granite are types of rock, and a rock is composed of multiple minerals-except for some rocks composed of essentially one mineral like limestone (calcite) or … quartzite (quartz). Basalt is the foundation of oceanic crust. Granite is an intrusive igneous rock made from visible mineral crystals, a result of cooling over a longer period of time under the surface of the Earth. Another difference between basalt and granite include their joints.
Sedimentary rocks are formed particle by particle and bed by bed, and the layers are piled one on top of the other. Thus, in any sequence of layered rocks, a given bed must be older than any bed on top of it. Gravel becomes a rock called conglomerate, sand becomes sandstone, mud becomes mudstone or shale, and the animal skeletons and plant pieces can become fossils. An idealized view of a modern landscape and some of the plants and animals that could be preserved as fossils.