(1) adjective Wing-shaped. (2) Lateral or medial pterygoid muscle. (3) Lateral or medial pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. (4) A nerve that arises in the trunk of the mandibular nerve and gives rise to the nerve to the tensor tympani and to the tensor veli palatini.
Anatomy and supply. The pterygoid muscles (“wing muscles”) are two jaw muscles located on the inner surface of the mandible. 1  Medial pterygoid muscle: originates from the pterygoid fossa and pterygoid process of the sphenoid. 2  Distally it inserts on the pterygoid tuberosity on the inner surface of the mandibular angle. Function. The pterygoid muscles are muscles of mastication and serve the movement of the temporomandibular joint. The contraction of the medial pterygoid elevates the mandible (jaw closure) and moves it forward (protrusion).
The medial pterygoid (or internal pterygoid muscle), is a thick, quadrilateral muscle of mastication. The mandibular branch of the fifth cranial nerve, the trigeminal nerve, innervates the medial pterygoid muscle. Unlike the lateral pterygoid and all other muscles of mastication which are innervated by the anterior division of the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve, the medial pterygoid is innervated by the main trunk of the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve (V), before the division.
The pterygoid muscles (“wing muscles”) are two jaw muscles located on the inner surface of the mandible. 1  Medial pterygoid muscle: originates from the pterygoid fossa and pterygoid process of the sphenoid. 2  Lateral pterygoid muscle: has two heads which lie almost horizontally to each other. Function. The pterygoid muscles are muscles of mastication and serve the movement of the temporomandibular joint. The contraction of the medial pterygoid elevates the mandible (jaw closure) and moves it forward (protrusion).
The lateral pterygoid or external pterygoid is a muscle of mastication with two heads. Unlike the other three muscles of mastication, the lateral pterygoid is the only muscle of mastication that assists in depressing the mandible (opening the jaw). At the beginning of this action it is assisted by the digastric, mylohyoid and geniohyoid muscles.
1 Medial pterygoid muscle: originates from the pterygoid fossa and pterygoid process of the sphenoid. 2  Distally it inserts on the pterygoid tuberosity on the inner surface of the mandibular angle. 3  Along with the masseter, this muscle forms a sling around the mandible. Function. The pterygoid muscles are muscles of mastication and serve the movement of the temporomandibular joint. The contraction of the medial pterygoid elevates the mandible (jaw closure) and moves it forward (protrusion).
The lateral pterygoid muscle (in purple above) is responsible for moving the lower jaw from side to side when the right or left lateral pterygoid is active separately. Contraction of the right lateral pterygoid muscle moves the jaw to the left, and contraction of the left draws the jaw to the right. It is also responsible, in combination with the digastric muscle for opening the lower jaw during the translation phase of opening. It is shaped a bit like a partly unfolded fan
Definition of PTERYGOID. : of, relating to, or lying in the region of the inferior part of the sphenoid bone of the vertebrate skull. ADVERTISEMENT
Teeth in an Hour™ Teeth in a Day™ In the Media. Pterygoid and Zygoma implants provide a solution for a patient with a severely resorbed jaw bone with minimal surgical trauma and maximum oral function. The zygomaticus implant is an alternative to bone grafting into the sinus area. 