According to the Elaboration Likelihood Model of attitude change, people are more likely to carefully process persuasive messages when they are motivated and capable of considering all available information.
The levels of processing model of memory (Craik and Lockhart, 1972) was put forward partly as a result of the criticism leveled at the multi-store model. Instead of concentrating on the stores/structures involved (i.e. short term memory & long term memory), this theory concentrates on the processes involved in memory.
Mental process occurring partly during dreaming and partly during the recalling or telling of a dream by means of which the latent (relatively disorganized and psychologically painful) content of the dream is brought into increasingly more coherent and logical order, resulting in the manifest content of the dream.
2. (Science: physiology) The natural process of formation or assimilation, performed by the living organs in animals and vegetables, by which a crude substance is changed into something of a higher order; as, the elaboration of food into chyme; the elaboration of chyle, or sap, or tissues.
1. Process of linking information to be emembered to information we already know. See elaborative rehearsal. 2. Developing an idea by incorporating details to amplify the original simple idea. 3. Process of thinking and scrutinising generating inferences. see central route to persuasion-cognitive response-elaboration likelihood model-peripheral route to persuasion.
According to elaboration theory, instruction should be organized in increasing order of complexity for optimal learning. For example, when teaching a procedural task, the simplest version of the task is presented first; subsequent lessons present additional versions until the full range of tasks are taught.
Elaboration theory proposes seven major strategy components: (1) an elaborative sequence, (2) learning prerequisite sequences, (3) summary, (4) synthesis, (5) analogies, (6) cognitive strategies, and (7) learner control. The first component is the most critical as far as elaboration theory is concerned. The elaborative sequence is defined as a simple to complex sequence in which the first lesson epitomizes (rather than summarize or abstract) the ideas and skills that follow.
However, Cacioppo and Petty (1980) noted that due to limited cognitive resources, the amount of elaboration (or thoughtful attention) that people are willing and/or able to invest in decision-making varies with the individual and the situation.