See Excitation-contraction coupling. T-tubules are the major sites for the coupling of excitation and contraction, which is the process whereby the spreading depolarization is converted into force production by muscle fibers. Transverse tubules are invaginations of the sarcolemma. Though the invaginations are normally perpendicular to the length of the fiber, many T-tubules can lie axial to the long-axis of the fiber, both wrapping around and running alongside myofilament bundles.
This allows actin and myosin to bind and the muscle to contract. So... if the t-tubules were blocked no contraction would occur. Response to second person: Every single skeletal muscle cell is innervated. Each muscle cell is huge and is the result of hundreds of cells fusing during development. This way, only some muscle cells need to be activated by a nerve--the rest will be signaled through the T-tubule network, so that all of the muscle cells will contract together.
A T-tubule (or transverse tubule) is a deep invagination of the sarcolemma, which is the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle cells. These invaginations allow depolarization of the membrane to quickly penetrate to the interior of the cell. Transverse tubules are invaginations of the sarcolemma. Though the invaginations are normally perpendicular to the length of the fiber, many T-tubules can lie axial to the long-axis of the fiber, both wrapping around and running alongside myofilament bundles.
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. 1 - Because skeletal muscle is voluntary muscle, contraction requires a nervous impulse. So, step 1 in contraction is when the impulse is transferred from a neuron to the SARCOLEMMA of a muscle cell. 2 - The impulse travels along the SARCOLEMMA and down the T-TUBULES
smooth muscle. a type of muscle that is nonstriated (no a or I band) has no t tubules, reduced rs, dense bodies instead of z lines; thin, thick and intermediate filaments. it requires energy, calcium, nerve supply, but not for every cell. it also has gap junctions
The t-tubules spread the action potential across the muscle cell and down into it. Once the action potential travels down the t-tubule it stimulates the terminal cisternae to release calcium ions which bind to the the troponin which changes shape moving the tropomyosin away from the myosin binding sites on the actin. This way, only some muscle cells need to be activated by a nerve--the rest will be signaled through the T-tubule network, so that all of the muscle cells will contract together.
In skeletal muscle cells, T-tubules are typically located at the junction overlap between the A and I bands of the sarcomere, and together with a pair of terminal cisternae (bulbous enlarged areas of the sarcoplasmic reticulum) it forms an arrangement called a triad. Transverse tubules are invaginations of the sarcolemma. Though the invaginations are normally perpendicular to the length of the fiber, many T-tubules can lie axial to the long-axis of the fiber, both wrapping around and running alongside myofilament bundles.
The transverse tubules (t-tubules) of mammalian cardiac ventricular myocytes are invaginations of the surface membrane that occur at the Z line and have both transverse and longitudinal elements. Many of the proteins involved in excitation-contraction coupling appear to be concentrated at the t-tubules. Data from normal cells suggest that the major difference between the t-tubule and surface membranes is the concentration of Ca 2+ -handling proteins at the t-tubules. Therefore, in this section, we will concentrate on these proteins.
The sarcolemma is the membrane that surrounds the muscle fibre. It has in-growths known as T-tubules in places, which enables signals in the form of action potentials to penetrate down into the cell and activate the sarcoplasmic reticulum. T-tubules are in-growths of the membrane of the muscle cell (the sarcolemma). When an action potential travels across the membrane of the muscle cell, it travels down T-tubules into the heart of the muscle cell, enabling crossbridge cycles to be initiated simultaneously.