10 answers. My 14 month old started Antibiotics 2 days ago for his first ear infection. His fever is 103 - 104. As long as we're alternating Motrin/Tylenol every 3 hours his fever stays down, however, as soon as we let it wear off it's back up to 103 degrees. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Usually antibiotics take a couple days to take effect -- somewhere between 24 and 48 hours, I think, is when you should start feeling the difference. It does still take time to heal -- antibiotics just work on killing the bacteria, not repair the damage already done. 
I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it&#39;s the 3rd day and I don&#39;t notice anything yet... Sinus infections can take from a couple of weeks to a month for antibiotics to clear up. It takes the drugs a long time to get into all that pus in your sinuses and to have an effect. Source(s): pharmacologist. Bored Now 路 7 years ago
Report Abuse. antibiotics take 48 hours to start working, the pain should start easing at this time, they also carry on working for 48 hours after you have finished the course, if you still have pain after this goback to the dentist or dr, you can take pain killers with antibiotics. t_a_i_s_h_a 路 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0
Antibiotics actually start doing their job almost as soon as they have reached the infected area (10-24 hours). However, Antibiotics are like an Army and cannot defeat the bacteria/infection, until they have had time to rally and start the the non-stop attack (24-48 Hours). Antibiotics must build themselves up slowly in the body for them to be effective.
Amoxicillin often is prescribed based on the level of infection. For example, amoxicillin used to treat an ear infection is often prescribed for 7 to 10 days, or given in three injections. However, for a urinary tract infection, which is often more severe, antibiotics are often taken for 14 days to ensure the infection has fully cleared. Amoxicillin can best work when it is kept in steady levels in the body. For this reason, it is often prescribed to be taken every 8 to 12 hours. If you miss a dose, resume taking the medication as soon as possible.
Amoxicillin usually starts working in 24-72 hours showing some improvements if the organism is susceptible to amoxicillin. For me it will work with on 24 hours. Sinus infections can take from a couple of weeks to a month for antibiotics to clear up. It takes the drugs a long time to get into all that pus in your sinuses and to have an effect. Source(s): pharmacologist. Bored Now 路 7 years ago
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long before antibiotics for an ear infection start to work? My 14 month old daughter has an ear infection and has been prescribed a 10 day course of Augmentin (amoxycillin and potassium clavuanate). I&#39;m wondering how long it should be before she starts to feel better. She has been on them for 3 and a half days now and, after an initial improvement,... Source(s): long antibiotics ear infection start work: https://tinyurl.im/Qr6Ng. Emmaline 路 1 day ago.