H20 readily dissolves HCl acid into an H+ ion and a Cl-ion. The H+ ion attaches to H20 forming H30+. This occurs due to the dipole-dipole action of water. Yes, water will completely dissolve HCl because HCl is a strong acid. The H+ ion is much less electronegative than the Cl-ion, so the Cl-ion pulls electrons towards itself in the chemical bond, and becomes very slightly negative
Answer by Hannahestella. Confidence votes 160. Yes, water will completely dissolve HCl because HCl is a strong acid. The H+ ion is much less electronegative than the Cl-ion, so the Cl-ion pulls electrons towards itself in the chemical bond, and becomes very slightly negative
Molecules are not necessarily can not dissolve in water, sugar can dissolve in water. HCl can be ionized in water, meaning that H and Cl are separated by polar action of water molecule.. that is why it is soluble. neodymium · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. 
The resulting solution is called hydrochloric acid and is a strong acid. The acid dissociation or ionization constant, K a, is large, which means HCl dissociates or ionizes practically completely in water. Even in the absence of water, hydrogen chloride can still act as an acid. Hydrogen chloride gas and hydrochloric acid are important in technology and industry. Hydrochloric acid, the aqueous solution of hydrogen chloride, is also commonly given the formula HCl.
Metals in Hydrochloric Acid. Hydrochloric acid dissolves some metals to form oxidized metal chlorides and hydrogen gas, the latter of which is visible in the animation as bubbles floating to the surface. Be the first to rate this resource! Hydrochloric acid dissolves some metals to form oxidized metal chlorides and hydrogen gas, the latter of which is visible in the animation as bubbles floating to the surface.
Your right hcl won't dissolve copper without an oxidizer to change the copper to copper oxide. Hcl can dissolve copper oxide. The only thing you need is an oxidizer. That can come from the oxygen in the water or oxygen that is adsorbed from the air into solution. We can also use an air bubbler or H2O2. Anything hcl and oxygen is basically what we call AP or acid peroxide that eats copper
Hydrochloric acid is a clear, colorless, highly pungent solution of hydrogen chloride (H Cl) in water. It is a highly corrosive, strong mineral acid with many industrial uses. With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
Hydrochloric acid is a chemical solution and strong mineral acid consisting of hydrogen chloride and water, which is considered highly corrosive. This solution, historically, was called muriatic acid or spirits of salt and was produced from vitriol and common salt. 