1. (General Physics) (of a thermodynamic process) taking place without loss or gain of heat. n. 2. (General Physics) a curve or surface on a graph representing the changes in two or more characteristics (such as pressure and volume) of a system undergoing an adiabatic process. [C19: from Greek adiabatos not to be crossed, impassable (to heat), from a- 1 + diabatos passable, from dia-across + bainein to go].
Adiabatic Process. a process, occurring in a physical system, in which no heat is exchanged with the surroundings. An adiabatic process can occur in a system surrounded by a heat-insulating (adiabatic) enclosure. An adiabatic process can be either reversible or irreversible. In the case of the reversible adiabatic process, the entropy of the system remains constant. A reversible adiabatic process is therefore called isoentropic. On a phase diagram of the system it is represented by an adiabatic curve or by an isoentropic curve.
An adiabatic process is a thermodynamic process during which no energy is transferred as heat across the boundaries of the system. This does not exclude energy transfer as work. In way of example, the adiabatic flame temperature is an idealization that uses the adiabatic approximation so as to provide an upper limit calculation of temperatures produced by combustion of a fuel.
There is often, though not always, a change in temperature associated with the change in internal energy. By Andrew Zimmerman Jones. Definition: An adiabatic process is a thermodynamic process in which there is no heat transfer (Q) into or out of the system. In other words Q = 0. Applying the first law of thermodynamics to an adiabatic process, we obtain: 1  A system that expands under adiabatic conditions does positive work, so the internal energy decreases.
Adiabatic Process. An adiabatic process is one in which no heat is gained or lost by the system. The first law of thermodynamics with Q=0 shows that all the change in internal energy is in the form of work done. This puts a constraint on the heat engine process leading to the adiabatic condition shown below.
A thermodynamic process in which the system undergoing the change exchanges no heat with its surroundings. An increase in entropy or degree of disorder occurs during an irreversible adiabatic process. However, reversible adiabatic processes are isentropic; that is, they take place with no change in entropy. An adiabatic process can be either reversible or irreversible. In the case of the reversible adiabatic process, the entropy of the system remains constant. A reversible adiabatic process is therefore called isoentropic. On a phase diagram of the system it is represented by an adiabatic curve or by an isoentropic curve.
The definition of an adiabatic process is that heat transfer to the system is zero, . Then, according to the first law of thermodynamics, where is the change in the internal energy of the system and is work done by the system. In way of example, the adiabatic flame temperature is an idealization that uses the adiabatic approximation so as to provide an upper limit calculation of temperatures produced by combustion of a fuel.
Part of the Data centers glossary: Adiabatic cooling is the process of reducing heat through a change in air pressure caused by volume expansion. In data centers and other facilities, adiabatic processes have enabled free cooling methods, which use freely available natural phenomena to regulate temperature. 
The adiabatic flame temperature is the temperature that would be achieved by a flame if the process of combustion took place in the absence of heat loss to the surroundings. In way of example, the adiabatic flame temperature is an idealization that uses the adiabatic approximation so as to provide an upper limit calculation of temperatures produced by combustion of a fuel.