Dalmatia is in the southern part of Croatia, located between the Adriatic Sea and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Istria is a peninsula in the Adriatic Sea located at the southern part of Slovenia.
Located 650 feet from the UNESCO-protected Dubrovnik Old Town and its historic City Walls, Villa Dorma was completely refurbished in 2015 and offers rooms with free Wi-Fi access and free parking. The property is 1,150 feet from the Stradun pedestrian street.
Dubrovnik is a stunningly intact walled city on the Adriatic Sea coast of the extreme south of Croatia. Although its population barely exceeds 40,000, it's one of the most prominent tourist resorts of the Mediterranean and listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1979.
This historic town is located on the southern part of the Croatian coast, in the region called Dalmatia. The Dubrovnik region encompasses a narrow band of the mainland and numerous nearby islands.
Dubrovnik – well known ‘pearl of Adriatic’ located in deep south of Dalmatia. Dubrovnik is city rich with culture and history so it is listed in UNESCO World Heritage List.
Villa Adriatica is located at the southern entrance to the Old Town of Dubrovnik, right at the Ploče gate. This old family house was build in the first half of the 19th century and until today we have tried to preserve the interior and special feeling from that time.
Dubrovnik is both a seaport and the centre of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Its population was 42,615 inhabitants according to census data from 2011. Dubrovnik is nicknamed Pearl of the Adriatic.
Dubrovnik is the most popular destination in Dalmatia as well as in Croatia.. read more + Dubrovnik Photos + Dubrovnik Travel Guide. Hvar – Central Dalmatian Island, famous for it’s lavender fields as well as Renaissance architecture. Hvar is the Dalmatian island located between Korcula Island and Island of Brac.
Croatia-the long lost Mediterranean. Croatia is a European country located on the Mediterranean Sea or more accurately the Adriatic Sea which is a small part of the Mediterranean. Countries bordering Croatia are Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia.