Treatment options for brain lesions are often complicated and usually are decided by a team of physicians with the consent of the patient or the patient's representative. The treatment for some conditions, such as bacterial meningitis, are generally straightforward and require the use of antibiotics and steroids. Most of these diseases are treated with medications only, though there are a few exceptions such as the mixed types of diseases (genetic and vascular, as are found in some aneurysm formations). Every patient usually has an individualized treatment protocol.
When cancer has spread to the liver, it typically does not cause any symptoms. As a result, most patients do not notice any change in their health. Blood tests and imaging, such as CT scan or ultrasound, are important tools to detect metastatic liver lesions at an early stage, when they are most effectively treated. RFA may be used for patients who have unresectable metastatic liver lesions, or are too ill to undergo surgical resection, and may be used in combination with other forms of treatment. Surgical resection involves removing a portion of the liver that contains the metastatic lesion.
Age spots are also known as sun spots, liver spots, Lentigos, or Lentigines. These lesions are flat, tan, brown or dark brown spots on sun-exposed skin. As people age, sun spots most commonly appear on the backs of the hands, the forearms, neck, chest and face. Sun spots are associated with cumulative sun exposure. Molluscum contagiosum lesions are flesh-colored, dome-shaped and pearly in appearance. They are often 1–5 millimeters in diameter, with a dimpled center. They are generally not painful, but they may itch or become irritated. Picking or scratching the bumps may lead to further infection or scarring.
Symptoms common to several types of brain lesions include the following: 1  Headaches. 2  Neck pain or stiffness. 3  Nausea, vomiting, and lack of appetite. 4  Vision changes or eye pain. 5  Changes in mood, personality, behavior, mental ability, and concentration. 6  Memory loss or confusion. 7  Seizures. Although they share a common definition -- injury or damage to tissue within the brain -- brain lesions vary greatly. Here are some common brain lesions. Abscesses: Brain abscesses are areas of infection, including pus and inflamed tissue.
A few brain lesions may have a good prognosis if only a small amount of less vital brain tissue is involved and/or early interventions are successful (for example, surgical removal of a small benign tumor, early effective antimicrobial treatment of meningitis, or transient ischemic attack [ TIA or mini-stroke ]). The prognosis for surviving and recovering from a brain lesion depends upon the cause. In general, many brain lesions have only a fair to poor prognosis because damage and destruction of brain tissue is frequently permanent. However, some people can reduce their symptoms with rehabilitation training and medication
There are two very important things to know about neoplasms of the pancreas. First, some, such as the intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, are curable precancerous lesions. Just as colon cancer arises from curable precancerous colon polyps, so to do some pancreatic cancers arise from curable precancerous lesions. IPMNs are believed to start as curable precancerous lesions, and some, if untreated, may progress to invasive adenocarcinomas. Mucinous Cystic Neoplasms-This is a rare, cystic (containing collections of fluid), neoplasm of the pancreas.
Yes. OCD lesions are generally treated with surgery. A surgeon will remove the cartilage flap (OCD lesion), scrape away any underlying diseased bone or tissue and then flush the joint to ensure removal of any lingering fragments. A secondary method of pinning the flap down was studied by researchers at Cornell University.
It is spread through direct contact or shared items such as clothing or towels. Molluscum contagiosum lesions are flesh-colored, dome-shaped and pearly in appearance. They are often 1–5 millimeters in diameter, with a dimpled center. They are generally not painful, but they may itch or become irritated. Picking or scratching the bumps may lead to further infection or scarring.