Transverse myelitis: A disease of the spinal cord in which there is demyelination (erosion of the myelin sheath that normally protects nerve fibers). The onset of the disorder is typically sudden. Symptoms include back pain followed by ascending weakness in the legs. There is no cure. Transverse myelitis can cause low back pain, spinal cord dysfunction, muscle spasms, a general feeling of discomfort, headache, loss of appetite, and numbness or tingling
MRI image of Transverse Myelitis patient's spinal cord. Myelitis involves the infection or the inflammation of the white matter or gray matter of the spinal cord which is a part of central nervous system that acts as a bridge between the brain and the rest of the body. 
myelitis. [mī′əlī′tis]. an abnormal condition characterized by inflammation of the spinal cord with associated motor or sensory dysfunction. Some kinds of myelitis are acute transverse myelitis, and poliomyelitis. myelitic, adj. 1. inflammation of the spinal cord; there are no specific myelitides in animals but myelitis is a significant lesion in listeriosis, equine herpesvirus-1 infection in horses, caprine arthritis-encephalitis, equine protozoal myeloencephalitis. 2. inflammation of bone marrow (see also osteomyelitis). bulbar myelitis.
Definition of MYELITIS. : inflammation of the spinal cord or of the bone marrow. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin
Medical Definition of MYELITIS. : inflammation of the spinal cord or of the bone marrow. — my·e·lit·ic \-ˈlit-ik\ adjective
Definition. Transverse myelitis (TM) is an uncommon neurological syndrome caused by inflammation (a protective response which includes swelling, pain, heat, and redness) of the spinal cord, characterized by weakness, back pain, and bowel and bladder problems. It affects one to five persons per million. Transverse myelitis (TM) is an uncommon neurological syndrome caused by inflammation (a protective response which includes swelling, pain, heat, and redness) of the spinal cord, characterized by weakness, back pain, and bowel and bladder problems
Partial transverse myelitis and partial myelitis are terms used to define inflammation of the spinal cord that affects part of the width of the spinal cord. 
Noun. 1. myelitis-inflammation of the spinal cord. inflammation, redness, rubor-a response of body tissues to injury or irritation; characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat. Translations.
Definition. Transverse myelitis is an inflammation of the spinal cord, which often targets insulating material covering nerve cell fibers (myelin). Transverse myelitis may result in injury across the spinal cord, affecting sensation below the injury. The disrupted transmission of nerve signals due to transverse myelitis can cause pain or other sensory problems, weakness or paralysis of muscles, or bladder and bowel dysfunction.