RE: How Long does Anxiety attacks last? Ive had anxiety/panic attacks starting last sunday, in the past week its been constant, not in the panic form but more in a relaxed but yet tense feeling. I still tlak to to people do my evryday things, laugh think things are funny, in the having trouble breathing, heart is messed up rapid haeartbeats etc.,... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: an anxiety ATTACK is an unbearable feeling like you're going to die - - you cannot do everyday things and talk to people reguarly durings a panic attack. no, an attack itself can not last a week.
Panic attacks can last from a few minutes to a few hours and can happen at any time, day or night, whether you are asleep or awake. The range of symptoms experienced can differ greatly from person to person. Sufferers often find that the core panic symptoms stay the same but that some symptoms can change regularly. The length of time it takes for the adrenalin released by the autonomic nervous system to be ‘used up’ is how long your panic attack will last. When no surplus adrenalin remains in the blood stream, the panic subsides.
Interestingly, panic attacks do seem to follow a specific pattern. Panic attacks tend to peak about 10 minutes in, and then go through a slow but steady decline that can last anywhere from 10 minutes to several hours. The resulting fatigue from a panic attack, however, can last the rest of the day depending on the severity of the attack. The above list, however, refers to how long a specific attack lasts. The disorders themselves can last the rest of your life or only a few days. Your ability to overcome the anxiety depends a great deal on the help you seek out and your willingness to commit to treatments.
Often the main reason that people wonder how long anxiety attacks last is because they think they've experienced one, but they're not entirely sure. I developed a free 7 minute anxiety test that will help. The above list, however, refers to how long a specific attack lasts. The disorders themselves can last the rest of your life or only a few days. Your ability to overcome the anxiety depends a great deal on the help you seek out and your willingness to commit to treatments.
1 Don't worry too much about how long this panic attack will last for. 2  Acknowledge the symptoms, don't fight them, let them flow through you. 3  They will pass. 4  Of course, if you feel concerned about how long this panic attack is lasting, it is always appropriate to go seek medical help. 1 They will pass. 2  Of course, if you feel concerned about how long this panic attack is lasting, it is always appropriate to go seek medical help. 3  If you haven't yet sought treatment for panic disorder, please get help. 4  This is a very treatable condition, but it is one that most people need to get help for.
Finally in order to really know how long does a panic attack last, if you are mindful, you can actually time yourself and study the pattern of your own attacks to determine the effectiveness of whatever form of treatment you are taking. For the newbie it will definitely take longer but definitely not longer than an hour. If you are one of those people suffering from panic attacks and you are wondering how long do panic attacks last in terms of the whole disorder and not just a particular episode, again the answer very much lies with the individual.
Ive had anxiety/panic attacks etc before (bad ones), but now the past two days its been constant, not in the panic form but more in a relaxed but yet tense feeling. I still tlak to to people do my evryday things, laugh think things are funny, in the having trouble breathing, heart is messed up rapid haeartbeats... 
I've done some searching on the Web about anxiety attacks and how long they last. Most of the places I've looked at said they usally last 10-20 minutes. This has been a little distressting. When I'm having an attack, it can last up to an hour. My anxiety starts off mild, then gets progressively worse, then goes back down. Maybe my actual attack is only 10-20 minutes and the rest is just residual anxiety, but I'm not really sure. And as far as how long panic attacks, which are the same thing as anxiety attacks, last, that totally depends on the situation and the person. Although the most intense anxiety only lasts a while, anxiety can remain elevated for hours afterward.
Panic attacks typically last for less than 20 minutes. They start suddenly, sometimes for no obvious reason, sometimes in response to a stressful event, and sometimes as a result of exposure to a situation that has triggered previous panic attacks. 1 They will pass. 2  Of course, if you feel concerned about how long this panic attack is lasting, it is always appropriate to go seek medical help. 3  If you haven't yet sought treatment for panic disorder, please get help. 4  This is a very treatable condition, but it is one that most people need to get help for.