Arthropods' bodies are segmented, but they are also divided into distinct sections, usually the head, thorax, and abdomen, although the head and thorax can be joined to form a cephalothorax. There are five main groups of arthropods: horseshoe crabs, arachnids, crustaceans, centipedes and millipedes, and insects. Horseshoe crabs are unique in that they have survived for hundreds of millions of years with almost no evolution. Arachnids consist of scorpions, spiders, and mites.
Arthropoda, a phylum within Kingdom Animalia, is the most diverse of all the phyla. Fossil records indicate that arthropods evolved from annelids sometime in the Cambrian period, but molecular evidence indicates that they evolved separately from each other.
Arthropods belong to the Phylum Arthropoda. Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods.   An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages.    An ANTHROPOD is a bipedal humanoid (ie Homo Sapien, Homo Neanderthalus, Homo Habilus, Australopithicene Afarensis, and other hominids).
There are far more species of arthropods than species in all other phyla combined, and the number of undescribed species in the largest assemblage of arthropods, the insects, probably numbers in the tens of millions.
The three main classes of arthropods are: insects (cockroaches, ants, flies, bees, beetles and butterflies), crustaceans (crabs, lobsters, shrimp and barnacles) and arachnids (scorpions, spiders and mites). Other classes are onychophorans (velvet worms), diplopods (millipedes) and chilopods (centipedes).
Crabs, lobsters, spiders, insects, centipedes, and millipedes these creatures all belong to the phylum Arthropoda, the most successful group of animals on Earth. Indeed, arthropods far outnumber all other types of animals combined, with an estimated 1 million species.
Arthropods are the largest phylum in the animal kingdom; there are more types of arthropods than all other types of animals combined. They can vary in size from microscopic to larger than an adult human. Land arthropods are usually less than 15cm (approximately 5 inches).