Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Victoria and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Victoria and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Victoria is a very prominent first name for females (#116 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#6401 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Victoria for girls. Victoria ▲ has 31 variants: Tori ▼ , Toria, Torie, Tory, Toya, Vic, Vicci, Vickee, Vickey ▼ , Vicki ▼ , Vickie ▼ , Vicky ▼ , Victoire, Victoriana, Victorie, Victorina, Victorine, Victory, Vika, Viki, Vikkey, Vikki ▼ , Vikky, Viktoria, Viktorija, Viktorina, Viktorine, Viktorka, Viqui, Vitoria and Vittoria.
Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the girl name Victoria and affiliated names. Tori (#734 the previous year) , Vikki, Vita, Vicky, Viktoria, Vickie, Toya, Vickey, Vicki and Latoya are the popular alternative forms of Victoria (#19 the previous year) appearing in the Top 1000. Victoria ▲ has 31 variants: Tori ▼ , Toria, Torie, Tory, Toya, Vic, Vicci, Vickee, Vickey ▼ , Vicki ▼ , Vickie ▼ , Vicky ▼ , Victoire, Victoriana, Victorie, Victorina, Victorine, Victory, Vika, Viki, Vikkey, Vikki ▼ , Vikky, Viktoria, Viktorija, Viktorina, Viktorine, Viktorka, Viqui, Vitoria and Vittoria.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Victoria in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Victoria in Nautical Flags page. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Latin Meaning: The name Victoria is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Victoria is: Victory; triumphant. Famous Bearer: Queen Victoria. American Meaning: The name Victoria is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Victoria is: Victory; triumphant. Famous Bearer: Queen Victoria. 
Meaning & History. Means victory in Latin, being borne by the Roman goddess of victory. It is also a feminine form of VICTORIUS. This name was borne by a 4th-century saint and martyr from North Africa. Though in use elsewhere in Europe, the name was very rare in the English-speaking world until the 19th century, when Queen Victoria began her long rule of Britain.
Origin, meaning and forms [edit]. Victoria is the Latin word for 'victory' or 'conquer' and is used as the feminine form corresponding to the name Victor. In Roman mythology, Victoria was the name of the goddess of victory, corresponding to the Greek goddess Nike. There are several different variations of the name Victoria:
Victoria /vic-to-ria/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced vic-TOR-ee-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Victoria is  conqueror . Feminine of Victor. Victoria ▲ has 31 variants: Tori ▼ , Toria, Torie, Tory, Toya, Vic, Vicci, Vickee, Vickey ▼ , Vicki ▼ , Vickie ▼ , Vicky ▼ , Victoire, Victoriana, Victorie, Victorina, Victorine, Victory, Vika, Viki, Vikkey, Vikki ▼ , Vikky, Viktoria, Viktorija, Viktorina, Viktorine, Viktorka, Viqui, Vitoria and Vittoria.