From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Keratoacanthoma (KA) is a common low-grade (unlikely to metastasize or invade) skin tumour that is believed to originate from the neck of the hair follicle. The defining characteristic of KA is that it is dome-shaped, symmetrical, surrounded by a smooth wall of inflamed skin, and capped with keratin scales and debris. 1 Generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma (also known as Generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma of Grzybowski) is a cutaneous condition, a variant of keratoacanthomas, characterized by hundreds to thousands of tiny follicular keratotic papules over the entire body.
Distinguishing keratoacanthoma from squamous cell carcinoma is a persistent issue in pathology practice. Solitary keratoacanthoma is a self-limiting lesion as opposed to rather aggressive clinical behavior of squamous cell carcinoma. The distinction of keratoacanthoma from squamous cell carcinoma on histological grounds is a matter of convention for a long time and some even claim that keratoacanthoma is a variant of squamous cell carcinoma or progresses into
Keratoacanthoma (KA) is a relatively common type of skin cancer. In general, KA is considered a low grade or well-differentiated type of squamous cell carcinoma; however, it tends to grow rapidly over a few weeks to months, locally invading surrounding tissues. 
Keratoacanthoma (KA) is a low-grade skin cancer tumor that is similar to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). It originates in the skin’s pilosebaceous glands, or hair follicles. This skin cancer tumor grows rapidly, in just a few weeks to a few months. People over the age of 60 are more at risk. Keratoacanthoma shows up as a lesion or growth on the skin that reaches a size of between one and two centimeters within a few weeks. It then grows more slowly. In rare cases, KA may show up as multiple tumors that can be five centimeters to 15 centimeters in size.
Keratoacanthoma (KA) is a relatively common low-grade tumor that originates in the pilosebaceous glands and closely resembles squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). In fact, strong arguments support classifying keratoacanthoma as a variant of invasive SCC. In most pathology/biopsy reports, dermatopathologists refer to the lesion as squamous cell carcinoma, keratoacanthoma-type.. Keratoacanthoma is characterized by rapid growth over a few weeks to months, followed by spontaneous resolution over 4-6 months in most cases. Keratoacanthoma (squamous cell carcinoma-keratoacanthoma or SCC-KA type) on inner canthus. Keratoacanthoma of the left forehead. Close-up view of the keratoacanthoma.
KA is commonly found on sun-exposed skin, often face, forearms and hands. Under the microscope, keratoacanthoma very closely resembles squamous cell carcinoma. In order to differentiate between the two, almost the entire structure needs to be removed and examined. 1 Generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma (also known as Generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma of Grzybowski) is a cutaneous condition, a variant of keratoacanthomas, characterized by hundreds to thousands of tiny follicular keratotic papules over the entire body.
Keratoacanthoma or KA is a skin growth that is reasonably common and is swiftly growing. It typically appears as a dome-like lump on skin which is sun-exposed on light-skinned elderly as well as middle-aged individuals. It is frequently found at sites of prior trauma or injury. Many researchers believe that keratoacanthomas is the less severe type of “squamous cell carcinoma”. Most keratoacanthoma cause only nominal injury to the skin but some do act more antagonistically and can spread to lymphatic nodes
Keratoacanthoma (KA) is a skin condition that gives rise to discomforting sores on the body and may also cause cancer. Read on to know what is Keratoacanthoma and also learn about its causes, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. 
Overview of Keratoacanthoma. Keratoacanthoma (KA) is a common skin tumor. In the past it was regarded as benign, but some of these tumors have been seen to transform into squamous cell carcinoma. Keratoacanthoma is now regarded and treated by many as a malignant growth.