This is the most common form of plague. Pneumonic plague: Humans can come into contact with plague when a person breathes in plague bacteria from the air. This type of plague can spread from person to person through the air (coughing and sneezing) and usually requires direct and close contact with an infected person. Septicemic plague is caused by plague bacteria that grow and spread in the blood. It can result from pneumonic or bubonic plague or it can occur by itself. When it occurs alone, it is caused in the same ways as bubonic plague.
Yersinia pestis bacteria can cause three different types of plague: bubonic, septicemic, or pneumonic. In bubonic plague, the most common form, bacteria infect the lymph system and causes it to become inflamed. This is the most serious form of plague and occurs when Y. pestis bacteria infect the lungs and cause pneumonia. 1  You get primary pneumonic plague when you inhale plague bacteria from an infected person or animal.
Plague is an infectious disease that affects rodents, certain other animals and humans. It is caused by the Yersinia pestis bacteria. These bacteria are found in many areas of the world, including the United States. Fleas become infected by feeding on rodents, such as chipmunks, prairie dogs, ground squirrels, mice, and other mammals that are infected with the bacterium Yersinia pestis. Fleas transmit the plague bacteria to humans and other mammals during a subsequent feeding.
Pneumonic plague may occur if a person with bubonic or septicemic plague is untreated and the bacteria spread to the lungs. Septicemic plague is caused by plague bacteria that grow and spread in the blood. It can result from pneumonic or bubonic plague or it can occur by itself. When it occurs alone, it is caused in the same ways as bubonic plague.
How is plague spread? Bubonic plague and septicemic plague are transmitted primarily by the bite from infected fleas; however, transmission can occur by bites or scratches from infected wild rodents and cats, or contact with tissue from infected animals. Bubonic plague is rarely spread from person-to-person. Wild rodents, especially ground squirrels and prairie dogs, are the natural reservoir for plague. Rats, wild rodents, cats, and dogs can become infected with plague and the disease is occasionally transmitted to people who are bitten by infected animals or infected fleas that feed on those animals.
Septicemic plague is one form of plague (the others are pneumonic plague and septicemic plague). It develops when Yersinia pestis enters the bloodstream. Usually, septicemic plague is spread through the bites of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Yersinia pestis bacteria may enter through an opening in the skin, whether from a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by an infected person. Septicemic plague is rarely spread from person to person.
Pneumonic Plague. This is the most serious form of plague and occurs when Y. pestis bacteria infect the lungs and cause pneumonia. 1  You get primary pneumonic plague when you inhale plague bacteria from an infected person or animal. 2  You usually have to be in direct or close contact with the ill person or animal
Septicemic plague in animals [edit]. Septicemic plague is a zoonosis, a disease that generally is acquired by humans from animals, such as rodents and carnivores. Goats, sheep and camels also may carry the bacteria. Septicemic (or septicaemic) plague is one of the three main forms of plague. It is caused by Yersinia pestis, a gram-negative species of bacterium. Septicemic plague is a life-threatening infection of the blood, most commonly spread by bites from infected fleas.
Skin and other tissues may turn black and die, especially on fingers, toes, and the nose. Septicemic plague can occur as the first symptom of plague, or may develop from untreated bubonic plague. This form results from bites of infected fleas or from handling an infected animal. Pneumonic plague: Patients develop fever, headache, weakness, and a rapidly developing pneumonia with shortness of breath, chest pain, cough, and sometimes bloody or watery mucous. If the patient is not treated with the appropriate antibiotics, the bacteria can spread to other parts of the body. Septicemic plague: Patients develop fever, chills, extreme weakness, abdominal pain, shock, and possibly bleeding into the skin and other organs.