Make The Most Of Your Maldives Currency. When planning a holiday in the Maldives, currency usually isn’t high on the list until you’re just about to jet off, so we’ll get straight to the point and let you know that you can relax. The currency of the Maldives is the Rufiyaa, but US dollars are accepted everywhere. Maldives Currency – Brief History. The currency in the Maldives is called the Rufiyaa (pronounced roo-fee-yah) that has the symbol Rf and is from the Hindi word rupaya which is from Sanskrit meaning wrought silver.
Maldives Currency. The Maldives currency is the Rufiyaa. A Rufiyaa is 100 Laari. The Rufiyaa is in denominations of 500, 100, 50, 20, 10 and 5 Rufiyaa notes, 1 and 2 Rufiya coins and 50, 25, 10, 5, 2 and 1 Laari coins. The exchange rate as of December 2009 is MRf. 12.75 against the United States Dollar. 
The currency of the Maldives is the rufiyaa (Rf), which is divided into 100 larees. Notes come in denominations of 500, 100, 50, 20, 10, five and two rufiyaa, but the last two are uncommon. 
The Maldivian Rufiyaa is the currency of Maldives (Maldive Islands). Our currency rankings show that the most popular Maldives (Maldive Islands) Rufiyaa exchange rate is the MVR to INR rate. The currency code for Rufiyaa is MVR. Below, you'll find Maldivian Rufiyaa rates and a currency converter
Best Answer: Maldives is THE place to go if you want to enjoy a tropical paradise and sunny sandy beaches with beautiful marine life. The local currency is Maldivian Ruffiya (1 USD = 12.75 Mrf). In Maldives resorts are strictly separated from the local population. They can not enter a tourist resort without a valid reason.
Rufiyaa (MVR) is the official answer. However, the Rufiyaa, Euro and US dollars are widely *used* in the Maldives. AMEX, VISA and MC along with bank cards are well supported in the resorts and in the capital Male. The Maldives is a progressive country with an active tourism business and open to many currencies. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. maldivian rufiyaa (MVR) is the official currency but you can use almost any leading currency in the resorts and in male' (capital of maldives) all most all kind of cards like credit cash visa american are widely used.
Easy Exchange Facilities. Maldives currency is called Rufiyaa [Rf], which is divided into 100 Larees. Maldives Rufiyaa comes in different denominations of notes and coins. The notes come in denominations of 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100 and 500 while the coins are available in denominations of 1, 2, 5, 10, 25 and 50 Larees. The Maldives hotels and resorts in Maldives generally range from being economic to luxury.