Dietitians and nutritionists need at least a bachelor's degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, or a related area. College students in these majors take courses in foods, nutrition, institution management, chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, and physiology. 
Education. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology. Many dietitians and nutritionists also have advanced degrees
1 Completed a minimum of a bachelor’s degree at a US regionally accredited university or college and course work accredited or approved by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. 
The minimum requirement for a career in dietetics is a bachelor's degree; however, some dietitians hold graduate degrees. There were 279 bachelor's and 18 master's degree programs approved by the Dietetic Association's (ADA) Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE) in 2009 (www.eatright.org). Essential Information. Dietitians, or nutritionists, are health care professionals who develop and supervise diet programs that improve public health. Dietitians generally need a bachelor's degree in dietetics or a related field.
A dietitian (or dietician) is an expert in dietetics; that is, human nutrition and the regulation of diet. A dietitian advises people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or to achieve a specific health-related goal. 
Dietitians must hold at least a bachelor's degree in dietetics, nutrition or another health science field. Some colleges and universities offer Bachelor of Science in Dietetics programs comprised of didactic curricula approved by the ADA. Essential Information. Dietitians, or nutritionists, are health care professionals who develop and supervise diet programs that improve public health. Dietitians generally need a bachelor's degree in dietetics or a related field.
Nutrition specialists may be dietitians or nutritionists, each of which require different certification and education. Registered dietitians must be certified nationally after acquiring a bachelor's degree in a field related to physiology, food service management, biochemistry or culinary arts. Certified nutrition specialists, or nutritionists, are health professionals specializing in diet, food and nutrition.
Print Email. A registered dietitian nutritionist is a food and nutrition expert who has met academic and professional requirements including: 1  Earned a bachelor's degree with course work approved by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics' Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) 