In deposits mined today, zinc ore which is rock containing economic content of zinc and/or other materials usually occurs mixed with ores of lead, silver and commonly copper and is extracted as a co-product of these metals. Introduction. Zinc (Zn) was used in Rome and China more than 2000 years ago as a component of brass which is a zinc-copper alloy. Zinc metal was first smelted from zinc ore in India in about 1200 and is known to have been used in China soon after.
Gold ore (size: 7.5 × 6.1 × 4.1 cm). Cart for carrying ore from a mine on display at the Historic Archive and Museum of Mining in Pachuca, Mexico. An ore is a type of rock that contains sufficient minerals with important elements including metals that can be economically extracted from the rock. The ores are extracted from the earth through mining; they are then refined (often via smelting) to extract the valuable element, or elements. 
Sphalerite (zinc sulfide) is the primary ore mineral from which most of the world's zinc is produced, but a number of other minerals that do not contain sulfide contain zinc as a major component. The next leading use of zinc is as an alloy; the zinc is combined with copper (to form brass) and with other metals to form materials that are used in automobiles, electrical components, and household fixtures.
Zinc, in commerce also spelter, is a chemical element with symbol Zn and atomic number 30. It is the first element of group 12 of the periodic table. In some respects zinc is chemically similar to magnesium: its ion is of similar size and its only common oxidation state is +2. Zinc is the 24th most abundant element in Earth's crust and has five stable isotopes. Many alloys contain zinc, including brass, an alloy of copper and zinc. Other metals long known to form binary alloys with zinc are aluminium, antimony, bismuth, gold, iron, lead, mercury, silver, tin, magnesium, cobalt, nickel, tellurium and sodium.
1 Zinc Ore Zinc is a shiny, bluish-white metal. Zinc metal is never found pure in nature. Zinc minerals are generally associated with other metal minerals, the most common associations in ores being zinc-lead, lead-zinc, zinc-copper, copper-zinc, zinc-silver, or zinc only. The remaining rock and minerals are called gangue. Forms of Lead and Zinc Ore The two principal minerals containing lead and zinc are galena and sphalerite. These two minerals are frequently found together along with other sulfide minerals, but one or the other may be predominant.
Brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc, has been used since at least the 10th century BC in Judea and by the 7th century BC in Ancient Greece. Zinc metal was not produced on a large scale until the 12th century in India and was unknown to Europe until the end of the 16th century. Many alloys contain zinc, including brass, an alloy of copper and zinc. Other metals long known to form binary alloys with zinc are aluminium, antimony, bismuth, gold, iron, lead, mercury, silver, tin, magnesium, cobalt, nickel, tellurium and sodium.
Zinc is often found in nature together with lead in sulfide ores. The metals are separated during refining. As zinc is resistant to corrosion and easy to apply, much of it is used to protect iron and steel-based products. 
The sulphide, sphalerite, is the one most common primary ore of zinc. The carbonate, smithsonite, and the silicate, smithsonite, are usually associated with sphalerite deposits as secondary minerals. The three minerals, zincite, franklinite and willemite, are found in unique deposits at Franklin Furnace, New Jersey. In general sphalerite, the chief ore of zinc, is found in irregular replacement deposits in limestone. It is very frequently intimately associated with lead minerals. In deep-seated veins which have not suffered oxidation, sphalerite is generally the ore mineral found.
Germanium-A byproduct of zinc ore processing. Also a deposit in China is associated with coal. Gold-The primary mineral of gold is the native metal and electrum (a gold-silver alloy). Some tellurides are also important ore minerals such as calaverite, sylvanite, and petzite. Hafnium-Primary ore mineral is zircon. Indium-Primarily is a byproduct of zinc processing. The main ore minerals in bauxite are gibbsite, bohmeite, and diaspore. Antimony-The primary ore of antimony is it's sulfide, stibnite. Arsenic-Recovered from other metal processing streams (primarily from the sulfosalts such as tennantite etc.). Arsenopyrite is the most common arsenic mineral.