We will begin with the first level of Bronfenbrenner's theory: the microsystem. The microsystem is the system closest to the person and the one in which they have direct contact. Some examples would be home, school, daycare, or work. Ecological systems theory provides one approach to answering this question. The ecological systems theory was developed by Urie Bronfenbrenner. Bronfenbrenner believed that a person's development was affected by everything in their surrounding environment.
Bronfenbrenner’s ecological theory holds that an individual’s development is reflective of five environmental systems: microsystem, mesosystem, exosystem, macrosystem, and chronosystem (Bronfenbrenner, 1986, 2004; Bronfenbrenner & Morris, 1998, 2006).The microsystem is the system in which the adolescent lives. 
This is his environmental approach to development. The five systems within this theory are the microsystem, the mesosystem, the exosystem, the macrosystem, and the chronosystem. Applying this system to the achievement of the minority child we see that the odds are stacked against the child most of the time. They are the microsystem, mesosystem, exosystem, macrosystem and chronosystem. We can apply this framework in discussing the achievement for a minority child. Beginning with the microsystem we can begin to assess the core of the minority child s potential for achievement.
Bronfenbrenner s ecological theory consists of five systems. They are the microsystem, mesosystem, exosystem, macrosystem and chronosystem. We can apply this framework in discussing the achievement for a minority child. Beginning with the microsystem we can begin to assess the core of the minority child s potential for achievement.
Bronfenbrenner s Exosystem and Macrosystem. Beyond the Microsystems and the Mesosystems, Bronfenbrenner s model expands to include those environmental contexts that are less direct and less concrete in the child s life but still have a powerful influence on the child s socialization. Parents of a particular religion raise him. This influences his values and beliefs. He is raised within a family of a particular socio-economic status, which refers to a complex combination of educational status and income. Socioeconomic status influences the child s beliefs and values.
The microsystem, mesosystem, exosystem, macrosystem, and the chonosystem are the five environmental levels that influence child development according to Urie Bronfenbrenner's ecological theory. The macrosystem is the fourth layer and consists of the cultural context in which the child resides. The effects of the macrosystem also trickle down to the exosystem, mesosystem, and microsystem. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. For example, if it is a cultural belief that mothers should have the sole responsibility of staying at home and raising the children (macrosystem), the mother would be less likely to pursue work outside of the home (parent's workplace is part of the exosystem).
The fourth level of ecological systems theory is the macrosystem. The macrosystem encompasses the cultural environment in which the person lives and all other systems that affect them. Examples could include the economy, cultural values, and political systems. The macrosystem can have either a positive or a negative effect on a person's development. For an example, consider the different effects on the development of a child growing up in a third-world economy versus that of the United States. Ecological systems theory provides one approach to answering this question. The ecological systems theory was developed by Urie Bronfenbrenner. Bronfenbrenner believed that a person's development was affected by everything in their surrounding environment.
The way I envision the Macrosystem is a giant spiral staircase. Imagine a child starting at the bottom of this giant spiral staircase and the child s life experience will be represented by the trip up the staircase. With each step the child encounters societal expectations, beliefs and values. Parents of a particular religion raise him. This influences his values and beliefs. He is raised within a family of a particular socio-economic status, which refers to a complex combination of educational status and income. Socioeconomic status influences the child s
The macrosystem is the fourth level of Bronfenbrenner's theory. Cultural values, health, and public policy and laws are all a part of the macrosystem. The culture's belief systems and ideology influence the child directly, even though the child does not have much freedom in determining his or her cultural values. For example, if it is a cultural belief that mothers should have the sole responsibility of staying at home and raising the children (macrosystem), the mother would be less likely to pursue work outside of the home (parent's workplace is part of the exosystem).
A macrosystem is a large system within which microsystems are contained. An example of a part of a law firm's macrosystem is the U.S. court system. 