LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a cousin is the child of your aunt and/or uncle. An example of a cousin is the baby born to your mother's sister. cousin. noun. 1  A child of one's aunt or uncle. 2  Also called first cousin. 3  A relative descended from a common ancestor, such as a grandparent, by two or more steps in a diverging line. 4  A relative by blood or marriage; a kinsman or kinswoman. 5  A member of a kindred group or country: our Canadian cousins.
noun. 1 (also first cousin) A child of one’s uncle or aunt. Example sentences. 1  Not just the immediate family, but including all my aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces, nephews. 2  There is a great loyalty to one's immediate family and even beyond-to uncles, aunts, cousins, nieces and nephews
n. 1. A child of one's aunt or uncle. Also called first cousin. 2. A relative descended from a common ancestor, such as a grandparent, by two or more steps in a diverging line. 3. A relative by blood or marriage; a kinsman or kinswoman. 4. A member of a kindred group or country: our Canadian cousins. 5. A person's second cousin is the child of one of his parents' first cousins. A person's third cousin is the child of one of his parents' second cousins. A first cousin once removed (or loosely second cousin) is the child of one's first cousin. 3. a member of a group related by race, ancestry, interests, etc: our Australian cousins
noun. 1  Also called : : first cousin, cousin-german, full cousin the child of one's aunt or uncle. 2  a relative who has descended from one of one's common ancestors. 3  A person's second cousin is the child of one of his parents' first cousins. 4  A person's third cousin is the child of one of his parents' second cousins. 1 Also called : : first cousin, cousin-german, full cousin the child of one's aunt or uncle. 2  a relative who has descended from one of one's common ancestors. 3  A person's second cousin is the child of one of his parents' first cousins. 4  A person's third cousin is the child of one of his parents' second cousins.
Full Definition of COUSIN. 1. a: a child of one's uncle or aunt b: a relative descended from one's grandparent or more remote ancestor by two or more steps and in a different line. 2. : one associated with or related to another: counterpart. 3. —used as a title by a sovereign in addressing a nobleman. 4. 
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common ancestors. In the general sense, cousins are two or more generations away from any common ancestor, thus distinguishing a cousin from an ancestor, descendant, sibling, aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew. 