Water pollution is a major problem we face today. Here are some ways to prevent it. Advertisement. Although it covers more than 70% of the surface of the Earth, water is one of the most precious natural resources of our planet. Some of the other causes of pollution are oil spillages and dumping in oceans, dumping litter into streams, rivers, and oceans such as cardboard, newspaper, foam, Styrofoam, plastic packaging, aluminum, glass, and so on. Some of these pollutants take a very long time to degrade.
Pollution problems are also closely tied to the mode of development in developing countries. Despite this, many developing countries either have not developed environmental pollution control measures, or have not provided adequate implementation structures to ensure that policies are effective. 
2. Measures to Control Air Pollution.  Activated carbon is one of the most popular forms of air pollution control. This type of control involves the use of a pollution filter, carbon, to reduce the amount of pollutants that are allowed to escape into the air. When in use, these filters absorb pollutants helping to cleanse the air of any possible toxins.
With increasing human population, pollution has become a great concern. Pollution from human activities is a problem that does not have to be inevitable. With a comprehensive pollution prevention program, most pollution can be reduced, reused, or prevented. The US Environmental Protection Agency works to introduce pollution prevention programs to reduce and manage waste
There are many things that we can do individually to prevent water pollution. Given below are a few ways to prevent water pollution: Answer:... to reduce water pollution. An abyss of answers can arise to this question. To prevent water pollution you can use less water. The less water  you use the less amount of water that flows into the sewage. Use  household products that are environmenta … lly friendly. Use natural  pesticides an fertilizers. Don't litter because it can blow into  the water. Dispose of toxic products with care
Prevention and Control of Water Pollution Water pollution are contributed due to industrial effluents and sewage. The time has came to avert major disaster. Effluent treatment systems have to be incorporated in industry. Industries, where it is already in existence, need to operate their plants regularly without looking for savings. And paper mills, sugar industries and distilleries that let out more effluents can be used for irrigation or as fertilizers after proper treatment, without affecting ground water. Prevention and Control of Water Pollution. Water pollution are contributed due to industrial effluents and sewage.
Reduce the use of harmful products to the environment. Ways to reduce pollution in your home: 1  Buy biodegradable products. 2  Store all liquid chemicals and waste in spill-proof containers. 3  Eat organic foods that are grown without pesticides. 4  Look out for fertilizer or pesticide free products when you go to the market. 
To minimize the volume of effluents, the waste water that is less polluted may be used in rinsing. For instance, in the mercerizing of yarn, the final rinse water containing little alkali is used for the first and second rinsing of yarn containing excess alkali. And paper mills, sugar industries and distilleries that let out more effluents can be used for irrigation or as fertilizers after proper treatment, without affecting ground water. Prevention and Control of Water Pollution. Water pollution are contributed due to industrial effluents and sewage. The time has came to avert major disaster. Effluent treatment systems have to be incorporated in industry. Industries, where it is already in existence, need to operate their plants regularly without looking for savings