Foodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food, as well as chemical or natural toxins such as poisonous mushrooms. 
For example, some bacteria are used beneficially in making cheese and yogurt. Bacteria that cause disease are called “pathogens.” When certain pathogens enter the food supply, they can cause food-borne illness. Only a few types cause millions of cases of food-borne illness each year. Ironically, most cases of food-borne illness can be prevented. Food-borne illness often shows itself as flu-like symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or fever, so many people may not recognize the illness is caused by bacteria or other pathogens on food. Thousands of types of bacteria are naturally present in our environment. Not all bacteria cause disease in humans
Invasion and multiplication of pathogenic microorganisms in the body is called an infection. When we are infected by pathogens we become sick, which means that our bodies stop functioning properly. Infectious agents, such as bacteria, a virus, fungi or protozoa cause communicable diseases. Introduction. The previous chapter mentioned that different types of microorganisms interact with human bodies on a regular basis. They can be harmless, harmful or beneficial. Harmful microorganims are also called pathogenic. This chapter looks at disease-causing bacteria and viruses.
1 Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne. 2  Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms. 
The world of foodborne microbes contains a mix of approximately 250 different types of bacteria, viruses, parasites, molds, and algae that are known to cause disease in humans and are therefore called foodborne pathogens. Bacteria are the largest group of problematic foodborne pathogens by far. They are small, one-celled microbes that come in many shapes and are capable of reproducing themselves. Typical cell shapes include spherical (cocci), rod-shaped (bacilli), and curved or comma-shaped (spirillar).
To avoid potential problems in foods, it is very important to control or eliminate these microorganisms in food products. Pathogenic microorganisms can be transmitted to humans by a number of routes. Diseases which result from pathogenic microorganisms are of two types: infection and intoxication. When enough salt or sugar is added to a food, the water activity will be lowered to a level that will prevent microorganisms from growing. 1  In general, bacterial glowth is inhibited by the addition of 5-15% salt. 2  To inhibit mold growth, 65-70% sugar must be added.
Bacteria, yeasts, and mold are microorganisms associated with foods. The individual microorganism cannot be seen without the aid of a microscope. The size of these microorganisms are measured in microns (1 micron is 1/1000 of a millimeter or U25,40A of an inch). When enough salt or sugar is added to a food, the water activity will be lowered to a level that will prevent microorganisms from growing. 1  In general, bacterial glowth is inhibited by the addition of 5-15% salt. 2  To inhibit mold growth, 65-70% sugar must be added.
Although most bacteria are harmless or often beneficial, several are pathogenic. One of the bacterial diseases with the highest disease burden is tuberculosis, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills about 2 million people a year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. Some pathogenic bacteria cause disease under certain conditions, such entry through the skin via a cut, through sexual activity or an compromised immune function. Streptococcus and Staphylococcus are part of the normal skin microbiota and typically reside on healthy skin or in the nasopharangeal region.
When it comes to the food supply, pathogenic organisms can be introduced in a number of different ways. Common vectors include water, soil, waste or fecal matter, humans and animals. The ubiquity of pathogenic organisms leaves us open to developing foodborne illness, chronic conditions or deadly diseases. For instance, not all strains of a species of bacteria are not pathogenic organisms. For instance, there are strains of the broader Salmonella species that would not harm a person, while there are many other strains that are pathogenic organisms and can cause massive damage.