Hydro Color Therapy (also called Hydrochromotherapy), which incorporates water and color, is a very effective way of transmitting color onto and into the physical body. Water is well known to be a powerful conductor of energy, so it is an natural choice for transmitting color energy into the body.
Color therapy, also known as chromotherapy, is often facilitated in the healing rooms of alternative health practitioners. Color therapy is classified as a vibrational healing modality. Vibrational medicine incorporates the use of chi energies within living organisms such as plants, gemstones and crystals, water, sunlight, and sound. Color is simply a form of visible light, of electromagnetic energy.
Color therapy is an area of holistic healing which uses color in an attempt to affect our mood, emotions and possibly even our health. There are different ways to incorporate color therapy into your life. You can sit under a lamp which emits different colored light.
Colour therapy (also known as cromotherapy) is a gentle non invasive complementary therapy that can be used to help a wide variety of health issues. Colour practitioner can use a variety of techniques / methods using colour these can include: 1  Directing colour / light on to different parts of the body.
Scroll down to see color associations. Color therapy is an area of holistic healing which uses color in an attempt to affect our mood, emotions and possibly even our health. There are different ways to incorporate color therapy into your life. You can sit under a lamp which emits different colored light.
A therapist trained in color therapy applies light and color in the form of tools, visualization, or verbal suggestion to balance energy in the areas of our bodies that are lacking vibrance, be it physical, emotional, spiritual, or mental.
Colour Therapy, sometimes called Chromotherapy or Colourology, is an alternative medicine method. It is claimed that a therapist trained in chromotherapy can use colour and light to balance energy wherever our bodies are lacking, be it physical, emotional, spiritual, or mental.