The Nile River flows north through Egypt and into the Mediterranean Sea. Ancient Egypt was divided into two regions, Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt. This looks a bit confusing on a map because Upper Egypt is to the south and Lower Egypt is to the north. This is because the names come from the flow of the Nile River.
On This Site.  The 25 Longest Rivers in the World  The River as a Lifeline  The River as a Boundary  Geography links. The entire Nile River Delta is estimated to drain an area of 1,293,000 square miles. This area is so vast that is has a number of different climate areas. North, in Egypt and Sudan, rainfall is sparse. 
The Nile River in Egypt flows into the Mediterranean Sea. The end of a river is called its mouth, and with some rivers, such as the Nile, deposits of silt build up creating what is called a Delta. A river's delta area is very important to humans as the deposits of rich silt provide very fertile farmland. 
Nile Valley The aerial shots in Mysteries of Egypt capture the beauty of the Nile Valley. The majestic Nile River flows north from the headwaters in Burundi to the Mediterranean Sea, a distance of 6,650 kilometres. This makes it the longest river in the world! T he shape of the Nile River Valley resembles a lotus flower, the ancient Egyptian symbol for the regeneration of life. The long, narrow river valley is the stem, the delta that spreads out in the shape of a triangle is the flower, and Fayyum Region is a bud.
Nile River and the Desert In ancient times, the Egyptians called the desert the red land, distinguishing it from the flood plain around the Nile River, called the black land. T he desert and the Nile River emerged millions of years ago when the ancient sea that covered most of Europe and northern Africa (45 million years ago) shifted, forming the Mediterranean Sea basin.
The Nile is with a length of 6,650 km the longest river in the world, its catchment area is huge, more than 3 million square kilometres with a mean annual rainfall of about 600 mm at present, yet its average discharge is with less than 3,000 m /s among the smallest of the great rivers. 
T he aerial shots in Mysteries of Egypt capture the beauty of the Nile Valley. The majestic Nile River flows north from the headwaters in Burundi to the Mediterranean Sea, a distance of 6,650 kilometres. This makes it the longest river in the world! T he shape of the Nile River Valley resembles a lotus flower, the ancient Egyptian symbol for the regeneration of life. The long, narrow river valley is the stem, the delta that spreads out in the shape of a triangle is the flower, and Fayyum Region is a bud.
About the Nile River. The Nile River is the longest river in the world. It is over 4,100 miles long! The Nile is located in northwest Africa and flows through many different African countries including Egypt, Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda, and Burundi. There are two major tributaries that feed the Nile, the White Nile and the Blue Nile. Ancient Egypt was divided into two regions, Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt. This looks a bit confusing on a map because Upper Egypt is to the south and Lower Egypt is to the north. This is because the names come from the flow of
Most of Egypt is a vast desert with almost no rainfall. The River Nile is one of the longest rivers in the world and it flows northwards from the mountains of Tanzania for over 6,000km on its way to the Mediterranean Sea. For more than 6,000 years the river has enabled people to live in Egypt
Fertile Land. The most important thing the Nile provided to the Ancient Egyptians was fertile land. Most of Egypt is desert, but along the Nile River the soil is rich and good for growing crops. The three most important crops were wheat, flax, and papyrus. Ancient Egypt was divided into two regions, Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt. This looks a bit confusing on a map because Upper Egypt is to the south and Lower Egypt is to the north. This is because the names come from the flow of the Nile River.