Monocot leaves have their leaf veins arranged parallel to each other and the long axis of the leaf (parallel vennation). An common example of this is the husk of corn or a blade of grass (both are monocots). Dicot leaves have an anastamosing network of veins arising from a mid-vein termed net vennation. Monocot seeds have one seed leaf termed a cotyledon (in fact monocot is a shortening of monocotyledon). Dicots have two cotyledons. Both groups, however, have the same basic architecture of nodes, internodes, etc. Comparison of monocot (left, oat) and dicot (right, bean) gross anatomy.
Rosaceae Others. Apples, plums peaches, pears,Carrot, celery, parsley. To know the difference between monocots and dicots for various characters like seed structure, leaves, stem and vascular system, roots, flowers, pollen grain, stamen, seedpod, fruit, seed etc. visit the page Monocotyledons Vs Dicotyledons. 
Examples of these are pine trees or conifers. More complex vascular plants do have flowers and are called angiosperms. We broke this group into two subgroups based on the number of cotyledon, or seed leaves. Monocots have only one seed leaf, flower petals in threes and long leaves. Dicots have two seed leaves, flower petals in fours or fives and complex leaves with veins. Regardless of the classification of a plant, remember that all plants are vital to our survival because of the food and oxygen that they provide. 
Celery, Apium graveolens, is a dicot. It is in the parsley family (Apiaceae or Umbeliferae), along with other notable dicots like the carrot. It has several characteristic fea … tures of a dicot, including vascular bundles in a ring around the center of the stem, or pith, flower parts in 5's, a prominent taproot, and leaves with a branching network of veins. Celery is commonly mislabeled as a monocot, though the reason for the misunderstanding is unclear.
Examples of dicot leaves include maples, oaks, geraniums, and dandelions. Monocots have their flower parts in threes or multiples of three; example the tulip and lily (Lilium). Dicots have their flower parts in fours (or multiples) or fives (or multiples). Examples of some common dicot flowers include the geranium, snapdragon, and citrus. Monocot (left) and dicot (right) flowers. Note the typical monocot arrangement of flower parts in 3's or multiples of 3. Lilium flower. Note the dicot florap part array of flower parts in four or multiples of four on this flower of Sanguinaria canadensis. Monocot seeds have one seed leaf termed a cotyledon (in fact monocot is a shortening of monocotyledon). Dicots have two cotyledons. Both groups, however, have the same basic architecture of nodes, internodes, etc. Comparison of monocot (left, oat) and dicot (right, bean) gross anatomy.
It has several characteristic features of a dicot, including vascular bundles in a ring around the center of the stem, or pith, flower parts in 5's, a prominent taproot, and leaves with a branching network of veins. Celery is commonly mislabeled as a monocot, though the reason for the misunderstanding is unclear. This plant is a dicot because of the venation of the leaves. Because this plant has a network of xylem shoots in the leaves this plant is a dicot. It would have linear venatio … n in the leaves if it was a monocot. Also it has 2 cotyledons that sprout after germination with also confirms that this plant is a dicot
Confidence votes 18. Celery, Apium graveolens, is a dicot. It is in the parsley family (Apiaceae or Umbeliferae), along with other notable dicots like the carrot. This plant is a dicot because of the venation of the leaves. Because this plant has a network of xylem shoots in the leaves this plant is a dicot. It would have linear venatio … n in the leaves if it was a monocot. Also it has 2 cotyledons that sprout after germination with also confirms that this plant is a dic
Dicot. Very easy. Netlike veins in leaves and vascular bundles arranged in a ring. The arrangement of vascular bundles gives it away if you've ever eaten celery. It also has five petals on the flowers as well as a taproot vs netted roots.