• BUBONIC PLAGUE (noun). The noun BUBONIC PLAGUE has 1 sense: 1. the most common form of the plague in humans; characterized by chills, prostration, delirium and the formation of buboes in the armpits and groin; does not spread from person to person. Familiarity information: BUBONIC PLAGUE used as a noun is very rare. The most common form of the plague in humans; characterized by chills, prostration, delirium and the formation of buboes in the armpits and groin; does not spread from person to person. Classified under:
a serious (sometimes fatal) infection of rodents caused by Yersinia pestis and accidentally transmitted to humans by the bite of a flea that has bitten an infected animal. plague, pestilence, pest (noun). (used absolutely, usually capitalized: The Pest) The pestilent disease Plague, caused by the virulent bacterium Yersinia pestis and mostly known by its variant form bubonic plague. plague (Noun). An epidemic or pandemic caused by any pestilence, but specifically by the above disease.
Bubonic-having or relating to a bubo, a swollen lymph node, most commonly heard now refering to the swollen lymph nodes seen with plague. Bubo comes from the Greek word Boubon which means either the groin or a swelling in the groin. Origin for the Bubonic Plague Name. 
• PLAGUE (noun). The noun PLAGUE has 5 senses: 1. a serious (sometimes fatal) infection of rodents caused by Yersinia pestis and accidentally transmitted to humans by the bite of a flea that has bitten an infected animal. 2. any epidemic disease with a high death rate. 3. a swarm of insects that attack plants. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of plague): bubonic plague; glandular plague; pestis bubonica (the most common form of the plague in humans; characterized by chills, prostration, delirium and the formation of buboes in the armpits and groin; does not spread from person to person).
plague. 1. an epidemic disease that causes high mortality; pestilence. 2. an infectious, epidemic disease caused by a bacterium, Yersinia pestis, characterized by fever, chills, and prostration, transmitted to humans from rats by means of the bites of fleas. Compare bubonic plague. 3. any widespread affliction, calamity, or evil. 4. any cause of trouble, annoyance, or vexation. 
— n. 1. an epidemic disease that causes high mortality; pestilence. 2. an infectious, epidemic disease caused by a bacterium, Yersinia pestis, characterized by fever, chills, and prostration, transmitted to humans from rats by means of the bites of fleas. Cf. bubonic plague, pneumonic plague, septicemic plague. 
Full Definition of PLAGUE. 1. a: a disastrous evil or affliction: calamity. 2. a: an epidemic disease causing a high rate of mortality: pestilence b: a virulent contagious febrile disease that is caused by a bacterium (Yersinia pestis) and that occurs in bubonic, pneumonic, and septicemic forms —called also black death. 3. 
bubonic plague [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: The most common form of the plague in humans; characterized by chills, prostration, delirium and the formation of buboes in the armpits and groin; does not spread from person to person. Classified under: