Although Spain joined the war against Great Britain in 1779, it did not recognize U.S. independence until the 1783 Treaty of Paris. Under the terms of the treaty, which ended the War of the American Revolution, Great Britain officially acknowledged the United States as a sovereign and independent nation. By issuing the Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, the 13 American colonies severed their political connections to Great Britain.
Publisher. A+E Networks. On this day in 1776, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the Continental Congress adopts the Declaration of Independence, which proclaims the independence of a new United States of America from Great Britain and its king. On July 4, 1917, the day on which the United States celebrates its independence, U.S. troops make their first public display of World War I, marching through the streets of Paris to the grave of the Marquis de Lafayette, a French aristocrat and hero of the American Revolutionary War.
When did the US gain its freedom? In 1783, the Treaty of Paris ended the war and recognized the sovereignty of the United States over the territory bounded by what is now Canada to the north, Florida to the so … uth, and the Mississippi River to the west. Dred Scott was the famous slave who sued to gain his freedom and was denied by the US Supreme Court in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. 393 (1857).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Slaves before the Civil War gained their freedom in one of three ways. The most obvious, and most dangerous, was to simply run away. The Underground Railroad assisted them to escape to the northern states, and eventually all the way to Canada. Other slaves managed the journey on their own. 
After Spain's defeat by U.S. and Cuban forces during the War of 1898, Spain relinquished sovereignty over Cuba. Following the war, U.S. forces occupied Cuba until 1902, when the United States allowed a new Cuban government to take full control of the state’s affairs. As a condition of independence, the United States forced Cuba to grant a continuing U.S. right to intervene on the island in accordance with the Platt Amendment. The amendment was repealed in 1934 when the United States and Cuba signed a Treaty of Relations. U.S. Recognition of Cuban Independence, 1902. Following the defeat of Spain in 1898, the United States remained in Cuba as an occupying power until the Republic of Cuba was formally installed on May 19, 1902.
July 4 was intentionally chosen by the United States because it corresponds to its Independence Day, and this day was observed in the Philippines as Independence Day until 1962. In 1964, the name of the July 4 holiday was changed to Republic Day. Adams's prediction was off by two days. From the outset, Americans celebrated independence on July 4, the date shown on the much-publicized Declaration of Independence, rather than on July 2, the date the resolution of independence was approved in a closed session of Congress.
The original 13 colonies gained their independence from Great Britain. Later other states such as California, Texas, Florida, New Mexico gained their independence from Spain. Alaska was bought from Russia. 
Best Answer: Yes, we DECLARED independence July 4th, but that is not the answer. The Declaration of Independence was signed on July 4th, 1776, but the United States was not 'officially' independent from Great Britain until the Treaty of Paris was signed September 3, 1783 after the American Revolution.
July 4, 1776 Declaration of Independence is signed. The war with Britain was from 1775 to 1781. October 19, 1781 Britain's final defeat at Yorktown, Virginia. Treaty of Paris of 1783 signed September 3, 1783 gave independence to United States. Dred Scott was the famous slave who sued to gain his freedom and was denied by the US Supreme Court in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. 393 (1857).