Buff is a very vague term used for a wide range of pale yellowish-browns. It originally meant a type of leather with this colouring (again in a wide variety of shades). If … using oil paints I would start with white, add a very little yellow ochre and maybe a tiny amount of raw umber or raw sienna.irst of all, you have to define what buff is and exactly what red you are using. Buff can be a very pale yellowish pink. It can also be slightly more orange or brownish yel … low. Because all of these contain yellow, I would anticipate that any red you use would become slightly more orange.
Justification. This article will be judged by what is written as a justification and may be deleted or rewritten if the justification does not adhere to the Color Sorting Policies. This color was named for the color of buffalo leather.
'Buff' is a shade of Brown that is 46% saturated and 94% bright. For reference purposes, Buff has the hex value #F0DC82. 
The word buff meaning  enthusiast  or expert (US English) derives from the colour buff, specifically from the buff-coloured uniform facings of 19th-century New York City volunteer firemen, who inspired partisan followers among particularly keen fire-watchers. Buff is the traditional colour of the U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps. The U.S. Army Institute of Heraldry specifies a buff tincture for certain coats of arms.
The first recorded use of the word buff to describe a colour was in the London Gazette of 1686, describing a uniform to be ...a Red Coat with a Buff-colour'd lining. Buff is the traditional colour of the U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps. The U.S. Army Institute of Heraldry specifies a buff tincture for certain coats of arms.
Adj. 1. buff-colored-having a buff color. buff-coloured. colored, coloured, colorful-having color or a certain color; sometimes used in combination; colored crepe paper; the film was in color; amber-colored heads of grain.1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Buff is a light yellow-brown color that is often found in nature. Structures that use buff bricks, therefore, tend to look natural and earthy. For a home or building with a ‘warm climate’ appearance, buff bricks are an excellent color choice. If you’d like a departure from traditional red or brown brick, buff bricks offer a more contemporary look and feel.
Buff is the pale yellow-brown colour of the un-dyed leather of several animals. As an RYB quaternary colour, it is the darker colour produced by an equal mix of the tertiary colours citron and russet. Buff is the traditional colour of the U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps. The U.S. Army Institute of Heraldry specifies a buff tincture for certain coats of arms.
• BUFF (adjective). The adjective BUFF has 1 sense: 1. of the yellowish-beige color of buff leather. Familiarity information: BUFF used as an adjective is very rare. • BUFF (verb). The verb BUFF has 2 senses: 1. strike, beat repeatedly. 2. polish and make shiny. Familiarity information: BUFF used as a verb is rare. 1. an ardent follower and admirer. 2. a soft thick undyed leather from the skins of e.g. buffalo or oxen. 3. bare skin; naked. 4. a medium to dark tan color. 5. an implement consisting of soft material mounted on a block; used for polishing (as in manicuring). Familiarity information: BUFF used as a noun is common.