George Washington. On April 30, 1789, George Washington, standing on the balcony of Federal Hall on Wall Street in New York, took his oath of office as the first President of the United States. History & Grounds. On April 30, 1789, George Washington, standing on the balcony of Federal Hall on Wall Street in New York, took his oath of office as the first President of the United States.
Early Life. George Washington was born February 22 1732 at Pamunkey River in Westmoreland County, Virginia. He was the eldest son of Augustine Washington and his second wife, Mary Ball Washington. George was eleven when his father died, so he went to live at Mount Vernon. 
Time Line. February 22, 1732 - George Washington is born at Popes Creek farm in Westmoreland County on the Northern Neck, the son of Augustine Washington and his second wife, Mary Ball Washington. By the Julian, or Old Style, calendar, in effect in England until 1752, Washington is born on February 11. 
Washington never occupied the White House. George Washington was the only U.S. President who did not occupy the White House, which was not completed until after his death. During his two terms as president, the U.S. Capital was located first in New York and then in Philadelphia. 
A+E Networks. On this day in 1732, George Washington is born in Westmoreland County, Virginia, the second son from the second marriage of a colonial plantation owner. An initially loyal British subject, Washington eventually led the Continental Army in the American Revolution and became known as the father of the United States. 
Terms, Events and Important People. George Washington was born on February 22, 1732 in northern Virginia. He was the son of Augustine and Mary Ball Washington. 
Address: 1732 Popes Creek Road, Colonial Beach, Virginia. 1  The photograph above looks out upon Popes Creek, a tributary of the Potomac River. 2  The house in which George Washington was born burned down on December 25, 1779. 3  The Memorial Obelisk shown below is on the grounds of the George Washington Birthplace. 
Synopsis. George Washington was born on February 22, 1732, in Westmoreland County, Virginia. Washington served as a general and commander-in-chief of the colonial armies during the American Revolution, and later became the first president of the United States, serving from 1789 to 1797. 
George Washington Biography. The eldest of six children from his father's second marriage, George Washington was born into the landed gentry in 1732 at Wakefield Plantation, VA. 