Along with the normal travel documents required to enter Canada, additional documents may be required depending on your country of origin, even if they are used solely to land in Canada and re-board a connecting flight. The following documents are recommended for travel within Canada and may also be required for international travel to/from certain countries. 1  The child’s birth certificate showing the names of both parents. 2  Any legal documents pertaining to custody.
Generally, you don't need a passport if you are travelling domestically within Canada. You do, however will need some form of government-issued photo ID (i.e. a photo health card, a drivers licence, a non-drivers photo card, etc.) Likewise, check with your airline to see which particular requirements they require. They should be the same for all airlines travelling within Canada. Cheers.
The only exceptions that you need a passport are: - If you want to travel to the U.S. not just by air, but by land or water-If you want to travel to countries outside the U.S. and Canada (transatlantic and transpacific flights). Report Abuse. All you need is some form of photo ID-a driver's license is just fine. Within Canada, citizens do not need passports to travel-unlike some other countries.
You and your family need valid passports for travel to most countries, including return travel to Canada. Never assume otherwise. If you do not have a valid passport, we strongly recommend that you apply for a new one well in advance of travel plans. The following documents are recommended for travel within Canada and may also be required for international travel to/from certain countries. 1  The child’s birth certificate showing the names of both parents. 2  Any legal documents pertaining to custody.
All Canadian citizens need a valid passport to enter Mexico. Canadian citizens without a valid passport will not be allowed entry into Mexico and will be returned to Canada. In order to avoid delays and misunderstandings, we strongly recommend that you travel with a passport valid for six months after your arrival date. Visas for Mexico. Canadians travelling on regular Canadian passports do not require visas to enter Mexico if the purpose of their trip is tourism and the stay does not exceed 180 days (a fee is applicable if entering by land. For those travelling by air the fee is included in the price of the plane ticket).
Travel documents for children. Canada does not permit children to travel on their parent's passport, even though some countries still allow it. For travel to countries where a passport is required, all Canadians, including children, must carry their own. The following documents are recommended for travel within Canada and may also be required for international travel to/from certain countries. 1  The child’s birth certificate showing the names of both parents. 2  Any legal documents pertaining to custody.
You don't need a passport unless you're leaving the country. Last time I checked both BC and Ontario are in Canada, so no passport is required. You do need photo ID, but a driver's license is enough for domestic travel. Report Abuse. All you need is some form of photo ID-a driver's license is just fine. Within Canada, citizens do not need passports to travel-unlike some other countries.
If you need a passport right away, get a passport within 24 hrs with Rushmypassport.com. In Depth: Passport requirements have been a complicated and ever changing issue for U.S. travellers to Canada for the past few years due to the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI), which was introduced in 2004 by the U.S. Bottom line: Since June 2009, everyone from every country arriving in Canada by air, land and sea has needed a passport or equivalent travel document. (Some exceptions apply to children's passport requirements).
Report Abuse. You do not need a passport to travel within Canada. To get on the plane, you just have to prove who you are. A driver's license will do that just fine, or other documents, hopefully government issued, and at least one with a picture (health card, etc.). Report Abuse. All you need is some form of photo ID-a driver's license is just fine. Within Canada, citizens do not need passports to travel-unlike some other countries.
If you are in a crunch, the fastest way to get a passport is to apply in person at a Passport Canada office. You can bring proof of travel and get your passport as quickly as within 24 hours. Check with Passport Canada to find out if and how you can qualify for the fastest processing times. Many times, the longer part of the process is getting your baby's birth certificate, so be sure to do that as soon as possible.