This plan will cost your family approximately $150 per day. So... To answer our original question of how much should our average family of four budget for a 6 night/7 day vacation to Disney World for hotel, park passes and food.. Our total comes to about $3,485. divided by 4 = $871 per person for a 6 night/7 day stay. For the purpose of our discussion, 6 days of park hopper tickets for our family of four totals $1,324. This is what we mean when we say a Disney World Vacation costs more than other family vacations...your park tickets cost almost as much as your hotel for the week.
Character meals are among the most expensive dining options at Walt Disney World. These meals offer a wide range of cuisine served family-style or buffet-style, while Disney characters circulate throughout the dining room. Each person must pay for a full meal, since sharing is not possible due to the nature of the service. As of 2010, character meal prices range from $25 to $60 per person. As of 2010, average prices are about $20 per person, including drinks and tip, but can easily run to $150 or more per person at fine dining establishments, such as the Grand Floridian’s Victoria and Albert’s. Portions are large and can easily feed two people, particularly with the addition of an appetizer or dessert.
1 A gratuity of 18% is added to the cost of all TS meals. 2  There is an average Quick Service (QS) restaurant for breakfast, lunch, and dinner to allow you to be more flexible in where you plan to eat a QS meal. Determine if the Disney Dining Plan is financially worth it for your trip to Walt Disney World.
We don't think the average 10- to 13-year old is going to be able to put away $60 worth of food every single day. Our own 'tweens and teenagers eat very well in Walt Disney World, and it almost always costs us less than $45 per day. A less expensive version of the standard dining plan, this plan includes meals, snacks, and nonalcoholic drinks at most counter-service eateries in Walt Disney World, but no meals at sit-down restaurants.
Walt Disney World is often considered an expensive vacation. From admission tickets to lodging, souvenirs and food, some families spend thousands of dollars on a Disney vacation. However, bargains are easy to find for those who are willing to think outside the box. As of 2010, average prices are about $20 per person, including drinks and tip, but can easily run to $150 or more per person at fine dining establishments, such as the Grand Floridian’s Victoria and Albert’s. Portions are large and can easily feed two people, particularly with the addition of an appetizer or dessert.
The average breakfast entree costs around $12 in Disney World, and the average breakfast drink is around $3. Thus, using a sit-down dining credit for a typical Disney breakfast means paying $33-36 for food everyone else buys for $15. A less expensive version of the standard dining plan, this plan includes meals, snacks, and nonalcoholic drinks at most counter-service eateries in Walt Disney World, but no meals at sit-down restaurants.
Table service restaurants at Walt Disney World run the gamut from fine dining to casual elegance. Many restaurants are heavily themed, such as the 1950s Sci-Fi Dine-In Theatre and Prime Time Cafe, café both located At’disney S Hollywood. studios As of 2010, average prices are about $20 per person, including drinks and tip, but can easily run to $150 or more per person at fine dining establishments, such as the Grand Floridian’s Victoria and Albert’s. Portions are large and can easily feed two people, particularly with the addition of an appetizer or dessert.
If you're dining at a buffet, the full-service meal includes the full buffet and a nonalcoholic drink. Tax is included in all parts of the dining plan's prices, but a gratuity is generally not. If you opt for the dining plan, assume you'll pay another 15 to 20% of the cost of your sit-down meals and buffets in tips. A less expensive version of the standard dining plan, this plan includes meals, snacks, and nonalcoholic drinks at most counter-service eateries in Walt Disney World, but no meals at sit-down restaurants.
For a short visit of one or two days, the Park Hopper option to visit multiple parks per day would add more than $200 to total ticket costs. For a family of four with one child under the age of 9 and one teenager, a single day at one Disney World park would cost over $300. 