Science Museum-FURTHER INFORMATION. Science Museum-London visitor guide showing a virtual tour of 'Science Museum' linked to an interactive map with local and travel information. 360° panoramas from Greater London. The Science Museum is a major London attraction with information about everything from the development of agriculture to the space age. The Science Museum is on Exhibition Road just up from the Natural History Museum, next to the Earth Galleries and opposite the V&A Museum. 
The Science Museum is one of the three large museums on Exhibition Road, London. It is part of the National Museum of Science and Industry. The museum is a big tourist attraction in London. It has been free to enter the Science Museum since 1 December 2001. This is because it is paid for by the government.
The science museum is one of the better museums in London.. You go in knowing a little about the science in the world then you come out knowing 100% more, Fantastic for families and anyone who loves science!! Highly recommend.. An amazing Museum made all the better for being free to enter. 
The museum is a member of the London Museums of Health & Medicine. The Science Museum has a dedicated library, and until the 1960s was Britain's National Library for Science, Medicine and Technology. It holds runs of periodicals, early books and manuscripts, and is used by scholars worldwide. It is part of the National Museum of Science and Industry. The museum is a big tourist attraction in London. It has been free to enter the Science Museum since 1 December 2001. This is because it is paid for by the government.
The fifth floor gallery is called Science and the Art of Medicine, with exhibits of medical instruments and practices from ancient days and from many countries. The collection is strong in clinical medicine, biosciences and public health. The museum is a member of the London Museums of Health & Medicine. It was founded in 1857 and today is one of the city's major tourist attractions, attracting 3.3 million visitors annually. Like other publicly funded national museums in the United Kingdom, the Science Museum does not charge visitors for admission. Temporary exhibitions, however, may incur an admission fee.
About. The Science Museum is the most visited science and technology museum in Europe. There are over 15,000 objects on display, including world-famous objects such as the Apollo 10 command capsule and Stephenson’s Rocket. Our interactive galleries bring to life first scientific principles and contemporary science debates. 
The Science Museum is a major museum on Exhibition Road in South Kensington, London. It was founded in 1857 and today is one of the city's major tourist attractions, attracting 3.3 million visitors annually. Like other publicly funded national museums in the United Kingdom, the Science Museum does not charge visitors for admission. Temporary exhibitions, however, may incur an admission fee. It is part of the Science Museum Group, having merged with the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester in 2012
Let’s Get Digital at the National Media Museum by Science Museum London. BBC Breakfast broadcast live from the Science Museum’s Cravings exhibition by Science Museum London. Prof Stephen Hawking gives prize-winner Adaeze Uyanwah a tour of the Science Museum by Science Museum London. Astronaut Chris Hadfield wowed a Year 10 audience at the Museum of Science & Industry by Science Museum London. HRH The Prince of Wales meets Industrial Cadets at the opening of Engineer Your Future by Science Museum London. Official opening of Churchill's Scientists exhibition by Science Museum London. Yorkshire poet and broadcaster Ian McMillan at the National Railway
From the business. The Science Museum is one of London's top visitor attractions. Interactive and thought-provoking it's a great place to see, touch and experience science first-hand. Specialtie