Lordosis. Inward (forwards) curvature of the spine. Some lordosis in the lumbar and cervical regions of the spine is normal. Exaggerated lordosis may occur in adolescence-possibly as a result of faulty posture, or due to disease affecting the vertebrae and spinal muscles. When viewed from either the posterior or anterior direction i.e. from directly behind or directly in front of the person, normal spines appear to be straight. See, for e.g. an anterior view of a human skeleton. 1. Kyphosis Excessive outward (backwards) curvature of the spine, causing hunching of the back. 2. Lordosis
The human vertebral column is the vertebral column (backbone or spine) of the human skeleton, consisting of 24 articulating vertebrae and 9 fused vertebrae in the sacrum and the coccyx. The vertebrae in the column are separated from each other by intervertebral discs. These regions are called the cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, sacrum and coccyx. There are a total of 33 vertebrae in the vertebral column. The articulating vertebrae are named according to their region of the spine.
1 Vertebrae in your thoracic spine connect to your ribs, making this part of your spine relatively stiff and stable. 2  Your thoracic spine doesn't move as much as the other regions of your spine, like the cervical spine. 3  The thoracic spine is supposed to have a kyphotic curve; it should curve inward. As you can tell just from the descriptions of curves, the spine is a complex thing—and we haven't even gotten to the various components of the spine. It's made up of many parts: vertebrae (bones), discs, ligaments, cartilage, tendons, blood vessels, nerves, the spinal cord, and muscles.
1 Lordosis. 2  Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 3  Kyphosis. 4  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature). 5  Scoliosis. 6  A person with scoliosis has a sideways curve to their spine. 1 Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 2  Kyphosis. 3  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature).
Kyphosis is defined by an excessive outward curve of the spine and may cause a deformity such as a humpback or hunchback. Abnormal kyphosis is more commonly found in the thoracic or thoracolumbar (chest area/low back), but can affect the neck too. Curves are a normal part of the spine's structure. Looking at the spine from the side (lateral), several curves can be seen (Figure 1-A). From this angle, the spine almost resembles a soft 'S' shape.
The human vertebral column consists of 33 vertebrae. These are divided into different regions, which correspond to the curves of the spinal column. These regions are called the cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, sacrum and coccyx. There are a total of 33 vertebrae in the vertebral column. The articulating vertebrae are named according to their region of the spine. There are seven cervical vertebrae, twelve thoracic vertebrae and five lumbar vertebrae
There are three main types of spine curvature disorders, including: 1  Lordosis. 2  Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 3  Kyphosis. 4  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature). 5  Scoliosis. 1 Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 2  Kyphosis. 3  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature).
Lordosis. 1  Cervical Lordosis-inward curve in the upper (cervical) region of the spine, i.e. the neck area. 2  Thoracic Lordosis-inward curve in the upper (thoracic) region of the spine. 3  Lumbar Lordosis-inward curve in the lower (lumbar) region of the spine. When viewed from either the posterior or anterior direction i.e. from directly behind or directly in front of the person, normal spines appear to be straight. See, for e.g. an anterior view of a human skeleton. 1. Kyphosis Excessive outward (backwards) curvature of the spine, causing hunching of the back. 2. Lordosis Inward (forwards) curvature of the spine. Some lordosis in the lumbar and cervical regions of the spine is normal. Exaggerated lordosis may occur in adolescence-possibly as a result of faulty posture, or due to disease affecting the vertebrae and spinal muscles