Unless you have end stage renal disease or are eligible to get Disability benefits through Medicare, you must be 65 years old to receive Medicare benefits. Even if you retire under age 65 and opt to receive reduced Social Security income, you cannot receive Medicare benefits until you turn 65.
In general, you may be eligible for Medicare if you or your spouse worked in Medicare-covered employment for at least 10 years and you are at least 65 years old. The benefits: Various parts of Medicare cover different services. For example, Medicare Part A covers inpatient hospital care as well as hospice care.
Medicare is a health insurance program for:   people age 65 or older, people under age 65 with certain disabilities, and people of all ages with End-Stage Renal D … isease (permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant).
Founder, Georgia Medicare Plans, Atlanta,GA. Most people will be enrolled in Medicare automatically at age 65. You can qualify at a younger age if you meet the definition of Social Security disability and have been disabled and receiving disability benefits for 2 years.
Medicare eligibility rules dictate that a person can enroll in Medicare before the age of 65 if one or more of the below criteria are met: 1  You are a U.S. citizen or legal resident under 65 years old but have a qualifying disability (e.g. blindness) or a qualifying medical condition (e.g. Lou Gehrig's Disease).
Provided that you're a U.S. citizen or have been a legal resident for at least five years, you can still get Medicare benefits at age 65 or older by: ﻿ 1  Paying premiums for Part A (hospital insurance). 2  If you have fewer than 30 work credits, you pay the maximum premium, $426 a month in 2014.
You can get Medicare under age 65 if you have received Social Security Disability benefits for 24 months, are disabled and have ALS, or have worked for a government job long enough to qualify for Social Security Disability benefits.
1 If so, check to see if it is as good as Medicare's. 2  Offer coverage through a specified Medicare drug plan. 3  You must enroll in this to keep your employer’s coverage. 4  Offer drug coverage that adds to Medicare by paying some or all of your out-of-pocket Part D expenses.
You don't have to be 50-years old in order to receive full Medicare coverage if you are receiving Social Security disability benefits. You can get Medicare coverage at any age once you have received Social Security or Railroad Retirement disability benefits for 24 months.
You should sign up for Medicare three months before reaching age 65, even if you are not ready to start receiving retirement benefits. You can opt out of receiving cash retirement benefits now once you are in the online application. Then you can apply online for retirement benefits later.