When you consider that the average person’s body is about 60 inches long (6 feet), 18 inches wide and 6 inches high, the typical casket size should be certainly large enough to fit all but the largest of people. The standard width of a casket has been about 28 inches since the late 19 th century when caskets began replacing coffins (yes there is a difference, caskets are rectangular, coffins have an outward bulge in the width near the center of the body) as the burial container of choice.
In the past, coffins are massed produced with the same measurements which are 84 inches by 28 inches and 23 inches in height. This is based on the assumption that an average human being would be 6 feet tall and weigh about 70 – 75 kg. However, this standard coffin size is no longer applicable. Coffin Sizes. As a guideline, coffin sizes are labeled from a size one to a size seven. Size one are small coffins meant for the burial or cremation stillborns and infant deaths where as the size seven is the largest size meant for full grown adults.
January 19, 2013 by TPSAMUEL Leave a comment. Caskets come in a variety of sizes like standard, infant, and oversized caskets. On an average, the casket length is about 84 inches, width is 28 inches, and height is 23 inches. These dimensions are based on the fact that the average person is almost 60 inches long, 18 inches wide, and 6 inches high. Nevertheless, you can order a casket or coffin with different dimensions, depending on the size of the individual who is to be placed in it.
I need the length, height, and width for a sermon article. Thanks. The average length of a casket is 84 inches; width 28 inches, and height 23 inches. We should also point out the difference between a casket and a coffin (believe it or not, they are two different things!). A coffin is the six-sided box often used in vampire moviesit's wider at the shoulders and tapers down towards the feet.
Casket are available in a huge variety of sizes (and shapes, for that matter, but that discussion is best left for another article), but most casket sizes fall within an inch or two of the following dimensions: 84 inches long, 28 inches wide, and 23 inches tall. The standard width of a casket has been about 28 inches since the late 19 th century when caskets began replacing coffins (yes there is a difference, caskets are rectangular, coffins have an outward bulge in the width near the center of the body) as the burial container of choice.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: http://www.wikihow.com/Make-a-Coffin gives all the measurements. A casket is a little different. The average length of a casket is 84 inches; width 28 inches, and height 23 inches. 
Casket sizes are surely a concern for anyone who is looking to purchase one. The average casket dimensions are 84 inches by 28 inches and 23 inches in height. You should mind the casket dimensions in order to be sure you are getting the right one. There was once this horrific incident in Cincinnati that made its own headlines. Issue with the Width. The big issue with the average casket dimensions is that of its width. It is true that there are a variety of sizes to choose from. However, do take note that the 28-inch width of the average casket was set during the late 19th century.
The average length of a human body is about 60 inches long or something around six feet. The average width of a person is at 18 inches. Given these body measurements the average casket dimensions can fit the average individual. Issue with the Width. The big issue with the average casket dimensions is that of its width. It is true that there are a variety of sizes to choose from. However, do take note that the 28-inch width of the average casket was set during the late 19th century.