This environmental analysis is a three-step process in which a company first identifies environmental factors that affect its business. For example, the company might consider if a market is “difficult” because of its remote geographic location or the area's unfavorable economic conditions. The company then gathers information about the selected set of environmental factors that are most likely to impact business operations. This analysis identifies the opportunities and threats in a business environment in terms of a company's strengths and weaknesses. For example, a company may consider the impact of operating in a communist country and the threats posed by government-controlled resources.
The external environment of an organization are those factors outside the company that affect the company's ability to function. Some external elements can be manipulated by company marketing, while others require the organization to make adjustments. Your customers are among the external elements you can attempt to influence, via marketing and strategic release of corporate information. But ultimately, your relationship with your clients is based on finding ways to influence them to purchase your products.
A marketing environment is composed of specific elements of a business’s external operating and competitive environment related to the needs of a product’s intended consumer, also known as the target market member. Marketing environments are often tied to the product’s stage in the business marketing life cycle. External Environment Analysis. Analysis of the remote business environment helps business strategists understand the nature and direction of the current conditions. Remote analysis spots potential issues and predicts trends.
Second, the environment is a source of opportunities and threats for an organization. OpportunitiesEvents and trends that create chances to improve an organization’s performance level. are events and trends that create chances to improve an organization’s performance level. 
Environmental analysis is a strategic business activity involving examination of a business’s external circumstances, including the remote, operating and competitive environment. External Environment Analysis. Analysis of the remote business environment helps business strategists understand the nature and direction of the current conditions. Remote analysis spots potential issues and predicts trends.
Implications of the Remote Work Environment on Organizations and Employees Susan M. Valdiserri,IBM Adjunct Professor Of Leadership - 02/23/98 Introduction Until a few years ago, most professionals commuted to their company's office location in order to perform their job functions. In a remote environment, a manager's focus shifts from management by observation to management by objectives and results. That is, the quality, quantity and timeliness of the project are more important than the process the employee used to complete the project.
A company’s remote environment is composed of elements beyond the scope of the company’s control. Elements of the remote environment include current and expected economic, social, ecological, technical and political factors. External Environment Analysis. Analysis of the remote business environment helps business strategists understand the nature and direction of the current conditions. Remote analysis spots potential issues and predicts trends.
Factors that are external to a company impact its performance much as internal factors. Some are economic factors. Economic factors in the remote environment are not within the control of a company, but its management has to make decisions keeping them in mind such factors. They include economic growth, inflation and unemployment. 
Business leaders can control aspects of the internal environment that can positively or negatively affect a company's operating and financial results. For example, leaders shape their company's culture, establish the company's organizational structure and create policies that guide employee behavior. However, the greatest challenges to business success may be a consequence of the external environment over which a company has little, if any, control. This analysis identifies the opportunities and threats in a business environment in terms of a company's strengths and weaknesses. For example, a company may consider the impact of operating in a communist country and the threats posed by government-controlled resources.