Hapa is a term used to describe a person of mixed ethnic heritage. The term originates in Hawaii from the Hawaiian Pidgin word for part or mixed. In Hawaii, the word refers to any person of mixed ethnic heritage, regardless of the specific mixture. Some see the use of the term as a misappropriation of Hawaiian culture. Hapa-haole also is the name of a type of Hawaiian music in which the tune, styling, and/or subject matter is Hawaiian, but the lyrics are partly, mostly, or entirely in English.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pakalolo (Noun). A cultivar of marijuana said to be the worldu2019s best. pakalolo (Noun). A person who smokes this cultivar. Origin: Hawaiian paka (tobacco) + lolo (numbing, crazy, stupid). 
Incoming search terms: 1  what does paka mean in hawaiian (9). 2  Paka Meaning in Hawaiian (6). 3  what does sane mean in hawaiian (2). 4  meaning of paka in hawaiian (1). 5  native american name paka and meaning (1). 
First Names Beginning in B Translated into Hawaiian! We feature over 4,000 phonetic Hawaiian name translations. This is a great resource if if you are looking for a baby/pet name or to translate the names of your Hawaii theme party guests. When outsiders began visiting Hawaii adaptations were made to translate non-Hawaiian names to Hawaiian names phonetically based on the Hawaiian alphabet and word structure. Please note that the glottal stop is not used in phonetic name translations, just literal Hawaiian words. Names and words are more easily pronounced when they are broken down into single syllable chunks. Take the name of Hawaii s state fish, humuhumunukunukuapuaa, and pronounce it hu-mu-hu-mu-nu-ku-nu-ku-a-pu-a-a.
noun: the hawaiian word for marijuana. it is a combination of the word paka which means tobako, and lolo which means numb or paralyzed. brah i get da good pakalolo. 
The term can be used in conjunction with other Hawaiian racial and ethnic descriptors to specify a particular racial or ethnic mixture. Examples of this is hapa haole (part European/White). Pukui states that the original meaning of the word haole was foreigner. Some see the use of the term as a misappropriation of Hawaiian culture. Hapa-haole also is the name of a type of Hawaiian music in which the tune, styling, and/or subject matter is Hawaiian, but the lyrics are partly, mostly, or entirely in English.
Because there are only 13 letters in the Hawaiian language there are many names which sound similar and have the same phonetic translation. In order to obtain a literal translation of a name you would need to know the literal meaning the name then translate it to the same exact meaning in Hawaiian. Please note that the glottal stop is not used in phonetic name translations, just literal Hawaiian words. Names and words are more easily pronounced when they are broken down into single syllable chunks. Take the name of Hawaii s state fish, humuhumunukunukuapuaa, and pronounce it hu-mu-hu-mu-nu-ku-nu-ku-a-pu-a-a.
Huli-huli. Hawaiian for rotisserie or 'end-over-end' and is also the name for a marinade made and sold in the Hawaiian Islands. It is composed of mostly ginger and shoyu (soy sauce). Huli-huli sauce has a particular pungent smell and taste and is similar to teriyaki sauce. 
Because there are only 13 letters in the Hawaiian language there are many names which sound similar and have the same phonetic translation. In order to obtain a literal translation of a name you would need to know the literal meaning the name then translate it to the same exact meaning in Hawaiian. The 5 vowels a,e,i,o and u as well as the 8 consonants h,k,l,m,n,p, w and ' (which is called a glottle stop) make up the entire Hawaiian alphabet. In the Hawaiian language a consonant is always followed by a vowel which also means all Hawaiian words end in a vowel.
In the Hawaiian language, it can mean hello or goodbye. It also means love and affection. The word aloha is used in a combination with other words, such as aloha kakahiaka, which means good morning; aloha auinala used as a greeting that means good afternoon; and aloha ahiahi is how you can wish good evening in Hawaiian. Because of aloha s unique meaning and popularity, Hawaii is called the Aloha State. Aloha is a Hawaiian symbol. Its meaning goes beyond any definition you can find about it in the dictionaries. In Hawaii, you hear aloha all the time and you are treated with aloha everywhere. Aloha is the essence of relationships in which each person is important to every other person for collective existence. Aloha means to hear what is not said, to see what cannot be seen and to know the unknowable.