Making the world better, one answer at a time. Nickel and Copper are often found together because nickel and copper have the same densities so when they are layered together between other minerals, they layer into one category. The most popular  places to find nickel are Australia and … Canada.    Nickel is not that uncommon and has been found in many places,  notably: Alaska, Poland, China, Russia, Australia and Columbia.
Nickel is also found commonly in many meteorites and is often used to distinguish a meteorite from other minerals. Siderites, which are iron meteorites, can have 5 to 20 percent nickel alloyed with iron. Uses of nickel. Nickel is important because it forms alloys with several other elements. The U.S. five-cent coin or nickel is actually a hybrid of copper and nickel. Steel with a component of nickel can be used for armor plates, burglar-proof vaults and other safety products. It’s also used to make Nichrome, Permalloy and constantan. Nickel plating is often used to coat other metals for protection.
I know you are probably looking for a serious answer but I just could not resist. . . . Copper and nickel are found together because they are the metals of our coins and I usually put all my coins in the sam place, my coin purse! I know, yuk, yuk! TEACHER GONE MAD. CAROL P · 9 years ago. 
The US 5-cent coin called a nickel consists of 75% copper and 25% nickel and has a homogeneous composition. The alloy consisting of 90% copper and 10% nickel is remarkable for its resistance to corrosion and is used in various parts that are exposed to seawater. 
It can also be found in mines. The most popular  places to find nickel are Australia and … Canada.    Nickel is not that uncommon and has been found in many places,  notably: Alaska, Poland, China, Russia, Australia and Columbia.    I have no idea where to find nickle
Copper is found alone in nature While copper can be found alone in nature it is usually mined as an ore that is a compound. Copper sulfide, copper oxide, and copper carbonate … are probably the most common compounds in copper ores. The top copper mining countries are Chile, U.S.A., Peru, China, Australia, Indonesia, Russia, Canada and Zambia. Copper is found in many other countries as well, it's a pretty extensive list.
Native copper can be found in alluvial deposits, granitic and basaltic rock. The biggest ores of copper are the minerals chalcopyrite and malachite. Copper is mined throughout the world and the open pit mines created are the largest man-made excavations in the world. The top copper mining countries are Chile, U.S.A., Peru, China, Australia, Indonesia, Russia, Canada and Zambia. Copper is found in many other countries as well, it's a pretty extensive list.
Nickel is 28th on the periodic table, where copper is right next  door as 29th element. Nickel is a silvery-white metal, while copper  is pinkish in its unoxidized state and … turns steadily from orange  to brown once oxidized by the air, which happens rapidly. The most popular  places to find nickel are Australia and … Canada.    Nickel is not that uncommon and has been found in many places,  notably: Alaska, Poland, China, Russia, Australia and Columbia.
Nickel is one of the primary elements of the Earth's core which is thought to be made mostly of nickel and iron. It is also found in the Earth's crust where it is about the twenty-second most abundant element. Most nickel that is mined for industrial use is found in ores such as pentlandite, garnierite, and limonite. The largest producers of nickel are Russia, Canada, and Australia. Nickel is also found in meteorites where it is often found in conjunction with
They are commonly used in architectural applications. Bismuth bronze is a bronze alloy with a composition of 52% copper, 30% nickel, 12% zinc, 5% lead, and 1% bismuth. It is able to hold a good polish and so is sometimes used in light reflectors and mirrors. Ores of copper, and the far rarer tin, are not often found together (exceptions include one ancient site in Thailand and one in Iran), so serious bronze work has always involved trade. Tin sources and trade in ancient times had a major influence on the development of cultures.