Asia is the world's largest and most populous continent. It covers 8.7% of the Earth's total surface area (or 29.5% of the total land area) and with approximately 3.879 billion people (2011 est) it hosts 60% of the world's current human population. 
Asian countries have many flags, there is no single Asia flag. Asia is continent made up of many countries. There is no single flag for the continent. + 7 others found this useful. Gloria Ramos. Edit. Share to: On the Wallaby. 2,872,921 Contributions. One of my favourite past-times is driving and exploring with my husband (and my dog).
Asia is the world's biggest continent-as you might have guessed. It also has the most people. And when we say the most people we really mean it. Asia has about 4 billion people-give or take 1 or 2 folks. There are 47 countries in Asia. Quick facts about Asia: 1  Asia accounts for 60% of the world's population. 2  Rabindranath Tagore became the 1st Asian Nobel Laureate in 1913.
Asia Flags. Flag Definition: A piece of cloth, usually rectangular, of distinctive color and design, mostly used as a symbol, standard, signal, or emblem of a nation, state, or organization. Flag of China. Flag of Saudi Arabia. To access the flag of any Asian country, island or possession, follow its link on the map above, or.
flags of Asia. In this section we offer you the Asian flags, specifically flags of Asia, the continent you selected. To see flag flag details and prices, click on the flag image or on the flags links above and below the flag. You will be taken to a page that will show you the flag description and to choose flags sizes
Countries of the World. Home Earth Continents Asia Flags Asia Flags. The national flag is a symbol or emblem of a country, and therefor it represents a country. Each country in the world has its own combination of colors, shapes and symbols, but conventionally almost all national flags are rectangular. On this page there are the flags of all sovereign nations of Asia, with the exception of Tibet, which is officially the Tibet Autonomous Region and part of PR China. Macau and Hong Kong are special administrative regions (SAR) of the People's Republic of China (PRC)