Melanoma is a type of cancer that begins in melanocytes (cells that make the pigment melanin). Below are photos of melanoma that formed on the skin. Melanoma can also start in the eye, the intestines, or other areas of the body with pigmented tissues. Often the first sign of melanoma is a change in the shape, color, size, or feel of an existing mole. However, melanoma may also appear as a new mole.
Instead of appearing reddish, in dark skin it can look dark, ashen or grayish in color or brownish in lighter skin tones (like Asian skin). In black or dark skin it can cause hypopigmentation (lightening of skin) and hyperpigmentation (darkening). Possible triggers: What to Do If You Suspect You Have Eczema. Eczema can look different on dark skin. If you suspect that you have eczema and are unable to treat the symptoms, see a dermatologist or doctor. 
Back to Index. Hyperpigmentation is a common, usually harmless condition in which patches of skin become darker in color than the normal surrounding skin. This darkening occurs when an excess of melanin, the brown pigment that produces normal skin color, forms deposits in the skin. Hyperpigmentation can affect the skin color of people of any race. Age or liver spots are a common form of hyperpigmentation. 
Lentigines are hyperpigmented macules or patches that can resemble nevi (moles). Usually pale tan to brown, they typically appear in white adults and increase in number with advancing age (Fig. 4). Lentigines tend to occur on the sun-exposed skin of the face, neck, upper trunk, forearms, and hands. Nevi are common benign growths, usually hyperpigmented or skin-colored macules, papules, or small plaques, probably derived from proliferating altered melanocytes (nevus cells). Age, race, and genetic and environmental factors (primarily sun exposure) all contribute to the development of nevi for any particular patient.
Skin cancer is by far the most common type of cancer. Nearly all skin cancers can be treated effectively if they are found early, so knowing what to look for is important. There are many types of skin cancer, each of which can look different on the skin. En espanol. Español skin cancer is by far the most common type of. Cancer nearly all skin cancers can be treated effectively if they are found, early so knowing what to look for is. Important there are many types of skin, cancer each of which can look different on the. skin
Seborrheic keratoses may be the most common benign tumor of the skin. Typically, they are scaly (hyperkeratotic), brown (hyperpigmented), often somewhat greasy plaques that vary in size and thickness and often appear to be stuck onto the skin surface (Fig. 1). They occur on any surface except the palms, soles, and mucosa. Nevi are common benign growths, usually hyperpigmented or skin-colored macules, papules, or small plaques, probably derived from proliferating altered melanocytes (nevus cells). Age, race, and genetic and environmental factors (primarily sun exposure) all contribute to the development of nevi for any particular patient.
Causes [edit]. Hyperpigmentation can be caused by sun damage, inflammation, or other skin injuries, including those related to acne vulgaris. People with darker Asian, Mediterranean, or African skin tones are also more prone to hyperpigmentation, especially if they have excess sun exposure. Hyperpigmentation can be diffuse or focal, affecting such areas as the face and the back of the hands. Melanin is produced by melanocytes at the lower layer of the epidermis. Melanin is a class of pigment responsible for producing color in the body in places such as the eyes, skin, and hair.
People should tell their doctor if they notice any changes on the skin. The only way to diagnose melanoma is to remove tissue and check it for cancer cells. Thinking of ABCDE can help you remember what to look for: 1  Asymmetry: The shape of one half does not match the other half. 2  Border that is irregular: The edges are often ragged, notched, or blurred in outline. 3  The pigment may spread into the surrounding skin. Below are photos of melanoma that formed on the skin. Melanoma can also start in the eye, the intestines, or other areas of the body with pigmented tissues. Often the first sign of melanoma is a change in the shape, color, size, or feel of an existing mole. However, melanoma may also appear as a new mole.
Actinic keratosis is another type of red, pink, or rough patch of skin on sun-exposed areas of the body. This is the most common form of precancer and can develop into basal cell carcinoma in patients with a history of two or more skin cancers (Skin Cancer Foundation, 2012). Your skin works as a barrier to protect your body against things like water loss, bacteria, and other harmful contaminants. The outermost layer, the epidermis, is the layer in constant contact with the environment.