1 1. Health, Safety and Welfare in a Fitness Environment© Central YMCA Qualifications (CYQ), 2010All rights reserved. 2  Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, reproduction of this resource for assisting course delivery is permissible for approved CYQ training providersfor INTERNAL USE only. 1 Health & Safety at Work Act 1974 All employers have a duty of care to ensure that a safe working environment is provided, which is free from anything thatcan cause harm, or cause a risk to health or life. 2  11. 3  Employers’ responsibilities: to safeguard the health and safety and welfare of the people who work for them.
Health and safety is important in any environment because people do not what to be injured or make ill because of the activities they are engaged in. It is important to follow health and safety rules because that helps avoid injury, illness or death to you and your co-workers, and prevents property damage and loss that coul … d hurt the company, and thus your job prospects. 13 people found this useful. Peter Zavon.
1 Health and Safety• There are legal and regulatory requirements for health and safety relevant to working in a fitness environment: – Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 – REPs Code of Ethical Practice – CRB checks. 2  10. 1 Health & Safety at Work Act 1974 All employers have a duty of care to ensure that a safe working environment is provided, which is free from anything thatcan cause harm, or cause a risk to health or life. 2  11. 3  Employers’ responsibilities: to safeguard the health and safety and welfare of the people who work for them.
Health and safety at work is important because no one wants to be injured or made sick by the things they work with. Health and safety is important because without it, injur … ies and fatalities can occur. Our best investment is health. It is important to follow health and safety rules because that helps avoid injury, illness or death to you and your co-workers, and prevents property damage and loss that coul … d hurt the company, and thus your job prospects. 13 people found this useful. Peter Zavon.
Confidence votes 52.5K. Health and safety is important in any environment because people do not what to be injured or make ill because of the activities they are engaged in. People do argue about how much effort should be put into health and safety for particular environments. It is important to follow health and safety rules because that helps avoid injury, illness or death to you and your co-workers, and prevents property damage and loss that coul … d hurt the company, and thus your job prospects. 13 people found this useful. Peter Zavon.
UV20524 Health, safety and welfare in a fitness environment It is the aim of this unit to develop your knowledge and understanding of how to maintain health, safety and welfare in a fitness environment, including the safeguarding of children and vulnerable adults. UV20524_v5. On completion of this unit you will: Learning outcomes Evidence requirements Health, safety and welfare in a fitness environment 1. Understand emergency procedures in a fitness environment 2. Understand health and safety requirements in a fitness environment 3.
Health and safety at work is important because no one wants to be injured or made sick by the things they work with. Health and safety is important because without it, injur … ies and fatalities can occur. Our best investment is health. It is important to follow health and safety rules because that helps avoid injury, illness or death to you and your co-workers, and prevents property damage and loss that coul … d hurt the company, and thus your job prospects. 13 people found this useful. Peter Zavon. 176,901 Contributions.
Sheet 1: Why health and safety is important. Hazards at Work. Whatever sort of business you are, there is always the possibility of an accident or damage to someone's health. 1 It should be the basis of your firm's health and safety action plan. 2  Ask yourself whether you have an effective health and safety management system in place-in other words, a planned way of tackling problems.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Health and safety is important in the fitness environment because it helps address any issue that occurs as a result of injuries. It is important to follow health and safety rules because that helps avoid injury, illness or death to you and your co-workers, and prevents property damage and loss that coul … d hurt the company, and thus your job prospects. 13 people found this useful. Peter Zavon. 176,901 Contributions.