The name Michael is an Anglicized form of the Hebrew name Mi-ke-el (מִיכָאֵל). It is derived from the Hebrew elements Mi, Me meaning who, ke meaning like or as and el a shortened version of elohim meaning G-d. The name Mitchell is a form of the name Michael. It represents a transferred use of an English surname from the Middle Ages which itself was a variant of the Norman French Michel. Michael is the name of many characters in the bible, including an archangel. From the Middle Ages to modern times and in various language forms, it has also been a name borne by many of the rulers of Europe.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Mitchell is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Mitchell is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Mitchell is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mitchell is: Gift from God. Irish Meaning: The name Mitchell is an Irish baby name.
In some cases, the surname Mitchell was adopted as an equivalent of Mulvihill; this English-language surname is derived from the Irish-language O ó Maoil, mhichil mhichíl meaning descendant of the Devotee. Of. st michael In other cases the surname Mitchell is derived from the Middle English words michel, mechel, and muchel, meaning big.
Mitchell or Mitchel is an old Scots surname with several etymological origins. In some cases the name is derived from the Middle English and Old French name Michel, a vernacular form of the name Michael. The personal name Michael is ultimately derived from a Hebrew name, meaning Who is like God. In other cases the surname Mitchell is derived from the Middle English words michel, mechel, and muchel, meaning big.
MITCHELL Surname Meaning & Origin: The Mitchell surname is a common form or corruption of the given name Michael, meaning big or one who is like God.. Mitchell is the 44th most popular surname in the United States and the 15th most common surname in Scotland. Mitchell is also popular in England, coming in as the 51st most common surname. 
Mitchell is a very prominent first name for males (#222 out of 1220, Top 18%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#44 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Mitchell for boys. Mitchell /mit-chell/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MITCH-el. It is of Middle English origin. Variant of Michael, via the Norman French Michel. Surname used in the Middle Ages, and transferred as a given name in the 19th century
Mitchell is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Mit-chell. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 504 in baby name popularity for boys with 555 occurrences. It ranked 15797 in popular baby names for girls with 6 occurrences. Michael is the name of many characters in the bible, including an archangel. From the Middle Ages to modern times and in various language forms, it has also been a name borne by many of the rulers of Europe.
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Mitchell has had something of a roller coaster ride, showing some panache in the forties and fifties, when it was seen as a sharper alternative to Michael with its cool Mitch nickname, slipping a bit, then resurfacing in the 90s when it reached as high as Number 71. 