Protect your wood surfaces with Old English Lemon Oil. It provides a layer of armor for your favorite pieces of furniture, preventing everyday stains and wear and tear. It contains a light mineral oil that improves your wooden surfaces, giving them a rich natural glow.
OLD ENGLISH ® Oil products also conserve oils in fine antique furniture, help prevent cracking in older, lacquer finished surfaces, and condition open grain oil finished surfaces (such as Scandinavian furniture). Apply OLD ENGLISH ® Oil to your furniture and buff with a soft cloth until surface is dry and shiny.
Keeping your furniture looking new doesn't have to be complicated. OLD ENGLISH ® offers a wide range of furniture care products that will bring out wood's natural beauty. For everyday use try OLD ENGLISH ® Furniture Polish Aerosol.
Bring out the beauty of natural wood with help from Old English 16 oz. Lemon Furniture Oil Polish. This easy-to-use formula helps condition and protect most natural woods. Just wipe and shine, no buffing.
February 25, 2015. Rated 5.0 out of 5.0 by Mamaki old English lemon oil it is the best furniture oil ever use it and have for years June 9, 2015. Rated 5.0 out of 5.0 by Peter Essential for Fine Furniture I highly recommend lemon oil to protect fine wood furniture.
I have used Old English Furniture Lemon Oil for years on both old and new furniture. The oil wipes away dust and smudges while giving old wood furniture a deeper wood tone. It also puts a refreshing scent in the room. I highly recommend this product.
If there is any waxy residue remaining, remove with OLD ENGLISH ® Furniture Polish. Consistent use of OLD ENGLISH ® Furniture Polish Aerosol or OLD ENGLISH ® Oil wood care products help protect against everyday stains, such as wax crayons, candle wax, and mustard.
For medium to light woods like pine and oak use OLD ENGLISH ® Light Wood Scratch Cover. To use, lightly moisten a dry cloth with OLD ENGLISH ® Scratch Cover and apply gently to damaged area. Allow the furniture to absorb the liquid, then buff to a shine. Use with care to avoid staining clothing, carpets, etc.
Comments about Old English Lemon Oil : I have been using Old English Lemon Oil for the longest time. I'm one of these old fashioned house fanatics who has a lot of wood furniture and unlike most of the paint effects and coverings available for wood these days, I like my wood to look natural, but enhanced.