The concept of a prescribed officer was a late inclusion in the development of the new act, it seems as a result at least in part of representations made by the Law Society of South Africa who complained that the bill, unlike the British companies act, made no provision for so-called shadow directors. 1 Indeed in my view the definition of a prescribed officer will for the most part only have relevance in head office situations where the board does not exercise  general executive control . 2  It is true that part (b) of the regulation has the potential to widen the scope of the definition.
Werksmans Incorporated. The new Companies Act has expanded director duties and extended these to prescribed officers. This has implications for labour law, particularly as executive directors and designated officers are also company employees. The new Companies Act No. 71 of 2008 (the Act) came into force on 1 May 2011. 
The new Companies Act has expanded director duties and extended these to prescribed officers. This has implications for labour law, particularly as executive directors and designated officers are also company employees. The new Companies Act No. 71 of 2008 (the Act) came into force on 1 May 2011. Where the director is a senior employee it should be noted that the Act, in section 77(1), makes clear provision for duties to be extended to “prescribed officers” of the company by including these within the expanded definition of “director”.
THE COMPANIES ACT AND PRESCRIBED OFFICER EMPLOYEES. Sections 75, 76 and 77 of the new Companies Act, 2008 (the Act) impose important duties and liabilities on directors of companies. To a significant extent these provisions are not new and reflect existing common law duties or were contained in previous legislation. Section 77 provides that a prescribed officer may be held liable for any loss, cost or damages suffered by a company in accordance with the common law principles relating to breaches of a fiduciary duty arising from a failure to comply with the provisions of sections 75 and 76.
1 Southern Africa Accounting & Auditing June 2013 The Companies Act Implications for directors and prescribed officers Introduction The Companies Act (the Act) contains a number of provisions that will directly impact all directors and the prescribed officers. Section 69 of the Companies Act provides that any person is ineligible for appointment as director or prescribed officer, if that person is a juristic person, an unemancipated minor (or is under a similar legal disability), or does not satisfy the qualifications as per the company’s Memorandum of Incorporation.
Prescribed officers The Companies Act determines that prescribed officers are required to perform their functions and exercise their duties to the standard of conduct as it applies to directors. Prescribed officers will be subject to the same liability provisions as it applies to directors. Section 69 of the Companies Act provides that any person is ineligible for appointment as director or prescribed officer, if that person is a juristic person, an unemancipated minor (or is under a similar legal disability), or does not satisfy the qualifications as per the company’s Memorandum of Incorporation.
Despite not being a director of a particular company, a person is a 'prescribed officer' of the company for all purposes of the Act if that person—. 1  exercises general executive control over and management of the whole, or a significant portion, of the business and activities of the company; or. 1 Indeed in my view the definition of a prescribed officer will for the most part only have relevance in head office situations where the board does not exercise  general executive control . 2  It is true that part (b) of the regulation has the potential to widen the scope of the definition.
The definition is important because the new act extends to prescribed officers the obligations which a director owes to a company under section 75 and 76, and thus the risk of liability that is described in section 77. 1 Indeed in my view the definition of a prescribed officer will for the most part only have relevance in head office situations where the board does not exercise  general executive control . 2  It is true that part (b) of the regulation has the potential to widen the scope of the definition.
The ‘prescribed officer’ is a concept created by the new Companies Act, with the aim of including in the scope of the Act anyone who fulfills the role of a director but who is operating – whether intentionally or otherwise ̶ under a different designation. See below full article. 
Language. English. Accreditation(s). IBSS. Most of the provisions in the Companies Act 71 of 2008 that regulate directors also apply to 'prescribed officers'. This term is both new and unique to South African company law, and is one with far-reaching legal implications. It is also one that has been defined in very vague and general terms.