Best Answer: The person you sent it to will have to pay for the postage. They will be sent a card saying that a letter needs collection from the post office and that a charge will be need to be paid for it. Report Abuse. The person who will get the letter will get a card through the door telling them to pick it up at the sorting office pay the postage and a fee or they can affix stamps on the card post the card back then wait for the letter. angeleyes · 6 years ago. Thumbs up
If you paid for it at the post office, they should have put the proper postage on it. They print the postage on the envelope, they don't use stamps. You do need to put stamps on any letter you send, except if you bring it to the post office. If there isn't a stamp on your letter, it will be returned to you. But, like I said, if you brought the letter to the post office and paid for postage, they should have taken care of it. 
No Return Address. If there is no return address on your letter or package, the post office will try to send it to the recipient with a Postage Due stamp. The recipient will have to pay the additional postage before being able to receive the letter. If the post office returned your letter with an Insufficient Postage stamp, you can simply cross off the stamp, add the correct postage and place it back in the mail box. The original stamp used is reusable in this case.
Once, when I forgot a stamp, my mail carrier left it in my mailbox with a postage due message stamped on it. But if you put it in a public mailbox, with no return address, I'm not sure what will happen. For sure VISIT (do not call) your local post office on Wednesday, they may have your letter in a lost and found type pile. Good luck & Merry Christmas!!! The recipient will have to go pick the letter up at their Post Office and pay the cost of the stamp. This doesn't happen all that often, but it's possible. The most likely scenario is that your letter will be sent to the mail recovery center in Atlanta.
Report Abuse. It will go to the local post office who you are sending the letter to and they will get a card to say they have a letter waiting with no postage paid and they will have to pay it. romanybabe · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. If there is a return address...they'll send it back to YOU unless it looks like unimportant rubbish...then they will just toss it. If insufficient postage, they may give you a paper to rediem the letter and pay the few cents postage.
sometimes it comes back to you, sometimes it gets to the recipient with a postage due request, and sometimes it goes in the dead letter file which i understand is this HUGE warehouse (prob several of them) where you will never see it again. If there is a return address...they'll send it back to YOU unless it looks like unimportant rubbish...then they will just toss it. If insufficient postage, they may give you a paper to rediem the letter and pay the few cents postage.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If you put a return address on the envelope it will likely be returned to you. If you did not put a return address on it then it will likely be sent to the intended recipient postage due. Good Luck! When I put inadequate postage on my letters, the postmistress just puts the right amount of stamps on it. She puts a bill in my mail box. Next time I am in I just pay her the money. Last time I had to pay her 7 cents.
An item mailed without a stamp will be returned to the sender if a valid return address was written on the envelope. Validity of the sender's return address requires that a deliverable street number, street name and zip code are present on the envelope -- city and state help to confirm the zip code is correct. 
Postage Due. If you send a first-class letter or package without enough postage, the post office will try to deliver the mail with a Postage Due notice. If the recipient refuses to pay, it will come back to you with a notice of insufficient postage. If the post office returned your letter with an Insufficient Postage stamp, you can simply cross off the stamp, add the correct postage and place it back in the mail box. The original stamp used is reusable in this case.