Delicata squash have cream-colored skin and dark green stripes. Delicata squash (Cucurbita pepo) is an heirloom vegetable with a sweet flavor similar to sweet potatoes. It is a winter squash rich in vitamin A, vitamin C, fiber and potassium. Delicata have many culinary uses for soups, entrees and baked goods. 
One of the most prized winter squash varieties is the delicata squash, which is oblong and yellow in color, featuring an attractive green or green and orange-striped pattern. Several growers rescued the squash from obscurity in the early 1990s. Sizes of the delicata squash may vary, and oblong-shaped squash is about six to eight inches (15.24-20.32 cm) in length. This vegetable is relatively dense. People can expect weights of about one to two pounds (453.59-907.18 g).
Delicata squash is most commonly baked, but can also be microwaved, sauteed sautéed or. Steamed it may be stuffed with meat or vegetable. Mixtures the seeds of the squash are also, eaten usually after being. toasted 'Delicata' was first introduced by a seedsman in the USA in 1894 (Tapley et al. 1937), but a fruit very much like those of this cultivar was illustrated by Naudin (1856). (Paris 1989). As a cultivar, is more or less unique and is not readily classifiable in any one modern group
Use a sharp knife to cut the delicata squash in half lengthwise. Remove the seeds and fiber and divide each half once more. 1  Use a serrated knife for best results. 2  A knife with a smooth blade is more likely to slip on the skin of the squash, making it harder to cut open the squash and easier to accidentally cut yourself. Method 3 of 3: Steaming. 1. Peel and cube the delicata squash. Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin of the squash and a sharp knife to cut the squash into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes. 1  After peeling the squash, cut it in half lengthwise using a serrated knife. 2  Remove the seeds and fibers inside with a metal spoon or melon-baller
Cook. Also known as Bohemian squash or sweet potato squash, delicata has a rich yellow flesh and a buttery, sweet-corn like taste. The skin is edible and delicious as well. Low in calories and high in fiber, delicata is a good source of vitamin A. There are so many ways you could flavor this squash. 
Delicata squash are easily grown. Seeds are started after all danger of frost is past and the soil is warm or within 3–4 weeks before the predicted last frost date in the area. Seeds directly sown are placed one inch deep, 5-6 to a hill; hills are 6 feet in all direction from other hills. 'Delicata' was first introduced by a seedsman in the USA in 1894 (Tapley et al. 1937), but a fruit very much like those of this cultivar was illustrated by Naudin (1856). (Paris 1989). As a cultivar, is more or less unique and is not readily classifiable in any one modern group
In a microwave, cook for approximately 20 minutes in a dish with a loose cover of plastic wrap. Available year round, delicata squash are best during August to October and can be kept for 7 to 8 months. It is also known as potato squash, a sweet potato squash or a Bohemian squash. Print. A long oblong-shaped squash with a cream colored, green striped thick outer skin and a golden fine-textured inner flesh. Considered as a novelty squash, its size may range from 5 to 10 inches in length with an average weight of 1 to 2 pounds.
Cut the squash in half and remove the seeds. Use a sharp serrated knife to cut the delicata squash in half lengthwise. Remove the seeds and interior fibers with a metal spoon. 1  A serrated knife will break the skin of the squash more easily and is safer to use than a smooth blade. 2  You could also remove the seeds with a melon-baller. Method 3 of 3: Steaming. 1. Peel and cube the delicata squash. Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin of the squash and a sharp knife to cut the squash into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes. 1  After peeling the squash, cut it in half lengthwise using a serrated knife. 2  Remove the seeds and fibers inside with a metal spoon or