New research suggests copper that enters the body at levels encountered in the average modern diet may be leading, eventually, to Alzheimer's disease-by reducing the body's ability to clear away toxic proteins in the brain, and also by encouraging the clumping of those proteins. Copper in diet linked to Alzheimer's disease.. Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 20 Aug. 2013. Web. APA. Paddock, C. (2013, August 20). Copper in diet linked to Alzheimer's disease.. Medical News Today. Retrieved from. http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/265012.php.
Consuming foods that contain traces of the metal copper may contribute to the plaque buildup indicative of Alzheimer's disease, researchers are reporting in the Aug. 19 issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. For example, dietary copper may have different mechanisms, or play different roles, depending on the stage of the disease. The Alzheimer's Association issued a research grant for Deane's study in 2006, and has also issued grants looking at other metals and disease risk.
Next, they gave copper to mice bred to have Alzheimer's disease -- and as such, had leaky blood brain barriers -- only to find the copper stimulated nerve cells to increase production of amyloid beta. For example, dietary copper may have different mechanisms, or play different roles, depending on the stage of the disease. The Alzheimer's Association issued a research grant for Deane's study in 2006, and has also issued grants looking at other metals and disease risk.
Researchers suggest that copper found in our drinking water and food may play a role in the eventual onset of Alzheimer's disease. For their study, the team gave mice trace levels of copper for three months. Copper in diet linked to Alzheimer's disease.. Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 20 Aug. 2013. Web. APA. Paddock, C. (2013, August 20). Copper in diet linked to Alzheimer's disease.. Medical News Today. Retrieved from. http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/265012.php.
1 Exposure to even trace amounts of copper in drinking water may increase your risk of Alzheimer’s disease. 2  Copper interfered with the proper functioning of a protein LRP1, which helps clear amyloid beta, a toxic protein linked to Alzheimer’s, from the brain. Over time, the metal interfered with the proper functioning of a protein known as lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), which helps clear amyloid beta, a toxic protein linked to Alzheimer's, from the brain. Copper exposure also appeared to compromise the blood-brain barrier, causing it to become leaky.
Your body uses copper for bone growth, nerve conduction, hormone secretion and more; yet in excess, and especially in non-organically bound form, it's been linked to oxidative stress and brain damage that may lead to cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease. Over time, the metal interfered with the proper functioning of a protein known as lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), which helps clear amyloid beta, a toxic protein linked to Alzheimer's, from the brain. Copper exposure also appeared to compromise the blood-brain barrier, causing it to become leaky.
The above-mentioned study found that excess copper stimulated inflammation of brain tissue that may contribute to Alzheimer's disease. Separate research also found that brain inflammation appears to worsen Parkinson's disease symptoms such as depression, fatigue and cognitive impairment. Over time, the metal interfered with the proper functioning of a protein known as lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), which helps clear amyloid beta, a toxic protein linked to Alzheimer's, from the brain. Copper exposure also appeared to compromise the blood-brain barrier, causing it to become leaky.
Image caption Mixed evidence on the role of copper in Alzheimer's. A lifetime of too much copper in our diets may be contributing to Alzheimer's disease, US scientists say. However, research is divided, with other studies suggesting copper may actually protect the brain. The latest study in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences showed high levels of copper left the brain struggling to get rid of a protein thought to cause the dementia. Mixed evidence. Commenting on the latest findings, Chris Exley, professor of bioinorganic chemistry at Keele University, said there was no true consensus on the role of copper in Alzheimer's disease.
A new study identifies copper as the culprit in Alzheimer’s disease, while other evidence says it protects against dementia. New research indicates that copper is one of the major environmental factors responsible for Alzheimer’s disease. This conflicts with research from earlier this year suggesting that the metal protects against this common form of dementia. Copper’s relationship to Alzheimer’s disease is a hotly contested issue in the field of neurology, as experts attempt to find proper treatments—and perhaps a cure—for a condition that affects 5 million Americans.