A lipoma is a benign lump or mass that is made up of fat cells (adipocytes). Lipomas are a common, benign (noncancerous) type of slow-growing tumor and are the most common benign tumors situated under the skin. They most often develop just under the skin in the subcutaneous tissue, located beneath the skin and above the muscle.
A hemangioma is a benign (noncancerous) tumor made up of blood vessels. There are many types of hemangiomas, and they can occur throughout the body, including in skin, muscle, bone, and internal organs. Most hemangiomas occur on the surface of the skin or just beneath it. 
Benign tumors are not cancerous. Malignant means it is made up of cancerous cells.A benign tumor is an abnormal growth that is not cancerous in nature and cannot spread. Many … conditions can cause a lump or growth that is not cancer. Although a benign tumor has no cancerous cells, it can still present problems depending on location
A fibroid is a non-cancerous growth (tumor) made up of mostly fibrous tissue, like muscle. Fibroids grow in or around the uterus (womb). They are the most common type of growth in a woman's pelvic area (the pelvis is the bony structure at the bottom of the spine). Fibroids. Uterine Fibroids are common non-cancerous (benign) tumors of the uterus and are the most frequent reason for recommending a hysterectomy. They grow from the muscular wall of the uterus and are made up of muscle and fibrous tissue. Many women over 35 have fibroids, but usually have no symptoms.
Leiomyosarcoma (Gr. smooth muscle connective tissue tumor), also referred to as LMS, is a malignant (cancerous) smooth muscle tumor. It must not be confused with leiomyoma, which is a benign tumor originating from the same tissue.
A sarcoma is a type of cancer that develops from certain tissues, like bone or muscle. Bone and soft tissue sarcomas are the main types of sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcomas can develop from soft tissues like fat, muscle, nerves, fibrous tissues, blood vessels, or deep skin tissues. They can be found in any part of the body. 1 Lymphangiomas, benign tumors of lymph vessels. 2  Myxoma is a benign tumor that usually is located in muscles but does not start from muscle cells. 3  Neurofibromas, tumors of nerve tissue that are usually benign. 4  Neurofibromas of large nerves, such as those in the upper arms or neck can become cancerous.
Leiomyoma. The root word of or relating to muscle is my(o), and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore, Myoma is a Muscle Tumor. The prefix rhabd(o) means striated or rod shaped, my(o) is the root word of or relating to muscle, and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore, Rhabdomyoma is a Tumor of Striated Muscle. The prefix lei(o) means smooth, my(o) is the root word of or relating to muscle, and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore Leiomyoma is a Tumor of Smooth Muscle. Leiomyoma. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The root word of or relating to muscle is my(o), and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore, Myoma is a Muscle Tumor. The prefix rhabd(o) means striated or rod shaped, my(o) is the root word of or relating to muscle, and oma is the suffix for tumor.