36 hours for the ovaries to release the mature eggs. However the  egg can only survive up to 24 hours without fertilization via  sperm. Sperm can survive up to 5 days in body to search for the  unfertilized egg. Once  there, the sperm wait for an egg to arrive. After fertilization, it  can take 5-10 days for the fertilized egg to begin to attach itself  to the lining of the uterus. Pregnancy begins when this  happens.
I would say at least a couple of hours, but it could take up to three days. Depending you your body and where the egg is in the cycle. The sperm that will be able to fertilize the egg will leave the cervix, at the most, 30 minutes. It does not take 3 days for the sperm to get to the fallopian tubes to ovulation. It can take minutes for at least some of the sperm to reach the fallopian tubes where they are stored waiting for the egg to pop out if it hasn't already popped out.
It takes sperm about 2 hours to swim to where your egg is. If there is no egg then they will hang out for about 72 hours before they die off. Once the egg and sperm meet then it takes another 4 - 10 days for your egg to get to your uterus an implant into you uterine wall. Once this happens your body starts to produce HcG hormones. These hormones are what the test read to see a positive and they double every 48 - 72 hours
Sounds pretty slow until you realize Sperm is about 1/600 inch long. If you scale that up to human size that's about 4-5 miles / hour -- slow jogging speed. The penetration of the penis and location of the egg in the fallopian tubes is only two factors that will affect time. It does not take 3 days for the sperm to get to the fallopian tubes to ovulation. It can take minutes for at least some of the sperm to reach the fallopian tubes where they are stored waiting for the egg to pop out if it hasn't already popped out.
Best Answer: The egg was probably fertilized within the first half hour if you ahd already ovulated. Otherwise, the sperm can wait 2 or 3 (possibly 5) days in the uterus for the egg to be released; then it fertilizes it right away. Once the egg and sperm meet then it takes another 4 - 10 days for your egg to get to your uterus an implant into you uterine wall.
The Sperm's Long Journey. A man may ejaculate 40 million to150 million sperm, which start swimming upstream toward the fallopian tubes on their mission to fertilize an egg. Fast-swimming sperm can reach the egg in a half an hour, while others may take days. The sperm can live up to 48-72 hours. Only a few hundred will even come close to the egg, because of the many natural barriers that exist in a woman's body. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl
It takes sperm approximately 36 hours to fertilize the egg after the male ejaculates in the vagina. Once  there, the sperm wait for an egg to arrive. After fertilization, it  can take 5-10 days for the fertilized egg to begin to attach itself  to the lining of the uterus. Pregnancy begins when this  happens.  It is true that conception is the same moment as  fertilization.
Fertilization: Sperm Penetrates Egg. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl. The sperm can live up to 48-72 hours. Only a few hundred will even come close to the egg, because of the many natural barriers that exist in a woman's body
It will then take approx. 36 hours for the ovaries to release the mature eggs. However the egg can only survive up to 24 hours without fertilization via sperm. Sperm can survive up to 5 days in body to search for the unfertilized egg. Once  there, the sperm wait for an egg to arrive. After fertilization, it  can take 5-10 days for the fertilized egg to begin to attach itself  to the lining of the uterus. Pregnancy begins when this  happens.  It is true that conception is the same moment as  fertilization.