1 The ability of an inductor to store energy in the form of a magnetic field (and consequently to oppose changes in current) is called inductance. 2  It is measured in the unit of the Henry (H).
The current, i that flows through an inductor produces a magnetic flux that is proportional to it. But unlike a Capacitor which oppose a change of voltage across their plates, an inductor opposes the rate of change of current flowing through it due to the build up of self-induced energy within its magnetic field.
So whenever a sinusoidal voltage is applied to an inductive coil, the back emf opposes the rise and fall of the current flowing through the coil and in a purely inductive coil which has zero resistance or losses, this impedance (which can be a complex number) is equal to its inductive reactance.
1 Inductors react against changes in current by dropping voltage in the polarity necessary to oppose the change. 2  When an inductor is faced with an increasing current, it acts as a load: dropping voltage as it absorbs energy (negative on the current entry side and positive on the current exit side, like a resistor).
A Typical Inductor. In its most basic form, an Inductor is nothing more than a coil of wire wound around a central core. For most coils the current, (i) flowing through the coil produces a magnetic flux, (Nφ) around it that is proportional to this flow of electrical current.
When the current through an inductor is increased, it drops a voltage opposing the direction of electron flow, acting as a power load. In this condition the inductor is said to be charging, because there is an increasing amount of energy being stored in its magnetic field.
Inductance Inductance is a property of an electric circuit by which a changing magnetic field creates an electromotive force, or voltage, in that circuit or in a nearby circuit. Inductance is also defined as the property of an electric circuit that opposes any change in current.
Inductors do not behave the same as resistors. Whereas resistors simply oppose the flow of electrons through them (by dropping a voltage directly proportional to the current), inductors oppose changes in current through them, by dropping a voltage directly proportional to the rate of change of current.