Pitocin is the synthetic brand name of the labor hormone, Oxytocin. This is the hormone that causes the uterus to contract during labor, and to contract after delivery, preventing postpartum hemorrhage. Risks of Pitocin include contractions that are too close together and that don't give the uterus a chance to relax and recover, which can result in fetal distress. Maternal risks of the medication are water intoxication, pulmonary edema and abnormal sodium levels.
Oxytocin is a powerful hormone. When we hug or kiss a loved one, oxytocin levels drive up. It also acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain. In fact, the hormone plays a huge role in pair bonding. Prairie voles, one of nature 's most monogamous species, produce oxytocin in spades. 
Pitocin® is a synthetically created form of the naturally occurring hormone oxytocin, which causes uterine contractions. When a pregnant mother is overdue, sometimes the obstetrician will induce labor with an intravenous drip of this drug. Pitocin® is used to induce or speed up labor. An obstetrician may choose to induce labor using Pitocin if a pregnant woman is overdue. Pitocin may given through an intravenous drip to induce labor. Pitocin causes uterine contractions in pregnant women.
Pitocin (oxytocin injection) is a natural hormone that causes the uterus to contract used to induce labor, strengthen labor contractions during childbirth, control bleeding after childbirth, or to induce an abortion. Pitocin is administered under a physician's supervision. The initial dose of Pitocin should be 0.5-1 mU/min (equal to 3-6 mL of the dilute oxytocin solution per hour). At 30-60 minute intervals the dose should be gradually increased in increments of 1-2 mU/min until the desired contraction pattern has been established.
4 Stars. 1 Review. 1 Review. Pitocin is the brand name of the hormone oxytocin, which stimulates contractions in the uterus. Oxytocin is sometimes called the “love hormone” because your body releases it at high concentrations during positive social interactions (such as falling in love) or when giving birth. The drug is used to start or speed up labor contractions during childbirth and control bleeding afterward. Pitocin may also be used in women who experience an incomplete or inevitable abortion. The medicine works by increasing the concentration of calcium inside muscle cell
Pitocin is a man-made version of oxytocin used for stimulating contraction of the uterus. Oxytocin works by increasing the concentration of calcium inside muscle cells that control contraction of the uterus. Increased calcium increases contraction of the uterus. The FDA approved oxytocin in November 1980. 
Studies have looked at oxytocin's role in various behaviors, including orgasm, social recognition, pair bonding, anxiety, and maternal behaviors. As a medication, it is used to cause contraction of the uterus, which is used to start labor, increase the speed of labor, and to stop bleeding following delivery. It is also available as a medication. Oxytocin is normally produced in the hypothalamus and stored in the posterior pituitary gland. It plays a role in intimacy, sexual reproduction of both sexes, and during and after childbirth as well as social bonding.
Common side effects of Pitocin include redness or irritation at the injection site, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, cramping, stomach pain, more intense or more frequent contractions (this is an expected effect of oxytocin), runny nose, sinus pain or irritation, or memory problems. Pitocin is administered under a physician's supervision. The initial dose of Pitocin should be 0.5-1 mU/min (equal to 3-6 mL of the dilute oxytocin solution per hour). At 30-60 minute intervals the dose should be gradually increased in increments of 1-2 mU/min until the desired contraction pattern has been established.
Pitocin is a combination of a nonapeptide protein — which means it’s made of nine amino acids. The simple explanation is that it’s basically the same hormone your own brain creates to cause contractions — it's also created when you breastfeed and helps with postpartum healing. Pitocin can be used if you’re already in labor and your contractions aren’t strong or frequent enough to progress your labor. You’ll be given Pitocin through an IV, and the medicine level can be adjusted (so you get more or less as needed, depending on how things are going).