Producer | Actor. Tom Bergeron was born on May 6, 1955 in Haverhill, Massachusetts, USA as Thomas Raymond Bergeron. He is a producer and actor, known for Dancing with the Stars (2005), Hollywood Squares (1998) and America's Funniest Home Videos (1989). He has been married to Lois Harmon since May 22, 1982. They have two children
Tom Bergeron. 3,145 pages on this wiki. Tom Bergeron (born May 6, 1955) is an American television personality and game show host, best known as the host of the ABC reality series Dancing with the Stars (2005–present) and host of America's Funniest Home Videos (2001–present).
Biography. American game show host, Bergeron began his career as a disc jockey for a hometown radio station. At the same time, he was an editorial cartoonist for several local newspapers. Focus on him increased in 1980, after the debut of. IThe Tom Bergeron Show, which he created and hosted. 
View. comments. Tom Bergeron was absent during last Monday's episode of ABC's Dancing With The Stars, as he flew home to be by his ailing father's bedside. And while the 60-year-old host continued his TV spot this week, he unfortunately had some sad news to share. 'My dad loved this show. Scroll down for videos. Sad news: Tom Bergeron announced that his father has passed away during Monday's episode of ABC's Dancing With The Stars. Season 19 winner and new America's Funniest Home Videos host Alfonso Ribeiro filled in for Bergeron last week, joining Erin Andrews as host.
Biography. Tom Bergeron was 17 when he became the youngest DJ Ever at WHAV Radio, the local radio station in his hometown of Haverhill, Massachusetts.
Early life and career [edit]. Bergeron was born in Haverhill, Massachusetts, the son of Catherine Kay (nee Née) costello And Raymond. Bergeron he is Of-French canadian And irish. descent 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Tom Bergeron is a television host that was born in Haverhill, Massachusetts, on May 6, 1955. Tom Bergeron has been married to his wife Lois since 1982. The couple currently has two daughters together named Jessica and Samantha. Tom Bergeron began his career as a disc jockey for a radio station in his hometown. 
I used to watch that show when I was a little kid, so I saw the hosts change from time } DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGood_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|Tom Bergeron was 17 when he became the youngest DJ Ever at WHAV Radio, the local radio station in his hometown of Haverhill, Massachusetts. 
Surname meaning for Bergeron. French (of Norman origin): from a diminutive of. . The name is common in both New England and LA. 