Medical Assistant Salary in Atlanta, Georgia. (United States). The average wage for a Medical Assistant in Atlanta, Georgia is $14.22 per hour. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
In third place is the Augusta-Richmond County area with over 1100 jobs. At the other end is Brunswick GA with the lowest employment in medical assistants at around 170. Looking at the average hourly salary data, Atlanta still comes in on top with $29,960 but not by much. The top three metropolitan areas all have average annual salaries of just under $30,000. Given the metropolitan areas like Atlanta and in increasing population in the Southern states this might be expected. The salary information however is different. The state ranks 36 th among the states for average annual salary. Across the state the average annual salary is $28,720.
Average Certified Medical Assistant Salaries. The average salary for certified medical assistant jobs in Atlanta, GA is $41,000. Average certified medical assistant salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. 
The salary for someone with the job title Medical Assistant in Atlanta, GA varies depending on a number of factors. Requires a high school diploma and medical assistant certificate and 0-2 years of experience in a related field. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
(United States). The average wage for a Medical Assistant (Certified) in Atlanta, Georgia is $14.87 per hour. A skill in Patient Education is associated with high pay for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. $11.27 - $18.05. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable
Average Medical Assistant salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Medical Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average wage for a Medical Assistant in Atlanta, Georgia is $14.22 per hour. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
$48,000. Average Medical Assistant salaries for job postings in Atlanta, GA are 25% higher than average Medical Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide.
Average Medical Assistant Salaries. The average salary for medical assistant jobs in Atlanta, GA is $46,000. Average medical assistant salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Medical Assistant in Atlanta, GA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Assistant in Atlanta are expected to make less than the median. Requires a high school diploma and medical assistant certificate and 0-2 years of experience in a related field. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.