SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. This notice is effective for per diem allowances for lodging, meal and incidental. expenses, or for meal and incidental expenses only, that are paid to any employee on. or after October 1, 2014, for travel away from home on or after October 1, 2014. For. Transportation between places of lodging or business and places. where meals are taken, and the mailing cost of filing travel vouchers and paying. employer-sponsored charge card billings, are no longer included in incidental expenses. Accordingly, taxpayers using per diem rates may separately deduct or be reimbursed.
GSA establishes the per diem rates for the lower 48 Continental United States (CONUS), which are the maximum allowances that federal employees are reimbursed for expenses incurred while on official travel. Two locations will become new NSAs in FY 2015: Kayenta, AZ (Navajo County) and San Angelo, TX (Tom Green County). WA. 07/01/2012 - Two new locations have been added as of 1, July 2012. Locations include a CONUS location 'NO PER DIEM LOCATION (RC)', listed under 'RESERVE COMPONENT', and an OCONUS location 'NO PER DIEM LOCATION (RC)', also listed under 'RESERVE COMPONENT'.
The proportional meal rate (PMR)is based on the locality meal rate and the GOVT meal rate (GMR). The per diem ta bles on this website have the PMRs already computed. The examples below using the Standard CONUS M&IE rate of $46.00 and the Standard GMR of $11.85 show how to compute a PMR amount. The $46.00 consists of $41.00 for meals and $5.00 for incidental expenses.
Print. The state has established a state meal per diem for both in-state and out-of-state meals in lieu of the federal CONUS rates. State agencies have the option of paying a lesser meal per diem or reimbursing actual meal expenses not to exceed the state meal per diem. Before incurring meal expenses, employees should consult with their agency fiscal staff concerning the agency’s specific policy. The state meal per diem rates are noted below
The Per Diem Allowance. Each year the DoD Per Diem, Travel and Transportation Committee sets the Per Diem allowance. The Per Diem is specific to a given travel location and can range from a standard CONUS rate from $140 per day up to $702 per day for Out-of-CONUS rates. The per diem ta bles on this website have the PMRs already computed. The examples below using the Standard CONUS M&IE rate of $46.00 and the Standard GMR of $11.85 show how to compute a PMR amount. The $46.00 consists of $41.00 for meals and $5.00 for incidental expenses.
Foreign Per Diem rates are established monthly by the Office of Allowances as maximum U.S. dollar rates for reimbursement of U.S. Government civilians traveling on official business in foreign areas. Telephone: (202) 663-1121. E-mail: AllowancesO@state.gov. For U.S. Government civilian employee travel in foreign areas, the reimbursement of actual and necessary itemized subsistence expenses shall not exceed 300% of the applicable maximum foreign travel per diem allowance (rounded to the next higher dollar).
CONUS stands for Continental United States. CONUS Per Diem Rates are established by the GSA for the 48 contiguous states. IRS Pulication 1542 list CONUS per diem rates. Alaska and Hawaii are not considered to be CONUS. They are OCONUS. Information on how to properly calculate M&IE expenses using CONUS and OCONUS per diem rates can be found in IRS Publication 463. CONUS Per Diem Rates from the GSA. OCONUS Per Diem Rates from the U.S. State Department. IRS Publication 1542 (CONUS Per Diem Rates). User Agreement | Per Diem Deduction | Full Service Crew Taxes | Pilot Jobs. Copyright 2010 Aviation Tax Glossary. All Rights Reserved.
Per Diem Rates Look-Up. Rates are set by fiscal year, effective October 1 each year. Find current rates in the continental United States (CONUS Rates) by searching below with city and state (or ZIP code), or by clicking on the map. 