Formally called Odobenus rosmarus, most scientists consider the walrus to consist of two subspecies the Pacific walrus (Odobenus rosmarus divergens) and the Atlantic walrus (Odobenus rosmarus rosmarus). The Pacific walrus is larger, darker and much more numerous. The babies have no tusks when they are born. The tusks of the males are much longer and wider in proportion to their body than those of the female. The males use their tusks as a symbol of their masculinity turning their heads and thrusting their tusks up in a show to prove their dominance.
Walrus skin is usually brown, thick, and wrinkled. Male walruses are called bulls. Female walruses are called cows, and baby walruses are called calves. They are carnivores, as they eat crabs, mussels, and clams. Here are even more facts for those who want to know more about the walrus. A single walrus tusk can weight up to 3 pounds. A walrus can have anywhere from 400 to 700 whiskers. Their blubber skin really is just about five inches of thick fat skin to keep them warm. The reason that all full grown walruses have tusks is so that they can pull and prop themselves up on ice. Walruses are social animals, as they stay in groups together and have their own means of communication with one another
Walrus Anatomy and Appearance. Walruses have large and elongated bodies that are wider at the head and neck and taper towards their tail which is embedded in a web of skin. Their tough and wrinkled skin is covered by a layer of sparse, coarse hairs and is generally grey or brown in colour.
in i am the walrus some people say that it is Paul McCartney who is the walrus because i am the walrus is said to be a death ceremony which goes along with the conspiracy that … Paul McCartney is dead. I read that John Lennon was the walrus because in his 1970 song God he said I was the walrus, but now I am John. One of John Lennon's friends was the Eggman. Although some think it is Paul McCartney. John Lennon was the Walrus, though apparently Ringo Starr wore the walrus costume for the Magical Mystery Tour film shoot. The Walrus was Paul was a phony clue, sung by John … Lennon as a joke in Glass Onion.
Walrus Diet and Prey Walruses are carnivorous animals that only hunt and eat other animals in order to survive. They have a thick moustache containing roughly 450 very sensitive whiskers that help them to find food in the dark and murky waters at depths of around 100 meters below the surface. Walruses have large and elongated bodies that are wider at the head and neck and taper towards their tail which is embedded in a web of skin. Their tough and wrinkled skin is covered by a layer of sparse, coarse hairs and is generally grey or brown in colour.
Walruses are relatively long-lived, social animals, and they are considered to be a  keystone species  in the Arctic marine regions. The walrus has played a prominent role in the cultures of many indigenous Arctic peoples, who have hunted the walrus for its meat, fat, skin, tusks, and bone. During the 19th century and the early 20th century, walruses were widely hunted and killed for their blubber, walrus ivory, and meat. The archaic English word for walrus— morse —is widely thought to have come from the Slavic languages, which in turn borrowed it from Finno-Ugric languages. Compare морж (morž) in Russian, mursu in Finnish, morša in Northern Saami, and morse in French.
Due to its great size and tusks, the walrus has only two natural predators: the killer whale (orca) and the polar bear. The walrus does not, however, comprise a significant component of either predator's diets. Both the orca and the polar bear are also most likely to prey on walrus calves. The archaic English word for walrus— morse —is widely thought to have come from the Slavic languages, which in turn borrowed it from Finno-Ugric languages. Compare морж (morž) in Russian, mursu in Finnish, morša in Northern Saami, and morse in French.
Walrus Anatomy and Appearance Walruses have large and elongated bodies that are wider at the head and neck and taper towards their tail which is embedded in a web of skin. Their tough and wrinkled skin is covered by a layer of sparse, coarse hairs and is generally grey or brown in colour.
There are three subspecies of walrus. Atlantic walruses live in the coastal areas along northeastern Canada to Greenland. Pacific walruses live in the northern seas near Russia and Alaska. Laptev walruses live in the Laptev Sea of Russia. Conservation status. In the 1950s, the population of walruses was almost eliminated due to commercial hunting, but the population was brought back to a thriving number in the 1980s. The IUCN does not have a category or criteria on the conservation status of the walrus.