He is best known for his debut role as Austin Moon on the Disney Channel original series Austin & Ally. Ross Lynch was born and raised in Littleton, Colorado, the second youngest of five siblings (Riker, sister Rydel, Rocky and youngest Ryland). 
Actress. Rydel Mary Lynch is the only girl in a family of five children. Rydel is a unique blend of beauty, sass and tomboy. Her innocence and sweet heart are her trademarks, but she is also an amazing dancer and actor. 
Personal life. Lynch is the oldest child of Mark and Stormie Lynch. He has three brothers, Rocky, Ross, and Ryland, and one sister, Rydel. Lynch is cousins of Derek and Julianne Hough. Lynch and Curt Mega (Nick) paid tribute to their late co-star Cory by singing The Scientist to their Glee fans in July 2013. 
Early life. Rydel Mary Lynch, born August 9, 1993 in Littleton, Colorado, the daughter of Stormie and Mark Lynch. She is the second oldest and only girl of the five siblings. She learned to play the keyboard, double shaker and the tambourine, as well as learning how to dance. 
Rocky Mark Lynch is 20 years old (born November 1, 1994). He is a guitarist in the band R5 with his brothers Ross, Riker, and Rydel. 
the cutest little boy during VIP sound check asked Rydel for a kiss ! it was the cutest thing in the world. May 14th @ Rio Theatre-Vancouver. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Pairings. Rydel Mary Lynch (born August 9, 1993) is 22 years old. She is an American singer, part of the band R5 with her brothers Riker Lynch, Rocky Lynch and Ross Lynch, along with their best friend/boyfriend, Ellington Ratliff. She is also the girlfriend to Ellington Ratliff. 
132 pages on this wiki. Rydel Mary Lynch (Born August 9, 1993) is an American singer, part of the band R5 along with her brothers Riker Lynch, Rocky Lynch, Ross Lynch, and best friend Ellington Ratliff and she has a brother named ryland lynch. Early Life Edit. Rydel Mary Lynch, born August 9, 1993 in Littleton, Colorado, to parents Stormie and Mark Lynch. She is the second oldest of the five siblings. She learned to play the keyboard and the tambourine, as well as learning how to dance.
Rydel Lynch. 132 pages on this wiki. Rydel Mary Lynch (Born August 9, 1993) is an American singer, part of the band R5 along with her brothers Riker Lynch, Rocky Lynch, Ross Lynch, and best friend Ellington Ratliff and she has a brother named ryland lynch. Rydel is described as a unique blend of beauty, sass and tomboy. Early Life Edit. Rydel Mary Lynch, born August 9, 1993 in Littleton, Colorado, to parents Stormie and Mark Lynch. She is the second oldest of the five siblings. She learned to play the keyboard and the tambourine, as well as learning how to dance.