Shop for Circlip Pliers. A circlip is a type of retaining ring or fastener that takes the form of a flexible, open-ended ring, made from metal. Different types of circlip. Although there are many variations of circlip, as they have so many different applications, there are a few basic designs you will come across. Most of these retaining rings have a design of circlip pliers which can be used with them. However, some may need a different tool.
Dimension Table. External Circlips The most common form of axially fitted circlips for bores with grooves. The circlip has a large free diameter and gap width, consequently it fits more tightly into the groove and provides higher and more uniform thrust load capacity. 
Circlips are designed to be removed with special circlip pliers (snap ring tool US) which can be reassembled for internal or external clips, but in field expedient situations, a pair of needle-nose pliers (for internal clips) or leverage with a flat-headed screwdriver (internal or external) are sometimes used. When used to retain piston wrist pins (US) / gudgeon pins (UK), the clips are known as wrist pin clips or wrist pin retainers (US) or gudgeon pin clips (UK). The most commonly used circlip for this application is a simple spring steel circlip (snap ring US), or plain wire ring
Tapered section ensures even pressure when fitted. Nominal Size-The nominal size refers to the bore through which the circlip is designed to pass.e.g. D1300-0250 is for a 25mm Bore. Product D1300 DescriptionBasic Internal The most common form of internalwhich is suitable for most normalengineering applications. Simplyacts as a rigid shoulder within abore. For details, please contact your nearest BSC Branch. External Circlips - 1400 Type and Variants Requiring Groove Type: External axially applied, i.e. are expanded (with the aid of circlip pliers) to pass over a shaftand then released to spring back into the groove. Tapered section ensures even pressure whenfitted.
Standard Internal Circlips: N1300 American Specification. The most common form of axially fitted circlips for bores with grooves. The circlip has a large free diameter and gap width, consequently it fits more tightly into the groove and provides higher and more uniform thrust load capacity. Lugs with holes are provided for rapid fitting or removal with circlip pliers. Standard material: Carbon Spring Steel-Standard Finish: Phosphate and Oil. 
Standard External Circlips N1400 American. The most common form of axially fitted circlips for shafts with grooves. Constructed as curved beams of uniform strength, the radial width is reduced towards the free ends so that a constantly round shape is maintained throughout continuous use. This form of circlip often used in assemblies subjected to strong centrifugal forces, is also secure against high rotational speeds. Lugs with holes are provided for rapid fitting or removal with circlip plier
Dimension Table. Internal Circlips has a large free diameter and gap width, consequently it fits more tightly into the groove and provides higher and more uniform thrust load capacity. Lugs with holes are provided for rapid fitting or removal with circlip pliers. 
The most common type of circlip is called the 'tapered-section circlip'. The thickness of the section tapers off towards its ends, so the centre is the thickest part of the circlip. This means that the diameter of the circlip remains in a circle when compressed, or enlarged, to fit into or onto a shaft. Different types of circlip. Although there are many variations of circlip, as they have so many different applications, there are a few basic designs you will come across. Most of these retaining rings have a design of circlip pliers which can be used with them. However, some may need a different tool.
A metal ring sprung into a slot or groove in a bar to hold something in place. Example sentences. 1  Phosphate and oil is the standard finish on most circlips, the remainder being self finish and oil. 2  External circlips are sized relative to the recommended shaft size to which they are to be fitted. 3  A range of circlips, springs and retaining rings in all sizes are available from stock.