The symbol used by mathematicians to represent the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter is the lowercase Greek letter π, sometimes spelled out as pi. In English, π is pronounced as pie (/paɪ/ , paɪ). Still, fractions such as 22/7 and other rational numbers are commonly used to approximate π. The digits appear to be randomly distributed; however, to date, no proof of this has been discovered. Also, π is a transcendental number – a number that is not the root of any non-zero polynomial having rational coefficients.
Some people use a different value, τ = 6.283185... = 2 π, arguing that τ, as the number of radians in one turn or as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its radius rather than its diameter, is more natural than π and simplifies many formulas. Still, fractions such as 22/7 and other rational numbers are commonly used to approximate π. The digits appear to be randomly distributed; however, to date, no proof of this has been discovered. Also, π is a transcendental number – a number that is not the root of any non-zero polynomial having rational coefficients.
A Brief History of π. Pi has been known for almost 4000 years—but even if we calculated the number of seconds in those 4000 years and calculated pi to that number of places, we would still only be approximating its actual value. Here’s a brief history of finding pi: The ancient Babylonians calculated the area of a circle by taking 3 times the square of its radius, which gave a value of pi = 3. One Babylonian tablet (ca. 1900–1680 BC) indicates a value of 3.125 for pi, which is a closer approximation.
The number π is a mathematical constant, the ratio of a circle 's circumference to its diameter, commonly approximated as 3.14159. It has been represented by the Greek letter  π  since the mid-18th century, though it is also sometimes spelled out as  pi  (/paɪ/). Still, fractions such as 22/7 and other rational numbers are commonly used to approximate π. The digits appear to be randomly distributed; however, to date, no proof of this has been discovered. Also, π is a transcendental number – a number that is not the root of any non-zero polynomial having rational coefficients.
Pi or is a mathematical constant, one of the first ever discovered. It is the ratio of the distance around a circle to the circle's diameter. This produces a number, and that number is always the same. However, the number is rather strange. The distance around a circle is known as the circumference. Even though the diameter and circumference are different for different circles, the number pi remains constant: its value never changes. This is because the relationship between the circumference and diamet
William Jones, mathematician from Wales, 1740. The history of the constant ratio of the circumference to the diameter of any circle is as old as man's desire to measure; whereas the symbol for this ratio known today as π (pi) dates from the early 18th century. 
Here's pi to many more digits: 3.14159265358979323846. The area of a circle is pi times the square of the length of the radius, or pi r squared: The modern symbol for pi [ ] was first used in our modern sense in 1706 by William Jones, who wrote: Pi (rather than some other Greek letter like Alpha or Omega) was chosen as the letter to represent the number 3.141592... If you write pi down in decimal form, the numbers to the right of the 0 never repeat in a pattern. Some infinite decimals do have patterns-for instance, the infinite decimal .3333333... has all 3's to the right of the decimal point, and in the number .123456789123456789123456789... the sequence 123456789 is repeated.
Pi began being symbolized by the pi symbol (π) in the 1706 by the British mathematician William Jones. Jones used 3.14159 as the calculation for pi. Pi r squared. In basic mathematics, pi is used to find area and circumference of a circle. Pi is used to find area by multiplying the radius squared times pi, or. So in trying to find the area of a circle with a radius of 3 centimeters, π3 2 = 28.27 cm. By definition, pi is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. In other words, pi equals the circumference divided by the diameter (π = c/d). Conversely, the circumference is equal to pi times the diameter (c = πd).
Pi (π), the 16th letter of the Greek alphabet, is used to represent the most widely known mathematical constant. By definition, pi is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. In other words, pi equals the circumference divided by the diameter (π = c/d). Conversely, the circumference is equal to pi times the diameter (c = πd).
has a long and interesting history! (Ancient history -- More pi history -- A novel way to compute pi- - The symbol for pi -- Having fun with pi -- For more information). That the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle is constant (namely, pi) has been recognized for as long as we have written records. Ancient Egyptians calculated the area of a circle by the following formula (where d is the diameter of the circle): This yields an approximate value of 3.1605 for pi. Beginning with a hexagon, he worked all the way up to a ploygon with 96 sides! Archimedes's method for approximating the value of pi.