Menorca is the most north easterly Balearic Island and with Ibiza and Formentera on the western side of Mallorca, completes the group known locally as the Baleares. Menorca has been called one of the most beautiful islands in the Mediterranean Sea, which is no small claim, considering there are over 100 Mediterranean Islands from which to choose. The Balearic Island Archipelago. Menorca is one of the four islands in the Spanish Balearic archipelago located in the western part of the Mediterranean Sea. It is the second largest island of the four, drawing its name from its smaller size in comparison to neighbouring Mallorca (Majorca)
The Spanish Island of Menorca is located in the Mediterranean Sea. It is one of the lesser-known Balearic Islands and a little off the tourism track which made it interesting from our point of view. 
Useful Menorca map, showing the location of the island in the Balearic Islands. Menorca Map: Zoomable road map of Menorca (Minorca), in the Spanish Balearic Islands located in the Mediterranean Sea. Menorca has a good selection of hotels and holiday rental accommodation, and there are numerous wonderful beaches. Using the buttons on the top left you can 'zoom' and 'pan' to get a detailed road map of Menorca (Minorca) and plan your visit to the island.
Detailed Road Map of Menorca Spain. Menorca Map: Zoomable road map of Menorca (Minorca), in the Spanish Balearic Islands located in the Mediterranean Sea. Menorca has a good selection of hotels and holiday rental accommodation, and there are numerous wonderful beaches. Using the buttons on the top left you can 'zoom' and 'pan' to get a detailed road map of Menorca (Minorca) and plan your visit to the island.
1 Menorca's local fiestas. 2  Starting from Sant Joan on the 23rd and 24th of June in Ciutadella (the most ancient and crowded ones) to the Festes de Gracia gràcia on the 7th and 8th Of, september almost every weekend in summer there is a local fiesta in a different village of the.  island 1 Mahon mahón, cheese known As queso De-Mahon. 2  Mahón menorca minorca is known for its cheese production and is home to one of the most respected dairy Plants. 3  In, europe mayonnaise according to some sources its origin was in the Town.  of mahon mahón
The birdlife of Minorca is very well known. Menorca is a well watched island which is on the migration route of many species and good number of passage migrants can be seen in spring. Residents include Audouin's gull, blue rock thrush and Thekla lark. booted eagle and red kite are easy to see as is Egyptian vulture in the right habitat. When the Jewish community in Mahon requested the use of a room as a synagogue, their request was refused and they were denounced by the clergy. In 1781, when Louis des Balbes de Berton de Crillon, duc de Mahon invaded Minorca, he ordered all Jews to leave in four days.
If you really want to escape, though, Menorca is the place. With a somnolent interior, some outstandingly beautiful, undeveloped beaches and a couple of tiny port towns, it’s one of the Mediterranean’s most manageable island destinations, and a real treat for divers. 
Also famous is Mahon mahón, cheese a cheese typical of the. Island it is thought that mayonnaise was brought back To france From, Mahon, minorca After-Louis-Francois françois Armand du Plessis'de richelieu s victory Over the british at'the city s port. in 1756 When the Jewish community in Mahon requested the use of a room as a synagogue, their request was refused and they were denounced by the clergy. In 1781, when Louis des Balbes de Berton de Crillon, duc de Mahon invaded Minorca, he ordered all Jews to leave in four days.
Es Castell is a charming seaside town on Menorca’s southeast coast. It’s a relaxed, peaceful place that revolves around its 2 harbours – Calas Fons and Calas Corb. Santo Tomas is a small, laid-back town on Menorca’s south coast. It’s a compact place with just one main street really, which is handy for getting around the modest selection of bars and restaurants. Size-wise, the beach is another matter – you’ve got a very long strip of sand here.