Black-eyed peas contain carbohydrates that your body in unable to break down. Fiber is a polysaccharide – a molecule made from linked sugars – that helps carry waste and excess cholesterol and blood sugar out of your body. Black eyed peas contain complex carbs and fiber. Black-eyed peas, as well as other beans and legumes, are rich in both protein and complex carbohydrates.
Peas and corn are full of fiber, another complex carbohydrate. Although fiber is a carb, it doesn't convert into glucose, nor does it add calories to your diet. Most vegetables are particularly rich in insoluble fiber, the type of fiber that speeds up digestion, relieves constipation and keeps you regular. Peas and corn are high in starch, which is a complex carbohydrate. Starch undergoes several steps before it converts into glucose -- your body's main source of energy.
1 Even though green peas are an extremely low-fat food (with approximately one-third gram of total fat per cup) the type of fat and fat-soluble nutrients they contain is impressive. 2  Recent research has shown that green peas are a reliable source of omega-3 fats in the form of alpha-linolenic acid (ALA). In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Green peas is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
Complex Carbs. Peas and corn are high in starch, which is a complex carbohydrate. Starch undergoes several steps before it converts into glucose -- your body's main source of energy. While you chew, saliva surrounds starches and breaks them down into a type of simple carbohydrate called maltose. Peas and corn are high in starch, which is a complex carbohydrate. Starch undergoes several steps before it converts into glucose -- your body's main source of energy
Peas and corn are full of good carbohydrates. Not only are they rich in starch to stabilize your blood sugar levels, they also pack lots of fiber into your diet. Peas and corn are high in starch, which is a complex carbohydrate. Starch undergoes several steps before it converts into glucose -- your body's main source of energy.
Black-eyed peas contain a moderate amount of carbohydrates, and have a low glycemic index. You may eat black-eyed peas as part of a reduced-carbohydrate diet or a diet for diabetes. Black eyed peas contain complex carbs and fiber. Black-eyed peas, as well as other beans and legumes, are rich in both protein and complex carbohydrates.
Black-eyed peas contain mostly complex carbohydrates that supply your body with the carbs it needs for energy without spiking your blood sugar. High levels of blood sugar promote changes in hormones that encourage the storage of nutrients as fat. If blood sugar levels are consistently high, you may experience fat gain. Black eyed peas contain complex carbs and fiber. Black-eyed peas, as well as other beans and legumes, are rich in both protein and complex carbohydrates.
1 We don't usually think about green peas as an exotic food in terms of nutrient composition—but we should. 2  Because of their sweet taste and starchy texture, we know that green peas must contain some sugar and starch (and they do). 3  But they also contain a unique assortment of health-protective phytonutrients. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Green peas is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.