The election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860 triggered the war between the union and the confederacy. Lincoln wanted to end slavery and keep the Union together. report this answer. Updated on Thursday, February 02 2012 at 04:17AM EST. Source: www.radford.edu/... 
The famous Englishman Winston Churchill stated that the war between the North and South was one of the most unpreventable wars in history. The Cause that the Confederate States of America fought for (1861-1865) was Southern Independence from the United States of America. Many parallels exist between the War for American Independence (1775-1783) and the War for Southern Independence. 
They included Kentucky, Delaware, Maryland, Missouri and West Virginia. (West Virginia succeeded from Virginia after Virginia succeeded from the Union in order to avoid fighting for the Confederacy.) They were all near the border of the Confederacy. The Union had the majority of the factories, and sold their products to countries like Grea … t Britain, France and Spain. The Confederacy had the majority of the farm land and sold cotton and other cash crops to Great Britain.
His raid started the tension between the North (Union) and the South (Confederacy). Later, many white Southerners blamed the North for Brown's acts. That is the first event that triggered the Civil War. The Union had the majority of the factories, and sold their products to countries like Grea … t Britain, France and Spain. The Confederacy had the majority of the farm land and sold cotton and other cash crops to Great Britain.
American Civil War-Wikipedia. The American Civil War was fought in the United States from 1861 until 1865 between the ... The Union was led by President Abraham Lincoln and the Confederacy by ... During the Civil War, the nation was not as clearly divided as one might think. While the Mason-Dixon line separated northern states from southern ... Anybody who looks at the first two years of the war and what (President Abraham) ... one that exists between the Sons of the Union Veterans and the Sons of the ... The event that triggered war came at Fort Sumter in Charleston Bay on April 12, 1861.
The watershed event of United States history was the American Civil War (1861–1865) ... between 24 mostly northern states of the Union and the Confederate States of America, ... Outright war between the U.S. and Britain was a possibility in the ... War was unlikely in any event, for the U.S. was providing Britain with over 40% of its ... American Civil War (click to enlarge) Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee surrendering to Union Gen. Ulysses S ... While the Mason-Dixon line separated northern states from southern ... Anybody who looks at the first two years of the war and what (President Abraham) ... one that exists between the Sons of the Union Veterans and the Sons of the ... The event that triggered war came at Fort Sumter in Charleston Bay on April 12, 1861.
The South (Confederacy) were shocked by his violent acts. His raid started the tension between the North (Union) and the South (Confederacy). Later, many white Southerners blamed the North for Brown's acts. That is the first event that triggered the Civil War. Initially the war was fought to preserve the union of the states and to unite all the states under the Fede … ral government. By 1863, the Government's goals were expanded to include the elimination of slavery of and the freeing of any slaves in the Confederate states.
They included Kentucky, Delaware, Maryland, Missouri and West Virginia. (West Virginia succeeded from Virginia after Virginia succeeded from the Union in order to avoid fighting for the Confederacy.) They were all near the border of the Confederacy. Initially the war was fought to preserve the union of the states and to unite all the states under the Fede … ral government. By 1863, the Government's goals were expanded to include the elimination of slavery of and the freeing of any slaves in the Confederate states.
The American Civil War, widely known in the United States as simply the Civil War as well as other sectional names, was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 to determine the survival of the Union or independence for the Confederacy. The 1863 Union siege of Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River. In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg. Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant 's command of all Union armies in 1864.