Visually expressed as complementary black and white images within a circle, Yin and Yang represent ancient Chinese ideas that encompass the meaning of all reality. A black dot embedded in the white image and a white dot in the black image add to the cosmological meaning of Yin and Yang. 
Yin and yang can be thought of as complementary (rather than opposing) forces that interact to form a dynamic system in which the whole is greater than the assembled parts. Everything has both yin and yang aspects, (for instance shadow cannot exist without light). The yin yang (i.e. taijitu symbol) shows a balance between two opposites with a portion of the opposite element in each section. In Daoist metaphysics, distinctions between good and bad, along with other dichotomous moral judgments, are perceptual, not real; so, the duality of yin and yang is an indivisible whole
Tao: Ying Yang Definition. Taoism defines yin yang as two polar energies that fluctuate and interact in constant motion. If you observe the yin yang symbol of two curved teardrops with the black, right side descending while the white, right side is ascending. 
Yin and yang. In Chinese philosophy, yin and yang (also, yin-yang or yin yang) describes how apparently opposite or contrary forces are actually complementary, interconnected, and interdependent in the natural world, and how they give rise to each other as they interrelate to one another. The yin yang (i.e. taijitu symbol) shows a balance between two opposites with a portion of the opposite element in each section. In Daoist metaphysics, distinctions between good and bad, along with other dichotomous moral judgments, are perceptual, not real; so, the duality of yin and yang is an indivisible whole
The Yin Yang Symbol. The symbol of the yin yang, also known as the Tai Chi or Taiqi symbol, consists of a circle equally divided into black and white sections by a reverse S-like shape. Within the black section is a small circle of white. Within the white section is a small circle of black. The meaning of the yin yang symbol encompasses harmony and balance within the universe. They exist in everything around us and are the basis of life as nothing can exist by itself. This concept is beautifully illustrated in examples of yin yang art created in many different types of art forms.
Top Definition. ying-yang. 1) the erroneous spelling of yin yang or yin-yang, which is an ancient concept and symbol referring to complementary opposites, such as light/dark, day/night, masculine/feminine, sun/moon. Yin is seen as dark, passive and feminine. Yang is seen as light, active, and masculine
The yin yang meaning and symbol date back to ancient China and represent the belief that everything in the universe consists of two forces that are opposing but complementary. The meaning of the yin yang symbol encompasses harmony and balance within the universe. They exist in everything around us and are the basis of life as nothing can exist by itself. This concept is beautifully illustrated in examples of yin yang art created in many different types of art forms.
There is still more meaning to the yin yang, and this is referenced in the two small spots that you see in the black and white portions. Notice that each spot is in the opposite color as compared to the background color. So you have a white spot in the black portion and a black spot in the white portion. The yin yang is one of the most meaningful symbols in history. The interpretation of the ying yang make it relevant to all of us, no matter what age or religion we belong too. The black and white contrasting colors are placed next to each other.
The black and white halves of the Yin-Yang symbol are similar to the two sides of a coin. They are different, and distinct, yet one could not exist without the other. The circle itself-which contains these two halves-is like the metal (silver, gold or copper) of the coin. The most well-known of Taoist visual symbols is the Yin-Yang symbol, also known as the Taiji symbol. The image consists of a circle divided into two teardrop-shaped halves-one white and the other black.