Ethyl alcohol, also commonly referred to as ethanol, is a colorless liquid that has many uses. Aside from being the most common type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages and certain recreational drugs, it is often used in medicine as an antidote to combat the effects of other types of drugs or alcohol. In more modern times, ethyl alcohol can be used for its antiseptic properties, and it's often found in antibacterial wipes and hand sanitizers. It is effective at killing most bacteria, fungi, and many viruses on the hands and skin, and it is a useful alternative to hand soaps.
You can also purchase bottles of 70 percent alcohol as rubbing alcohol, in which case you would use the product for that purpose, and again, not for disinfection or antiseptic. I suppose you could use it for cleaning. But the rule is, follow the label directions. EPA-approved products for surface disinfection. As a by the way, ethyl (grain) alcohol is safer for use on the skin, because it works at a lower concentration (65-80 percent) than isopropyl (70 to 95 percent). You'll notice on the label of some isopropyl alcohol products that they will tell you not to use it for an extended period of time.
In addition to being used as an antiseptic to clean wounds, alcohol is a common ingredient used in household disinfecting products. Alcohol is often used as a topical antiseptic for scrapes, cuts and burns. Hospital staff are encouraged to wash their hands with antiseptic preparations. As a by the way, ethyl (grain) alcohol is safer for use on the skin, because it works at a lower concentration (65-80 percent) than isopropyl (70 to 95 percent). You'll notice on the label of some isopropyl alcohol products that they will tell you not to use it for an extended period of time.
1 Iodine is usually used in an alcohol solution (called tincture of iodine) or as Lugol's iodine solution as a pre-and postoperative antiseptic. 2  Some people do not recommend disinfecting minor wounds with iodine because of concern that it may induce scar tissue formation and increase healing time. 1 Sodium chloride (salt) is used as a general cleanser and as an antiseptic mouthwash. 2  Its weak antiseptic effect is due to hyperosmolality of the solution above 0.9%. 3  Sodium hypochlorite was used in the past, diluted, neutralized, and combined with boric acid in Dakin's solution.
An antiseptic is an anti-microbacterial solution or material used to kill bacteria. It's used to sterilize things. Alcohol wipes are a form of an antiseptic, commonly used to … clean sites for shots at hospitals. 8 people found this useful. Hydrogen Peroxide, at a strength of 3 - 6% is one antiseptic, as is a solution of Iodine. Chlorine is commonly used to disinfect swimming pool water, and sometimes bromine i … s used as a substitute.
Ethanol is a volatile, flammable, colorless liquid with a slight chemical odor. It is used as an antiseptic, a solvent, a fuel, and, due to its low freezing point, the active fluid in post-mercury thermometers. Its structural formula, CH 3CH 2OH, is often abbreviated as C 2H 5OH, C 2H 6O or EtOH. 
Scientific texts indicate that this occurs because ethyl alcohol causes proteins to coagulate. Essentially, the structure of alcohol allows it to get inside these small organisms and stop them from growing. Other forms of alcohol, such as methyl alcohol, are not meant to be used for general antiseptic purposes. This is a much stronger solvent that is designed for industrial use. One of the more interesting facts uncovered about alcohol is that the strongest solutions do not have the best antiseptic properties. In fact, applying 100 percent alcohol for antiseptic purposes may cause bacteria and other tiny organisms to build a protective shell of protein. This prevents the alcohol from getting into the interior of the organism.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Alcohol is an ideal antiseptic because it achieves its goal subtly through coagulation, rather than through some active means like active poisoning or dissolving. Throwing acid on an open wound would only be successful at removing the contaminating microorganisms at the expense of a decent chunk of flesh. Hydrogen Peroxide, at a strength of 3 - 6% is one antiseptic, as is a solution of Iodine. Chlorine is commonly used to disinfect swimming pool water, and sometimes bromine i … s used as a substitute.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Isopropyl alcohol is not an antiseptic agent and it is a general purpose cleaner. Isopropyl alcohol (also isopropanol or rubbing alcohol) is a common name for propan-2-ol, a colorless, flammable chemical compound with a strong odor. 