Brain ischemia (aka cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular ischemia) is a condition in which there is insufficient blood flow to the brain to meet metabolic demand. This leads to poor oxygen supply or cerebral hypoxia and thus to the death of brain tissue or cerebral infarction / ischemic stroke. 
Ischemia means a reduced blood supply to an organ or body part. Antero-refers to the anterior, or front side of something. -lateral means to the side or the outside of some … thing. The heart muscle is called Myocardial tissue. Myo-is muscle cardio-refers to heart. So, if this is describing reduction in blood supply to the outside front part of the heart muscle... that would be called Anterolateral Myocardial Ischemia.
Causes of myocardial ischemia. Myocardial ischemia occurs when blood flow to your heart is reduced, preventing it from receiving enough oxygen. The reduced blood flow is usually the result of a partial or complete blockage of your heart's arteries (coronary arteries). A sudden, severe blockage of a coronary artery can lead to a heart attack. Myocardial ischemia might also cause serious abnormal heart rhythms. Treatment for myocardial ischemia involves improving blood flow to the heart muscle.
Myocardial Ischemia   It is the loss or reduced blood supply to a part of the muscular tissue of the heart.   Myo means muscle, cardial means heart, and ischemia m … eans  death. Therefore, picking the word apart, it would mean that part of the heart muscle dies from that lack of blood. The heart muscle is called Myocardial tissue. Myo-is muscle cardio-refers to heart. So, if this is describing reduction in blood supply to the outside front part of the heart muscle... that would be called Anterolateral Myocardial Ischemia.
Ischemia is the medical term for what happens when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen. Ischemia usually happens because of a shortage of blood and oxygen to the heart muscle. It is usually caused by a narrowing or blockage of one or more of the coronary arteries (which supply blood to the heart muscle). In many cases ischemia is a temporary problem.
Ischemia can also occur in the arteries of the brain, where blockages can lead to a stroke. About 80-85% of all strokes are ischemic. Most blockages in the cerebral arteries are due to a blood clot, often in an artery narrowed by plaque. Sometimes, a blood clot in the heart or aorta travels to a cerebral artery. 
Myocardial ischemia, also called cardiac ischemia, can damage your heart muscle, reducing its ability to pump efficiently. A sudden, severe blockage of a coronary artery can lead to a heart attack. Myocardial ischemia might also cause serious abnormal heart rhythms. Treatment for myocardial ischemia involves improving blood flow to the heart muscle.
Ischemia is any reduction in blood flow resulting in decreased oxygen and nutrient supplies to a tissue. Ischemia may be reversible, in which case the affected tissue will recover if blood flow is restored, or it may be irreversible, resulting in tissue death. Ischemia can also be acute, due to a sudden reduction in blood flow, or chronic, due to slowly decreasing blood flow. Ischemia can occur anywhere in the body. Heart attacks and strokes can both result from ischemia
Get help from a doctor now ›. Blood flow: Reversible ischemia means that an area of your heart muscle is not getting adequate blood flow (at times) but then the blood flow catches up (i.e. Reversible). The lad is the left anterior descending coronary artery-it's an important blood vessel. Reduced blood supply: Ischemia means reduced blood supply to a part or muscle. The lad refers to one wall of the heart. This means you should follow up with your doctor or a cardiologist. You are at risk for heart disease, but it doesn't tell you how great is the risk.
Myocardial Ischemia   It is the loss or reduced blood supply to a part of the muscular tissue of the heart.   Myo means muscle, cardial means heart, and ischemia m … eans  death. Therefore, picking the word apart, it would mean that part of the heart muscle dies from that lack of blood. Ischemia means a reduced blood supply to an organ or body part. Antero-refers to the anterior, or front side of something. -lateral means to the side or the outside of some … thing.