Garlic is an herb. It is best known as a flavoring for food. But over the years, garlic has been used as a medicine to prevent or treat a wide range of diseases and conditions. The fresh clove or supplements made from the clove are used for medicine. Garlic is used for many conditions related to the heart and blood system. These conditions include high blood pressure, high cholesterol, coronary heart disease, heart attack, and “hardening of the arteries” (atherosclerosis). Garlic produces a chemical called allicin. This is what seems to make garlic work for certain conditions. Allicin also makes garlic smell. Some products are made “odorless” by aging the garlic, but this process can also make the garlic less effective.
Bottom line: There is no clear evidence that garlic supplements are beneficial. Even if they do lower blood cholesterol or blood pressure or thin the blood, which is uncertain, the effect is small, so the supplements can’t replace medication. In any case, no one knows what form or dose would be best. 
Introduction. This fact sheet provides basic information about garlic—common names, what the science says, potential side effects and cautions, and resources for more information. Garlic is the edible bulb from a plant in the lily family. It has been used as both a medicine and a spice for thousands of years. Garlic’s most common folk or traditional uses as a. are for high cholesterol, heart disease, and high blood pressure. Its resources include publications (such as Dietary Supplements: What You Need to Know), fact sheets on a variety of specific supplement ingredients and products (such as vitamin D and multivitamin/mineral supplements), and the PubMed Dietary Supplement Subset.
Garlic has been used as both food and medicine for thousands of years, dating back to when the Egyptian pyramids were built. In early 18th century France, gravediggers drank crushed garlic in wine believing it would protect them from the plague. Garlic supplements do not seem to have the same effect. 1  A large-scale study, called the Iowa Women's Health Study, looked at how much garlic, fruit, and vegetables were in the diets of 41,000 middle-aged women.
Garlic supplements should be standardized for allicin content. In Europe, garlic supplements must have at least 0.45% of this important compound. The recommended dose for people who want to use garlic to protect the heart or improve cardiovascular health is 3 to 5 mg of allicin per day. In addition to its ability to fight infection, garlic may help to lower blood sugar levels in people with diabetes, and it is also a powerful antioxidant. Antioxidants counter the effects of free radicals, oxygen molecules with unpaired electrons that can cause damage throughout the body if they are not stabilized.
1 Garlic is an herb with modest benefits for lowering blood pressure and cholesterol. 2  Garlic appears to slow the progression of atherosclerosis of the aorta (hardening of the arteries). 3  Garlic is a source of polyphenols, which may reduce cancer risk and inflammation in the body. PRO. 1  Garlic is an herb with modest benefits for lowering blood pressure and cholesterol. 2  Garlic appears to slow the progression of atherosclerosis of the aorta (hardening of the arteries). 3  Garlic is a source of polyphenols, which may reduce cancer risk and inflammation in the body.
Available Forms. Garlic supplements are made from whole fresh garlic, dried, or freeze-dried garlic, garlic oil, and aged garlic extracts. Not all garlic contains the same amount of active ingredients. It is important to read the label carefully. Garlic supplements do not seem to have the same effect. 1  A large-scale study, called the Iowa Women's Health Study, looked at how much garlic, fruit, and vegetables were in the diets of 41,000 middle-aged women.
Garlic is also known as rocambole, ajo, allium, stinking rose, rustic treacle, nectar of the gods, camphor of the poor, poor man's treacle, and clove garlic. Garlic is a commonly used flavoring agent and food product. Garlic is also available as an herbal supplement. The information contained in this leaflet refers to the use of garlic as an herbal supplement. When used as a food product, the benefits and potential side effects of garlic may be less pronounced than when it is used as an herbal supplement. 