Epidermoid cysts, also called sebaceous cysts, are benign (non-cancerous) skin cysts formed by an outpouching from the hair follicle. Most commonly, epidermoid cysts are found on the genitals, chest, and back; but, they also can occur in other areas of the skin. In general, epidermoid cysts have a round appearance. Many people often call any small, painless lump under the skin sebaceous cysts.. But those are most often epidermoid cysts. Skin is your body's biggest organ. And just like any other organ, skin can have problems, from cradle cap in newborns to age spots in elders.
The scalp, ears, back, face, and upper arm, are common sites for sebaceous cysts, though they may occur anywhere on the body except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. In males a common place for them to develop is the scrotum and chest. Therefore technically speaking they are not sebaceous cysts. True sebaceous cysts (i.e. cysts which originate from sebaceous glands and which contain sebum) are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Causes of a Sebaceous Cyst. Sebaceous cysts form out of your sebaceous gland—which produces the oil called sebum that coats your hair and skin. Cysts can develop if the gland or its duct, the passage where oil is able to leave, become damaged or blocked. This usually occurs due to a trauma to the area. Large cysts on the face and neck may cause pressure and pain. Areas on the body where cysts are usually found include: 1  skin on the scalp. 2  face (most common site for cyst removal). 3  neck. 4  back.
However, the above types of cyst contain keratin, not sebum, and neither originates from sebaceous glands (epidermoid cysts originate in the epidermis and pilar cysts originate from hair follicles). Therefore technically speaking they are not sebaceous cysts. True sebaceous cysts (i.e. cysts which originate from sebaceous glands and which contain sebum) are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex.
A sebaceous cyst /sɪˈbeɪʃəs sɪst/ is a general term that is used to refer to either: 1  Epidermoid cysts (also termed epidermal cysts, infundibular cyst), or. Therefore technically speaking they are not sebaceous cysts. True sebaceous cysts (i.e. cysts which originate from sebaceous glands and which contain sebum) are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex.
A sebaceous cyst is a type of cyst that forms in the epidermis, the outermost layer of the skin. A sebaceous cyst is also sometimes called an epidermal cyst. It forms when a sebaceous gland, an oil-producing gland in the skin, becomes blocked. This creates a sac that fills with a fatty yellow substance that can resemble cottage cheese. Sebaceous cysts can be present at birth or caused by skin trauma, swollen hair follicles, and high levels of testosterone. The primary symptom of a sebaceous cyst is a painless nodule or pale lump in the skin.
Here is a sebaceous cyst removed completely without damage. Now let's see what it contents. I am pressing the cyst with my fingers after making a hole in its wall. One can watch thick paste like substance coming out from the cyst. It is the content of sebaceous cyst. This paste like material is mixture of Sebum and dead keratinocytes. Sebum is an oily waxy substance secreted from sebaceous gland. Sebum made up of triglyceride oils, wax, squalene, metabolites of fat producing cells. Sebum is secreted from specialized cells inside sebaceous gland. When excess sebum secreted from sebaceous gland, called seborrhoea. Sebum is odourless, but when infected the bacterial breakdown contents make it foul smell. Earwax is also partly made of sebum. 
A. Many people often call any small, painless lump under the skin  sebaceous cysts .. But those are most often epidermoid cysts.. Sebaceous cysts are much less common and affect the sebaceous glands, the oil glands in the skin. Epidermoid cysts can be made up of a protein called keratin and fat. They usually appear on the face, neck, or upper body, especially the chest and shoulders