The lobe that controls sight is the occipital lobe.   The lobe that contorls hearing is the temporal lobe, the lobe that deals with pain, pressure, temperature, touch … , and part of taste is the parietal lobe.   The lobe that controls consciousness and primary body movements is the frontal lobe.   The temporal lobe is said to control smell.
The parietal lobe gives you a sense of 'me'. It figures out the messages you receive from the five senses of sight, touch, smell, hearing and taste. This part of the brain tells you what is part of the body and what is part of the outside world. Thalamus. There are lots of interesting things that go on in the very middle of the brain, which is made of smaller parts known as the limbic system. The hypothalamus and pituitary gland control things like your body temperature, how fast you grow and tells you when you are thirsty.
Brain stem. The brain stem controls your lungs and heart and blood pressure. It sits at the top of the spine and receives messages from the rest of the body. In some ways this is the most important part of the brain because it keeps you alive. Thalamus. There are lots of interesting things that go on in the very middle of the brain, which is made of smaller parts known as the limbic system. The hypothalamus and pituitary gland control things like your body temperature, how fast you grow and tells you when you are thirsty.
The smell part of the brain is in the limbic region, and is connected to feeling and memory. Soma-Another name for the neuron's main cellular space, containing the cytoplasm that surrounds the nucleus and extends into the dendrites and axons. Spinal Cord-Nerve fibers that carry instructions to the rest of your body. Intuition-What you feel when you feel that something is right or wrong, even though you're not sure why or how. Limbic Region-The limbic area of your brain has many parts. They are important to your memory, emotions, smell, and hunger.
The olfactory bulb is one of the structures of the limbic system and a very ancient part of the brain. As mentioned in the previous description of the olfactory process, the information captured by the sense of smell goes from the olfactory bulb to other structures of the limbic system. Years later I recalled this incident when I learned that the part of the brain responsible for our sense of smell—the limbic system—is related to feelings and memory. In order to make sense of what smell is and how we can think of using it in our work, let’s first explore how the sense of smell is put together.
The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is composed of right and left hemispheres. It performs higher functions like interpreting touch, vision and hearing, as well as speech, reasoning, emotions, learning, and fine control of movement. The cerebellum is located under the cerebrum. 
My friend had a brain hemorrhage from a blow to the head 10 years ago and has completely lost his sense of smell. Apparently, the part of his brain that controls his sense of smell was permanently damaged. 
The Brain is the control center of the body, because it is the part of the brain that receives messages, interprets them, and then respond to them by enabling us to move, speak, show emotion, and controls automatic functions such as heart rate, breathing, sweating, elimination, etc. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The lobe that controls sight is the occipital lobe. The lobe that contorls hearing is the temporal lobe, the lobe that deals with pain, pressure, temperature, touch, and part of taste is the parietal lobe. The lobe that controls consciousness and primary body movements is the frontal lobe. 
Occipital lobe. The occipital lobe is the back part of the brain that is involved with vision. Temporal lobe. The sides of the brain, these temporal lobes are involved in memory, speech, musical rhythm, and some degree of smell recognition. Cerebrum. The cerebrum (supratentorial or front of brain) is composed of the right and left hemispheres. Functions of the cerebrum include: initiation of movement, coordination of movement, temperature, touch, vision, hearing, judgment, reasoning, problem solving, emotions, and learning. Brainstem.