Ohio Cosmetology License Renewal. Ohio licenses must be renewed January 31 every odd-numbered year. It costs $45 to renew your license, and the board requires at least 8 hours of cosmetology continuing education classes. If the renewal is late, it's $90. If you get an independent contractor's license, the license is $60 if renewed on time, $105 if late. The original cost of the independent contractor's license is $75. After finishing your training, you are required to pass a licensing exam issued by the Ohio State Board of Cosmetology. Once you pass this exam, you will receive your Ohio cosmetology license shortly thereafter. You're now able to work in the state of Ohio.
Save. Each state has its own laws about how long a cosmetology license is valid. The cosmology business is constantly changing to keep up with the latest trends when it comes to hair and makeup. For this reason, most states require that a cosmetologist renew his license every two years. 
(C) In the case of a practicing license or managing license that has been expired for more than two consecutive license renewal periods, completes eight hours of continuing education for each license renewal period that has elapsed since the license was last issued or renewed, up to a maximum of twenty-four hours. 
Most states allow cosmetologists to renew an expired license, but the reinstatement process varies. Depending on where you hold your license, you might simply be required to pay a late fee, or you might be required to pay a late fee and take additional refresher courses to earn reinstatement. Each state website is constructed differently. If your state’s website has a search field, type “Renew expired license” in the search field, or look under the FAQ or “Renewal” sections for information about renewing an expired license. Related Reading: How to Transfer Cosmetology Licenses
1 If your renewal is late, you’ll be charged a $110 late renewal fee. 2  If your license has been expired for more than 1 year, it has been canceled and you must re-apply and take all the necessary exams. We only renew Washington state licenses. To renew your license in another state, please contact the licensing board in that state for instructions. See the NIC website for a list of U.S. licensing boards.
The same is true if you have retired your license but would like to re-enter into the field. In the state of Texas, you have up to 18 months to renew your license with the Texas Board of Cosmetology. Once the 18-month marker hits, you may renew it online or by using a special form. The Minnesota Board of Cosmetology, for example, has four criteria to follow when you have an expired or paid inactive license that has been this way for more than three years. You must the Course Completion Certificate for Minnesota Reactivation course, which consists of 155 hours for c
Late renewals. 1  If your renewal is late, you’ll be charged a $110 late renewal fee. 2  If your license has been expired for more than 1 year, it has been canceled and you must re-apply and take all the necessary exams. We only renew Washington state licenses. To renew your license in another state, please contact the licensing board in that state for instructions. See the NIC website for a list of U.S. licensing boards.
1 27% - My ohio cosmetology license has been expired for 12 years now and i would like to renew that license as soon as possible, i need information how to do? 2  49% - What happens if my ohio cosmetology license expired can i still work? 3  42% - My cosmetology license is expired in pa how do i renew? 1 49% - What happens if my ohio cosmetology license expired can i still work? 2  42% - My cosmetology license is expired in pa how do i renew? 3  35% - My fl cosmetology license expired in 2001 i would like to renew it what do i need to do? 4  73% - How can i renew my expired pa cosmetology license in 1/31/2011