Rich dietary sources of manganese include nuts and seeds, wheat germ and whole grains (including unrefined cereals, buckwheat, bulgur wheat, and oats), legumes, and pineapples. Manganese is a trace mineral that is present in tiny amounts in the body. It is found mostly in bones, the liver, kidneys, and pancreas. Manganese helps the body form connective tissue, bones, blood clotting factors, and sex hormones.
Nutritional Profile. Pineapple is an excellent source of vitamin C and manganese. It is also a very good source of copper and a good source of vitamin B1, vitamin B6, dietary fiber, folate, and pantothenic acid. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Pineapp
MANGANESE Overview Information. Manganese is a mineral that is found in several foods including nuts, legumes, seeds, tea, whole grains, and leafy green vegetables. It is considered an essential nutrient, because the body requires it to function properly. People use manganese as medicine. 
Manganese is a chemical element with symbol Mn and atomic number 25. It is not found as a free element in nature; it is often found in combination with iron, and in many minerals. Manganese is a metal with important industrial metal alloy uses, particularly in stainless steels.
Chickpeas, adzuki beans and white beans are packed with manganese as well. Other excellent sources of manganese include leafy green vegetables such as spinach and kale, most dried herbs and spices (especially cloves), rice bran, garlic, blackstrap molasses and sun-dried tomatoes. Nuts — Nuts are one of the best sources of manganese for vegetarians and vegans. One 28 gram serving of hazelnuts, for instance, supplies us with 78 percent of our RDI. Pecans, macadamia nuts and walnuts also contain over 40 percent of our RDI per 28 grams.
Manganese is involved in the formation of bone and is a component of many enzymes that play important roles in protein, cholesterol and carbohydrate metabolism. What are the best food sources? Whole grains contribute the most manganese to U.S. diets, followed by tea. One cup of green tea contains about 0.41-1.58 milligrams of manganese and one cup of black tea contains about 0.18-0.77 milligrams. Some fruits and vegetables, including pineapple, beans, spinach and sweet potatoes, are also good sources
Manganese (Mn) deficiency is a plant disorder that is often confused with, and occurs with, iron deficiency. Most common in poorly drained soils, also where organic matter levels are high. Manganese may be unavailable to plants where pH is high. 
Rich sources of manganese include whole grains, nuts, leafy vegetables, and teas. Foods high in phytic acid, such as beans, seeds, nuts, whole grains, and soy products, or foods high in oxalic acid, such as cabbage, spinach, and sweet potatoes, may slightly inhibit manganese absorption. 