[New Latin irid-, iris, from Greek] a: the opaque contractile diaphragm perforated by the pupil and forming the colored portion of the eye — see eye illustration b: iris diaphragm; also: a similar device with a circular opening that can be varied in size. 3. 
Iris /iris/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced EYE-riss. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Iris is  rainbow . A flower name. Mythology: Iris was a messenger-goddess who rode rainbows between heaven and earth to deliver messages from Olympus. Novelist Iris Murdoch. Iris is a very prominent first name for females (#325 out of 4276, Top 8%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#70273 out of 150436, Top 47%).
Meaning & History. Means rainbow in Greek. Iris was the name of the Greek goddess of the rainbow. This name can also be given in reference to the word (which derives from the same Greek source) for the name of the iris flower or the coloured part of the eye. Related Names.
Iris is a genus of 260–300 species of flowering plants with showy flowers. It takes its name from the Greek word for a rainbow, which is also the name for the Greek goddess of the rainbow, Iris. Some authors state that the name refers to the wide variety of flower colors found among the many species. 
Latin Meaning: The name Iris is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Iris is: F: Ameaning bringer of joy. In the Divine Comedy, Beatrice was Dante's guide through Paradise, perhaps inspired by Beatrice Portinari who was Dante's earliest love. SoulUrge Number: 9.
The iris is defined as the colored part of the eye around the pupil, the name of a woman, or a three-petal flower with sword-shaped leaves. 1  An example of an iris is the part of the eye that opens and closes to control how much light enters the pupil. Close up of a brown iris. Close up of a brown iris. The definition of iris is being of the family of plants known as Iridaceace. An example of iris used as an adjective is in the phrase iris family, which means a flower from this family such as an iris, a lily or a gladiolus.
The iris’s history is rich, dating back to Ancient Greek times when the Greek Goddess Iris, the messenger of the gods and the personification of the rainbow, acted as the link between heaven and earth. Purple irises were planted over the graves of women to summon the Goddess to guide the dead in their journey. During the Middle Ages, the meaning of irises became linked to the French monarchy, and the Fleur-de-lis eventually became the recognized national symbol of France. From their earliest years, irises were used to make perfume and as a medicinal remedy.
Today, the iris is the state flower of Tennessee, and the Fleur-de-lis is the emblem for the city of New Orleans. Irises are cultivated all over the world, and they can be found naturally in Europe, the Middle East, northern Africa, Asia, and North America. Back to Flower Meanings Guide. During the Middle Ages, the meaning of irises became linked to the French monarchy, and the Fleur-de-lis eventually became the recognized national symbol of France. From their earliest years, irises were used to make perfume and as a medicinal remedy.