1 Fractures are broken bones. 2  Fractures commonly involve the clavicle (collar bone), proximal humerus (top of the upper arm bone), and scapula (shoulder blade). 3  Dislocations occur when the bones on opposite sides of a joint do not line up. 1 Fractures commonly involve the clavicle (collar bone), proximal humerus (top of the upper arm bone), and scapula (shoulder blade). 2  Dislocations occur when the bones on opposite sides of a joint do not line up. 3  Dislocations can involve any of three different joints.
A broken collarbone, or fractured clavicle, is a common injury. It usually happens after a fall or a blow to the shoulder. It takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and three to six weeks in children. The collarbone, or clavicle, is a long slender bone that runs from the breastbone to each of the shoulders. Your shoulder may be slumped downwards and forwards under the weight of the arm, as the broken collarbone is no longer providing support. You may have heard a snap or a grinding noise during the accident. In very severe cases, one end of the bone may poke through the skin.
RE: How do I know if I have a broken or bruised shoulder? I was doing an incline bench press the other day and the weights became unbalanced and I think too much pressure fell on my left arm. I felt my left shoulder bone/socket give in a bit but initially there was no pain. You may have bruised it but you may have also damaged part of your rotator cuff. For now you need Rest, Ice, elevate. Normally you put compression like an ace bandage on an injured joint but that doesn't work on a shoulder.
Other signs of a broken shoulder blade may include: 1  Holding the injured arm close to the body. 2  Moving the arm increases the pain. 3  Inability to lift the arm. 4  Having pain with each deep breath due to movement of the chest wall with each breath; this movement may in turn move the shoulder blade, causing pain. 
In adults, it usually takes about six to eight weeks for a broken collarbone to heal, although it can take longer. In children, it usually takes about three to six weeks to heal. However, it will take at least the same period again to restore full strength to your shoulder. Your shoulder may be slumped downwards and forwards under the weight of the arm, as the broken collarbone is no longer providing support. You may have heard a snap or a grinding noise during the accident. In very severe cases, one end of the bone may poke through the skin.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A broken shoulder (or dislocated) is usually very obvious due to inability to move arm without severe pain or even a visible abnormality. You may have bruised it but you may have also damaged part of your rotator cuff. For now you need Rest, Ice, elevate. Normally you put compression like an ace bandage on an injured joint but that doesn't work on a shoulder.
A broken shoulder is most commonly a fractured humerus. A fracture is the medical term for a broken bone. The humerus is your upper arm bone between your shoulder and elbow. When your humerus is fractured near or at the ball of your shoulder joint, it is commonly known as a broken shoulder. Your humerus can be broken in many places and the fracture is normally described by its location eg a fractured neck of humerus. Please Note: fractured is the medical term for a broken bone
Broken Shoulder Blade Overview. The scapula or shoulder blade is a bony structure found on the upper back that connects the upper arm to the chest wall (thorax). It also forms the socket part of the shoulder joint connecting the upper arm (humerus) to the socket (glenoid). 1 A heavy force is usually required to break a shoulder blade; therefore, the health care professional will explore other injuries when a patient has a broken shoulder blade. 2  Fractures (breaks) have been reported at the many areas of bone that comprise the scapula.
There are many types of shoulder injuries: 1  Fractures are broken bones. 2  Fractures commonly involve the clavicle (collar bone), proximal humerus (top of the upper arm bone), and scapula (shoulder blade). 3  Dislocations occur when the bones on opposite sides of a joint do not line up. 1 Fractures commonly involve the clavicle (collar bone), proximal humerus (top of the upper arm bone), and scapula (shoulder blade). 2  Dislocations occur when the bones on opposite sides of a joint do not line up. 3  Dislocations can involve any of three different joints.
A broken collarbone is usually pretty obvious. You might feel a crack when it happens. Afterward, you will probably have: 1  Pain and swelling. 2  Difficulty moving your arm and shoulder. 3  A grinding feeling when you try to raise your arm. 4  Sagging in your shoulder. 5  A bump around the area of the break. 1 A splint or brace to keep your shoulder from moving. 2  A sling for your arm, which you might use for a few days. 3  Anti-inflammatory painkillers, like ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin which will help with pain and swelling. 4  However, these drugs have side effects, like an increased risk of bleeding and ulcers.