Specific prostaglandins are named with a letter (which indicates the type of ring structure) followed by a number (which indicates the number of double bonds in the hydrocarbon structure). For example, prostaglandin E1 is abbreviated PGE1 or PGE 1, and prostaglandin I2 is abbreviated PGI2 or PGI 2. The release of prostaglandin has now also been shown to be mediated by a specific transporter, namely the multidrug resistance protein 4 (MRP4, ABCC4), a member of the ATP-binding cassette transporter superfamily. Whether MRP4 is the only transporter releasing prostaglandins from the cells is still unclear.
N-methylhistamine (NMH) is the major metabolite of histamine, which is produced by mast cells. Increased histamine production is seen in conditions associated with increased mast-cell activity, such as allergic reactions, but also in mast-cell proliferation disorders, in particular mastocytosis. 
Leukotriene production is usually accompanied by the production of histamine and prostaglandins, which also act as inflammatory mediators. In cells that express LTC4 synthase, such as mast cells and eosinophils, LTA 4 is conjugated with the tripeptide glutathione to form the first of the cysteinyl-leukotrienes, LTC 4. Outside the cell, LTC 4 can be converted by ubiquitous enzymes to form successively LTD 4 and LTE 4, which retain biological activity.
Confidence votes 16. The relationship between prostaglandins and histamine in the ovulatory process as determined with the in vitro perfused rabbit ovary. The process of follicle rupture has been described as an inflammatory reaction in which prostaglandins (PGs) and/or histamine may be involved. With an in vitro perfused rabbit ovary preparation, experiments were carried out for determination of whether a relationship exists among PGs, histamine, and ovulation
Please try again later. A quick tutorial on two chemical mediators involved in the inflammatory response; histamine and prostaglandins. This is a short section of the AQA A2 Specification, so I've tried to spice it up with some extra bits! 1  Education. 
Histamine is present abundantly in the granules of tissue mast cells and circulating basophils. One of the stimuli that activate mast cells and basophils to release histamine is the binding of antigens to cell-bound IgE antibodies on the surfaces of mast cells and basophils. Another stimulus that activates mast cells to release histamine is the binding of C3a and C5a fragments of complement to specific receptors on mast cells. Activated mast cells release massive amounts of histamine into the surrounding tissue.
Changes in nasal behavior induced by the simultaneous application of histamine and prostaglandin D2 in rats. The nasal behavior induced by the simultaneous application of histamine and prostaglandin D 2 is shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3. Fig. 2 showed the dose-dependent increase of sneezing induced by the simultaneous application of histamine and prostaglandin D 2. Abstract. This study was undertaken to investigate the interactive effect of histamine and prostaglandin D 2 in nasal allergic symptoms in rats. The intranasal application of histamine at doses lower than 10 μmol/site caused no sneezing or nasal rubbing.
A number of indirect, but related observations suggest that blood levels of histamine and prostaglandin E-l (PGE-1) seem to move in the same direction. Their effects on physiological activity when used as agents is also similar; substances which raise histamine tissue levels also raise PGE-1 tissue levels. That is, substances which raise histamine also raise PGE-1. Conversely, substances which lower histamine also lower PGE-1. Two important and independent theories involving the etiology of schizophrenia are disturbances of histamine metabolism and disturbances in prostaglandin metabolism, notably PGE-1.
Two theories on the etiology of schizophrenia, the histamine theory of Pfeiffer and the prostaglandin theory of Horrobin, may therefore be different sides of the same coin. On the basis of these theories the diagnosis and treatment of schizophrenia is discussed. That is, substances which raise histamine also raise PGE-1. Conversely, substances which lower histamine also lower PGE-1. Two important and independent theories involving the etiology of schizophrenia are disturbances of histamine metabolism and disturbances in prostaglandin metabolism, notably PGE-1.
A given prostaglandin may have different and even opposite effects in different tissues. The ability of the same prostaglandin to stimulate a reaction in one tissue and inhibit the same reaction in another tissue is determined by the type of receptor to which the prostaglandin binds. The release of prostaglandin has now also been shown to be mediated by a specific transporter, namely the multidrug resistance protein 4 (MRP4, ABCC4), a member of the ATP-binding cassette transporter superfamily. Whether MRP4 is the only transporter releasing prostaglandins from the cells is still unclear.