About Toyota Prius. As the best-selling hybrid in the world, it's no surprise that the 2015 Toyota Prius is the car most people think of when they hear the word hybrid.. With traditional and plug-in models available, the fuel-efficient 5-door hatchbacks pair a thrifty gasoline engine to an electric motor. 
It is used in its Yaris, Auris, Prius, Highlander Hybrid, Camry Hybrid, Estima, Alphard, Lexus RX 400h/RX 450h, Lexus ES 300h, Lexus GS 450h, Lexus LS 600h/LS 600hL, Lexus CT 200h, Lexus IS 300h, Lexus HS 250h and Lexus NX 300h automobiles. Like the second generation Prius, the third generation Prius battery pack is made up of the same type of 1.2 volt cells. It has 28 modules of 6 cells for a total nominal voltage of only 201.6 volts. A boost converter is used to produce 500 Volt DC supply voltage for the inverters for MG1 and MG2.
2015 & 2016 New Toyota Hybrid Cars. From the harmonious Prius Family of vehicles, to the Camry Hybrid with its 43 MPG 2 highway rating, to the intelligent elegance of the Avalon Hybrid – our hybrid cars are changing the way you drive. 
The Prius first went on sale in Japan in 1997, and was available at all four Toyota Japan dealerships, making it the first mass-produced hybrid vehicle. It was subsequently introduced worldwide in 2000. The Prius is a power-split or series-parallel (full) hybrid, sometimes referred to as a combined hybrid, a vehicle that can be propelled by gasoline and/or electric power. Wind resistance is reduced by a drag coefficient of 0.25 (0.29 for 2000 model) with a Kammback design to reduce air resistance.
When the car starts off, Toyota's hybrid vehicles use only the electric motors, powered by the battery, while the gas/petrol engine remains shut off. A gas/petrol engine cannot produce high torque in the low rpm range, whereas electric motors can-delivering a very responsive and smooth start. Storing regenerated energy under deceleration in the battery. Under braking or when the accelerator is lifted, Toyota's hybrid vehicles use the kinetic energy of the car to let the wheels turn the electric motors, which function as regenerators.
From the Toyota Prius, with its aerodynamic styling and EPA 51 mpg rating 7, to the 200 Hybrid System Net HP Camry Hybrid, one of the most fuel-efficient sedans in its class, Toyota hybrids are designed to create harmony between man, nature and machine. Browse all of the new hybrids, including the Highlander Hybrid, Avalon Hybrid, and the Prius Family, and discover legendary efficiency, reliability and power for the 21st century. Customize your vehicle your way with your hands on the wheel, to parallel parking with your hands off it.
In 2011, Toyota expanded the Prius family to include the Prius v, an extended hatchback wagon, and the Prius c, a subcompact hatchback. The production version of the Prius plug-in hybrid was released in 2012. The Prius is a power-split or series-parallel (full) hybrid, sometimes referred to as a combined hybrid, a vehicle that can be propelled by gasoline and/or electric power. Wind resistance is reduced by a drag coefficient of 0.25 (0.29 for 2000 model) with a Kammback design to reduce air resistance.
The Toyota Prius (/ˈpriːəs/) is a full hybrid electric mid-size hatchback, formerly a compact sedan developed and manufactured by Toyota. The Prius is a power-split or series-parallel (full) hybrid, sometimes referred to as a combined hybrid, a vehicle that can be propelled by gasoline and/or electric power. Wind resistance is reduced by a drag coefficient of 0.25 (0.29 for 2000 model) with a Kammback design to reduce air resistance.
The 2015 Toyota Camry Hybrid offers user-friendly tech features, a responsive powertrain and a roomy cabin, according to critics. With the best combination of positive reviews and long-term ownership costs in its class, the Toyota Camry Hybrid is our 2015 Best Hybrid Car for the Money. The 2015 Toyota Camry Hybrid seats five, has front-wheel drive and is available in LE, SE and XLE trims. A 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine, an electric motor and a continuously variable transmission (CVT) are standard in all models.