Definition of ERYTHORBATE. : a salt of erythorbic acid that is used in foods as an antioxidant. ADVERTISEMENT. noun er·y·thor·bate \ˌer-ə-ˈthȯr-ˌbāt\. : a salt of erythorbic acid that is used in foods as an antioxidant. 
Sodium erythorbate is produced from sugars derived from different sources, such as beets, sugar cane, and corn. An urban myth claims that sodium erythorbate is made from ground earthworms; however, there is no truth to the myth. It is thought that the genesis of the legend comes from the similarity of the chemical name to the words earthworm and bait.
Sodium erythorbate (C 6 H 7 NaO 6) is a food additive used predominantly in meats, poultry, and soft drinks. Chemically, it is the sodium salt of erythorbic acid. When used in processed meat such as hot dogs and beef sticks, it increases the rate at which nitrite reduces to nitric oxide, thus facilitating a faster cure and retaining the pink coloring. An urban myth claims that sodium erythorbate is made from ground earthworms; however, there is no truth to the myth. It is thought that the genesis of the legend comes from the similarity of the chemical name to the words earthworm and bait.
Application and Uses of Sodium Erythorbate. Sodium Erythorbate is a sodium salt of erythorbic acid widely used as antioxidant in food and beverage. As a effective antioxidant, Sodium Erythorbate can be used in a wide variety of industries including: food production, beverage, and various other industries. Read more. 1. Sodium Erythorbate is the sodium salt of Erythorbic Acid. As a synthesized chemical, Sodium Erythorbate is general recognized as Kosher classified as Parve. However, Sodium Erythorbate Pareve non-Passover KLBD.
Sodium Erythorbate is an antioxidant that is the sodium salt of erythorbic acid (produced by fermentation of food grade starch). In the dry state, it is non-reactive, but when mixed with water, it reacts with atmospheric oxygen and other oxidizing agents. 
Sodium Erythorbate is a sodium salt of erythorbic acid widely used as antioxidant in food and beverage. As a effective antioxidant, Sodium Erythorbate can be used in a wide variety of industries including: food production, beverage, and various other industries. Read more. Sodium Erythorbate is the sodium salt of Erythorbic Acid. As a synthesized chemical, Sodium Erythorbate is general recognized as Kosher classified as Parve. However, Sodium Erythorbate Pareve non-Passover KLBD.
Erythorbate is salt of erythorbic acid which is an isomer of Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid). It also poses similar effect as vitamin C and its salt. Erythorbate is much more efficient as antioxidant than ascorbate (salt of vitamin C) without acidic taste. So it’s added to hotdogs and hamburgers to keep the taste and appearance of meat fresh without changing the taste. It’s widely used in meat processing, beverage and cosmetics to improve antioxidant effect.
Sodium erythorbate is considered safe, but as with all additives, it's possible to have a sensitivity to it and experience side effects. In food processing, sodium erythorbate is used to keep a wide variety of foods fresh -- from meats to canned fruits and vegetables, as well as wines, jams and soft drinks. Use in Food Industry. In food processing, sodium erythorbate is used to keep a wide variety of foods fresh -- from meats to canned fruits and vegetables, as well as wines, jams and soft drinks. When used in pickled products, it prevents cancer-causing chemicals called nitrosamines from forming
Sodium erythorbate is just one of many additives used in the food manufacturing industry. It's a new type of additive and is a synthetic variation of ascorbic acid, better known as vitamin C. Use in Food Industry. In food processing, sodium erythorbate is used to keep a wide variety of foods fresh -- from meats to canned fruits and vegetables, as well as wines, jams and soft drinks. When used in pickled products, it prevents cancer-causing chemicals called nitrosamines from forming