Main Characteristics Duck-Billed Platypuses are semi-aquatic mammals. They have a body length between 40 and 60 cms (16 - 23.5 inches), a tail length between 8.5 and 15 cms (3.25 - 6 inches), a bill length between 5.2 and 5.8 cms (2 - 2.3 inches) and they weigh between 0.8 and 2.5 Kgs (1.75 - 5.5 lbs).
The platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) also known as the duck-billed platypus is a semiaquatic egg-laying mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
The platypus is among nature's most unlikely animals. In fact, the first scientists to examine a specimen believed they were the victims of a hoax. The animal is best described as a hodgepodge of more familiar species: the duck (bill and webbed feet), beaver (tail), and otter (body and fur). Males are also venomous.
Sometimes known as a duck-billed platypus, this curious mammal combines the characteristics of many different species in one. The platypus is a duck-billed, beaver-tailed, otter-footed, egg-laying aquatic creature native to Australia. If its appearance alone somehow fails to impress, the male of the species is also one of the world’s few venomous mammals!
The notion of the duck-billed platypus possessing a bird-like horny bill originated from examinations of dried specimens. The bill is actually soft, moist and leathery and also highly sensitive. The platypus is one of the the most evolutionary distinct mammals alive today.
The platypus has a flat, streamlined body. They have a muzzle shaped like the bill of a duck, webbed feet, and a tail like that of a beaver. The bill is not hard like that of a bird. It is actually an elongated muzzle covered with a leathery skin. The bill and feet of a platypus are black while the fur is usually a dark brown color.
The platypus is one of the most unusual creatures in the animal kingdom. Platypuses (which is the correct plural form, not platypi) have a paddle-shaped tail like a beaver; a sleek, furry body like an otter; and a flat bill and webbed feet like a duck.