Definition of FURFURAL. : a liquid aldehyde C5H4O2 of penetrating odor that is usually made from plant materials and used especially in making furan or phenolic resins and as a solvent. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin furfur bran + International Scientific Vocabulary 3-al. First Known Use: 1879. : a liquid aldehyde C5H4O2 of penetrating odor that is usually made from plant materials and used especially in making furan or phenolic resins and as a solvent. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about furfural.
• FURFURAL (noun). The noun FURFURAL has 1 sense: 1. a liquid aldehyde with a penetrating odor; made from plant hulls and corn cobs; used in making furan and as a solvent. Familiarity information: FURFURAL used as a noun is very rare. 
Furfural was first isolated in 1821 (published in 1832) by the German chemist Johann Wolfgang Doebereiner, döbereiner who produced a small sample as a byproduct of formic acid. Synthesis at the, time formic acid was formed by the distillation of dead, ants And'doebereiner döbereiner s ant bodies probably contained some. plant matter Hydrogenation of furfural provides furfuryl alcohol (FA), which is a useful chemical intermediate and which may be further hydrogenated to tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol (THFA). THFA is used as a nonhazardous solvent in agricultural formulations and as an adjuvant to help herbicides penetrate the leaf structure.
Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), also 5-(Hydroxymethyl)furfural, is an organic compound derived from dehydration of certain sugars. This yellow low-melting solid is highly water-soluble. The molecule consists of a furan ring, containing both aldehyde and alcohol functional groups. HMF has been identified in a wide variety of baked goods. HMF, which is derived from hexoses, is a potential  carbon-neutral  feedstock for fuels and chemicals.
Furfural: Future Feedstock for Fuels and Chemicals. Furfural, a sister chemical to the increasingly popular hydroxymethylfurfural or HMF molecule, is regaining attention as a biobased alternative for the production of everything from antacids and fertilizers to plastics and paints. By Jessica Ebert. Now, a sister chemical to HMF, furfural, is beginning to gain the attention of cellulosic ethanol producers and academic researchers. Furfural is an almond-scented, oily, colorless liquid that turns yellow to dark brown when exposed to air.
Furfural is an organic compound derived from a variety of agricultural byproducts, including corncobs, oat, wheat bran, and sawdust. The name furfural comes from the Latin word furfur, meaning bran, referring to its usual source. Furfural is a heterocyclic aldehyde, with the ring structure shown at right. Its chemical formula is O C 4 H 3 CHO. It is a colorless oily liquid with the odor of almonds, which quickly darkens when exposed to air. Hydrogenation of furfural provides furfuryl alcohol (FA), which is a useful chemical intermediate and which may be further hydrogenated to tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol (THFA). THFA is used as a nonhazardous solvent in agricultural formulations and as an adjuvant to help herbicides penetrate the leaf structure.
Furfural is a chemical made out of organic matter which is typically produced for industrial purposes. It is primarily composed of agricultural byproducts such as oat husks, bran, corncobs, and sawdust. Some of the products it is used in include weed killer, fungicide, and solvent. 
Production and reactions [edit]. Related to the production of furfural, HMF is produced from sugars. It arises via the dehydration of fructose. Treatment of fructose with acids followed by liquid-liquid extraction into organic solvents such as methyl isobutyl ketone. This yellow low-melting solid is highly water-soluble. The molecule consists of a furan ring, containing both aldehyde and alcohol functional groups. HMF has been identified in a wide variety of baked goods. HMF, which is derived from hexoses, is a potential  carbon-neutral  feedstock for fuels and chemicals.
Medical Definition of FURFURAL. : a liquid aldehyde C5H4O2 of penetrating odor that is usually made from plant materials and used especially in making furan or phenolic resins and as a solvent. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about furfural.
Furfural (fur'fûr) fərəl or (furfuraldehyde'fur'fûr) fərăl dəhīd is an industrial chemical derived from a variety of. .. agricultural byproducts is.made. e g, from corncobs oat hulls and wheat bran and sugar. Cane bagasse the name furfural comes From the latin, word furfur. meaning bran What is Ecoral™. Ecoral™ is the DalinYebo label for furfural that is made in an environmental responsible manner, e.g. by using (award-winning [1]) technology developed and/or implemented by our subsidiary International Furan Technologies (Pty) Ltd (www.ift.co.za).