And he does not seem to care about the importance of videos. But somehow, Bernie Sanders, the 73-year-old senator from Vermont, has emerged as a king of social media early in the 2016 presidential campaign, amid a field of tech-savvy contenders. Mr. Sanders’s prominence online is all the more improbable given that he does not do many things the way social media experts say they should be done. An image from the Facebook page of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who wants the Democratic presidential nomination. He has not shied away from posts of 300 words or more, with a “continue reading here” link to his personal website
In Vermont, Bernie Sanders to become the country’s first self-described socialist to be elected to the U.S. Senate. Running as an independent, Sanders won 65% of the vote, easily beating his Republican opponent Rich Tarrant. We speak with Sanders about what it means to the country’s first socialist senator. For the past 16 years, Sanders has served as Vermont’s sole member in the House. On Tuesday, voters in Vermont also elected Democrat Peter Welch to fill Sanders’ seat in Congress. This past week I talked with Bernie Sanders in Vermont. I asked him what it meant to be the
Sanders became senator after Jim Jeffords retired from the senate in 2006. In 2012, he was re-elected by a landslide. In August 2011, Public Policy Polling found that 67% of people supported Sanders. Sanders is the longest-serving independent in United States history. Sanders calls himself a democratic socialist. He thinks that a social democratic government for the United States is a good idea. In January 2015, Sanders became a member of the Senate Budget Committee. Sanders was elected mayor of Burlington in 1981. He was re-elected three times. In 1991, he became a United States representative for Vermont's At-large congressional district. He was a congressman for 16 years. In 2006, he was elected to the U.S. Senate
Meet Bernie. Bernie Sanders is a Democratic candidate for President of the United States. In 2006, he was elected to the U.S. Senate after 16 years as Vermont’s sole congressman in the House of Representatives. Bernie is now serving his second term in the U.S. Senate after winning re-election in 2012 with 71 percent of the vote. Sanders wins 2 percent of the vote in his first statewide race, a special election for a U.S. Senate seat in Vermont. Sanders wins 1 percent of the vote in his second run for statewide office during a gubernatorial election. In his second campaign for the U.S. Senate, Sanders attracts 4 percent of the vote.
In Vermont, voters have elected Bernie Sanders to become the country’s first self-described socialist to be elected to the U.S. Senate. Running as an independent, Sanders won 65 percent of the vote, easily beating his Republican opponent Rich Tarrant who is one Vermont’s wealthiest residents. Sanders will replace fellow independent Jim Jeffords in the Senate. For the past 16 years, Sanders has served as Vermont’s sole member in the House. On Tuesday, voters in Vermont also elected Democrat Peter Welch to fill Sanders’ seat in Congress. This past week I talked with Bernie Sanders in Vermont. I asked him what it meant to be the first socialist senator.
Bernie Sanders is a Democratic candidate for President of the United States. He is serving his second term in the U.S. Senate after winning re-election in 2012 with 71 percent of the vote. Sanders wins 2 percent of the vote in his first statewide race, a special election for a U.S. Senate seat in Vermont. Sanders wins 1 percent of the vote in his second run for statewide office during a gubernatorial election. In his second campaign for the U.S. Senate, Sanders attracts 4 percent of the vote.
Name at birth: Bernard Sanders. Bernard “Bernie” Sanders is the independent-minded politician who has represented Vermont in Congress for more than two decades. Bernie Sanders said he would run for president as a Democrat in 2016 because it would take an “enormous” amount of time and money simply to get on the ballot nationwide as an Independent... Sanders announced his presidential run on 30 April 2015...