Anxiety and Brain Activation. There are two different parts to an anxiety disorder, and someone with anxiety may suffer from one or both. The first part is mental – verbal worries, nervous thoughts, etc. The second part of anxiety is physical.
Three brain structures the hippocampus, amygdala and prefrontal cortex help the brain determine what is stressful and how to respond. The hippocampus stores memories of events and responds to stress hormones in the blood. Many mental disorders, including depression, may cause it to shrink or weaken.
The amygdala is an almond-shaped structure deep in the brain that is believed to be a communications hub between the parts of the brain that process incoming sensory signals and the parts that interpret these signals. It can alert the rest of the brain that a threat is present and trigger a fear or anxiety response.
The hippocampus is the part of the brain that encodes threatening events into memories.. Your Brain May Become Wired for Anxiety It's thought that anxiety disorders may result from a combination of nature (your genetics) and nurture (your environment). For instance, if you grow up in an environment with frequent yelling or abuse.
FACT: All Anxiety Can Be Cured. Anything can cause your anxiety, but your brain can also change the way it operates if you change the way you deal with stress. No matter what the cause of your anxiety is, you can cure it with the right treatment. To get started, click here to take my free 7 minute anxiety test.
Anxiety can cause physical symptoms even when you don't feel anxious, genuinely change the way you respond to life events, and reinforce itself based on the behaviors that you change as a result of your anxiety. In this article, we'll examine the complex relationship between anxiety and the brain.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Brief anxiety is a natural response, but persistent anxiety leads to feelings of fear and apprehension even in non-threatening situations. 2  It’s possible for your brain to become “wired” for anxiety, such that any potentially undesirable event or emotion becomes cause for alarm.