For example, hospitals use isolation for patients with infectious tuberculosis. Quarantine is used to separate and restrict the movement of well persons who may have been exposed to a communicable disease to see if they become ill. These people may have been exposed to a disease and do not know it, or they may have the disease but do not show symptoms.
Best Answer: There are different types of isolation. Protective isolation (the patients immune system is weakened and people entering must gown, glove and mask up e.g. AIDS, Chemotherapy) or general (people gown and glove, and/or mask to prevent the spread of a disease from the patient to others e.g. TB, MRSA). This is done for the good of the patient, but is not enforced by the law.
Isolation and quarantine are public health practices used to stop or limit the spread of disease. Isolation is used to separate ill persons who have a communicable disease from those who are healthy. Isolation restricts the movement of ill persons to help stop the spread of certain diseases. Quarantine is used to separate and restrict the movement of well persons who may have been exposed to a communicable disease to see if they become ill. These people may have been exposed to a disease and do not know it, or they may have the disease but do not show symptoms.
Isolation is the process in which people who are known to be ill with a dangerous, contagious disease are treated to prevent the disease from spreading. Quarantine is the process in which people who have been exposed to an infectious disease, but are not yet known to be ill, are kept separate from others and monitored. Isolation lasts for the period of time in which a disease is considered infectious. Quarantine lasts for the incubation period for the disease, after which officials can be certain that an individual is not infected.
edit Process. People in isolation receive care for their disease, separate from others, with precautions put into place to protect doctors such as wearing protective clothing. They are usually cared for in a hospital or in a care facility, but occasionally receive care in their home. Isolation lasts for the period of time in which a disease is considered infectious. Quarantine lasts for the incubation period for the disease, after which officials can be certain that an individual is not infected.
People who are ill with a contagious disease are put into isolation to prevent the disease from spreading. Healthy individuals who have been exposed to a dangerous contagious disease are put into quarantine. Isolation lasts for the period of time in which a disease is considered infectious. Quarantine lasts for the incubation period for the disease, after which officials can be certain that an individual is not infected.
Quarantine is legally enforced isolation, typically to contain the spread of something considered dangerous, often but not always disease. Quarantine can be brief (as in remove those contaminated clothes) or a longer term (when you bring a pet into the UK). AIDS, Chemotherapy) or general (people gown and glove, and/or mask to prevent the spread of a disease from the patient to others e.g. TB, MRSA). This is done for the good of the patient, but is not enforced by the law.
The difference between quarantine and isolation can be summed up like this: 1  Isolation applies to persons who are known to be ill with a contagious disease. 2  Quarantine applies to those who have been exposed to a contagious disease but who may or may not become ill. 
As the definition suggest, isolation is the act of separating people who are already sick from other people in order to keep the general public from getting sick. A person is often kept in an enclosed space in the hospital or home, where they are allowed only limited contact with the other public. Quarantine is often used when a person comes into contact with an unknown substance or hazardous materials, which may or may not be detrimental to the person’s health. In this case, the person is usually placed under quarantine until proper tests are conducted. Difference between Isolation and Quarantine: Isolation.
Key Difference: Isolation is when the person who is infected with a particular disease is separated from the public to keep the public safe. The terms quarantine and isolation often scare people because usually represents the seriousness of a disease. Quarantine is often used when a person comes into contact with an unknown substance or hazardous materials, which may or may not be detrimental to the person’s health. In this case, the person is usually placed under quarantine until proper tests are conducted. Difference between Isolation and Quarantine: Isolation.