There is not a set amount for a whiplash claim. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for minor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident. And for severe, serious injury where recurring pain and possibility of surgery may occur, this can be from $13,000 to $24,000. 
The average compensation for whiplash claims. 2013 Update: If you have been involved in an accident and would like an idea of the compensation that you may be entitled to, please jump to our ‘Compensation Claims For Whiplash’ section below. If you have suffered a whiplash injury, the damage to your neck can have many negative effects on your life. Depending on the severity of your whiplash, you may: 1  Be unable to work. 2  Be unable to drive. 3  Suffer from difficulty breathing. 4  Have problems sleeping due to neck pain. 5  Be unable to lift heavy items.
For more information on the average level of compensation you can expect to receive from a typical whiplash claim, check our main average whiplash compensation claim page. Author: Nicholas Jervis. April 22, 2013 at 1:41 pm. The amount of compensation you receive for your whiplash injury depends on the severity of your injuries. Following your accident, if you notice any symptoms of whiplash you must immediately seek medical assistance from your local GP or Accident & Emergency Department. Symptoms of whiplash include:
For whiplash claims, the amount of compensation varies, but usually falls within the following (approximate) amounts: 1  £750 – £4000 for ‘minor’ whiplash injuries (recovery is made within 2 years). 2  £4000-£13500 for ‘moderate’ whiplash injuries that took longer to recover, and may have contributed to other complications. If you have suffered a whiplash injury, the damage to your neck can have many negative effects on your life. Depending on the severity of your whiplash, you may: 1  Be unable to work. 2  Be unable to drive. 3  Suffer from difficulty breathing. 4  Have problems sleeping due to neck pain. 5  Be unable to lift heavy items.
Most whiplash injuries where there is mild discomfort or headaches, can last just a few days or weeks. These cases can settle on average for between £1,000 to £2,750 while severe whiplash with on-going symptoms and damage to the spine can entitle you to as much as £97,500. For more serious injuries the amounts are considerably higher. In 2010 Mr. P was offered £3,300 by the insurers for whiplash related injurie
Tweet on Twitter. The average payout for whiplash claims is a difficult figure to arrive at because whiplash can affect people very differently, with results ranging from minor pain in the shoulder to paraplegia. It is possible, however, to look at the average for different kinds of whiplash injury. At Accident Advice Helpline we advise that you always claim for whiplash even if your injuries are minor because sometimes such injuries can develop into something worse a few months or years later.
Each whiplash claim is unique due to the uniqueness of the events that caused the accident. Equally, the amount of compensation you may receive is unique to the nature, severity and effects your injuries may have on your life. Each whiplash claim is unique making it very difficult to provide an average whiplash payout figure. Your compensation amount will depend on the level of injury suffered, and the effects it may have had on your life.
Whiplash is caused when the neck moves back and forth due to the impact of the car accident. The main symptoms of whiplash include neck or upper back pain or stiffness, shoulder pain or stiffness, headache, dizziness, or a burning or itching sensation in the neck, shoulders, or arms. Talk to a Car Accident Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. Whiplash is a lay term for an injury to the soft tissues of the neck, which include the neck muscles, tendons, and ligaments. Whiplash is not a formal medical diagnosis; it generally refers to soft tissue injuries such as neck sprain or neck strain