1 Alstroemeria come in orange, pink, rose, purple, red, yellow, white or salmon colors. 2  Alstroemeria is named after the Swedish botanist Klas von Alstroemer, who was a pupil of the great botanical classifier Linnaeus. 3  The genus Alstroemeria consists of about 50 species. 1 Alstroemeria is named after the Swedish botanist Klas von Alstroemer, who was a pupil of the great botanical classifier Linnaeus. 2  The genus Alstroemeria consists of about 50 species. 3  Most modern hybrid Alstroemeria plants are propagated in a laboratory.
Alstroemeria, also known as the Peruvian Lily, is a perennial flowering plant native to South America. The plant flowers in the garden in mid-summer and produces lily-like blooms in colors of white, yellow, orange, pink, red and purple. The flowers are often streaked with darker colors and appear in loose clusters. 
Resembling a miniature lily, alstroemeria, often called the Peruvian Lily or Lily of the Incas, was named after its discoverer, Baron Claus von Alstromer, a Swedish baron who collected the seeds on a trip to Spain in 1753. 
Alstroemeria aurea is also known as the lily of the Incas, the Peruvian lily or the Parrot Lily. They are like small lilies, but usually comes with spotted or striped markings, shaded colour, or contrasting patches. Alstroemeria is a tuberous plant that is native to South America. 1 Alstroemeria flower is symbolic of wealth, prosperity and fortune. 2  It is also the flower of friendship. 3  Alstroemeria come in orange, pink, rose, purple, red, yellow, white or salmon colors.
Alstroemeria (/ˌaelstrɨˈmɪəriə/), ˌælstrɨˈmɪəriə commonly called The peruvian lily or lily of The, incas is a genus of flowering plants in the Family. Alstroemeriaceae they are all native To South america although some have become naturalized in The United, States, Mexico, Australia New, Zealand madeira and The Canary. islands The leaves are variable in shape and the blades have smooth edges. The flowers are solitary or borne in umbels. The flower has six tepals each up to 5 centimeters long. They come in many shades of red, orange, purple, green, and white, flecked and striped and streaked with darker colors.
1 Most modern hybrid Alstroemeria plants are propagated in a laboratory. 2  Many hybrids and about 190 cultivars of Alstroemeria have been developed, with different markings and colors, ranging from white, golden yellow, orange; to apricot, pink, red, purple and lavender. 3  Alstroemeria flowers have no fragrance. 1 Alstroemeria is named after the Swedish botanist Klas von Alstroemer, who was a pupil of the great botanical classifier Linnaeus. 2  The genus Alstroemeria consists of about 50 species. 3 
Related to the lily, Alstroemeria is a genus of flowering plants native to South America. Alstroemeria species yield vivid blooms that are attractive both as cut flowers or growing in a garden. 
Some Interesting Facts about Alstroemeria. 1  Alstroemeria flowers bloom during late spring or early summer. 2  Alstroemeria come in orange, pink, rose, purple, red, yellow, white or salmon colors. 3  Alstroemeria is named after the Swedish botanist Klas von Alstroemer, who was a pupil of the great botanical classifier Linnaeus. 1 Alstroemeria is named after the Swedish botanist Klas von Alstroemer, who was a pupil of the great botanical classifier Linnaeus. 2  The genus Alstroemeria consists of about 50 species. 3  Most modern hybrid Alstroemeria plants are propagated in a laboratory.
1 Alstroemeria flowers bloom during late spring or early summer. 2  Alstroemeria flower is symbolic of wealth, prosperity and fortune. 3  It is also the flower of friendship. 4  Alstroemeria come in orange, pink, rose, purple, red, yellow, white or salmon colors. 1 Alstroemeria flower is symbolic of wealth, prosperity and fortune. 2  It is also the flower of friendship. 3
Alstroemeria, commonly called the Peruvian Lily or Lily of the Incas or Parrot Lily is a South American genus of about 50 species of flowering plants, mainly from the cool, mountainous regions in the Andes. 1 Alstroemeria is named after the Swedish botanist Klas von Alstroemer, who was a pupil of the great botanical classifier Linnaeus. 2  The genus Alstroemeria consists of about 50 species. 3  Most modern hybrid Alstroemeria plants are propagated in a laboratory.