In addition to being found in the guts of humans, enteric bacteria also live in animals, including the animals which humans raise for meat and products such as eggs and milk. Cross-contamination of animal products can occur, allowing these bacteria to enter the food supply. Food poisoning often occurs when food is prepared or handled in a way that's unsanitary, contaminating it with pathogens such as E. coli and other enteric bacteria. Salmonella, a type of enteric bacteria. Enteric bacteria may spread by transferring to things which people handle, like door handles.
Enteric bacterial pathogens. From the viewpoint of a bacteria looking for a place to colonize a human or animal, the digestive tract represents a very attractive environment. Helicobacter pylori. Helicobacter pylori differs from other enteric bacterial pathogens, in that it is the only bacteria able to live in the stomach (rather than the intestines) and survive in this harsh environment for many years.
• ENTERIC BACTERIA (noun). The noun ENTERIC BACTERIA has 1 sense: 1. rod-shaped Gram-negative bacteria; most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals. Familiarity information: ENTERIC BACTERIA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Rod-shaped Gram-negative bacteria; most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals. Classified under: Nouns denoting animals. Synonyms: enteric bacteria; enterics; enterobacteria; entric. Hypernyms (enteric bacteria is a kind of...):
Basic handwashing protocols may help prevent an enteric bacteria infection. Food poisoning often occurs when food is prepared or handled in a way that's unsanitary, contaminating it with pathogens such as E. coli and other enteric bacteria. Salmonella, a type of enteric bacteria. Enteric bacteria may spread by transferring to things which people handle, like door handles.
enteric bacteria-rod-shaped Gram-negative bacteria; most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals. enterics, enterobacteria, entric. Enterobacteriaceae, family Enterobacteriaceae-a large family of Gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria of the order Eubacteriales. escherichia-a genus of enteric bacteria. klebsiella-a genus of nonmotile rod-shaped Gram-negative enterobacteria; some cause respiratory and other infections.
Enterics. Enteric bacteria are Gram-negative rods with facultative anaerobic metabolism that live in the intestinal tracts of animals in health and disease. This group consists of Escherichia coli and its relatives, the members of the family Enterobacteriaceae. The primary reservoir of the organism is in cattle, although bison are sometimes wrongfully accused. Enterics
Enteric bacteria. Enteric bacteria. a large group of gram negative rod-shaped bacteria characterised by a facultatively aerobic metabolism. Many of them are commonly found in the intestines of animals. 
Noun. 1. enteric bacteria-rod-shaped Gram-negative bacteria; most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals. enterics, enterobacteria, entric. eubacteria, eubacterium, true bacteria-a large group of bacteria having rigid cell walls; motile types have flagella. Enterobacteriaceae, family Enterobacteriaceae-a large family of Gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria of the order Eubacteriales. escherichia-a genus of enteric bacteria. klebsiella-a genus of nonmotile rod-shaped Gram-negative enterobacteria; some cause respiratory and other infections.
Enteric bacteria are bacteria in the family Enterobacteriaceae. These bacteria reside normally in the guts of many animals, including humans, and some are pathogenic, causing disease in certain animal species. Food poisoning often occurs when food is prepared or handled in a way that's unsanitary, contaminating it with pathogens such as E. coli and other enteric bacteria. Salmonella, a type of enteric bacteria. Enteric bacteria may spread by transferring to things which people handle, like door handles.
Overview. Enteric bacteria naturally live in the intestines of animals and humans. However, there are some types of bacteria that reside in intestinal tracts of animals that can cause disease and harsh reactions when humans become infected with them. 