Also running along the posterior of the arm, the radial nerve provides nerve signals to the triceps brachii muscle that extends the forearm and the skin of the posterior arm. The musculocutaneous nerve innervates the flexor muscles of the arm, including the biceps brachii and brachialis muscles. The nerves of the arm and hand perform a substantial two-fold role: commanding the intricate movements of the arms all the way down to the dexterous fingers, while also receiving the vast sensory information supplied by the sensory nerves of the hands and fingers.
Muscles of the posterior forearm. All the labelled muscles (that is, all the visible muscles except the ones on the dorsal hand and one at top left) are innervated by the radial nerve, and represent all muscles innervated by the radial nerve except for the supinator. With the lateral and medial heads of the triceps innervated, the radial nerve emerges from the radial groove on the lateral aspect of the humerus. At this point, it pierces the lateral intermuscular septum and enters the anterior compartment of the arm.
Motor Functions. The radial nerve innervates muscles located in the arm and forearm. In the arm, it directly innervates the three heads of the triceps brachii. This muscle performs extension at the elbow. In the forearm, the deep branch of the radial nerve innervates the muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm. As it moves inferiorly, the radial nerve wraps around the humerus in a lateral direction, and gives a branch to the lateral head of the triceps brachii. During its course in the arm, the nerve is accompanied by the deep branch of the brachial artery.
Radial nerve. The radial nerve runs all the way down the arm. It controls movement of the triceps muscle and wrist extension. In addition, it assists with sensation in the hand and wrist. The triceps are located on the back of the arms. Any problems with hand, wrist, or triceps movement and any arm sensation problems may be indicative of possible radial nerve dysfunction.
1 The superficial branch of the radial nerve descends in the forearm under the brachioradialis. 2  It crosses brachioradialis to enter posterior of forearm near the back of the wrist and supply dorsum of hand. With the lateral and medial heads of the triceps innervated, the radial nerve emerges from the radial groove on the lateral aspect of the humerus. At this point, it pierces the lateral intermuscular septum and enters the anterior compartment of the arm.
It innervates the medial and lateralheads of the triceps brachii muscle of the arm, as well as all 12 muscles in the posterior osteofascial compartment of the forearm and the associated joints and overlying skin. With the lateral and medial heads of the triceps innervated, the radial nerve emerges from the radial groove on the lateral aspect of the humerus. At this point, it pierces the lateral intermuscular septum and enters the anterior compartment of the arm.
Injury to the extensor muscles of the arm is often caused by repetitive motion. Too much stress on a muscle can weaken the tendons, expose nerves or inflame tissue. The radial nerve you built on your Maniken® is the largest nerve of the brachial plexus and supplies electrical stimulation to all extensors in the arm. Note that the string from the dorsal elbow spirals to the ventral forearm along the ulna. Stop the nerve before it runs downs the middle finger. Roll pieces of spaghetti out even thinner and use these small pieces to create digital branches of the ulnar nerve to the ring and little finger.
565-6). 1  This is the most medial of the superficial flexor muscles in the forearm. 2  It has 2 heads of proximal attachment, between which the ulnar nerve passes distally in the forearm. 3  Proximal attachments are: humeral head-medial epicondyle of humerus, ulnar head-olecranon and posterior border of ulna. 
For the comedy club, see The Funny Bone. In human anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve that runs near the ulna bone. The ulnar collateral ligament of elbow joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve. The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human body (meaning unprotected by muscle or bone), so injury is common. 
These nerves control the forearm muscles that move the hands and fingers through tendons that pass through the wrist. Skin in the posterior forearm and extensor muscles of the hand and fingers are supplied by the branches of the radial nerve. The nerves of the arm and hand perform a substantial two-fold role: commanding the intricate movements of the arms all the way down to the dexterous fingers, while also receiving the vast sensory information supplied by the sensory nerves of the hands and fingers.