Infection vs Disease. Infection and Disease are two words that are often confused as one and the same. In fact these two medical terms are different in their meanings. Infection is understood in the sense of contamination. Contaminating air or water with harmful organisms is said to cause infection. A person gets a disease if he or she carries an infection. For example a person gets the disease called malaria if he carries an infection caused in his body by the bite of the female Anopheles mosquito. The bite of the mosquito contaminates or infects the body of the person with harmful organisms.
An infectious disease is a clinically evident disease resulting from the presence of pathogenic microbial agents, including pathogenic viruses, pathogenic bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular parasites, and aberrant proteins known as prions. These pathogens are able to cause disease in animals and/or plants. Best Answer: infections are bacterial and a disease can be viral, neurological and physically disabling, while an infection can be cured with antibiotics with the exception or MRSA or the Super Bug. Source(s): tampico · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
As you might think, bacterial infections are caused by bacteria, and viral infections are caused by viruses. Perhaps the most important distinction between bacteria and viruses is that antibiotic drugs usually kill bacteria, but they aren't effective against viruses. 
Understanding infection vs. disease. There's a difference between infection and disease. Infection, often the first step, occurs when bacteria, viruses or other microbes that cause disease enter your body and begin to multiply.
What is the difference between STIs and STDs: Medically, an STI is an infection first, after it causes symptoms, the infection becomes a disease. An STD-sexually transmitted disease-is an infection that has symptoms. The common cold is both an infection and a disease. Heart disease is a disease, but NOT an infection. One can be infected with some microbes without getting a disease from it. (eg Cyklomegalovirus, E. Coli).
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. The symptoms of an infection depend on the type of disease. Some signs of infection affect the whole body generally, such as fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, fevers, night sweats, chills, aches and pains.
Actually, the difference between them is that one is caused by Candida which is a yeast that lives in the body, usually in the background and then overgrows to cause yeast infections such as thrush, whilst bladder infections are caused by bacteria. O … ther differences deal with symptoms. Yeast infection can cause itching while urinary tract infections cause burning sensation and frequency of urination. Both can be the result of bad hygiene and intercourse.
An infection is a disease caused by microorganisms like bacteria, viruses or fungi that has come inside you. Also diseases caused by greater parasites are sometimes called inf … ections. O … ther differences deal with symptoms. Yeast infection can cause itching while urinary tract infections cause burning sensation and frequency of urination. Both can be the result of bad hygiene and intercourse.
Infection affects a person with disease. On the other hand disease is the end result of an infection. This is the main difference between infection and disease. In short it can be said that infection leads to disease. A person gets a disease if he or she carries an infection. For example a person gets the disease called malaria if he carries an infection caused in his body by the bite of the female Anopheles mosquito. The bite of the mosquito contaminates or infects the body of the person with harmful organisms.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a germ called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. They are infected with M. tuberculosis, but do not have TB disease. The only sign of TB infection is a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test or TB blood test. Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB infection to others.