Three well-known Greek tragedy playwrights of the fifth century are Sophocles, and Euripedes. Aeschylus, who was a competitor at the City Dionysia around 499 B.C., wrote some of the oldest tragedies in the world. Aeschylus is attributed with the introducing the second actor to the stage. Another Greek playwright was Sophocles, and only seven of his tragedies--including the still-popular Antigone, Electra, and Oedipus Rex --have survived. Sophocles won twenty-four contests for his plays, never placing lower than second place.
Our knowledge of Greek tragedy is limited. Close to 900 tragedies were presented at Athens in the fifth century BC. We know that the three great tragedians, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, wrote about 220 tragedies. We have seven surviving plays from Aeschylus and Sophocles each and nineteen from Euripides, of which at least one is not a tragedy, but a satyr play. All in all, only 32 tragedies have survived.
(1777-1779, the final lines of Oedipus at Colonnus). Sophocles of Kolōnos (c. 496 - c. 406 BCE) was one of the most famous and celebrated writers of tragedy plays in ancient Greece and his surviving works, written throughout the 5th century BCE, include such classics as Oedipus the King, Antigone, and Women of Trachis. The most famous playwrights of the genre were Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides and many of their works were still performed centuries after their initial premiere. Greek tragedy led to Greek comedy and, together, these... [ continue reading ].
by Mark Cartwright. Greek tragedy was a popular and influential form of drama performed in theatres across ancient Greece from the late 6th century BCE. The most famous playwrights of the genre were Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides and many of their works were still performed centuries after their initial premiere. Greek tragedy led to Greek comedy and, together, these genres formed the foundation upon which all modern theatre is based. In the Roman world, tragedy plays were translated and imitated in Latin, and the genre gave rise to a new art form from the 1st century BCE, pantomime, which drew inspiration from the presentation and subject matter of Greek tragedy.
Occupation: Playwright. Euripides was an ancient writer of Greek tragedy -- the third of the famous trio (with Sophocles and Aeschylus). He wrote about women and mythological themes, like Medea and Helen of Troy. He enhanced the importance of intrigue in tragedy. 
The best playwrights of the day were famous celebrities in Ancient Greece. There were often competitions during festivals and the playwright with the best play was presented an award. The most famous Greek playwrights were Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, and Aristophanes. History Ancient Greece. 1  Tragedy-Greek tragedies were very serious plays with a moral lesson. 2  They usually told the story of a mythical hero who would eventually meet his doom because of his pride.
Three well-known Greek tragedy playwrights of the fifth century are Sophocles, Euripides and Aeschylus. Comedy was also an important part of ancient Greek theatre. Comedy plays were derived from imitation; there are no traces of its origin. Aristophanes wrote most of the comedy plays. 
Sophocles of Kolōnos (c. 496 - c. 406 BCE) was one of the most famous and celebrated writers of tragedy plays in ancient Greece and his surviving works, written throughout the 5th century BCE, include such classics as Oedipus the King, Antigone, and Women of Trachis. In the Roman world, tragedy plays were translated and imitated in Latin, and the genre gave rise to a new art form from the 1st century BCE, pantomime, which drew inspiration from the presentation and subject matter of Greek tragedy.
Euripides (c. 484-407 BCE) was one of the greatest authors of Greek tragedy. In 5th century BCE Athens his classic works such as Medeia cemented his reputation for clever dialogues, fine choral lyrics and a gritty realism in both his text and stage presentations. In the Roman world, tragedy plays were translated and imitated in Latin, and the genre gave rise to a new art form from the 1st century BCE, pantomime, which drew inspiration from the presentation and subject matter of Greek tragedy.