Apples contain a variety of nutrients, but they are most notable as a good source of fiber. Dietary fiber usually promotes healthy digestion and regular bowel movements, and it can reduce the levels of potentially harmful cholesterol. 
Snack on Dried Fruit. Dried fruits, such as dates, figs, prunes, apricots, and raisins, are another great source of dietary fiber that acts as a constipation remedy. “Prunes, in particular, are great because they not only are high in fiber, but also contain sorbitol, which is a natural laxative,” Prather says. 1 Pick Berries for a Sweet Treat For a sweet constipation remedy, take your pick of luscious raspberries, blackberries, and strawberries. “ 2 All are examples of fruits that have a good amount of fiber,” Dr.
One of the main reasons for this is that apples are an excellent source of fiber, both soluble and insoluble. A 5-oz. (140 g.) apple with the skin has about 3 g. of fiber. Insoluble fiber, wich used to be called roughage, is found mostly in the skin, and has long been recommended to relieve constipation. 
1 Eating more raw fruit can be a constipation remedy because fruit, too, is high in dietary fiber. 2  Plums, pears, and apples are good choices because much of the fiber can be found in their edible skins. 3  Plums, pears, and apples are high in pectin, a naturally occurring fiber. 1 Pick Berries for a Sweet Treat For a sweet constipation remedy, take your pick of luscious raspberries, blackberries, and strawberries. “ 2 All are examples of fruits that have a good amount of fiber,” Dr. Prather says.
Consuming adequate fiber is a simple method of relieving constipation, and apples are ideal because of their high fiber content. Adults should consume around 30 grams of total dietary fiber per day, and one or two apples can quickly help you work toward achieving this goal. Always eat your apple with its skin on, as the skin holds a significant amount of the fruit's fiber.
1 Go Raw With Plums, Pears, and Apples Constipation can cause you to feel bloated. 2  Eating more raw fruit can be a constipation remedy because fruit, too, is high in dietary fiber. 3  Plums, pears, and apples are good choices because much of the fiber can be found in their edible skins. 1 Pick Berries for a Sweet Treat For a sweet constipation remedy, take your pick of luscious raspberries, blackberries, and strawberries. “ 2 All are examples of fruits that have a good amount of fiber,” Dr. Prather says.
Constipation occurs for a number of reasons, but an apple's fiber content can help to alleviate this gastrointestinal condition and allow you to have bowel movements with ease and regularity. Constipation is defined as the inability to have three or more bowel movements in a week. Adults should consume around 30 grams of total dietary fiber per day, and one or two apples can quickly help you work toward achieving this goal. Always eat your apple with its skin on, as the skin holds a significant amount of the fruit's fiber.
Bran from many grains is very rich in dietary fiber. Oat bran is high in soluble fiber, which has been shown to lower blood cholesterol levels. Wheat, corn, and rice bran are high in insoluble fiber, which helps prevent constipation. Bran can be sprinkled into your favorite foods,from hot cereal and pancakes to muffins and cookies. Many popular high-fiber cereals and bars are also packed with bran. 
Most plant foods contain some of each kind of fiber. Foods containing high levels of soluble fiber include dried beans, oats, oat bran, rice bran, barley, citrus fruits, apples, strawberries, peas, and potatoes. Foods high in insoluble fiber include wheat bran, whole grains, cereals, seeds, and the skins of many fruits and vegetables. What is fiber? Dietary fiber refers to the edible parts of plants or carbohydrates that cannot be digested. Fiber is in all plant foods, including fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts, seeds, and legumes. You can also find a form of fiber called chitin in the shells of crustaceans such as crab, lobster, and shrimp.