Vitamin A from animal sources (retinol): fortified milk, cheese, cream, butter, fortified margarine, eggs, liver. Beta-carotene (from plant sources): Leafy, dark green vegetables; dark orange fruits (apricots, cantaloupe) and vegetables (carrots, winter squash, sweet potatoes, pumpkin). Vitamin D. Needed for proper absorption of calcium; stored in bones. Egg yolks, liver, fatty fish, fortified milk, fortified margarine. The tables below list the vitamins, what they do in the body (their functions), and their sources in food.
The body needs water-soluble vitamins in frequent, small doses. These vitamins are not as likely as fat-soluble vitamins to reach toxic levels. But niacin, vitamin B6, folate, choline, and vitamin C have upper consumption limits. The tables below list the vitamins, what they do in the body (their functions), and their sources in food.
Beans, nuts, lentils, breastmilk, meat, egg, chicken, cheese and milk are sources of protein. Really good quality protein can be found in animal sources such as breastmilk, meat, eggs, chicken, cheese and milk. Foods that contain a lot of protein are called body-building foods or growing foods. Foods that contain a lot of fat or carbohydrates and perhaps only a little protein are called energy-giving foods. Foods in which the most important nutrients are vitamins or minerals are called protective foods.
The main sources of proteins are meats, chicken, eggs, breastmilk, beans, ground nuts, lentils, fish, cheese and milk. All animal foods contain more protein than plants and are therefore usually better sources of body building foods. Foods that contain a lot of protein are called body-building foods or growing foods. Foods that contain a lot of fat or carbohydrates and perhaps only a little protein are called energy-giving foods. Foods in which the most important nutrients are vitamins or minerals are called protective foods.
Vitamin A. Food sources include: Cod-liver oil, sweet potatoes, carrots, leafy vegetables, and fortified foods such as breakfast cereals. What it does: Promotes good eyesight and normal functioning of the immune system. Vitamin B1 (Thiamine). Food sources include: Enriched, fortified, or whole-grain products such as bread, pasta, and cereals. What it does: Helps the body process carbohydrates and some protein. Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin). Food sources include: Milk, breads, fortified cereals, almonds, asparagus, dark meat chicken, and cooked beef
Dietary sources of vitamin A include milk, dairy products such as cheese, butter, yogurt, fish liver oils, eggs, chicken, liver, beef, kidney, fruits like mangoes, peaches, apricots, cantaloupe, winter squash, leafy vegetables, pumpkin, carrots and sweet potatoes. Therefore is vital for the development of strong teeth and healthy bones. Food sources of Vitamin D. Dairy products and milk are loaded with vitamin D in abundance. So also are cereals, liver, eggs, cod liver oils and oily fish such as sardines, salmon and herring.
NutriStrategy provides an overview of nutrition, nutrient food sources and the functions of vitamins and minerals in the body. CALORIES are needed to provide energy so the body functions properly. The number of calories in a food depends on the amount of energy the food provides. 
Vitaminb9 protect against pancreas, breast and colorectal cancers. Food Sources of B complex Vitamins. Bananas (Read benefits of banana), kidney beans, nuts, citrus fruits, chicken eggs, leafy vegetables, whole grains and cereals are some of the food sources of vitamin B complex. Therefore is vital for the development of strong teeth and healthy bones. Food sources of Vitamin D. Dairy products and milk are loaded with vitamin D in abundance. So also are cereals, liver, eggs, cod liver oils and oily fish such as sardines, salmon and herring.
ARS. Nutrient Data Laboratory. Look up the amount of calories, fat, protein, vitamins, minerals and more contained in foods using the USDA's on-line searchable database. This is an up-to-date and comprehensive source for nutrients amounts in food. Nutrient Data Laboratory. Look up the amount of calories, fat, protein, vitamins, minerals and more contained in foods using the. 
Vitamins. Below is a list of vitamins with their health benefits and the food sources from which they are obtained. You can only manufacture three vitamins D, K, and Biotin, a B vitamin, in your body. The rest must be obtained from dietary sources. Biotin-a B vitamin-water soluble. BENEFITS: Aids in the metabolism of food and promotes healthy skin, hair, nerve tissue and bone marrow. FOOD SOURCES: Brown rice, brewer's yeast, egg yolks, meat, milk, yogurt, poultry, seafood, whole grains, sourdough rye bread and fermented soy products.