45/45. Save to mypetMD. A breed with only 50 years of history, the Exotic Shorthair, also known as the Shorthaired Persian, is a popular breed for cat fanciers who walk on the calmer side of life. This breed has its playful side, but it prefers to cuddle and relax for most of the day. The other natural characteristic this breed has, and which boosts its popularity, is its pedomorphic appearance, meaning that the face of the Exotic retains its kittenish expression, with large, round, widely set eyes, small ears, a short nose, and a large, round head.
It’s a good idea to keep a Persian as an indoor-only cat. She’s not a scrapper and would fare poorly against other cats, dogs, coyotes and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors. Nor is the Persian’s coat made for shedding dirt, leaves and stickers. 
The Persian cat is a long-haired breed of cat characterized by its round face and short muzzle. In Britain, it is sometimes called the Longhair or Persian Longhair. It is also known as the Shiraz or Shirazi, particularly in the Middle East, named from the Persian city of Shiraz. A Persian with a visible muzzle in contrast with a Persian with its forehead, nose and chin in vertical alignment, as called for by CFA's 2007 breed standard. The shorter the muzzle, the higher the nose tends to be.
Save to mypetMD. A breed with only 50 years of history, the Exotic Shorthair, also known as the Shorthaired Persian, is a popular breed for cat fanciers who walk on the calmer side of life. The other natural characteristic this breed has, and which boosts its popularity, is its pedomorphic appearance, meaning that the face of the Exotic retains its kittenish expression, with large, round, widely set eyes, small ears, a short nose, and a large, round head.
1 The Exotic is a loving lap cat with a somewhat more lively personality than the Persian. 2  The Exotic has the look of a Persian but with a short, plush coat that comes in many beautiful colors and patterns, including tabby, tortoiseshell, black and white, and chinchilla silver. Other Quick Facts. 1 
This breed was granted Championship Status in 1967 by the Cat Fanciers Association (CFA). The Exotic made rapid progress from there, and was soon in demand. In 1971, the first Exotic Shorthair achieved the status of Grand Champion, and in 1991, an Exotic was the CFA's Cat of the Year. The other natural characteristic this breed has, and which boosts its popularity, is its pedomorphic appearance, meaning that the face of the Exotic retains its kittenish expression, with large, round, widely set eyes, small ears, a short nose, and a large, round head.
Exotic Shorthair cats are a cross between an American or British short hair and a Persian. They have the body conformation of a Persian but with short plush fur, giving them the appearance of living teddy bears. 
Exotic CAT PROFILE. The Exotic is a man-made breed resulting from the cross of Persians with American Shorthairs and other shorthaired cats. The Exotic's body and head-style match that of the Persian, but the breed was separated into its own category in the 1960s.
Exotic House Cats. ExoticHouseCat.com is an informational website that provides details on the different breeds of exotic house cats. See photos, videos and learn about the cats appearance, temperament, cost and even find breeders for the specific cat you are interested in. Hybrid Cats. Hybrid cats are a cross-breed from a wild cat and a domestic cat. With a total of 8 different breeds recognized by the TICS there is much to consider when decided which hybrid kitty to bring home.
Profile. Breed Group-Persian. The Exotic is a shorthair cat with Persian 'type'. They are a relatively new breed in the UK with many admirers and are a happy, healthy and mischievous breed. With an easily maintained coat, they have quickly established themselves as both a striking show cat and a loving pet. 