If we paid HVAC contractor $5,700.00 to replace central air conditioner units with furnace I would said that good deal. Central air cost with duct work. To install central air conditioner units with duct work is between $10,000 and $15,000 or more. There are some areas that will charge less.
Your heat pump or air conditioner is more than 10 years old. Consider replacing it with a unit that has earned the ENERGY STAR label. Installed correctly, these high-efficiency units can save up to 20 percent on heating and cooling costs. 
Find the average air conditioning repair cost for your home: We list the most common air conditioning repair cost for your home. Use the list of air conditioning repair cost to compare what your air conditioning repair contractor is charging to fix your unit. There may be a plus or minus of 10% to the air conditioning repair prices listed below. However if you are paying more the then 20% of the price listed below you are paying to much! Remember: Always ask questions when you call an air conditioning repair company to fix your system. Comfort Time Heating & Cooling repair prices are subjected to change and the air conditioning repair prices listed below are an example only of what air conditioning repair companies charge to repair the most common air conditioning systems. $225 – $1600: Refrigerant Leak Detection and Repair.
Air conditioner replacement costs often depend on the SEER, or the seasonal energy-efficiency ratio, of the unit. A unit with a low SEER rating of 13 can run you around $2,000, while a higher rating of 17 can cost more than $5,000. Air conditioner prices also depend on the installation costs, so you'll need to work with someone who has experience with HVAC systems. Or you might discover that your contractor can replace the ducts or seal ducts for less than $100. While the contractor is there, get an air conditioner estimate. Anyone who installs air conditioner units can give you an estimate as to replacement costs.
The cost to install a window air conditioner averages between $150 and $300, depending on the size you need. Installing a window air conditioning unit can bring added comfort for a reasonable price, but it will be less powerful than a central air conditioning system. Most homeowners report spending between $3,675 and $7,155 to have air conditioning installed. This price is more typical of a central A/C unit installation rather than a window air conditioner addition which typically averages about $300. Your total cost for the job will depend on the type of system you choose
The cost of the parts varies widely. **** Higher cost central air conditioner repair prices should prompt you to request replacement estimates at the same time. (get free estimates for repair or replacement systems). ***** Finding leaks in a central air conditioner system is not an easy task.
Sometimes, however, repairs are necessary whether it’s fixing the evaporator, capacitor, or condenser or recharging the refrigerant. Most air conditioner repairs cost between $167 and $495 with most homeowners reporting that they spend about $318. If you do need a repair, here is some information to help you get it done quickly, professionally, and economically. 
If your air conditioner is between 10-15 years old, it may be more cost efficient to replace the unit, especially if your unit is no longer under warranty. If your unit is in need of frequent repairs, the repairs may end up costing you more than a new unit in the long run. 
The price to install central air conditioner units with heating unit is between $6,500 and $15,000. The HVAC installation costs are for complete heating and cooling system and labor cost. To get little more accurate price in your area, check out the links below. Central air cost with duct work. To install central air conditioner units with duct work is between $10,000 and $15,000 or more. There are some areas that will charge less.