Centriole: Centrioles come in pairs; any cell which has a centrioles will have two of them. These small structures are composed of microtubules—27 of them, arranged in an array described as “nine triplets.” The general shape of the centrioles is rather like a tin can with one end open. 
Which organelle contains hereditary factors andcontrols most cell activities? (1) nucleus (2) cell membrane(3) vacuole(4) endoplasmic reticulum5. Centrioles are cell structures involved primarilyin (1) cell division (3) enzyme production(2) storage of fats (4) cellular respiration6. Which organelles are most closely associatedwith the process of aerobic respiration?(1) ribosomes (3) nucleoli (2) mitochondria (4) vacuoles2. Centrioles are normally present in the(1) cytoplasm of onion cells (2) cytoplasm of cheek cells (3) nuclei of liver cells(4) nuclei of bean cells3.
The two centrosomes move to opposite ends of the nucleus, and from each centrosome, microtubules grow into a spindle which is responsible for separating replicated chromosomes into the two daughter cells. The centriole is a eukaryotic organelle. Animal cells have them, as do some others (such as some protists and fungi) but plants and most fungi do not have centrioles. Edit. Share to: 1  Famous Spanish Churches As a primarily Catholic nation, you can bet that Spain is positively covered with churches.
Yes. The centrosome, also called the microtubule organizing center, is an area in the cell where microtubles are produced. Within an animal cell centrosome there is a pair of small organelles, the centrioles, each made up of a ring of nine groups of microtubules. There are three fused microtubules in each group. The two centrioles are arranged such that one is perpendicular to the other. 
The function of centrioles has been controversial and remains incompletely resolved. This is because centrioles, in and of themselves, do not directly perform any physiological activity. Instead, their role is only to act as a jig or breadboard onto which other functional structures can be built. Centrioles are primarily involved in forming two structures—centrosomes and cilia. 
A) cell membrane B) nucleus C) vacuole D) endoplasmic reticulum 3. Centrioles are cell... show more The fluid-mosaic model presents the modern view of A) endoplasmic reticulum B) cytoplasm C) nucleus D) cell membrane 2. Which organelle contains hereditary factors and controls most cellular activities? A) cell membrane B) nucleus C) vacuole D) endoplasmic reticulum 3. Centrioles are cell structures involved primarily in A) cellular respiration B) cell division C) storage of fats D) enzyme production 4. 
Centrioles play a notable role in cell division. During interphase of an animal cell, the centrioles and other components of the centrosome are duplicated, though scientists are not yet sure how this duplication takes place. Though centrioles play a role in the mitosis of animal cells, plant cells are able to reproduce without them. Researchers have, therefore, been very interested in determining exactly how important the organelles really are.
Yes    The centrosome, also called the microtubule organizing center, is an area in the cell where microtubles are produced. Within an animal cell centrosome there … is a pair of small organelles, the centrioles, each made up of a ring of nine groups of microtubules.    There are three fused microtubules in each group. The two centrioles are arranged such that one is perpendicular to the other. The centriole is a eukaryotic organelle. Animal cells have them, as do some others (such as some protists and fungi) but plants and most fungi do not have centrioles. Edit. Share to: 1  Famous Spanish Churches As a primarily Catholic nation, you can bet that Spain is positively covered with churches.
Report Abuse. Cell division. They organize the spindle fibers that attach to the chromosomes and facilitate their movement. Experiments have shown though that cells in which the centrioles are not present, or have been removed will still organize their spindle fibers and divide successfully. This means that they're not the only structure that handles this function. Science Geek · 7 years ago.