And that new total will then earn 6% the following year -- $6.74, another increase. As long as you leave the money in there, it will keep earning more. If you left that same $100 in a 6% interest account for 40 years, you d have $1,028, and your annual interest earnings would be more than $50 per year. The Rule of 72. One simple way to see the power of compound interest is through the rule of 72. 
Taxable Interest. No matter where you open your savings account, the money you earn is subject to income taxes. Each year you have your savings account you will receive a 1099-INT form listing the amount of interest you received for the previous year. It is your responsibility to report the amount of interest you received to the IRS when you complete your tax return.
Savings accounts allow you to keep your money in a safe place while it earns a small amount of interest each month. These accounts usually require either a low minimum balance, like $25, or may require no minimum balance at all. This depends on the bank and the type of account. When you put your money into a savings account, it earns interest. Interest is money the bank pays you so that they can use your money to fund loans for other people. That doesn't mean you can't have your money whenever you want it, though. That's just how banks make money -- by selling money!
It may only amount to pocket change, but any interest you earn in your savings or checking account has to be reported as income on your tax return. In most cases your bank will send you a Form 1099-INT listing the total amount of interest payments you should report. Exceptions. Interest earned on a tax-deferred account generally will not be reported on a 1099-INT, because the interest is not taxable until it is withdrawn. Examples include interest earned on individual retirement accounts, medical savings accounts and educational savings accounts.
The cool thing about compounded interest is that the bank is paying you interest on the money they've paid you in interest! That means that if your account earns one percent interest, then each day 1/365th of that one percent of the amount of money you have in your savings account is then added to your total. When you put your money into a savings account, it earns interest. Interest is money the bank pays you so that they can use your money to fund loans for other people. That doesn't mean you can't have your money whenever you want it, though. That's just how banks make money -- by selling money!
1 You open a savings account at the bank. 2  The bank pays you interest on the money that you deposit and leave in that account. 3  The bank then loans that money out to other people, only they charge a slightly higher interest rate on the loan than what they pay you for your account. When you put your money into a savings account, it earns interest. Interest is money the bank pays you so that they can use your money to fund loans for other people. That doesn't mean you can't have your money whenever you want it, though. That's just how banks make money -- by selling money!
Interest rates being paid to savings accounts are incredibly low right now (in fact, aside from a few specialty banks, you'll be lucky to get 1%), but in years past, 5-6 or even 10% wasn't uncommon (though you'd have to go a while back for that!). But in general, that's how interest/compounded interest works. Really the question should be refined, because if you are talking about how much interest you are going to earn in a specific savings account given a fixed amount initial deposit, with interest compounding over time, then it depends on initial amount.
High-Yield Savings Accounts. Some banks and credit unions offer high-yield savings accounts that pay much more than traditional accounts. These high-yield accounts may come with strings attached, however, including limits on the number of transactions you can make and higher-than-average minimum balance requirements. Each year you have your savings account you will receive a 1099-INT form listing the amount of interest you received for the previous year. It is your responsibility to report the amount of interest you received to the IRS when you complete your tax return.
Opening a savings account is an excellent way to keep your money safe while earning a competitive rate of interest. With a savings account, your money is insured up to a limit of $250,000 as of 2011, so you can be sure your money is safe. Each year you have your savings account you will receive a 1099-INT form listing the amount of interest you received for the previous year. It is your responsibility to report the amount of interest you received to the IRS when you complete your tax return.