a valve cover gasket is not a $600.00 job it takes about 30mins tops. you could do that your self and save the cash. the valve cover is that piece that is on top of the en … gine, in some vehicles is the piece that has the hole from where you put oil in to the engine. Also place a small bead on the top of the head where the gasket will sit. DO NOT put so much that it will bleed into the rocker assembly and mix with the oil when you tighten down the valve cover. After you place the new gasket onto the valve cover place the cover back onto the head.
Report Abuse. Dealer would charge $400 to take out valve cover out, and you have two for V6 engine. if you get it done at Honda dealer, $800 sounds about right. If you get it done at Firestone, the price appears to be excessive. 
In this write-up, the cost of replacing a valve cover gasket, is discussed, along with a description of the associated procedure. For those who are just looking for an estimate of cost involved, it could be anything in the range of $100 to $300. Function. After laying the valve cover inside the gasket groove, fix the bolts holding the gasket down back again and proceed to reinstall and reconnect all the car parts that you removed to gain access to the engine head.
On my 93 rodeo I had the valve cover gasket changed and it cost me $500.00. It was the labor that costs so much. The mechanic had to take a lot of stuff off that was around the gasket cover to get to and remove the cover. You may want to ask your mechanic how much of that $600 is labor costs. Also place a small bead on the top of the head where the gasket will sit. DO NOT put so much that it will bleed into the rocker assembly and mix with the oil when you tighten down the valve cover. After you place the new gasket onto the valve cover place the cover back onto the head.
Without much effort, the source of the leaks were easily spotted. Seeing as the engine has 76,000 miles on it, such things are to be expected. According to various online resources, I should be able to purchase a new valve cover gasket for anywhere between $10.00 and $35.00 depending upon the source. I ended up buying the gasket from a nearby AutoZone, but I'm sure most large part stores commonly stock the part.
Replacing the gaskets on a V-type engine is a job for the pros. But you can replace the gasket on a four-cylinder engine in about an hour and for less than $25. Here’s how to do it. Pick up a new valve cover gasket kit, a tube of room temperature vulcanizing (RTV) sealant and a spray can of brake cleaner. My dad said it was from a leaky valve cover gasket. We bought a new gasket for $20 and had it installed in about 20 minutes—it was really easy. But a few weeks later it was leaking again. We didn’t know we had to smear silicone sealant over the timing cover joint.
Place a small bead of silicon gasket maker into the groove of the valve cover where the gasket will sit. Also place a small bead on the top of the head where the gasket will sit. DO NOT put so much that it will bleed into the rocker assembly and mix with the oil when you tighten down the valve cover. After you place the new gasket onto the valve cover place the cover back onto the head.
Step by step procedure on replacing the front and rear valve cover gaskets in a Toyota Camry with the 1MZ-FE 3.0L V6 engine. Procedure is the same for V6 Toyota Camry, Avalon, Solara, Sienna, Highlander, Lexus RX300 and ES300. 
Labor: $220 - $278. Parts: $28 - $68. The average cost for a valve cover gasket(s) replacement is between $248 to $346. Labor costs are estimated between $220 to $278 while parts are priced between $28 to $68. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
Wherever there are high pressure cylinders or chambers, there are valves and gaskets to fix leakages. The gasket seals your car's engine cylinder and prevents oil leakage from inside. It is placed between the engine cylinder head and the valve cover. Oil is ever present inside an engine cylinder, as a lubricant. The main function of a cover gasket is to prevent leakage of oil from the cylinder, when the car is running. These cover gaskets are usually made of silicon, cork or rubber. After laying the valve cover inside the gasket groove, fix the bolts holding the gasket down back again and proceed to reinstall and reconnect all the car parts that you removed to gain access to the engine head.