Horseshoe Crab. Horseshoe crabs (Limulus polyphemus) are a marine arthropod found along the Atlantic coast from northern Maine to the Yucatan Peninsula and the Gulf of Mexico. The Delaware Bay supports the largest spawning population in the world. Life History. Horseshoe crabs (Limulus polyphemus) are a marine arthropod found along the Atlantic coast from northern Maine to the Yucatan Peninsula and the Gulf of Mexico.
Horseshoe crabs are a keystone species within the Delaware Bay ecosystem. Description: Horseshoe crabs look like prehistoric crabs. They have a hard exoskeleton, ten walking legs under the shell, spines on the abdomen and a long tail. Most horseshoe crabs will not even make it to the larval stage before being eaten. If the egg survives, the larval horseshoe crab will hatch from the egg after about 2 weeks or more. The larva looks like a very tiny version of an adult horseshoe crab without a tail.
Horseshoe Crab eggs in a shell 12 inches wide, Edisto Island, SC, May 2008. I found the crab dead with appendages and book gills eaten away. This is the shell on the left. It is 29 inches long from the front edge of the carapace to the tip of the tail. Horseshoe Crab, live, Sunset Beach, NC, 12/14 and 12/15/06. 
If you want to see one of the world’s oldest natural phenomena, then make a journey to the Delaware Bay in late spring. During full and new moons and high tides in May and June, hundreds of thousands of horseshoe crabs converge on the Delaware Bay to breed. Most horseshoe crabs will not even make it to the larval stage before being eaten. If the egg survives, the larval horseshoe crab will hatch from the egg after about 2 weeks or more. The larva looks like a very tiny version of an adult horseshoe crab without a tail.
Horseshoe crabs are used as bait to fish for eels (mostly in the United States) and whelk. However, fishing with horseshoe crab is temporarily forbidden in New Jersey (moratorium on harvesting) and restricted to only males in Delaware. A permanent moratorium is in effect in South Carolina. The eggs are eaten in parts of Southeast Asia and China. 
He found the crab in the first row at Wrightsville, Beach, NC, and the crab without a shell on Masonboro Island, NC. Like hermit crabs, Shellback Crabs lack shells of their own. A Shellback Crab carries a clam shell on itsback, holding the shell in place with its last two pairs of legs. The first, very small pair is used to put ground-up food into the crab's mouth. The next five pairs are for walking. The first of those five, i.e., the second pair of appendages, is larger in males and is used to grasp a female during spawning. There are two very important facts to know about Horseshoe Crabs.
Chitin is a substance found in the shells, or exoskeleton, of horseshoe crabs, as well as other arthropods, such as lobsters, crabs, shrimp, spiders, beetles, and mosquitoes. Chitin has received a lot of attention from scientists because it is non-toxic and biodegradable. Horseshoe crabs belong to the phylum, Arthropoda, along with crabs, insects, and other invertebrates with jointed legs, but their closest living relatives are spiders and scorpions. True crabs have two pairs of antennae and a pair of mandibles, or jaws; horseshoe crabs lack these structures.
These fascinating creatures (Limulus polyphemus) are found commonly along our beachfront sitting within the intertidal flats. The horseshoe crab is one of the oldest living species. Fossils of horseshoe crabs have been dated at 360 million years old. They evolved in the shallow seas of the Paleozoic Era (540-248 million years ago) with other primitive arthropods called trilobites, a long extinct close relative of the horseshoe crab. Among today’s species, they are more closely related to spiders than crab
Horseshoe Crab eggs in a shell 12 inches wide, Edisto Island, SC, May 2008. I found the crab dead with appendages and book gills eaten away. This is the shell on the left. It is 29 inches long from the front edge of the carapace to the tip of the tail. The first, very small pair is used to put ground-up food into the crab's mouth. The next five pairs are for walking. The first of those five, i.e., the second pair of appendages, is larger in males and is used to grasp a female during spawning. There are two very important facts to know about Horseshoe Crabs.