There are three easy ways. First, sign into your Zillow account, go to your Zillow Profile and select Request a review.. A form will appear where you can ask for reviews three ways: o Email individual clients with a link to a review form on Zillow. Each of your clients will get an email from you, with a link to the agent review request form. o Send a client a direct link to your review form. Cut and paste the URL that goes directly to a review for you.
You can use the built-in features of your Zillow profile to request reviews from your clients. Simply fill out the form, declare that the person you’re soliciting for a review is a past client (and select from a drop down list of relationship options) and you’re done. The review request form within your Zillow profile. You might be surprised to learn that Zillow checks every review by hand for content and accuracy. It’s a big job: Since December 2010, consumers have submitted more than 330,000 reviews of agents to Zillow. Reviews are a fast-growing and popular feature of Zillow.
Zillow says it now has over 730,000 reviews on more than 700,000 agent profiles. Agents with 10 or more reviews get three times the number of contacts versus agents with no reviews, according to Zillow Chief Revenue Officer Greg Schwartz. A plethora of agent review and recommendation sites have sprouted up in recent years, and ... 
How Real Estate Pros Get Reviews. Real estate agents can get reviews on Google, Zillow, Trulia, and more. Let Grade.us unlock more reviews from your happy clients. 
We get more than 70 million* visitors every month, and many have not yet found a real estate agent. Since Zillow's goal has always been to empower consumers with information about real estate, we feel reviews and ratings of local agents can be an incredibly useful tool to help consumers choose an agent. Each of your clients will get an email from you, with a link to the agent review request form. o Send a client a direct link to your review form. Cut and paste the URL that goes directly to a review for you.
1 Few Reviews. 2  If you like using customer reviews as a guide, you’ll find Zillow lacking in that department. 3  While there are more than 100,000 user reviews of local real estate agents, many real estate agents, lenders, and contractors listed on the site do not have any submitted reviews. 1 If you like using customer reviews as a guide, you’ll find Zillow lacking in that department. 2
Zillow says that because reviews are lead generators, it’s in its interest to keep the playing field fair. Reviews have to be impartial, authentic and useful. Zillow says that agents with more than five reviews on their profiles get twice as many inquiries as those who don’t have any reviews at all. J. Philip Faranda has 12 five star reviews on his profile. Zillow wants reviews from your clients and even your colleagues. You might be surprised to learn that Zillow checks every review by hand for content and accuracy. It’s a big job: Since December 2010, consumers have submitted more than 330,000 reviews of agents to Zillow. Reviews are a fast-growing and popular feature of Zillow.
There is no way to integrate your reviews from Zillow to Trulia; naturally since they are competitors. Fortunately though there is a short cut so to speak. When you have clients filling out the Zillow Review, you can send them a link to Trulia as well. What I do is when I have a Zillow review go live, I go to my Trulia Profile and then click Request or Add Recommendations.. Once there I click the Add tab, and then input the clients data, and the exact review in the Paste or type Recommendation section
Yes, as soon as a review is published on Zillow, agents will receive an email notification. Agents then have the option to respond to the review if they so choose. The email will also include links to Facebook and Twitter so you can share your review. Each of your clients will get an email from you, with a link to the agent review request form. o Send a client a direct link to your review form. Cut and paste the URL that goes directly to a review for you.