Ghee or clarified butter (also known as drawn butter) is a casein free alternative to regular butter. Both ghee and clarified butter have the milk proteins casein and whey removed and what remains is butter fat. Casein is a protein that many people do not tolerate, especially people who cannot tolerate gluten.
Both ghee and clarified butter have the milk proteins casein and whey removed and what remains is butter fat. Casein and whey are proteins in dairy that many people do not tolerate, especially people who cannot tolerate gluten. This is because gluten, whey, and casein have a similar molecular structure.
Butter is made up of butterfat, milk solids and water. Clarified butter is the translucent golden-yellow butterfat left over after the milk solids and water are removed. Clarified butter is great for sauteing sautéing because it'doesn t burn as easily as ordinary, butter so you can use it for cooking at hotter. temperatures
Simply defined, clarified butter is unsalted butter that has the milk solids and water removed so all that remains is pure liquid golden-yellow butterfat. The advantages of this type of butter is its long keeping quality (several months refrigerated) and its high smoke point (can be used in frying without burning).
You want the butter to be completely melted with the milk solids separated. If the milk solids are not clearly separated, put the dish back in the oven and check again in 15 minutes. The milk solids have separated from the butterfat and have floated to the surface.
Dr. Gourmet Says... This is for the most part true. Butter contains very little lactose to begin with and only those who are very sensitive would likely react to small amounts of butter. The milk solids that do remain in butter are removed when the butter is clarified (what the Indians call ghee).
Ghee is made from butter and is sometimes called clarified butter. Although it is technically a dairy product, just like milk, yogurt, ice cream, cream, butter and cheese, it is made only from the fattiest part of dairy and contains very little milk protein.