C. Radioactive thymine would pair with nonradioactive guanine. D. All 4 bases of the DNA would be radioactive. E. neither of the 2 daughter cells would be radioactive. Hint: The radioactive thymine is simply acting as a label, to allow the researcher to distinguish newly made DNA from the original DNA. So both daughter cells will receive a new chromosome in which 1 strand is non radioactive, and the other one (the new strand) is radioactive). If you measure the cell, both will be radioactive. Thymine pairs with adenine, so C is incorrect. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thymine.
All 4 bases of the DNA would be radioactive E. neither of the 2 daughter cells would be radioactive Hint: The radioactive thymine is simply acting as a label, to allow the researcher to distinguish newly made DNA from the original DNA. Follow. So both daughter cells will receive a new chromosome in which 1 strand is non radioactive, and the other one (the new strand) is radioactive). If you measure the cell, both will be radioactive. Thymine pairs with adenine, so C is incorrect. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thymine.
BrdU is a synthetic analogue of Thymidine that is also incorportated into cells during DNA replication, which allows us to successfully identify dividing cells. Essentially, BrdU provides scientists with a way of staining cells that are proliferating in the human brain. 
Parent strand-In DNA replication, refers to the pre-existing single strand of DNA that is copied into a new strand of DNA via complementary base pairing. Replication fork-Term used to describe the junction at which nucleotide substrates are being added to a growing DNA chain during DNA replication. Primase-The enzyme responsible for initiating synthesis of RNA primers on the lagging strand during DNA replication. Holoenzyme-A term used to describe a collection of different enzymes that work together in a given process such as
Thymidine (deoxythymidine; other names deoxyribosylthymine, thymine deoxyriboside) is a pyrimidine deoxynucleoside. Deoxythymidine is the DNA nucleoside T, which pairs with deoxyadenosine (A) in double-stranded DNA. In cell biology it is used to synchronize the cells in S phase. Before the boom in thymidine use caused by the need for thymidine for the production of the antiretroviral drug azidothymidine (AZT), much of the world's thymidine production came from herring sperm. Deoxythymidine is non-toxic and as part of one of the four nucleotides in DNA it is a naturally occurring compound that exists in all living organisms and DNA viruses. RNA has uridine (uracil joined to ribose) instead. Uracil is chemically very similar to thymine, the latter being 5-methyluracil.
Daughter strand-Refers to the newly synthesized strand of DNA that is copied via the addition of complementary nucleotides from one strand of pre-existing DNA during DNA replication. DNA Helicase-The enzyme responsible for separating the two strands of DNA in a helix so that they can be copied during DNA replication. Primase-The enzyme responsible for initiating synthesis of RNA primers on the lagging strand during DNA replication. Holoenzyme-A term used to describe a collection of different enzymes that work together in a given process such as
Thymidine kinase is an enzyme, a phosphotransferase (a kinase): 2'-deoxythymidine kinase, ATP-thymidine 5'-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.21. It can be found in most living cells. The thymidine kinase negative cells are obtained by growing the tumour cell line in the presence of thymidine analogues, that kill the thymidine kinase positive (TK +) cells. The negative cells can then be expanded and used for the fusion with TK + plasma cells.
Thymidine kinases have a key function in the synthesis of DNA and thereby in cell division, as they are part of the unique reaction chain to introduce deoxythymidine into the DNA. Deoxythymidine is present in the body fluids as a result of degradation of DNA from food and from dead cells. The thymidine kinase negative cells are obtained by growing the tumour cell line in the presence of thymidine analogues, that kill the thymidine kinase positive (TK +) cells. The negative cells can then be expanded and used for the fusion with TK + plasma cells.
The backbone of the DNA strand is made from alternating phosphate and sugar residues. The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar. The sugars are joined together by phosphate groups that form phosphodiester bonds between the third and fifth carbon atoms of adjacent sugar rings. These asymmetric bonds mean a strand of DNA has a direction.