Posteromedial shin splints (also called Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome or MTSS) are often caused by running on a sloped track or other non-level running surface or wearing improper shoes that do not protect the foot from rolling (pronation) . (Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome). Shin splints is a general term used to describe pain in the front of the shin or tibia bone. This pain can be caused by damage (tiny cracks) to the tibia bone itself, tears in the tibialis anterior muscle, or tears along the tibialis anterior tendon where it attaches to the tibia.
Shin splints, medically known as medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS), refers to pain in the shins-the front lower legs. It is an inflammatory condition of the front part of the tibia. The pain is brought on by strenuous activity, more commonly in stop-start sports such as squash, tennis or basketball. 
Shin splints (medial tibial stress syndrome). Many athletes get shin splints, also called sore shins or medial tibial stress syndrome, at one time or another. Whether you jog daily or just sprint to catch a bus one day, you can get shin splints. While they often heal on their own, severe shin splints can be a problem. Many athletes get shin splints, also called sore shins or medial tibial stress syndrome, at one time or another. Whether you jog daily or just sprint to catch a bus one day, you can get shin splints
Description. Anterior Shin Splints -. Anterior shin splints are the most common cause of anterior shin pain. Anterior shin splints are also called medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS), exertional shin pain, medial periostalgia, medial tibial periostitis and traction periostitis. Anterior shin splints are caused by overuse of the tibialis anterior muscle and tendon. Shin splints are a form of tendonitis that effect the lower leg. There are two types of shin splints; anterior and posterior. Anterior shin splints affect the anterior shin and are most known to athletes. Posterior shin splints affect the medial ankle.
While medial tibial stress syndrome is the most common form of shin splints, compartment syndrome and stress fractures are also common forms of shin splints. Females are 1.5 to 3.5 times more likely to progress to stress fractures from shin splints. Aerobic dancers have also been known to suffer from shin splints, with injury rates as high as 22%. Military personnel undergoing basic training experience shin splints injury rates between 4%-6.4% and 7.9%.
Shin splints, also called Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome, is one of the most painful and debilitating injuries runners can experience. Endurance runners can be particularly prone to this injury. Untreated or severe shin splints can cause a tibial stress fracture. 
0. 3. Shin splints is the name often given to exercise-induced pain in the lower leg, specifically along the front of the leg between the knee and the ankle-the area known as the shin. The exact cause of shin splints is not certain but they tend to be as a result of overuse and typically occur in runners. 
Shin splints, also known as medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS), is defined by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons as pain along the inner edge of the shinbone (tibia).. Shin splints are usually caused by repeated trauma to the connective muscle tissue surrounding the tibia. Aerobic dancers have also been known to suffer from shin splints, with injury rates as high as 22%. Military personnel undergoing basic training experience shin splints injury rates between 4%-6.4% and 7.9%.
Shin pain occurs most frequently in athletes involved in running, jumping, or high-impact sports. Shin pain can be caused by shin splints (also called medial tibial stress syndrome), a stress fracture of the tibia or fibula, or compartment syndrome. The most common source of shin pain in runners is shin splints. 