wales Thanks to Wikipedia; Although Royals do not tend to use a last name, in the instance of a marriage, for example, Prince William's last name is Mountbatten-Windsor. T … his is the surname of all descendents of Prince Philip and Queen Elizabeth II excluding females who marry.. 4 people found this useful. However, as a Royal, if you have a title, you do not use a last name. They will be referred to as Prince William of Wales, Duke of Cambridge and Princess Catherine of Wales, Duchess of Cambridge.
Recorded in various spellings including William, Williams, and Williamson, this is a surname which can be of English, Scottish, Irish, and Welsh origins. Wherever found it is ultimately Germanic, and was introduced into England and Scotland around the time of the Norman Conquest of 1066. 
Technically, their last name is Mountbatten-Windsor, although William and his brother use the surname Wales in their professional lives. However, as a Royal, if you have a title, you do not use a last name. They will be referred to as Prince William of Wales, Duke of Cambridge and Princess Catherine of Wales, Duchess of Cambridge.
As a British prince, William does not use a surname for everyday purposes. For formal and ceremonial purposes, the children of the Prince of Wales use the title of prince or princess before their Christian name and their father's territorial designation after it. William, the first child of the Prince and Princess of Wales, was born at St Mary's Hospital, London, on 21 June 1982 at 9.03 pm. He weighed 7 pounds 1.5 ounces (3.22 kg). A week later on 28 June his name was announced by Buckingham Palace: William Arthur Philip Louis.
Although Royals don't tend to use a last name, in the instance of a marriage, for example, Prince William's last name is Mountbatten-Windsor. This is the surname of all descen … dants of Prince Philip and Queen Elizabeth II (excluding females who marry). However, as a Royal, if you have a title, you do not use a last name. They will be referred to as Prince William of Wales, Duke of Cambridge and Princess Catherine of Wales, Duchess of Cambridge.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Williams is a patronymic form of the name William that originated in medieval England and Wales and later came to be extremely common in Wales. The meaning is derived from son or descendant of William, the Northern French form that also gave the English name William. 
Prince William isn't typically called by his surname and although Kate Middleton has a known last name, she is called Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge. Prince Harry and Prince William get their last name from their father, Charles, Prince of Wales. Prince William is known as William Wales when he is in the military. Share This Story. A last name is not required for the royal baby, as he will be given the title HRH Prince, but Kate and Prince William can choose a last name for their baby.
And, click below to find out what it is.... Prince William's official last name is: Mountbatten-Windsor. That is quite a mouthful. The name comes from the merging of names of the Queen and Prince Phillip in 1960. 