Epitome is a noun that means a person or thing that is a perfect example of a particular quality or type. Synonyms are personification, embodiment, incarnation, and paragon. It also means a summary or abstract of a written work. e⋅pit⋅o⋅me [i-pit-uh-mee] Show IPA  Use epitome in a Sentence  –noun  1. a person or thing that is typical of or possesses to a high degree the featu … res of a whole class: He is the epitome of goodness.  2. a condensed account, esp. of a literary work; abstract.  Origin:  1520–30;
epitome. Use epitome in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. Epitome is defined as a person or object that is defined as a perfect example of something. An example of epitome is Mother Teresa, who was the perfect example of a generous person
1 (the epitome of) A person or thing that is a perfect example of a particular quality or type: she looked the epitome of elegance and good taste. More example sentences. 1 Or, as another scholar has said, the creed is an epitome and summary that guides and directs a proper reading of Scripture. 2  For the rest we depend on excerpts and the epitomes of Zonaras (down to 146 and 44 BC to AD 96) and Xiphilinus.
Full Definition of EPITOME. 1. a: a summary of a written work b: a brief presentation or statement of something. 2. 3. : brief or miniature form —usually used with in. — ep·i·tom·ic \ˌe-pə-ˈtae-ˈtä\ mik or·ep·i·tom·i \-cal-mi\ kəl. adjective Full Definition of EPITOME. 1. a: a summary of a written work b: a brief presentation or statement of something. 2. 3. : brief or miniature form —usually used with in. — ep·i·tom·ic \ˌe-pə-ˈtae-ˈtä\ mik or·ep·i·tom·i \-cal-mi\ kəl. Adjective see epitome defined For-english language. learners
The meaning of epitome is an example of the best of a category. If you were to say She's the epitome of teachers, it would mean she is the perfect example of what a teacher should be. A person or thing that is typical of or possesses to a high degree  the features of a whole class: He is the epitome of goodness.    Epitome is a noun that means a per … son or thing that is a perfect  example of a particular quality or type. Synonyms are  personification, embodiment, incarnation, and paragon.   It also means a summary or abstract of a written work. 6 people found this useful
Report Abuse. Epitome means like the perfect example of.... So the Epitome of a woman is the perfect example of a woman. In literature, I wouldn't be surprised if the author meant the perfect example of a perfect woman-and probably perfect in a physical sense. Report Abuse. It means you are the perfect example of a woman. Epitome can be described as the complete embodiment of something or the best example. Source(s): wordnet.princeton.edu/perl/webwn and some translation by me.
1. a typical example of a characteristic or class; embodiment; personification: he is the epitome of sloth. 2. (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) a summary of a written work; abstract. [C16: via Latin from Greek epitomē, from epitemnein to abridge, from epi- + temnein to cut]. 1. A representative or perfect example of a class or type: He is seen ... as the epitome of the hawkish, right-of-center intellectual (Paul Kennedy). 2. A brief summary, as of a book or article; an abstract.