The most important thing to do if a newborn gets sick is to see a doctor. Even if you are certain that the baby has a cold, it is important to have it checked out by the doctor as it could, although is unlikely to be, something worse. The doctor can also prescribe medication to deal with the congestion that the baby feels and help with any fever that the baby may be displaying. 
Breast feeding when you have a cold is fine and there are very few contraindications to nursing. Breast feeding provides the infant with the perfect nutrition as well as infant receiving antibodies from the mother. If you decide to take an over-the-counter medicine for your cold, such as a decongestant or cough suppressant, check with your lactation consultant or your baby’s doctor first to make sure it's safe. Small amounts of medicine can pass to your baby through breast milk
And since your body is mounting an immune response, you pass those illness-fighting antibodies to your baby when you breastfeed, which will help protect him. If you have a fever for more than three days, it's best to visit your doctor to get the treatment you need to keep yourself healthy. If your only choice is to go on a medication that's not compatible with breastfeeding, you can pump and dump your milk while you're on the medication. This will keep your milk supply up, and you can offer your baby stored breast milk or formula in the meantime.
Same as what everyone else said...if you are breast feeding he will get the antibodies. Wash your hands often and don't let him touch your mouth and then put his hands in his mouth/nose/eyes. When my oldest was a baby, I got so sick with the flu or something. I was throwing up and it even made me pass out. Wash your hands often. Use Germ-X. Try not to cough on your baby. Take care of yourself. Sometimes when breastfeeding moms get sick, their milk supply can go down. I agree. Be sure to tell your doctor that you are breastfeeding.
1 Colds. 2  Contact the doctor if your baby has a cold that interferes with his or her breathing or is accompanied by severe coughing. 3  Ear trouble. 4  Contact the doctor if your baby doesn't respond normally to sounds. 1 Contact the doctor if your baby has a cold that interferes with his or her breathing or is accompanied by severe coughing. 2  Ear trouble. 3  Contact the doctor if your baby doesn't respond normally to sounds. 4  Rash.
Breastmilk gives your baby the best protection against sickness. The protective antibodies it contains help your baby’s developing immune system fight off infection and illness. In most cases, if you have a contagious illness like a cold, flu or minor virus, your baby was exposed to it before you showed symptoms. So, just think you’re giving your baby the best chance to fight it off. 
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. It's fine to breastfeed your baby when you have a cold. Cold viruses can't be transmitted through breast milk. In fact, the antibodies in your breast milk will build up her immune system and help protect her from getting sick. If you decide to take an over-the-counter medicine for your cold, such as a decongestant or cough suppressant, check with your lactation consultant or your baby’s doctor first to make sure it's safe. Small amounts of medicine can pass to your baby through breast mil
pediatrician. Under most circumstances, the answer is yes. If you have a standard cold, flu, or stomach virus – even if you have a fever – it's fine to breastfeed. In fact, you probably exposed the baby to your illness the day before you began showing symptoms. If your only choice is to go on a medication that's not compatible with breastfeeding, you can pump and dump your milk while you're on the medication. This will keep your milk supply up, and you can offer your baby stored breast milk or formula in the meantime.
If your baby does catch your cold, the first symptom may be a runny nose. The runny nose generally has clear, water-like mucus. Over time, once the cold has spread, the mucus will turn green. They may also have a fever or cough. 