Cumin is the dried seed of the herb Cuminum cyminum, a member of the parsley family. The cumin plant grows to 30–50 cm (12–20 in) tall and is harvested by hand. It is an annual herbaceous plant, with a slender, glabrous, branched stem which is 20–30 cm (8–12 in) tall and has a diameter of 3–5 cm (1 1⁄4 –2 in). Cumin seed is used as a spice for its distinctive flavour and aroma. It is globally popular and an essential flavouring in many cuisines, particularly South Asian (where it is called jeera), Northern African, and Latin American cuisines.
Digestion: Cumin is extremely good for digestion and related problems. The very aroma of cumin, which comes from an aromatic organic compound called Cuminaldehyde, the main component of its essential oil, activates our salivary glands in our mouth, which facilitates the primary digestion of food. Cumin also suppresses the development of coughing in the respiratory system since it dries up the excess mucus. Cumin is rich in iron and has considerable amount of vitamin-C, which are essential for a healthy immune system and keeps infections from forming or becoming worse.
People take cumin for digestion problems including diarrhea, colic, bowel spasms, and gas. Cumin is also used to increase urine flow to relieve bloating (as a diuretic); to start menstruation; and to increase sexual desire (as an aphrodisiac). 
Cumin is commonly used in ayurveda, traditional Indian medicine, as a carminative. A carminative is a substance that helps to prevent the formation of gas in the intestines and also helps to alleviate symptoms of gas. Cumin is a spice used in culinary traditions and traditional medicines from around the world. It is a small seed used often in Indian dishes such as curries and has a pungent, nutty and earthy flavor.
Cumin seeds are from a different plant all together not from the cilantro plant. Cumin is very strong and bold tasting, and used in chili, hummus, Indian food etc....its good added to just about anything but has a very distinctive taste so you have to be in the mood for it. Cumin is a hot spice that doesn't actually have a spicy flavor. If you want the warmth of spicy food without having a burning hot tongue, this is for you. I use it in chili, tacos, and enchiladas.
Cumin seeds are used as a spice for their distinctive aroma, popular in North African, Middle Eastern, Western Chinese, Indian, Cuban and Mexican cuisine. Cumin's distinctive flavour and strong, warm aroma is due to its essential oil content. Cumin is a hot spice that doesn't actually have a spicy flavor. If you want the warmth of spicy food without having a burning hot tongue, this is for you. I use it in chili, tacos, and enchiladas.
Mix with salt and a teaspoon of coriander leaf juice. Cumin is also said to help relieve symptoms of the common cold due to it s antiseptic properties. Again, you ll want to boil the seeds in a tea and then drink a couple of times a day. If you also have a sore throat then try adding some dry ginger to help soothe it. The health benefits of cumin for digestive disorders has been well known throughout history. It can help with flatulence, indigestion, diarrhea, nausea, morning sickness, and atonic dyspepsia. In this case, the seeds are boiled in water to make a tea of sorts - 1 teaspoon seeds to 1 glass water
Ground cumin, or Cuminum cyminum, is a spice native to regions of the Mediterranean and Asia. Now used worldwide, cumin adds distinctive savory flavor to soups, entrees and salads. Cumin contains a heart-healthy antioxidant called curcumin, along with other compounds that provide health benefits. Cumin may support heart health, reduce your risk for anemia and help fight infections. 
Expanding your spice cabinet to include cumin may help to prevent chronic disease and fight off infection. Cumin is a spice used in culinary traditions and traditional medicines from around the world. It is a small seed used often in Indian dishes such as curries and has a pungent, nutty and earthy flavor. It is rich in antioxidants, calcium, iron and magnesium. In addition to preventing disease, incorporating more cumin into your diet may reduce blood sugar and improve diges