The salary for someone with the job title Clinical Nurse Specialist in San Diego, CA varies depending on a number of factors. May require a master's degree and at least 5 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Leads and directs the work of others.
$ 114000 average emergency department clinical nurse specialist cns salaries for job postings in san diego ca are 1 % higher than average emergency department clinical nurse specialist cns salaries for job postings nationwide 
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Clinical Nurse Specialist in San Diego, CA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Clinical Nurse Specialist in San Diego are expected to make less than the median. May require a master's degree and at least 5 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Leads and directs the work of others.
The Adult-Gerontology Health Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS) program at the University of San Diego prepares nurses for an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) role as an expert in the care of adults across a variety of health care settings such as hospitals and clinics, as well as their own private practice. Advanced practice as a CNS involves practicing nursing within the three spheres of influence (patient, nurse, organization system) in order to operationalize five CNS role components: expert practitioner, educator, consultant, researcher and clinical leader.
Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS) Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS) is $81,589 per year. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. A skill in Psychiatric is associated with high pay for this job. $60,115 - $112,089. 
Job Description for Clinical Nurse Specialist. Responsible for assessing a healthcare facility's nursing practice and its impact on patient outcomes. Provides clinical direction to nursing staff in the delivery of patient care programs. Ensures nursing staff maintains an established level of clinical competency. May require a master's degree and at least 5 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Leads and directs the work of others.
The State has set up special funding and educational opportunities to help train people to help fill this extreme California nursing job glut. A vast majority of the available California nursing jobs will be focused in the major metro areas of Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco. However, opportunities exist throughout the State. California Clinical Nurse Specialist Jobs By City | California Travel Clinical Nurse Specialist Jobs |
$72,000. Average Clinical Nurse Specialist salaries for job postings in San Diego, CA are 1% higher than average Clinical Nurse Specialist salaries for job postings nationwide.
San Diego Clinical Nurse Specialist Jobs. San Diego has a well-earned reputation for being a leader in medical research and filling nursing jobs with top-level candidates.