Dobutamine use has been associated with increased blood pressure, allergic reactions and other serious side effects. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Dobutamine use has been associated with increased blood pressure, allergic reactions and other serious side effects. Talk to your doctor if you have questions regarding the potential side effects associated with dobutamine use.
Rates of infusion (mL/h) for dobutamine concentrations of 500 mcg/mL, 1000 mcg/mL, and 2000 mcg/mL necessary to attain various delivery rates of dobutamine (mcg/kg/min) for patients of different weights are given in Table 1. Note –Do not add dobutamine to 5% Sodium Bicarbonate Injection or to any other strongly alkaline solution. Because of potential physical incompatibilities, it is recommended that dobutamine not be mixed with other drugs in the sam
Therefore the actions of the drug will decrease rapidly once a drip isdiscontinued. Indications Dobutamine is useful in treating patients with congestive heart failure and low cardiac output). Dobutamine along with moderate fluid challenges are the treatment of choice in patients with rightventricular infarcts. In general, 1-2 ampules (250-500mg) areplaced in a 250 or 500cc bag of D5W or normal saline. The drug is only administered as a drip andNEVER administered as a bolus. Dobutamine may be effective at low doses (e.g., 0.5 micrograms/kg/minute). The usual dosage range for Dobutamine is 2-20 micrograms/kg/minute.
Dobutamine is a sympathomimetic drug used in the treatment of heart failure and cardiogenic shock. Its primary mechanism is direct stimulation of β1 receptors of the sympathetic nervous system. Dobutamine was developed in the 1970s by Drs. Ronald Tuttle and Jack Mills at Eli Lilly and Company, as a structural analogue of isoprenaline. Dobutamine is administered as a racemic mixture consisting of both (+) and (−) isomers; the (+) isomer is a potent β 1 agonist and α 1 antagonist, while the (−) isomer is an α 1 agonist. The administration of the racemate results in the overall β 1 agonism responsible for its activity
A dobutamine stress echocardiogram is a diagnostic procedure that may be used when a doctor wants to assess the heart muscle under stress. Procedures may vary depending on your condition and your doctor's practices. Generally, a dobutamine stress echocardiogram follows this process: You will be asked to remove any jewelry or other objects that may interfere with the procedure. You may wear your glasses, dentures, or hearing aids if you use any of these.
Indications. As mentioned, dobutamine is the preferred inotropic agent for the acute management of low output states due to systolic heart failure. Because dobutamine does not usually raise the arterial blood pressure, it is not indicated as monotherapy in patients with cardiogenic shock. DRUG ADMINISTRATION. The drug is available in 250-mg vials and is infused in a concentration of 1 mg/mL. The usual dose range is 5 to 15 ug/kg/min, but doses as high as 200 ug/kg/min have been used to achieve a hyperdynamic state in patients with septic shock and multiple organ failure
Dobutamine Injection USP is (±)-4-[2-[[3-(p-Hydroxyphenyl)-1-methylpropyl]amino]ethyl]-pyrocatechol hydrochloride. It is a synthetic catecholamine. Molecular Formula: C 18 H 23 NO 3 •HCl. Molecular Weight: 337.84. The clinical formulation is supplied in a sterile form for intravenous use only. Each mL contains: Dobutamine hydrochloride, equivalent to 12.5 mg (41.5 mol) dobutamine; Sodium Bisulfite 0.28 mg (added during manufacture), and water for injection, q.s. 
Dobutamine is a synthetic catecholamine that is generally considered the inotropic drug of choice for the acute management of severe (systolic) heart failure. It is primarily a b1-receptor agonist (cardiac stimulation), but it also has mild b-2 effects (vasodilation). As mentioned, dobutamine is the preferred inotropic agent for the acute management of low output states due to systolic heart failure. Because dobutamine does not usually raise the arterial blood pressure, it is not indicated as monotherapy in patients with cardiogenic shock. DRUG ADMINISTRATION.