Confectioners’ sugar, also known as powdered sugar or icing sugar, is a ultra fine sugar with a smooth and powdery consistency.
Best Answer: Confectioners' sugar and powdered sugar are the same thing-there is no difference. It is a regional thing on which term is used in recipes. In the northwest it is called powdered sugar.Most of the southern cookbooks call it confectioners' sugar. In Canada and England, it is called icing sugar.
Confectioners' sugar is a term used in the culinary arts to refer to any of a variety of refined sugars that have been finely ground into a powdery form. Also known as powdered sugar or 10X sugar, confectioners' sugar is easily dissolved in liquid, which makes it ideally suited for making icings and frostings.
Icing sugar, powdered sugar and confectioner's sugar are all the same thing-in England, the name is always Icing Sugar. In America it is known as Confectioners sugar. In Bri … tain, it is used mixed with water to make a hard coating on a layer of marzipan for traditional English Christmas cake.
Confectioner's sugar is rarely used as a substitute for regular granulated sugar in recipes for a number of reasons. The ratio of powdered to granulated sugar would make most recipes cost-prohibitive, for one thing.
Whether you run out, or just need a cup or two, making confectioner's sugar is a simple matter in the blender. This method can be used to make larger quantities, but it is a real time-saver for last-minute needs. Confectioner's sugar is also known as powdered sugar and  icing sugar .. Difficulty: Easy.
Yes-confectioner's sugar or icing sugar is powdered sugar with about 3% cornflour. You'll need a food processor, blender or mortar and pestle. Weigh white sugar then add an … additional 3% cornflour. Blitz it ferociously in the processor or blender, or grind it in themortar, till you achieve a fine powder.
Report Abuse. Powdered sugar (in Britain, icing sugar) is a very finely ground form of sugar that is synonymous with confectioner's sugar. In industrial food production it is used where a quick dissolving sugar is required or as in domestic use principally to make frosting.