Credit card companies are surprisingly open to negotiate on a number of issues. This is especially true if you’re a customer in good standing — if you’ve made consistent on-time payments and haven’t charged more than your credit card’s limit. The credit card company probably won’t just hand you an interest rate reduction on a silver platter. But you can ask. And, chances are that if you mention that you found a better interest rate deal elsewhere, the company will reduce your interest rate to keep your business. Credit limit.
If a lender forgives at least $600 worth of the principal on your debt, it must report the amount to the IRS via a 1099-C form. So, for example, a lump sum payment of $2,500 to settle a $4,500 credit card bill will mean you'll likely have to pay tax on an additional $2,000 in income next year. Workout arrangement. Typically, the counselor can negotiate to lower your interest payments, reduce or drop fees and lower your payments, Cunningham says. What you need to know: You will pay the entire amount owed, Cunningham says. All your credit card accounts will be included in the program and closed.
Yes. It is possible to work with your credit card issuer and negotiate a partial settlement, a workout agreement or even just a reduction in the bills for a few months. But getting the deal you need won't be a slam dunk. Typically, the counselor can negotiate to lower your interest payments, reduce or drop fees and lower your payments, Cunningham says. What you need to know: You will pay the entire amount owed, Cunningham says. All your credit card accounts will be included in the program and closed.
Negotiating Process. Call your credit card company and explain your financial situation. If you are unemployed, a credit card company will be more willing to accept a settlement. Answer any questions that the credit card company asks. They may ask questions to help them assess your complete financial picture. When you are experiencing financial difficulty it's a good idea to seek some type of debt relief such as negotiating a payoff or settlement. If you are not experiencing any financial distress and you can afford to make your payments then you may not want to negotiate a payoff.
When you negotiate and pay your settlement on a credit card, the portion of the debt that is forgiven (if exceeding 600.00) is considered forgiven debt. The creditor or debt owner will often send you and the IRS a 1099c for the amount forgiven the following January. 
For example, you may need a lower monthly payment. Or, your goal may be to eliminate all your debt with one large payment. When, you have a clear understanding of what you’re trying to accomplish, it can make negotiating with a credit card company easier. If you’re unable to negotiate with a credit card company to your satisfaction, if you don’t want the hassle and stress of calling the lender, or if you want to work with a company that considers your entire financial situation, contact a debt relief agency with professionals who will work with you.
You can also try to negotiate a settlement of the amount you owe. The steps you take and the options available will depend on your situation and on the credit card company that you are dealing with. (Find more tips and strategies for dealing with credit card debt .). You can often negotiate better interest rates, payment dates, and even long-term payment plans and settlements on your credit card debt. Related Products.
Credit card companies may negotiate on some things — credit line increases, due dates and even minimum payments. But other things — like special offer terms — aren’t really negotiable. The key is understanding what you can negotiate on, as well as how to negotiate. The credit card company probably won’t just hand you an interest rate reduction on a silver platter. But you can ask. And, chances are that if you mention that you found a better interest rate deal elsewhere, the company will reduce your interest rate to keep your business. Credit limit.