Visit the NFRC Community website for details on Membership. Get your product certified! NFRC has developed and operates a uniform national rating system for the energy performance of fenestration products, including windows, doors, skylights, and similar products. 1 A vote cast by a small business owner is just as important as a vote from the largest, most profitable manufacturer. 2  When you vote, you are determining the standards the entire industry will use to rate the energy performance of fenestration products.
Under our program, windows, doors, and skylights – otherwise known as fenestration products – are independently tested, certified, and labeled. Our label does not recommend which products to buy. It simply provides you with information on how the product will perform so you can decide for yourself if it’s right for you. The NFRC label provides information on how a window performs. The two most important energy ratings are U-factor and Solar Heat Gain. By reviewing the label information, consumers can make an informed choice about the product that is best for their individual situation.
1 As a member of the National Fenestration Rating Council (NFRC), your vote is your voice. 2  In fact, it’s the one benefit that’s available only to members. 3  Voting is your opportunity to be heard, to implement your ideas on important issues that affect your business. 1 A vote cast by a small business owner is just as important as a vote from the largest, most profitable manufacturer. 2  When you vote, you are determining the standards the entire industry will use to rate the energy performance of fenestration products.
1 Fenestration (architecture) , refers to the design, construction, or presence of windows and doors in a building. 
It is packaged in a user friendly program suitable for quick analysis in early stages of design, comparative energy analysis of different fenestration options and prediction of the whole building energy use, and prediction of the size of HVAC equipment. Carli, Inc. offers a number of quality software tools for modeling energy, structural, and acoustical performance of buildings and building components.
Why Custom Fenestration. C.F.P.'s President, John Meacham founded this company on the sole premise that in the premium window and door market there was a need for a complete solutions provider. In short order we have established ourselves as a leader in quality and performance in the fenestration industry. 
Abrams Architectural Products, Inc. is also represented by Fenestration Specialties, LLC throughout the state of Florida. Abrams is a quality distributor, fabricator and installer of architectural metals throughout the southeast United States. Fenestration Specialties, LLC provides architectural services including design consultation, detailing and specifications, as well as pricing and sales. We also have extensive experience in impact and non-impact fenestration products and applications. ESWindow products include windows, storefront systems, curtain wall systems, sliding glass doors and entrances for new construction and renovation. Fenestration Specialties, LLC is your single source for all of your performance fenestration need
The National Fenestration Rating Council (NFRC) is a nonprofit organization that empowers consumers who are in the market for energy efficient windows, doors, and skylights. When you see the NFRC label on these products, this is your assurance that it’s going to perform the way it’s advertised to perform. The NFRC label provides information on how a window performs. The two most important energy ratings are U-factor and Solar Heat Gain. By reviewing the label information, consumers can make an informed choice about the product that is best for their individual situation.