To determine the turns ratio we apply an ac voltage to the primary, and measure the voltage in the secondary. The voltage on the secondary will be stepped down by a proportional amount determined by the turns ratio of the transformer. Figure 2 below shows the schematic diagram of the test set-up. All we need to do is determine the turns ratio of the transformer, and with that information we can calculate what impedance will be reflected back to the primary with a given load on the secondary. The test equipment to do this is quite simple; an ac voltmeter and a variable source of 60 Hz ac is all we need.
The ratio of a transformer is simply the number of turn in the primary divided by the number of turns in the secondary, i.e. the turns ratio. For instance, if the turns ratio … from primary to secondary were 10:1, and the transformer was supplied by 120VAC, 1A, you would expect an output of 12VAC, 10A. Turns Ratio = (Primary turns / Secondary turns)   To calculate the turns ratio you have to actually know the number of turns or wraps on the primary and s … econdary coils. Nobody knows that usually the manufacture of the transformer doesn't even know.
Transformers are all about “ratios”. The ratio of the primary to the secondary, the ratio of the input to the output, and the turns ratio of any given transformer will be the same as its voltage ratio. In other words for a transformer: “turns ratio = voltage ratio”. In an ideal transformer (ignoring any losses), the power available in the secondary winding will be the same as the power in the primary winding, they are constant wattage devices and do not change the power only the voltage to current ratio.
Strictly speaking, a transformer's voltage ratio is the ratio of its primary to secondary rated voltages*, regardless of whether it is a step up, or a step down, transformer a … nd, for an ideal transformer, is the same as its turns ratio. Turns Ratio = (Primary turns / Secondary turns)   To calculate the turns ratio you have to actually know the number of turns or wraps on the primary and s … econdary coils. Nobody knows that usually the manufacture of the transformer doesn't even know.
TURNS AND VOLTAGE RATIOS. The total voltage induced into the secondary winding of a transformer is determined mainly by the RATIO of the number of turns in the primary to the number of turns in the secondary, and by the amount of voltage applied to the primary. Refer to figure (10). The total flux in the core of the transformer is common to both the primary and secondary windings. It is also the means by which energy is transferred from the primary winding to the secondary winding. Since this flux links both windings, it is called MUTUAL FLUX.
A transformer in which the voltage across the secondary is greater than the voltage applied to the primary is called a STEP-UP transformer. The ratio of a one-to-four step-up transformer should be written as 1:4. Notice in the two ratios that the value of the primary winding is always stated first. The total flux in the core of the transformer is common to both the primary and secondary windings. It is also the means by which energy is transferred from the primary winding to the secondary winding. Since this flux links both windings, it is called MUTUAL FLUX.
Symbol of a transformer. The turns ratio of a transformer is the ratio of number of windings of each side of the transformer. Sometimes you wish to find out the turns ratio of an unlabeled transform. The transformer turns ration is labeled as follows: 1  n 1 :n 2. Measuring Voltage to find ratio Edit. Symbol of a transformer. A transformer converts one AC Voltage to another. So inputing an AC Voltage and measuring the output Voltage will give you the turns ratio.
Answer !!!   Turns Ratio = (Primary turns / Secondary turns)   To calculate the turns ratio you have to actually know the number of turns or wraps on the primary and s … econdary coils. Nobody knows that usually the manufacture of the transformer doesn't even know.
So it can be seen that the turns ratio of the transformer determines what impedance will be reflected to the primary by the load impedance of the secondary, and that an improper load on the secondary can have several effects: 1  if the load impedance is too low this will increase the current in the transformer windings. All we need to do is determine the turns ratio of the transformer, and with that information we can calculate what impedance will be reflected back to the primary with a given load on the secondary. The test equipment to do this is quite simple; an ac voltmeter and a variable source of 60 Hz ac is all we need.