The ocean is an example of a natural resource. Ocean waves can be used to generate wave power which is a renewable energy. Ocean water is important for salt production and providing habitat for deep water fishes. A natural resource may exist as a separate entity such as fresh water, and air, as well as a living organism such as a fish, or it may exist in an alternate form which must be processed to obtain the resource such as metal ores, oil, and most forms of energy.
Renewability is a very popular topic and many natural resources can be categorized as either renewable or non-renewable: 1  Renewable resources – Renewable resources can be replenished naturally. 2  Non-renewable resources – Non-renewable resources either form slowly or do not naturally form in the environment. A natural resource may exist as a separate entity such as fresh water, and air, as well as a living organism such as a fish, or it may exist in an alternate form which must be processed to obtain the resource such as metal ores, oil, and most forms of energy.
re·source. n. 1. Something that is available for use or that can be used for support or help: The local library is a valuable resource. 2. often resources An available supply, especially of money, that can be drawn on when needed. 3. 
Resources, such as food, water, or nesting sites, can be consumed by an organism and, as a result, become unavailable to other organisms. For animals key resources include food, water, and territory. For plants key resources include sunshine, nutrients, water, and a place to grow. Conservation is the management of natural resources with the goal of sustainability. Natural resources may be further classified in different ways. Resources can be categorized on the basis of origin: 1  Abiotic resources comprise non-living things (e.g., land, water, air and minerals such as gold, iron, copper, silver).
Most of the resources that are considered non-renewable are based on coal, oil, natural gas, and other substances that take so long for the environment to create that almost any use of these resources at all will cause them to be used up before any more is created. From Green Plastics. A renewable resource is a natural resource that is created in the environment faster than it is used up by people. Many people think of renewability as a fixed trait: some things (like trees, grass, and wind) are renewable, while others (like oil and coal) are not.
For other uses, see resource (disambiguation) . A resource is a source or supply from which benefit is produced. Typically resources are materials, energy, services, staff, knowledge, or other assets that are transformed to produce benefit and in the process may be consumed or made unavailable. Conservation is the management of natural resources with the goal of sustainability. Natural resources may be further classified in different ways. Resources can be categorized on the basis of origin: 1  Abiotic resources comprise non-living things (e.g., land, water, air and minerals such as gold, iron, copper, silver).
Natural resources may be further classified in different ways. Natural resources are materials and components (something that can be used) that can be found within the environment. Every man-made product is composed of natural resources (at its fundamental level). A natural resource may exist as a separate entity such as fresh water, and air, as well as a living organism such as a fish, or it may exist in an alternate form which must be processed to obtain the resource such as metal ores, oil, and most forms of energy.
A natural resource is not man made and is already on the Earth. Some examples of natural resources would be oil, timber, and water, as well as a variety of minerals, metals and ores like salt, coal, and metals like gold, iron, aluminum. Water in a high lake is a natural resource. Even living things and materials like grasslands, forests, herds of animals, flocks of birds, and schools of fish can be considered natural resources. 
Nonrenewable Resources. A nonrenewable resource is a resource that can be used up. Fossil fuels, which include coal, oil, and natural gas, are nonrenewable because it took millions of years for them to form. Once we use up our fossil fuels, they will be gone for good. Many power plants use fossil fuels. Electricity can be produced using several kinds of renewable resources. Wind energy can produce electricity in regions where steady winds blow. Giant wind turbines capture the wind’s energy and use it to power generators. Biomass is material that is formed from living organisms, such as wood or agricultural wastes.
1. Give at least 10 examples of resources. 2. Think about a project that you are currently working on or have worked on. List all of the resources used in this project. 3. Discuss why resources need to be considered when developing a schedule. 4. Describe how resources can be considered when creating a network diagram. 5. 