Double bonds are a type of covalent bond where four electrons are shared between two atoms. This leads us to the last type of bond, a triple bond. A triple bond is a type of covalent bond where six electrons are shared between two atoms. The three major types of covalent bonds are single, double, and triple bonds. A carbon atom can form the following bonds: (1) four single bonds, (2) one double and two single bonds, (3) two double bonds, and (4) one triple bond with one single bond.
The three types of chemical bonds are Ionic bonds, Covalent bonds, and Metallic bonds. Three types of chemical bonds include the ionic bond, the covalent bond, and metallic bo … nd. Ionic occur between oppositely charged ions, covalent bonds occure when atoms share electrons. Metallic bonds form in metals. 
The carbon element is one of the most abundant elements on earth. A fundamental element, important for living, there are four different types of bonds carbon can form. The bonds formed are called covalent bonds. Eight valence electrons need to be present in carbon's outer shell, when considering covalent bonding. The three major types of covalent bonds are single, double, and triple bonds. A carbon atom can form the following bonds: (1) four single bonds, (2) one double and two single bonds, (3) two double bonds, and (4) one triple bond with one single bond.
The 4 Primary Types of Bonds. There are millions of different bond issues, but there are only a few types of bonds. In fact, the large majority of bonds fall into one of the 4 categories outlined below. As you can see from the links in each section, we have lots of information on all the different types of bonds here at Learn Bonds, so enjoy! Much of this outstanding debt is in the form of bonds they have issued, called treasuries. Treasuries are different from all other types of bonds, because they are issued by the US government, and are therefore considered stable in value and virtually free of credit risk. For this reason, the yields of all other types of bonds are compared to the yield on a treasury bond with the same maturity.
Government Bonds In general, fixed-income securities are classified according to the length of time before maturity. These are the three main categories: Bills-debt securities maturing in less than one year. Notes-debt securities maturing in one to 10 years. Bonds-debt securities maturing in more than 10 years. Marketable securities from the U.S. government-known collectively as Treasuries-follow this guideline and are issued as Treasury bonds, Treasury notes and Treasury bills (T-bills). Technically speaking, T-bills aren't bonds because of their short maturity.
There are four basic types of bonds that can be formed between two or more (otherwise non-associated) molecules, ions or atoms. Intermolecular forces cause molecules to be attracted or repulsed by each other. Often, these define some of the physical characteristics (such as the melting point) of a substance. A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction.
Not all atoms bond the same way, so we need to learn the different types of bonds that atoms can form. There are three (sometimes four) recognized chemical bonds; they are ionic, covalent, polar covalent, and (sometimes) hydrogen bonds. Now let’s take a look at how these atoms and molecules hold together. Bonds hold atoms and molecules of substances together. There are several different kinds of bonds; the type of bond seen in elements and compounds depends on the chemical properties as well as the attractive forces governing the atoms and molecules. The three types of chemical bonds are Ionic bonds, Covalent bonds, and Polar covalent bonds. Chemists also recognize hydrogen bonds as a fourth form of chemical bond, though their properties align closely with the other types of
Main Types of Chemical Bonds. The two main types of bonds formed between atoms are ionic bonds and covalent bonds. An ionic bond is formed when one atom accepts or donates one or more of its valence electrons to another atom. A covalent bond is formed when atoms share valence electrons. When electrons are shared by two metallic atoms a metallic bond may be formed. In a covalent bond, electrons are shared between two atoms. The electrons that participate in metallic bonds may be shared between any of the metal atoms in the region.