You can set up VPN on Samsung from the Settings, you can manage, edit or remove VPN from the Settings as well. To delete VPN from Samsung mobile phone, open Settings, then choose More Settings under the Wireless & networks section, see below figure. Once you selected the More settings option from above screen, you will be taken to the Wireless & networks screen with all kinds of settings concerning networks, hotspot, tethering, VPN and more. Choose VPN as shown in below screenshot. Now the VPN management window opens on your Samsung mobile phone. You can see a list of all existing VPN profiles on the Samsung device. At the bottom of this VPN profiles list, you can see a Add VPN network option which you can add new VPN profile on the Samsung smart phon
Learn how you can remove a VPN network connection on the Samsung Galaxy S5. samsung galaxy galaxy samsung s V s5 s 5 s V s V galaxy s V galaxy s5 galaxy s 5. FOLLOW US ON TWITTER: http://bit.ly/10Glst1. LIKE US ON FACEBOOK: http://on.fb.me/ZKP4nU. FOLLOW US ON G+: http://bit.ly/WfMmZN. 
We will use PureVPN as the service provider and prescribe steps to configure it on Samsung Galaxy S4. Nevertheless, the steps and process will be more or less the same even if prefer another service provider. So, here are a few easy steps to configure a VPN on Samsung Galaxy S4. Step 1: First, close all running application before configuring VPN on you Galaxy S4. Now access 'Settings' to begin setup process. Step 2: The built-in 'Settings' feature of Samsung Galaxy S4 will lead you to the next phase. Look for 'More Networks' and access it. Step 3: In 'More Networks', look for the 'VPN' feature. 
Samsung Galaxy S6 How to use VPN connection – Settings. You can connect your Samsung Galaxy S6 via VPN to a network. To create a virtual private network connection, you need to set the VPN as follows in the Android settings. To do this, open from the Home Screen: Tap here on the menu item VPN and then on Add VPN. You can now enter your VPN connection data in a new window and enter a meaningful name for the VPN. By means of saving the VPN is adopted. You can now connect with your Samsung Galaxy S6 into the VPN. 1  Prev. 2  Next
How to setup VPN on Galaxy Note 2. By PureVPN 3 years ago Tweet This Email This No Comments. How To Setup VPN on Galaxy Note 2 1. Go to the Settings tab. 2. Under Settings tab click More Settings 3. On the next window click VPN 4. Under VPN click Add VPN Network 5. 2. Under  Settings tab click More Settings. 3. On the next window click VPN. 4. Under VPN click Add VPN Network. 5. Next screen will ask you for VPN  Name write PureVPN. 6. In  Type choose your connection type PPTP.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Learn how you can remove an old VPN connection on the Samsung Galaxy S4. samsung galaxy galaxy samsung s iv s4 s 4 s iv s iv galaxy s iv galaxy s4 galaxy s iv. FOLLOW US ON TWITTER: http://bit.ly/10Glst1. LIKE US ON FACEBOOK: http://on.fb.me/ZKP4nU. FOLLOW US ON G+: http://bit.ly/WfMmZN
2. Click More settings. 3. Then select VPN. 4. If you do not have a screen lock set up for your phone you will be asked to do so as Android won’t allow you set up a PPTP or L2TRP connection without one. It’s a good precaution anyway, in case you lose your phone or have it stolen. In the VPN screen select on the VPN connection you want. 9. Enter your VPN customer details. 10. And ta-da! You are connected! If you select the connection then some more details will appear. You can also always see whether you are connected via VPN by looking for the key icon in the Notification Bar (top left).
To remove a VPN profile from the list, simply press and hold the VPN you like to uninstall, then a pop-up dialogue opens up, see below screenshot. Now you can see two options below the selected VPN profile title: Edit network and Delete network. Edit network option is to change your VPN settings on Samsung. To delete VPN on Samsung phone, simply tap on the Delete network button. Once you selected the More settings option from above screen, you will be taken to the Wireless & networks screen with all kinds of settings concerning networks, hotspot, tethering, VPN and more. Choose VPN as shown in below screenshot. Now the VPN management window opens on your Samsung mobile phone. You can see a list of all existing VPN profiles on the Samsung device. At the bottom of this VPN profiles list, you can see a Add VPN network option which you can add new VPN profile on the Samsung smart phone