If you smoke marijuana on a regular basis it will stay in your system for as long as 45 days, and if you smoke marijuana at a constant pace, it can stay in the body for 90 days, Marijuana is fat soluble. It stores in the fat cells of the body, the brain, the liver, the kidneys, in other words the major organs. 
The amount of time marijuana can be detected in urine depends on the amount and frequency of its consumption. Marijuana can stay in the urine for up to two months in cases of very frequent, prolonged use. Basically, the more you use marijuana, the longer it will remain in your urine. If you have just tried marijuana, for example, and that was your only use, it will probably be out of your urine within a week.
If you smoke marijuana on a regular basis it will stay in your system for as long as 45 days, and if you smoke marijuana at a constant pace, it can stay in the body for 90 days, Marijuana is fat soluble. 
Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. Occasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months. Approximate times, Cannabis (marijuana) can be detected through testing: Single Use: Blood Test: 2-3 days Saliva Test: 12-24 hours Urine Test: 2-3 days Hair Test: Up to 90 days, depending on how long your hair sample they use has been growing.
So, we call this approximate calculation as half life. If you have smoked marijuana then the drug will stay for 3 to 30 days. This is normal for the common drugs. But in the case of marijuana, this can be detected even after a month in Urine drug test marijuana. Marijuana will stay in your system for 10 days if you have been smoking occasionally. If it is smoked on regular basis it will be there up to 45 days and if you smoke constant pace then it will be in the system for as long as 90 days. http://clnk.me/1yc0I. Marijuana will stay in your system for 10 days if you have been smoking occasionally. If it is smoked on regular basis it will be there up to 45 days and if you smoke constant pace then it will be in the system for as long as 90 days. Click to expand...
How long does weed stay in your system (blood)? In the blood weed can be present for up to 2-3 days after use, however in cases of heavy and frequent use it can be detected after up to 2-3 weeks. 
On a Saliva Drug Test, THC will test positive within one hour of use, but may only show positive for about 12 hours after last use. On a Hair Drug Test, THC will show up about 7 days after use and most hair drug tests will test for a 90 day period. However, THC does not always bind to the hair follicle which makes it not always considered an accurate testing method for marijuana use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days. 2  Moderate User may show positive for 7-13 days.
I attended a court ruled drug class and learned that marijuana has a halflife in your system. How long it takes to leave your system depends on how much you smoke. But the time maxes out at around 45 days. One smoking session for someone with a clean system takes about 3-4 days to be clean. Smoke 2 days later and then have to wait about a week, and so on
Also, it stays in your system for much longer periods of time than any other illegal drug. On average the weed will be stay in your system between a week and thirty day. However, in some extreme cases thc has been detectable in the body (urine and blood) for up to 180 days. For a hair drug test marijuana can stay detectable forever until that hair is cut. So if it takes your system 30 days to be clean of weed then your body will not start growing clean hair follicles until 30 days after you stop smoking pot! On average hair grows at a rate of .5 inches per month.
Report Abuse. anywhere from 3-30 days, depending on your metabolism and the amount of marijuana that you’ve smoked. marijuana could still be detected in a urine test up to a month after the last time it is used. If you smoke it occasionally it will remain in your system for up to 10 days. If you smoke marijuana on a regular basis it will stay in your system for as long as 45 days, and if you smoke marijuana at a constant pace, it can stay in the body for 90 days, S00 thats accordiiNg 2 google i thiink you should be okay :D. How long it takes to leave your system depends on how much you smoke. But the time maxes out at around 45 days. One smoking session for someone with a clean system takes about 3-4 days to be clean.