West; western United States (the region of the United States lying to the west of the Mississippi River). populated area; urban area (a geographical area constituting a city or town). zone (a circumscribed geographical region characterized by some distinctive features). Elam; Susiana (an ancient country in southwestern Asia east of the Tigris River (in what is modern Iran); was known for its warlike people). Levant (the former name for the geographical area of the eastern Mediterranean that is now occupied by Lebanon and Syria and Israel).
Geographic Areas Reference Manual. After the publication of the GARM in November 1994, there were two major changes in geographic areas for Census 2000: 1  The Census Bureau no longer includes the Republic of Palau in U. S. censuses because it became an independent state on October 1, 1994. To view the file, you will need the Adobe® Reader® available free from Adobe. This symbol indicates a link to a non-government web site. Our linking to these sites does not constitute an endorsement of any products, services or the information found on them.
catchment area, catchment basin, drainage area, drainage basin, river basin, watershed, basin-the entire geographical area drained by a river and its tributaries; an area characterized by all runoff being conveyed to the same outlet; flood control in the Missouri basin. 
catchment area; catchment basin; drainage area; drainage basin (the geographical area draining into a river or reservoir). basin; river basin (the entire geographical area drained by a river and its tributaries). soil; territory (the geographical area under the jurisdiction of a sovereign state). Elam; Susiana (an ancient country in southwestern Asia east of the Tigris River (in what is modern Iran); was known for its warlike people). Levant (the former name for the geographical area of the eastern Mediterranean that is now occupied by Lebanon and Syria and Israel).
In the Geographic Area sections of this website, you can access information for a specific area's courses, workshops, meetings, selections, completions, logistics such as lodging, weather and road conditions, policy and current news, and other pertinent geographic area information. 
Four historical traditions in geographical research are spatial analysis of the natural and the human phenomena (geography as the study of distribution), area studies (places and regions), study of the human-land relationship, and research in the Earth sciences. 
Geographic Areas. In order to provide the highest level of quality service, Irvine is divided into three geographic areas. Each geographic area is lead by an Area Commander supported by a team of supervisors, patrol officers, traffic officers, investigators and civilian support staff. This policing model allows these personnel to be more familiar with the people that live and work in their area. Crossroads Portola University
The what, why, and how of Census geography. What are the definitions of geographic terms, why are geographic areas defined, and how we define geographic areas. Find reference information such as FIPS and ANSI codes, geographic boundary change notes, significant county boundary changes, and county adjacency information. 
catchment area, catchment basin, drainage area, drainage basin, river basin, watershed, basin-the entire geographical area drained by a river and its tributaries; an area characterized by all runoff being conveyed to the same outlet; flood control in the Missouri basin. 
Regions are areas and or the spaces used in the study of geography. A region can be defined by physical characteristics, human characteristics and functional characteristics. In other words, a region is an area of land that has common features. A region can be defined by natural or artificial features. Language, government, or religion can define a region, as can forests, wildlife, or climate. The regions of the United States are geographic areas which include multiple states. The regional groupings presented here and their definitions are from standard language used by libraries and reflect the groupings used in the classification system for maps. 