The Samnites were immigrants to the area, replacing the Opici (or Osci Oscans), who, however, have given their name to the large family of languages spoken by many Indo-European inhabitants of Italy at the time, including the Samnites, the Sabines to the north of Rome, and the Campanians of this area.
Oscans. (Latin Osci, Greek Opikoi, Opikes), the general name for the Italic tribes that inhabited southern and part of central Italy in the late second millennium.
Early History. View of Pompeii provided by Classroom Clip Art (http://classroomclipart.com). The town was founded in the ca. 6th century BCE by the Osci or Oscans, a people of central Italy, on a hill near the mouth of the Sarno River or Sarnus River, already in use as a safe port by Greek and Phoenician sailors.
The Osci are believed to have built it around 800 BCE, and they occupied the city for around 200 years. At that time (around the 5 th century BCE), the Oscan people were conquered by a tribe known as the Samnites—which is where this tomb fits into the picture.
Pompeii, along with Herculaneum and many villas in the surrounding area, was mostly destroyed and buried under 4 to 6 m (13 to 20 ft) of ash and pumice in the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD. Researchers believe that the town was founded in the seventh or sixth century BC by the Osci or Oscans. It came under the domination of Rome in the 4th century BC, and was conquered and became a Roman colony in 80 BC after it joined an unsuccessful rebellion against the Roman Republic.
It covers the Campobasso province, which is named after the provincial and regional capital Campobasso, and is the larger of Molise's two provinces. The name Terre degli Osci means 'the land of the Oscans' – an ancient tribe which once inhabited this area of Italy.
another oscan southern city was Pompeii: The town was founded around the 7th-6th century BC by the Osci or Oscans, a people of central Italy, on what was an important crossroad between Cumae, Nola and Stabiae. It had already been used as a safe port by Greek and Phoenician sailors.