The golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) is one of the best-known birds of prey in the Northern Hemisphere. It is the most widely distributed species of eagle. Like all eagles, it belongs to the family Accipitridae. These birds are dark brown, with lighter golden-brown plumage on their napes. Immature eagles of this species typically have white on the tail and often have white markings on the wings.
Nest, eggs and young. Like the Osprey and the Bald Eagle, the Golden Eagle is a champion nest-builder, at least in terms of size. Golden Eagles construct a huge platform of sticks, which they line, or pad, with thinner branches and even hair and grasses. These large birds sometimes build their nests in trees or might use man-made structures, such as an electricity pylon. In Alaska, some Golden Eagles were documented nesting on the ground., but most often they nest on large ledges on cliff faces. Golden Eagles may use the same nest over many breeding seasons.
Distribution and Habitat. The golden eagle is distributed worldwide throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Golden eagles are typically associated with the plains of the western United States, and are fairly common in our western states, Alaska and western Canada. Measuring 27-33 inches (70-84 cm) in length, the golden eagle has a wingspan of 78 inches (2 m) and weighs 7-14 pounds (3.2-6.4 kg). Adults wield a bill which is a bit smaller and darker than that of our only other eagle, the bald eagle.
Golden eagles maintain home ranges or territories that may be as large as 200 km 2 (77 sq mi). They build large nests in high places (mainly cliffs) to which they may return for several breeding years. It is the most widely distributed species of eagle. Like all eagles, it belongs to the family Accipitridae. These birds are dark brown, with lighter golden-brown plumage on their napes. Immature eagles of this species typically have white on the tail and often have white markings on the wings.
The purpose of the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection act is to not agitate the bald and golden eagle to the extent of not 1.) Abusing an eagle, 2.) Interfering with its substantial lifestyle, including shelter, breeding, feeding, or 3.) Nest abandonment. 
With the dedication to our philosophy at Golden Eagles of America we groom youth leaders that will make significant changes in the world. As a nation we are overdue for great leaders. There is much need in the world today for works that are philanthropic in nature. 1 The Golden Eagles of America websites are to serve the public with educational tools that will inspire people to be more patriotic, by educating citizens with useful material they can use. 2  We hope you will visit us at our new website called the Forum. 3  The Forum is a wonderful website with ” How To Do ” videos.
Bald eagles typically choose to nest in a forested area close to water. While eagles typically avoid human activity, in states with large eagle populations bald eagles will nest in developed areas. Golden eagles prefer open or semi-open undeveloped habitat. Golden eagles usually nest on cliffs or in trees in open or semi-open habitat. They avoid heavily forested and developed areas but have been observed nesting on human-made structures such as observation towers or windmills.
The golden eagle is one of the most extensively studied species of raptor in the world in some parts of its range, such as the Western United States and the Western Palearctic. It is the most widely distributed species of eagle. Like all eagles, it belongs to the family Accipitridae. These birds are dark brown, with lighter golden-brown plumage on their napes. Immature eagles of this species typically have white on the tail and often have white markings on the wings.
The average bald eagle nest is 4 to 5 feet in diameter and 2 to 4 feet deep. Each year the adult pair will add 1-2 feet of new material to the nest. The largest recorded bald eagle nest, located in St. Petersburg, Florida, was 9.5 feet in diameter, 20 feet deep and weighed almost 3 tons. Golden eagle nests, while large, are generally smaller and flatter than bald eagle nests. Golden eagles usually nest on cliffs or in trees in open or semi-open habitat. They avoid heavily forested and developed areas but have been observed nesting on human-made structures such as observation towers or windmills.