That is a very good question. The cost to replace a capacitor is a component price based on an overall inspection and service of the heating and air conditioning system. Only replacing a capacitor is a foolish and ignorant repair of a home air conditioning system. We do not ever just replace a capacitor.
Customer. I paid dollars with labor and a cleaning to have a capacitor replaced and a hard start kit put on. Supplier: That would be the average charge for someone to come out and do the job. I think that is a fair price today with the cost of tools and a truck to come to your house.
The price to install central air conditioner units with heating unit is between $6,500 and $15,000. The HVAC installation costs are for complete heating and cooling system and labor cost. To get little more accurate price in your area, check out the links below.
This way, you can save some money on your energy bills and, at the same time, prolong the life of your air conditioning unit. The cost of replacing an air conditioner capacitor may vary depending on the brand and the features of the capacity. On average, the cost of replacement ranges from $120 to $150.
Although a regular air conditioning capacitor may cost your less than a turbo capacitor, using the latter is better. A turbo capacitor fits in almost all types of air conditioning system, and since it is designed to run on higher voltages, your unit is protected from voltage fluctuations.
The cost in replacing a run capacitor can range from $40 to $80 and to add a hard start it can be from $125 to $300. If the compressor has complete failed and there is no way of savaging it, the cost to install a new compressor into your air conditioning unit can range from $1500 to $2200.
The average price to install a central air conditioner will range from $2650 to upwards of $15K. This installation cannot be considered a DIY project, and it is traditional for a homeowner to hire a contractor for the job.
A weak air conditioner capacitor can cause your air conditioning system to consume a lot of electricity so you end up with bigger energy bills every month. Moreover, a bad capacitor can affect the overall performance of your system and shorten its life.