A kazoo player hums, rather than blows, into the instrument. The oscillating air pressure of the hum makes the kazoo's membrane vibrate. The resulting sound varies in pitch and loudness with the player's humming. The kazoo is used regularly on the radio show I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue, and kazoos are given to all audience members on show tours. The video game Yoshi's New Island, released in 2014, has synthesized kazoos in several tracks of its soundtrack.
Kazoo History. The kazoo was invented in the 1840's and first presented to the world at the Georgia State Fair in 1852 as the Down South Submarine. Legend tells us that the kazoo was invented by collaboration of Alabama Vest (American black) and Thaddeus Von Clegg (German-American clockmaker). Commercial production of the Kazoo began many years later in 1912. Manufacturing was started by Emil Sorg in Western New York. Sorg joined up with Michael McIntyre, a Buffalo tool and die maker. Production moved to Eden, NY where the factory museum remains today as a working museum.
Smith's Submarine This is one of the diagrams from the patent of the first submarine shaped kazoo, which was issued to George D. Smith, May 27, 1902. It included many inovative improvements to the kazoo. 
George D. Smith of Buffalo, NY patented the first metal kazoo in 1902 and production soon began at the Great American Kazoo Company which continued making kazoos for nearly 100 years. Informal kazoo bands made of children and adults alike started sprouting up across the nation from Washington, D.C to Hawaii. THE KAZOO MUSEUM. Beaufort, SC. Mystery surrounds the story of the kazoo's creation, though it was undoubtedly invented in the United States of America. Legend has it that Alabama Vest, an African American, conceived of the kazoo and brought the idea to German-American clockmaker Thaddeus Von Clegg. Vest may have been inspired by African mirlitons made of gourds or bones that were used in sacred ceremonies to channel messages from the spirit world. Vest and Von Clegg completed the first kazoo in the 1840s and introduced it to the world at the 1852 Georgia State Fair
Some of the various Kazoo shapes throughout kazoo history Special thanks to Captain Kazoo for images and history. Since the KAZOO is often advertised as being able to sound like every kind of musical instrument then it is only natural that they would be made in the various shapes of these instruments. 
The kazoo was invented by an American named Alabama Vest and made to his specifications by a German clock master named Thaddeus Von Clegg in Macon, Georgia back in the 1840's. A traveling salesman by the name of Emil Sorg brought the idea of manufacturing metal kazoos to Western New York in about 1912. The Original American Kazoo Company was established in 1916 and is now the only metal kazoo factory in North America. The museum highlights history, amusing trivia, and shows step by step the way kazoos are made. This working museum continues to manufacture a complete line of kazoos.
Kazoo. A kazoo is a type of instrument known as a mirliton, which uses a resonating membrane to amplify sound. It belongs in the percussion family of instruments and can be made in a number of ways. Derived from the ancient African mirliton, the kazoo was first manufactured during the 1800s. Today, it is primarily a plastic, toy instrument, which is fun and relatively easy to play. Assembly of parts. 1  3 The kazoo parts are then transported to an assembly line. 2  In this phase of production, the resonating membrane is first glued to the turret section. 3  This membrane may be supplied to the manufacturer as a pre-cut film or as a large, continuous sheet.
The first documented appearance of a kazoo was that created by an American inventor, Warren Herbert Frost, who named his new musical instrument kazoo in his patent #270,543 issued on January 9, 1883. The patent states, This instrument or toy, to which I propose to give the name 'kazoo' .... Frost's kazoo did not look like present-day submarine-shaped kazoos. The modern kazoo—also the first one made of metal—was patented by George D. Smith of Buffalo, New York, May 27, 1902. The kazoo is used regularly on the radio show I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue, and kazoos are given to all audience members on show tours. The video game Yoshi's New Island, released in 2014, has synthesized kazoos in several tracks of its soundtrack.