If you're suffering from lower leg pain, you may wonder if it's serious or something you can treat at home. Here is an overview of several causes of lower leg pain and their treatments. Be sure to see your doctor if you have any questions about your leg pain or if your symptoms get worse. Applying heat to tight muscles or cold to tender muscles may ease some symptoms. Proper conditioning and stretching can help prevent problems in the future. Shin splints. This type of lower leg pain happens when connective tissues and muscles along the edge of the shin bone become inflamed.
Pain in the legs can occur as a result of conditions that affect bones, joints, muscles, tendons, ligaments, blood vessels, nerves, or skin. Typically, the pain is a result of tissue inflammation that is caused by injury or disease. Either injury or chronic disease can cause inflammation to any of the tissues of the leg and lead to leg pain.
Aching Legs and Feet. Injury is the most common cause of leg pain (aching legs). However, even a simple back pain can cause your legs to ache depending on the degree of pain. Usually, elders and diabetics and people with poor circulation are the ones who experience leg pain especially at night. The pain could be explained in varying ways, e.g. as sore, sharp, heavy, dull, aching legs, or burning. Pain can be constant or occasional. There are pains that can be alleviated by rest or activity. Each cause may provide varying symptoms.
Most leg pain results from wear and tear, overuse, or injuries in joints or bones or in muscles, ligaments, tendons or other soft tissues. Some types of leg pain can be traced to problems in your lower spine. Leg pain can also be caused by blood clots, varicose veins or poor circulation. Some common causes of leg pain include: 1  Achilles tendinitis. 2  Achilles tendon rupture. 3  ACL injury. 4  Baker's cyst.
Leg pain. Aching legs (symptom description): Aching legs is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Leg pain. Aching legs (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Aching legs', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Leg pain (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Aching legs' may be possible. 
Symptoms. Aching legs is a common symptom associated with a number of different medical conditions. Although elderly individuals complain of aching in the legs more often, individuals of any age can be affected.
Symptoms of Aching Legs. Depending on the severity of pain, symptoms of aching legs have various medical presentations. The pain could be explained in varying ways, e.g. as sore, sharp, heavy, dull, aching legs, or burning. Pain can be constant or occasional. There are pains that can be alleviated by rest or activity. Each cause may provide varying symptoms.
Aching Legs Symptoms. Because there are various causes of leg problems, aching leg symptoms are also different from each other. In cases of injury, the leg pain can be sharp because of the direct trauma on the affected are (legs, thigh, patella, etc).