The special features of a ciliated epithelial cell is it's cilia-which are little hairs that sweep and clean. They are found in the lungs and the sinuses. A ciliated epithelial cell is a cell that you have inside your body mainly your throat and it has tiny little hairs that act like a brush. Those hairs brush away any diseases … or infections. 10 people found this useful. JD Heyl.
1 2. 2  Specialized Cells Plant’s and animal’s cells are specialized to carry their job efficiently.  3  Specialized cells are cells that have a particular adaptation to preform a special task. 4  3. 5  Animal Specialized Cells 1. Red Blood Cell 2. 6  White blood Cell and its types 3. Ciliated Epithelial Cell 4. Nerve Cell 5. 1  Specialized cells are cells that have a particular adaptation to preform a special task. 2  3. 3  Animal Specialized Cells 1. Red Blood Cell 2. 4  White blood Cell and its types 3. Ciliated Epithelial Cell 4. Nerve Cell 5. 5  Muscle Cell 6.
Description. In this clip the structure and function of a ciliated epithelial cell is described. Cilia are tiny hair like structures on the surface of the cell. The hairs sweep hair, mucus, trapped dust and bacteria up to the back of the throat where it can be swallowed. 
Special features of Epithelial cells. in Histology. CELL POLARITY. • Epithelial cells exhibit distinct polarity. They have: – Apical domain, directed towards the exterior surface. – Lateral domain, communicates with adjacent cells and is characterized by specialized attachment areas. – Basal domain, rest on the basal lamina anchoring the cell to underlying connective tissue. • Specific biochemical characteristics are associated with each cell surface. • They may be very numerous for example in respiratory epithelial cells, where they function to transport material (mucus) in one direction along the surface of the membrane. • Each cilium, undergo a rapid forward beat with a slower recovery stroke.
Ciliated epithelium contains special cells called goblet cells. The purpose of these cells is to create mucous. This mucous surrounds particles that shouldn't be in our body, and the cilia move them out. Without these cells and tissue, a lot of harmful bacteria would remain in our lungs, making us really sick. We find ciliated epithelial tissue in our respiratory tract and in the fallopian tubes of women. Ciliated epithelium contains goblet cells, which secrete mucous.
Lesson Summary. Ciliated epithelium is a thin tissue that has hair-like structures on it. These hairs, called cilia, move back and forth to help move particles out of our body. We find ciliated epithelial tissue in our respiratory tract and in the fallopian tubes of women. Ciliated epithelium contains goblet cells, which secrete mucous. This mucous, combined with the cilia on the tissue, help move harmful particles out of our bodies to keep us healthy. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member
A ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium with goblet cells is a characteristic feature of parts of the respiratory system, where it is call respiratory epithelium. It contains several cell types in addition to ciliated, goblet and basal cells. Close to the surface of the epithelium, cells become more flattened. At the surface of the epithelium, cells appear like flat scales-similar to the epithelial cells of simple squamous epithelia. Remember that it is the shape of the cell which form the surface of the epithelium which gives the name to the
There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells.
Description. In this clip the structure and function of a ciliated epithelial cell is described. Cilia are tiny hair like structures on the surface of the cell. The hairs sweep hair, mucus, trapped dust and bacteria up to the back of the throat where it can be swallowed. 