The Good The Apple TV lets you stream all the video content in the iTunes Store to your HDTV, with purchases stored in the cloud. Netflix, Hulu Plus, HBO Go, MLB.TV, and a handful of other online media services are available, plus music, videos, and photos can be streamed from iOS devices using AirPlay.
The Apple TV is a simple device that’s about the size of a squared-off hockey puck, but on the inside sits a ton of cool features that can be a bit daunting at first. Here’s everything you need to know about how to set up an Apple TV, what you need to set it up, and how it works in the first place.
1 Securely connect the power cords for your Apple TV, AV receiver (if used), and TV to a working power source. 2  Turn on your TV and switch it to the correct input on your AV receiver or television. 3  Restart your Apple TV, your television, and AV receiver.
With Apple's developers conference around the corner, USA TODAY checks in with Peter Csathy, CEO of Manatt Digital Media, to talk about how Apple might expand its TV set-top box business. Post to Facebook.
We have a handy guide that shows you how to set up your Apple TV and your iPhone or iPad so that you can use your iOS device as a remote control for your Apple TV. It’s easy to do and takes just a couple of minutes to set up.
And when and where you want to watch it. With the new Apple TV and its powerful new tvOS, developers are creating experiences that will change what you expect from your big screen, making your TV feel as personal as your iPhone or iPad. See what’s on Apple TV.
Using the Apple TV. You’ll get more out of your Apple TV if you use iTunes a lot. So if you have a lot of music, movies and TV shows that you’ve purchased in the iTunes Store, the Apple TV allows you to play these files on your television.
Apple TV is a digital media player and a microconsole developed and sold by Apple Inc. It is a small network appliance and entertainment device that can receive digital data from a number of sources and stream it to a capable TV for playing on the TV screen.
Not only do you get the benefits of AirPlay and AirPlay mirroring if you have an iPad 2 or iPhone 4S, you also have access to a ton of default media from iTunes, Netflix, NBA, NHL, YouTube, Vimeo, and the like. But that’s just the beginning. Jailbreaking your Apple TV is what really opens up the media floodgates.
In this video I talk about my experiences with my Apple TV unit. Let me know what you think about this video.