How Guavas Are Good For Diabetics: 1  It is one of the fruits that is healthy and nutritious for the diabetics. 2  Consumption of guava reduces the absorption of sugar in the blood. 3  This brings down high blood sugar levels in diabetics. 1 Guavas are low in Glycemic Index which is why guavas can be consumed by diabetics. 2  Guava leaves are very healthy as they prevent the chances of developing diabetes. 3  Dry the guava leaves and crush them. 4  Boil in hot water like tea to get all the essential ingredients from the leaves, and consume it.
Psidium guajava (common guava, lemon guava) is a small tree in the Myrtle family (Myrtaceae), native to Mexico, Central America, and northern South America. Although related species may also be called guavas, they actually belong to other genera, such as the pineapple guava Acca sellowiana. 
Cholesterol-Lowering Fiber. The dietary fiber in guava helps protect your heart by promoting healthy cholesterol levels. High LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for heart disease, and consuming dietary fiber helps reduce blood LDL cholesterol levels, according to the Linus Pauling Institute. Guava is a source of antioxidants, which help protect your heart. A 2-ounce guava fruit provides 125 milligrams of vitamin C, or 208 percent of the daily value. Individuals with a higher consumption of vitamin C have a lower risk of developing coronary heart disease, according to the Linus Pauling Institute.
Eating guavas daily can is rich in fibre which helps in clearing the blocked pathway and thus relieving constipation. (Read: Top 10 home remedies for constipation). 7# Helps improve vision: Even though, guavas are not as rich in Vitamin A as carrots, they still are still a very good source of the nutrient. Vitamin A helps keep your eyes in good condition, and also helps improve your vision. Night blindness is one of the diseases associated with a Vitamin A deficiency. Apart from the insulin-like activity that guavas possess, their rich fibre content and low glycaemic index makes them extremely good for diabetic patients as well. While fibre content ensures the sugar levels are well regulated, low glycemic index inhibits a sudden spike in sugar levels [2].
Each fruit contains a large number of tiny, edible seeds at the center. Guavas are very good simply sliced for a snack or added to salads. In other areas of the world, guava is popular as a thick, rich paste made into cheese. Fresh guava juice is common in Hawaii. In Fiji, guavas are used to make tasty jelly. Procedure: 1  Chop the guavas finely or into bite-sized pieces, depending on how you want it. 2  Transfer the chopped guavas into a bowl. 3  Add the chaat masala, red chili powder, cumin powder, and salt. 4  Add finely chopped coriander leaves. 5  Squeeze lemon juice over it and give it all a good toss till everything is mixed well. 6  Serve immediately.
The health benefits of guava include the treatment of diarrhea, dysentery, constipation, cough, cold, skin care, high blood pressure, weight loss and scurvy. Many of you may have tasted this mouth-watering treat, or have at least seen or heard about it. Guava trees are very good sources to have year round fruits to eat, the leaves are great for making green tea. chewing leaves if having stomach problems or diarrhea, the best medicine guava leaf.
Brain Health: Another of the tremendous positive benefits of guavas is the presence of B3 and B6 vitamins. B3 (also known as niacin) can increase blood flow and stimulates cognitive function. B6 is a great nutrient for brain and nerve function. Guava trees are very good sources to have year round fruits to eat, the leaves are great for making green tea. chewing leaves if having stomach problems or diarrhea, the best medicine guava leaf.
Guava is also beneficial in treating gastroenteritis for the same reasons stated above. Thyroid Health: Guavas are a good source for copper, which is an important part of regulating thyroid metabolism by helping to control hormone production and absorption. Guava trees are very good sources to have year round fruits to eat, the leaves are great for making green tea. chewing leaves if having stomach problems or diarrhea, the best medicine guava leaf.
8# Good for pregnant women: Guavas contain folic acid, or vitamin B-9, which is recommended for pregnant women since it can help in developing the baby’s nervous system and protect the newborn from neurological disorders. 9# Helps you relax: Magnesium present in guavas helps in relaxing your nerves and muscles. Apart from the insulin-like activity that guavas possess, their rich fibre content and low glycaemic index makes them extremely good for diabetic patients as well. While fibre content ensures the sugar levels are well regulated, low glycemic index inhibits a sudden spike in sugar levels [2].