Nineveh was located in a very desirable place, east of the Tigris River in a very fertile plain. Today the ancient ruins are located just opposite of the present day city of Mosul. NINEVEH was also famous in the ancient world because it was a center for the worship of Ishtar (Astarte) the fertility goddess. NINEVEH was the famous capital of ancient Assyria. Previous cities like Asshur and Calah were ancient capitals of Assyria, but NINEVEH became most famous in the seventh century BC.
Nineveh Plain lies to the east, northeast of the city of Mosul in the Iraqi Ninawa Province. Although the actual ancient city of Nineveh is to be found in the eastern part of Mosul, on the bank of the Tigris river, the villages that are inhabited by minority religious groups that are non-Muslim lie to the east. Most of these inhabitants are Assyrian Christians.
Welcome to the Nineveh google satellite map! This place is situated in Johnson County, Indiana, United States, its geographical coordinates are 39° 21' 44 North, 86° 5' 5 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Nineveh. The location of each Nineveh hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Nineveh hotel map is available where all hotels in Nineveh are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Nineveh plains (Classical Syriac: ܦܩܥܬܐ ܕܢܝܢܘܐ, Pqata d'Ninwĕ, and modern Syriac: ܕܫܬܐ ܕܢܝܢܘܐ, Daŝta d'Ninwĕ; Arabic: سهل نينوى ‎, sahl naynawā; Central Kurdish: Deşta Neynewa) is a region in Iraq 's Nineveh Governorate to the north and east of the city Mosul, from which it is also known as the Plain of Mosul. Although the actual ancient city of Nineveh is to be found in the eastern part of Mosul, on the bank of the Tigris river, the villages that are inhabited by minority religious groups that are non-Muslim lie to the east. Most of these inhabitants are Assyrian Christians.
Nineveh hotels map. The location of each Nineveh hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Nineveh hotel map is available where all hotels in Nineveh are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
AtlasTours Iraq Map & Sites Nineveh, IraqThe ancient city of Nineveh is situated just outside Mosul on the east bank of the River Tigris. Nobody knows exactly when it was inhabited for the first time, but it was a cultural settlement in the 6th millennium BC, right through Sumerian and Babylonian periods. In fact, the name of Nineveh is of Sumerian origin. 
The English placename Nineveh comes from Latin Ninive and Septuagint Greek Nineyḗ (νινευή) under influence of the Biblical Hebrew Nīnewēh (נִינְוֶה), itself from the Akkadian Ninua (. Nina) ninâ Or Old Babylonian. Ninuwā the original meaning of the name is, unclear but may have referred to a patron. goddess Today, Nineveh's location is marked by two large mounds, Kouyunjik and Nabī Yūnus Prophet Jonah , and the remains of the city walls (about 12 kilometres (7 mi) in circumference). The Neo-Assyrian levels of Kouyunjik have been extensively explored.