The most common extrusive igneous rock is basalt, a rock that is especially common below the oceans (Figure 4.15). Figure 4.13: Extrusive igneous rocks form after lava cools above the surface. The lave spills out from the Earth at a volcano. Figure 4.14: Obsidian is an extrusive igneous rock. It cools so rapidly that crystals do not form, and it has a glassy texture. Figure 4.15: These are examples of basalt below the South Pacific Ocean. Basalt is an extrusive igneous rock common below the oceans, though it is also found in some places on continents.
By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals. The average density is 3.0 gm/cm 3. 
The most common igneous rock Basalt (mafic) makes up most of the oceanic plates and is founds at divergent plate boundaries. In fact most igneous rock activity occurs at divergent plate boundaries. However, intermediate to felsic igneous rocks are most commonly found along continental margins. Igneous rocks contain the following common minerals: Plagioclase feldspar, Olivine, Potassium feldspar, Pyroxene, Quartz, Amphibole, Biotite, and Muscovite. The percentage of these minerals present in an igneous rock determines whether it is felsic, intermediate, mafic, or ultramafic.
Igneous rocks are rocks that have formed out of magma (molten rock). The two types of igneous rocks most common on Earth are called granite and basalt. Granite is a rock that typically looks pink and white with black specks. Basalt generally just looks black. To summarize, the two types of igneous rocks by chemical composition are felsic and mafic. Granite-typically composed of orthoclase, hornblende, biotite, and quartz-is a felsic rock type. Basalt is mostly olivine, augite, and calcium-rich plagioclase, therefore mafic. slide 3 of 6.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt. Basalt is used for a wide variety of purposes. It is most commonly crushed for use as an aggregate in construction projects. Crushed basalt is used for road base, concrete aggregate, asphalt pavement aggregate, railroad ballast, filter stone in drain fields and may other purposes.
These differences help define and explain how the earth works. Granite is great stuff! Not only is it my personal favorite, it is without a doubt the most common rock type on the continental land masses. Yosemite Valley in the Sierra Nevada and Mt. Rushmore are two notable examples of granitic rocks. Granite is the ultimate silicate rock. As discussed elsewhere in greater detail, on average oxygen and silicon account for 75% of the earth's crust. The remaining 25% is split among several other elements, with aluminum and potassium contributing the most to the formation of the continental
Basalt and granite actually have quite a bit in common. Both are igneous rocks, which means that they cooled from a magma (the earth gets very hot just below the surface, and there is lots of liquid rock available). Both are made up of minerals from the silicate group, so both have large amounts of silicon and oxygen. Granite is the ultimate silicate rock. As discussed elsewhere in greater detail, on average oxygen and silicon account for 75% of the earth's crust. The remaining 25% is split among several other elements, with aluminum and potassium contributing the most to the formation of the continental granitic rocks.
3 Granophyre Granophyre is an intrusive igneous rock similar to granite. It is sometimes associated with an area of the Earth affected by a bolide impact! 4 Porphyritic Andesite Andesite is the second most common volcanic rock on Earth. It has intermediate composition (between basic Basalt and acid Rhyolite). 