Best Answer: As you breath the oxygen in from the air it is transported round the body by the red blood cells. The cells are full of a compound called HAEMOGLOBIN, which has a strong affinity to oxygen. 
While carbon dioxide is a metabolic waste product, it plays some important physiological roles as well. This lesson describes how carbon dioxide is transported in our blood, how carbon dioxide is converted into a pH buffer, and how carbon dioxide helps with oxygen transport. In summary, carbon dioxide is a metabolic waste product of ATP synthesis. As our cells produce carbon dioxide, it diffuses into the blood, where it is transported to the lungs for expiration. Some of the carbon dioxide is transported dissolved in the plasma. Some carbon dioxide is transported as carbaminohemoglobin. However, most carbon dioxide is transported as bicarbonate. As blood flows through the tissues, carbon dioxide diffuses into red blood cells, where it is converted into bicarbonate
Normal hemoglobin can bind a total of: 3 molecules of oxygen, 4 molecules of oxygen, 2 molecule of oxygen, or 1 molecule of oxygen. The majority of oxygen in the blood is transported by ________. dissolution in the blood, binding to hemoglobin, binding to blood plasma, or being carried as bicarbonate ions.
Confidence votes 8. Oxygen is transported by the haemoglobin of the red blood cells (erythrocytes). The oxygen binds reversibly to the haemoglobin to form oxyhemoglobin. Oxygen may also be dissolved and be transported in the solution form in blood plasma. Carbon dioxide is transported mainly as hydrogencarbonate ions. The process whereby carbon dioxide is converted into the bicarbonate ions occurs in the red blood cells. The reaction is reversible
Report Abuse. Pretty sure it's (2), bound to hemoglobin. Could be (3), dissolved in red blood cells because red blood cells transport oxygen throughout the body, but I don't think the oxygen is actually dissolved into the cells. sarge927 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The oxygen that we obligate aerobes need for survival is transported from the lungs to peripheral tissues by the hemoglobin that is densely packed in our red blood cells (erythrocytes). Hemoglobin is the most intensively studied protein in the world, and its structure is known in intimate detail. 
Vertebrate blood is bright red when its haemoglobin is oxygenated and dark red when it is deoxygenated. Some animals, such as crustaceans and mollusks, use hemocyanin to carry oxygen, instead of hemoglobin. 
Red blood cells and haemoglobin. Oxygen is one of the substances transported with the assistance of red blood cells. The red blood cells contain a pigment called haemoglobin, each molecule of which binds four oxygen molecules. Oxyhaemoglobin forms. Transport of oxygen in the blood Blood Blood is an 'aqueous body fluid'. In other words it is water containing a whole range of substances. It is contained in a complex network called the vascular system and is pumped around the body by the heart.