The main terms of the Treaty of Versailles were. 1  Germany had to cede Alsace-Lorraine to France. 2  Germany had to cede the coal mines in the Saar-area to France. 3  Germany had to cede an area that included Moresnet, Eupen, Malmedy malmédy And. St vith To.  belgium The Treaty of Versailles related to provisions set for the Germany government. Other treaties laid out terms for other major defeated powers: The Treaty of St. Germain for Austria, The Treaty of Trianon for Hungary, The Treaty of Neuilly for Bulgaria and the Treaty of Serves for Turkey.
The Other Defeated Nations. The Treaty of Versailles determined the punishment that Germany should face. Other treaties determined the fate of those countries that had fought with Germany-Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey. Austria and Hungary were divided and therefore signed separate treaties. Land-Austria lost land to Italy, Czechoslovakia and Serbia (Yugoslavia). Army-To be reduced to 30,000 men. Terms of the Treaty of Versailles. There were a total of 440 clauses in the final treaty. The first 26 clauses dealt with the establishment of the League of Nations. The remaining 414 clauses spelled out Germany's punishment.
1 Neuilly, Treaty of, November 27, 1919, the peace treaty signed by defeated Bulgaria and the World War I victors. 2  Bulgaria was forced to reduce its army to 20,000 men, cede lands to Yugoslavia and Greece that involved the transfer of 300,000 people. 3  Bulgarian army was limited to 20,000 men. 1 The treaty officially registered the breakup of the Habsburg Empire, recognizing the independence of Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary, and the Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes (Yugoslavia) and ceding eastern Galicia, Trento, southern Tirol, Trieste, and Istria.
The Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine required Bulgaria to cede various territories, after Bulgaria had been one of the Central Powers defeated in World War I. The treaty was signed on 27 November 1919 at Neuilly-sur-Seine, France. The treaty required Bulgaria. 1  to cede Western Thrace to the Entente (which awarded it to Greece at the San Remo conference) thereby cutting off Bulgaria's direct outlet to the Aegean Sea. Territories ceded by the treaty to the then Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes cover an area of 1,545 km 2 (597 sq mi) in what is now Serbia and 1,028 km 2 (397 sq mi) in what is now the Republic of Macedonia.
The Treaty of Neuilly, strictly the Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine, was signed with Bulgaria after World War One had ended. The treaty was signed on November 27th 1919. As Bulgaria had been one of the allies of Germany during World War One, the victorious nations were in no mood to be either sympathetic or charitable to Bulgaria. As with the other settlements after the war, land was taken from Bulgaria and reparations were required. When World War Two broke out, Bulgaria sided with Nazi Germany and reclaimed all the land taken from her by the Treaty of Neuilly. By the time World War Two ended, Bulgaria’s effective independence was also ended.
When the Bulgarian people learned of the terms of the Treaty of Neuilly, they were outraged. However, they were not in a position to do anything about the terms in 1919. When World War Two broke out, Bulgaria sided with Nazi Germany and reclaimed all the land taken from her by the Treaty of Neuilly. By the time World War Two ended, Bulgaria’s effective independence was also ended.
The Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine required Bulgaria to cede various territories, after Bulgaria had been one of the Central Powers defeated in World War I. The treaty was signed on 27 November 1919 at Neuilly-sur-Seine, France. The treaty required Bulgaria. The Treaty of Neuilly was one of the series of treaties after World War I, which included the Treaty of Versailles, the Treaty of Saint-Germain, the Treaty of Trianon, and the Treaty of Sevres, sèvres which were intended to diminish the military and political strength of the defeated members of The Central. powers
The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. 