Generally speaking, subatomic particles are particles smaller than an atom. There are the three basic ones that make up atoms, and you probably already know that those are protons, neutrons and electrons. If we delve more deeply into the physics of the subatomic world, more and more particles will appear.
Atoms are made up of protons, neutrons and electrons, also known as subatomic particles. Because an atom is neutral, the number of electrons is equal to the number of protons. Electrons circle the nucleus, which is made up of protons and neutrons. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Subatomic particles are particles that are smaller than an atom. In 1940, the number of subatomic particles known to science could be counted on the fingers of one hand: protons, neutrons, electrons, neutrinos, and positrons.
In the physical sciences, subatomic particles are particles much smaller than atoms. There are two types of subatomic particles: elementary particles, which according to current theories are not made of other particles; and composite particles.
Protons-The subatomic particle found in the atom's dense central core that has a positive charge. Neutrons-The subatomic particle found in the atom's dense central core that has no charge. Electrons-The subatomic particle found outside the atom's dense central core that has a nega
1 Protons, neutrons, and electrons are the three main subatomic particles found in an atom. 2  Protons have a positive (+) charge. 3  An easy way to remember this is to remember that both proton and positive start with the letter P.. 4  Neutrons have no electrical charge.
A subatomic particle is a unit of matter or energy that's the fundamental makeup of all matter. According in modern atomic theory, an atom has a nucleus, which is its center, or core. The nucleus contains subatomic particles: protons and neutrons. Protons are positively-charged particles. Neutrons are neutral particles. Surrounding the nucleus is a cloud of very small subatomic particles, called electrons. Electrons are nega