At oktoberfest 2014, we learned how to correctly pronounce the word lederhosen - traditional Bavarian oktoberfest clothing. 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. At oktoberfest 2014, we learned how to correctly pronounce the word lederhosen - traditional Bavarian oktoberfest clothing. Category. License.
Pronunciation depends on your accent. Some people do pronounce  our the same as are, while others pronounce it as a single  syllable ow, rather than the two syllable  … hour. Bavarian shorts can also be called lederhosen shorts or leather  shorts. They are leather shorts often worn with suspenders.   Yes,bavarian shots are called as lederhosen … shorts or leather  shorts. Lederhosen comes in different lengths and named as so.
A dirndl [ˈdɪʁndl̩] is a type of traditional dress worn in southern Germany, especially Bavaria; Austria; Switzerland; and the South Tyrol, based on the traditional clothing of Alpine peasants. Dresses that are loosely based on the dirndl are known as Landhausmode (country-inspired fashion). 
Lederhosen (. [leːdə.hoːzən] ; German for leather breeches; singular in German usage: Lederhose) are breeches made of leather; they may be either short or knee-length. Even today, some German and French Boy Scouts wear various forms of lederhosen, although in most cases they are not part of their official uniform. Lederhosen were also worn by Austrian boys from the 1930s to the 1970s. Today they are worn on special occasions, such as a Biergarten or Zeltfest.
The usual pronunciation of I (the pronoun or English letter) is the same as the word (eye). However, the pronoun I is sometimes extended as (aye), a long I with a very sof … t long E on the end, similiar to (Ieeeee). Do not drag it out, but put the E sound softly on the end. Bavarian shorts can also be called lederhosen shorts or leather  shorts. They are leather shorts often worn with suspenders.   Yes,bavarian shots are called as lederhosen … shorts or leather  shorts. Lederhosen comes in different lengths and named as so.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
Formerly, lederhosen were worn for hard physical work; they were more durable than a fabric garment and easier to clean. Today, they are mostly worn as leisurewear. Today, Lederhosen and dirndl attire is common at Oktoberfest events around the world. Even today, some German and French Boy Scouts wear various forms of lederhosen, although in most cases they are not part of their official uniform. Lederhosen were also worn by Austrian boys from the 1930s to the 1970s. Today they are worn on special occasions, such as a Biergarten or Zeltfest.
Lederhosen is a multisyllabic word / phrase. We are building a video-based pronunciation dictionary and usage API to help you learn how to pronounce and use lederhosen, along with tens of thousands of other English words and phrases. 
Definition of LEDERHOSEN. : leather shorts often with suspenders worn especially in Bavaria. ADVERTISEMENT.