1 For instance, a 1,000 to 1,500 square foot home should cost $130, while a larger home that is bigger than 2,500 square feet could be closer to $200. 2  Finishingtouchcleaningservice.com has a nice calculator in which you can insert information to get a decent estimate for your move out cleaning costs. 1 Depending on the home, average move out cleaning sessions take around three to five hours to complete. 2  Most companies prefer is the home is as empty as possible. 3  The cleaning company should already have all the cleaning agents and tools that are needed to complete the job.
House cleaning service (sometimes called maid service) varies in cost according to frequency of service, condition and size of home. Prices are generally based either on the number of rooms, the square footage or by the hour. 1 Biweekly cleaning of the same five-room apartment costs $59-$124, the seven-room single-story home runs $79-$150, and the larger nine-room two-story home costs $104-$180. 2  More Hands.com in Texas offers a website calculator to help determine cleaning costs according to the number and type of rooms.
If your rental deposit was only a couple hundred dollars, then maybe not. Cleaning services can provide deep cleans for your old home. Move out cleaning costs somewhere between $150 and $250 on average, will $200 being the rough price for a 1,000 sq. ft. home. Of course, if your carpet is heavily soiled, or you need a clean deeper than the Mariana Trench, then the price might go up. Here’s a breakdown of what, roughly, you can expect to pay. Your landlord will clean your place if need be. Then he or she will take the price of the cleaning out of your rental deposit. The price for your landlord to clean your place will be higher than for you.
1 On average, the typical cost to clean an apartment will vary depending on the size of your apartment and the cleaning tasks that you would want performed. 2  The average fee of cleaning a two-bedroom, 900 square-foot apartment is about $75 to $200 for one-time cleaning fees. 1 All-about-the-details.com, an apartment cleaning company located in Missouri, charges $80 for apartments under 500 square feet to as much as $400 for apartments larger than 5,000 square feet. 2  Another company, b bcleaningservice.com, charges anywhere from $135 to $200 for the initial cleaning.
In most cases, the prices are going to vary depending on the size of the home, the amount of cleaning that needs to be done, and the company performing the job. 1  On average, a move out cleaning service is going to charge anywhere from $100 to $400 for the entire process. 1 Depending on the home, average move out cleaning sessions take around three to five hours to complete. 2  Most companies prefer is the home is as empty as possible. 3  The cleaning company should already have all the cleaning agents and tools that are needed to complete the job.
If you're moving out of a large rental unit, you can expect to have a lot of cleaning to do. You'll either need to budget time to do the cleaning yourself or brace for the cost of paying a maid to clean this large space. Unfortunately, there's a lot riding on your ability to effectively clean your apartment. Most properties will take money out of your deposit or bill you for any cleaning they have to do between tenants, and these costs can pile up quickly.
Please Note: This is only a cost estimate which is based on the move out/in being in average condition. Hardwood floors, below average condition, garages, fireplaces, wet washing woodwork and coupons will change this cost estimate. Inside cabinets and drawers are included in the estimate. To see our basic move-out cleaning package, please click here (popup will open).
Do you need to know the average cost to clean an empty house in your zip code? Do you need a fair, trustworthy and easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Move Out House Cleaning material and labor costs? 
1 Finishingtouchcleaningservice.com has a nice calculator in which you can insert information to get a decent estimate for your move out cleaning costs. 2  Mr. Belvedere Cleaning Services charges $175 for a studio apartment to as much as $275 for a 3-bedroom home. 3  For every additional room, an additional $20 fee will apply. 1 Depending on the home, average move out cleaning sessions take around three to five hours to complete. 2  Most companies prefer is the home is as empty as possible. 3  The cleaning company should already have all the cleaning agents and tools that are needed to complete the job.
1 The average fee of cleaning a two-bedroom, 900 square-foot apartment is about $75 to $200 for one-time cleaning fees. 2  All-about-the-details.com, an apartment cleaning company located in Missouri, charges $80 for apartments under 500 square feet to as much as $400 for apartments larger than 5,000 square feet. 1 All-about-the-details.com, an apartment cleaning company located in Missouri, charges $80 for apartments under 500 square feet to as much as $400 for apartments larger than 5,000 square feet. 2  Another company, b bcleaningservice.com, charges anywhere from $135 to $200 for the initial cleaning.