The Treaty of Versailles – or rather the question of how Germany should have responded to it – would contribute to political divisions for the life of the Weimar Republic. 1. The Treaty of Versailles, drafted in 1919, formally concluded hostilities between the Allies and Germany. 2. This acceptance of the treaty outraged nationalist groups, who considered it another example of the Dolchstosselegende. Versailles and its harsh terms contributed to more than a decade of political division in
Economic problems. Coalition Government-During the 14 years of the Weimar Republic, nine elections were held, two in 1924 and 1932. Consequently, the government was weak and unstable. Signing the Treaty of Versailles, 28/06/1919 - £6600 million in reparation payments. Article 48 - Hindenburg was President for nine years. 
This was the Weimar Republic. Between 1919 and 1923 it had to deal with many problems. 1919 saw the Spartacist Rebellion and the new government was forced to agree to the unpopular Treaty of Versailles. In 1920 the Kapp Putsch succeeded in taking over the government for a while. This was a bad start for the Weimar Republic because they were replacing a political system that was banned by the Treaty of Versailles, but loved by many internally. The Treaty of Versailles upset many Germans because it took away land from Germany; made her pay reparations; made her army very small.
1 The Weimar Republic had to figure out how to pay reparations. 2  Germany had to take loans from the USA to pay reparations and also pay in the form of coal, iron and other resources. 3  As a result, there was a shortage of coal in Germany. 1 The army did not support the Weimar Republic. 2  The Weimar Republic did not have any charismatic leaders. 3  Friedrich Ebert, the first President of the Weimer Government was not a people’s leader. 4  Instead he was despised by patriotic Germans who saw him as a ‘November Criminal.’. 5  The bureaucratic transition was not smooth.
A German perspective on the Treaty of Versailles. The fate of the Weimar Republic was shaped to a large extent by the Treaty of Versailles. Drafted in Paris in the opening months of 1919, the treaty was one of several multi-national agreements that formally ended World War I. The Paris peace conferences had a wide and complex array of tasks to perform. This acceptance of the treaty outraged nationalist groups, who considered it another example of the Dolchstosselegende. Versailles and its harsh terms contributed to more than a decade of political division in the Weimar Republic.
Another problem was that the Weimar Republic was generally blamed for surrendering in 1918 and signing the Treaty of Versailles. Many political extremists, particularly the right-wing groups such as the Nazis, picked up this theme. There were literally hundreds of small groups all campaigning against democracy, the Weimar Republic and the Treaty of Versailles. Some groups even set up their own paramilitary forces. Adolf Hitler was sent by the German army to investigate the tiny DAP in Munich (German Workers Party).
The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies. The Impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versaill
This part of the Treaty of Versailles made the early years of the Weimar Republic very difficult because the some of the German people wanted revenge for their shock (to them) treatment at the Treaty of Versailles, they had been thinking that Wilsons fourteen points would be all. This was a bad start for the Weimar Republic because they were replacing a political system that was banned by the Treaty of Versailles, but loved by many internally. The Treaty of Versailles upset many Germans because it took away land from Germany; made her pay reparations; made her army very small.
The Weimar republic was associated with failure in WWI since it had signed the Treaty of Versailles that had ended the war. Many nationalists believed the republic had sold Germany out to its enemies by ending the war too early. 1 The Republic failed to pay full reparations to France so the French invaded the Ruhr region of Germany and took control of key industries and natural resources. 2  This worsened the economic crisis in Germany.