Only a few months after Kelly Clarkson, the first winner of American Idol, gave birth to her first child with Brandon Blackstock (Reba McEntire's stepson), the winner of the fourth season has now followed in the footsteps, as Carrie Underwood's baby with hockey-playing husband Mike Fisher was just born! According to Yahoo! Celebrity, news that Carrie Underwood's baby had been born were announced via her Twitter, saying that the baby boy had come into the world late last week, on February 27.
Underwood was born March 10, 1983 in Muskogee, Oklahoma, the daughter of Carole (Shatswell) and Stephen Underwood. She was raised on her parents' farm in the nearby rural town of Checotah. Her father worked in a sawmill, while her mother taught elementary school. She has two older sisters, Shanna and Stephanie. 
There's no doubt Carrie Underwood is feeling blown away — because on Friday, Feb. 27, the country crooner gave birth a baby boy named Isaiah Michael Fisher. This is the first child for the 31-year-old and her hockey player husband, Mike Fisher. 
Confidence votes 42. Carrie Underwood was born to Stephen and Carol Underwood on March 10, 1983 in Muskogee, Oklahoma. She was raised on her parents' farm in the rural town of Checotah, Oklahoma. Carrie Underwood was born to Stephen and Carol Underwood on March 10, 1983 in Muskogee, Oklahoma
Carrie Underwood was born on March 10, 1983 in Checotah, Oklahoma, USA as Carrie Marie Underwood. She has been married to Mike Fisher since July 10, 2010. They have one child. 
Early Life. Singer, actress and activist Carrie Marie Underwood was born on March 10, 1983, in Muskogee, Oklahoma. Since winning the famed musical talent show American Idol in 2005, Underwood has emerged as one of the most popular female performers in country music today. She was born and raised on a farm. Carrie Underwood married NHL athlete Mike Fisher on July 10, 2010. In September 2014, the couple announced they were expecting their first child together. Their son, Isaiah Michael Fisher, was born on February 27, 2015. Underwood announced his arrival via Twitter.
Welcome to the world, sweet angel!”. Carrie Underwood and Mike Fisher have announced the birth of their first child, a son named Isaiah Michael Fisher. [ video unavailable on this device ]. Born Friday (Feb. 27), Underwood shared a photo of little Isaiah’s hand and a short message on social media Tuesday.
Carrie Underwood was born on March 10, 1983 in Checotah, Oklahoma, USA as Carrie Marie Underwood. She has been married to Mike Fisher since July 10, 2010. They have one child. 