There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together. It is ‘smooth’ because it is not studded with ribosomes and is associated with smooth slippery fats. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells.
The internal mucosa has a honeycomb shape. When looking at the reticulum with ultrasonography it is a crescent shaped structure with a smooth contour. The reticulum is adjacent to the diaphragm, lungs, abomasum, rumen and liver. The heights of the reticular crests and depth of the structures vary across ruminant animal species. Anatomically it is considered the smaller portion of the reticulorumen along with the rumen. Together these two compartments make up 84% of the volume of the total stomach. The rumen is located at the base of the esophagus.
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is especially prominent in cells such as hepatocytes. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
It takes in products from the Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum (RER) in what is called ‘bulk flow’ (the equivalent of a bulk delivery to the supermarket). These chemical products are transported to the Golgi apparatus in sealed droplets or sacs called vesicles and move to a ‘deliveries only’ part of the Golgi apparatus. 
The surface of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (often abbreviated RER or Rough ER) (also called ergastoplasm) is studded with protein-manufacturing ribosomes giving it a rough appearance (hence its name). The binding site of the ribosome on the rough endoplasmic reticulum is the translocon. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
The endoplasm is the inner core of the cytoplasm and the membranes of the ER are continuous with the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope. Endoplasmic reticulum occurs in most types of eukaryotic cells, including the most primitive Giardia, but is absent from red blood cells and spermatozoa. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
The reticulum is the first chamber in the alimentary canal of a ruminant animal. Anatomically it is considered the smaller portion of the reticulorumen along with the rumen. Together these two compartments make up 84% of the volume of the total stomach. The rumen is located at the base of the esophagus. The reticulum is colloquially referred to as the honeycomb
The reticulum is the second stomach in the set of four, its main function is to interact with the rumen to initiate the mixing activity of the rumen and providing and addition … al area for fermentation. 1 The result is a painful burning sensation experienced in the stomach, chest, and throat. 2  Those 3  …. Common Lithuanian Surnames Lithuanian surnames are said to have been derived from Greek names that were first exposed to Lithuania by way of Western Europe or the Slavic countries in the early 15th cen….
Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes. It is ‘smooth’ because it is not studded with ribosomes and is associated with smooth slippery fats. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells.
The endoplasmic reticulum is composed of sac-like structures called cisternae that are folded and bound together by a cytoskeleton. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: smooth endoplasmic reticulum and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum gets its name from its smooth folded surface. One of those organelles is the endoplasmic reticulum, which is an interconnected network of membrane vesicles, or small containers used by cells to transport or hold materials. The surface of the endoplasmic reticulum is basically a workspace for the cell.