You can only open one junior cash ISA and/or one junior stocks & shares ISA per tax year. You can only open one junior cash ISA and one junior shares ISA per tax year, and you can split the 4,080 allowance between them as you wish. You are allowed to have multiple accounts for each but only if they cover different tax years. Those aged 16 or 17 can have both a junior ISA AND an adult cash ISA. When a child turns 16 they can also open a normal cash ISA as well as a junior ISA. However, they cannot open an adult stocks & shares ISA until they are 18. So 16 and 17-year-olds can have a bigger tax-free savings allowance than any other group.
Junior cash ISA and Junior investment ISA. As with adult ISAs, there are 2 types of JISA that you could choose to open – a Junior cash ISA or a Junior investment ISA. Junior cash ISAs work in a similar way to a normal savings account, except that you don’t pay UK Income Tax on the interest your money earns.
There's also a mini version for kids, called a junior ISA, which works in a similar way. One little anomaly is that 16-18 year olds can open a cash ISA and a junior ISA in the same year, meaning they're able to save up to 19,320 a year (in cash) tax-free. 
How many Junior ISAs can a child have? A child can have one Stocks and Shares Junior ISA and one Cash Junior ISA. Investments can be made into one or both plans but the total paid into all plans can't be more than the Junior ISA allowance for that tax year – currently £4,080 in 2015/16. A Stocks and Shares Junior ISA is a long-term investment so it is suitable where the money will be invested for five years or more. These ISAs give you access to a wide range of investment types such as equity funds and investment trusts.
Kids can save 4,080 per tax year in a junior ISA. The tax year runs from each 6 April to the following 5 April, and it's important to remember you'll lose unused allowances (or portions of them) for good. However, once in the children's ISA wrapper, they remain efficient year after year. Those aged 16 or 17 can have both a junior ISA AND an adult cash ISA. When a child turns 16 they can also open a normal cash ISA as well as a junior ISA. However, they cannot open an adult stocks & shares ISA until they are 18. So 16 and 17-year-olds can have a bigger tax-free savings allowance than any other group.
Yes, you can transfer Junior ISAs between providers. You can also transfer money from one Junior ISA type to another, e.g. from a Cash Junior ISA to a Stocks and Shares Junior ISA. From 6 April 2015, you can transfer a CTF to a Junior ISA. However please note that J.P. Morgan does not offer this transfer option. A Stocks and Shares Junior ISA is a long-term investment so it is suitable where the money will be invested for five years or more. These ISAs give you access to a wide range of investment types such as equity funds and investment trusts.
You can save up to £15,240 in an ISA in the 2015/16 tax year. You can choose to invest your ISA allowance of £15,240 in a cash ISA, a stocks and shares ISA, or any combination of the two provided that you don't exceed more than £15,240 in total for the 2015/16 tax year. 
But it's different with Junior Isas. You're only allowed to have one Junior cash Isa and one Junior stocks and shares Isa. So, say you've saved £6,000 over the past three years in a Junior cash Isa. You've found another account that pays a better rate of interest, and want to put this year's Junior Isa allowance into it. Although parents have to open a Junior Isa on behalf of their kids, anyone can contribute to a Junior Isa account. You can save into any mix of cash or stocks and shares, and switch between the two as often as you like. Children aged 16 and 17 can also open a cash Isa.
Guide to Junior ISAs: allowances and rules explained. A Junior ISA or 'JISA' is an Individual Savings Account where you can put money away for your child, tax-free, that they can access once they reach 18. As with adult ISAs, there are 2 types of JISA that you could choose to open – a Junior cash ISA or a Junior investment ISA. Junior cash ISAs work in a similar way to a normal savings account, except that you don’t pay UK Income Tax on the interest your money earns.
How they work. The limit for ISA contributions in the 2015/16 tax year is £15,240. 1  With a Cash ISA you’ll earn tax-free interest on your savings. 2  You can only open one Cash ISA per year, but it is possible to transfer to another Cash ISA or Stocks and Shares ISA or Stocks and Shares ISA with another provider. 1 With a Cash ISA you’ll earn tax-free interest on your savings. 2  You can only open one Cash ISA per year, but it is possible to transfer to another Cash ISA or Stocks and Shares ISA or Stocks and Shares ISA with another provider. 3  If you withdraw money from your Cash ISA, you don’t reset your annual limit.