Hematite was first used thousands of years ago and is being used for different purposes even today. One of its key historical uses was as a pigment. Historical evidence suggests that ancient Egyptians used this mineral as a coloring agent in pottery to give the structures a brown or red shade. In this following article, we will go through the versatile uses of this mineral. Advertisement. Hematite is a solid mineral substance which is a rich source of iron. An important ore of iron (present in the form of ferric oxide), it is composed of two molecules of iron and three molecules of oxygen. Different types of this mineral are mined from the iron mines in various parts of the world
For other uses, see Hematite (disambiguation) . Hematite, also spelled as haematite, is the mineral form of iron(III) oxide (Fe 2 O 3), one of several iron oxides. Hematite crystallizes in the rhombohedral lattice system, and it has the same crystal structure as ilmenite and corundum
Most of the products we use on a daily basis are made with feldspar: glass for drinking, glass for protection, glass wool for insulation, the floor tiles and shower basin in our bathroom, the tableware from which we eat, … Feldspar is part of our daily life. 
Shares & Saves. Save. Hematite is a common mineral form of iron oxide found in various places around the globe. It is abundant on the planet Mars, which is known for its characteristic red hue. Throughout history, hematite has been used for various purposes such as healing, jewelry and even the making of war paint
Red Ochre is variety of hematite used for permanent coloring, and particularly in ancient spiritual drawings, medicine pouches, and related spiritual uses. Hematite can be used at the corners of a room or property as a simple but protective spiritual crystal grid. Learn about the metaphysical and spiritual healing properties of Hematite, which is also called the stone of the mind or blood ore.
Hematite is the primary mineral in iron ore. While it is a very hard substance, it is quite brittle and crumples easily. Hematite can come in many colors including black, silver, grey, brown, reddish brown and red. Today Hematite is used for many uses such as iron ore, ornamental jewelry, paint ore, and pigments. You can find Hematite in many different regions; however it is usually mined in England, near Lake Superior on the border of the United States and Canada, Australia, Brazil and Mexico. While Hematite alone is harder than pure iron, it is very brittle only having a harness rating of 5 to 6. While Hematite is mined in England, the Lake Superior region of the USA, Canada, Mexico and Brazil for iron ore; it is also used as a paint ore. Many paints use this mineral to create red colors.