Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: INR stands for International Normalized Ratio. As its name suggests, one INR result can be compared to another INR result regardless of how or where the result was obtained. So, the INR is really just the standard unit used to report the result of a PT test. 
Ask your healthcare provider when and how you will get the results of the test. A PT/INR value higher than normal means your blood is taking longer than normal to form a clot. If you are taking a blood thinner, it means that the medicine is working. INR stands for international normalized ratio. The PT/INR test is usually done when you are taking a blood thinner (anticoagulant) medicine, such as warfarin (Coumadin), to prevent blood clots. Clots can block blood vessels and possibly cause a heart attack or stroke. This test measures the effect of the anticoagulant.
An INR blood test is used to monitor how well a patient's blood thinning medications, such as warfarin, are working. Blood thinning medications are prescribed for a prolonged period of time to patients to prevent the formation of blood clots. 
INR stands for International Normalized Ratio. As its name suggests, one INR result can be compared to another INR result regardless of how or where the result was obtained. So, the INR is really just the standard unit used to report the result of a PT test. There are a few things worth mentioning about the INR. 
If your PT/INR test result is too high, it means that your blood is clotting too slowly, and you are at risk of bleeding. Your dose of warfarin is too high. On the other hand, if your PT/INR test result is too low, your dose of warfarin may not be enough to protect your blood from clotting. In that case, your warfarin dose would be increased. Your doctor will increase or decrease the dose according to your PT/INR test result
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. If your PT/INR test result is too low, it means that your dose of warfarin may not be enough to protect your blood from clotting. Your warfarin dose needs to be increased. On the other hand, if your PT/INR test result is too high, it means that your blood is clotting too slowly and you are at risk of bleeding. In that case, your dose of warfarin would be reduced. 
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation based on results of a PT and is used to monitor individuals who are being treated with the blood-thinning medication (anticoagulant) warfarin (Coumadin®). Someone who is not taking warfarin would compare their PT test result to the normal range provided with the test result by the laboratory performing the test. A prolonged PT means that the blood is taking too long to form a clot.
Report Abuse. An INR is a test that measures the amount of time that it takes for your blood to clot after and injury. A normal test result for an INR is somewhere between 0.8 and 1.2 (if not on a blood thinner). So, basically your result is perfectly normal...which is very good. 
Even if your test results are different from the normal value, you may not have a problem. To learn what the results mean for you, talk with your health care provider. The INR is a ratio, so it's just a number, not a number tied to time or another value. If you take blood thinners, also called anti-clotting drugs or anticoagulants, it's especially important to check your INR. The INR is figured out using the results of the prothrombin time (PT) test, which measures the time it takes for your blood to clot. The INR is an international standard for the PT.
For people taking warfarin, most laboratories report PT results that have been adjusted to the INR. These people should have an INR of 2.0 to 3.0 for basic blood-thinning needs. For some who have a high risk of a blood clot, the INR needs to be higher-about 2.5 to 3.5. Someone who is not taking warfarin would compare their PT test result to the normal range provided with the test result by the laboratory performing the test. A prolonged PT means that the blood is taking too long to form a clot.