1 A myelogram is a procedure where special non-ionic contrast material (dye) is placed in the spinal canal in order to view the spinal canal, spinal cord and the spinal nerve roots. 2  A myelogram also views the spine's vertebrae and disks as well as other parts of the spine's anatomy. 
A CT myelogram is an X-ray examination of your spinal cord and spinal nerves enhanced with a dye-like solution injected into the fluid in the spinal column. 
Myelography-Myelogram Video. Myelography (Myelogram) is a diagnostic examination of the spine. A special x-ray sensitive contrast dye is injected to illuminate the spine, allowing identification of problems within the spine, spinal cord and nerve roots. 1  Tweet. 2  Print.
Myelography is a type of radiographic examination that uses a contrast medium to detect pathology of the spinal cord, including the location of a spinal cord injury, cysts, and tumors. The procedure often involves injection of contrast medium into the cervical or lumbar spine, followed by several X-ray projections. 
A myelogram is a diagnostic imaging procedure done by a radiologist. It uses a contrast dye and X-rays or computed tomography (CT) to look for problems in the spinal canal, including the spinal cord, nerve roots, and other tissues. The contrast dye appears on an X-ray screen, allowing the radiologist to see the spinal cord, subarachnoid space, and other nearby structures more clearly than with standard X-rays of the spine. The radiologist will also use a CT scan when doing a myelogram.
A myelogram uses X-rays and a special dye called contrast material to make pictures of the bones and the fluid-filled space (subarachnoid space) between the bones in your spine (spinal canal). A myelogram is done to check for: 1  The cause of arm or leg numbness, weakness, or pain. 2  Narrowing of the spinal canal (spinal stenosis). 3  A tumor or infection causing problems with the spinal cord or nerve roots.
A myelogram is an invasive diagnostic test that uses x-rays to examine the spinal canal. A special dye is injected into the spinal canal through a hollow needle. An x-ray fluoroscope then records the images formed by the dye. Myelograms can show conditions affecting the spinal cord and nerves within the spinal canal. Images are viewed in slices, similar to an MRI. myelogram: a diagnostic test in which a special dye is injected into the space around the spinal cord causing the nerves to show up white on an X-ray. radiologist: a doctor who specializes in reading X-rays and other diagnostic scans.
Myelogram. A myelogram is an x ray exam of the spinal cord, nerves and other tissues within the spinal cord that are highlighted by injected contrast dye. Mentioned in: Spinal Cord Tumors, Transverse Myelitis. 
Myelography is an imaging examination that involves the introduction of a spinal needle into the spinal canal and the injection of contrast material in the space around the spinal cord and nerve roots (the subarachnoid space) using a real-time form of x-ray called fluoroscopy. Myelography uses a real-time form of x-ray called fluoroscopy and an injection of contrast material to evaluate the spinal cord, nerve roots and spinal lining (meninges). It is particularly useful for assessing the spine following surgery and for assessing disc abnormalities in patients who cannot undergo MRI.