It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. It is an outgrowth of a type of glial cell. The production of the myelin sheath is called myelination. In humans, myelination begins in the 14th week of fetal development, although little myelin exists in the brain at the time of birth. During infancy, myelination occurs quickly, leading to a child's fast development, including crawling and walking in the first year. Myelin is made by different cell types, and varies in chemical composition and configuration, but performs the same insulating function. Myelinated axons are white in appearance, hence the white matter of the brain.
1 A myelin sheath. 2  The axons have a protective covering called myelin. 3  Without myelin, the brain and spinal cord can't communicate with each other or with the nerves in the rest of the body. A neuron is a nerve cell. Neurons send information to and from your brain to the rest of your body. A neuron is made up of: 1  A cell body. 2  This is where the nucleus is. 3  Dendrites. 4  The dendrites receive signals from other neurons. 5  A long, thin axon. 6  The axon is covered by a
Neurons in the brain. The myelin sheath is a protective covering on the nerves in the brain. Damaged or destroyed myelin sheaths impede the nerves from sending messages to other parts of the brain. This results in loss of functioning to those areas of the brain.
Myelin is the stuff that surrounds the nerve fibers and neurons in your brain. Its main goal is to help it function better. The more myelin you have in certain parts of your brain, the better it works overall. This means finding your misplaced car keys will suddenly get a whole lot easier. How to Grow Myelin. You can build myelin in your brain very slowly through focused practice. Myelin is not something that builds quickly. It takes time and requires a lot of mind activation along the way.
1 The axon passes information to the next neuron or other cell in the body. 2  A myelin sheath. 3  The axons have a protective covering called myelin. 4  Without myelin, the brain and spinal cord can't communicate with each other or with the nerves in the rest of the body. A neuron is a nerve cell. Neurons send information to and from your brain to the rest of your body. A neuron is made up of: 1  A cell body. 2  This is where the nucleus is. 3  Dendrites. 4  The dendrites receive signals from other neurons. 5  A long, thin axon. 6  The axon is covered by a
Depending on the location, different glial cell types make myelin in a different manner. Schwann cells make myelin in the peripheral nervous system (PNS: nerves) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS: brain and spinal cord). In the PNS, one Schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath (Figure 1A). The length of the myelin sheath along the axon is approximately 1 mm in the PNS. Between two adjacent myelin segments, there are approximately 1-μm-long gaps called nodes of Ranvier (Figure 1A and E). At the nodes, the axon is exposed to the extracellular space.
1 A long, thin axon. 2  The axon is covered by a myelin sheath. 3  The axon passes information to the next neuron or other cell in the body. 4  A myelin sheath. 5  The axons have a protective covering called myelin. 6  Without myelin, the brain and spinal cord can't communicate with each other or with the nerves in the rest of the body. A neuron is a nerve cell. Neurons send information to and from your brain to the rest of your body. A neuron is made up of: 1  A cell body. 2  This is where the nucleus is. 3  Dendrites. 4  The dendrites receive signals from other neurons. 5  A long, thin axon. 6
Nerves are protected in the body by a coating called myelin. When myelin is worn away or damaged, nerves don’t work as well. They can deteriorate, causing problems inside the brain and throughout the body. Damage to the myelin sheath around nerves is called demyelination. 