Verklempt was popularized in the United States in the 1990’s and many credit that to a comedy sketch on Saturday Night Live. Though, in the transcripts of the sketch the word is spelled faklempt. It means to be overwhelmed by emotion, perhaps so much that one cannot speak. An alternative spellings include ferklempt, farklempt, verklemmt, and faklempt. However, the v spelling is vastly preferred. Yiddish is a language created by the Ashkenazi Jews and has many words with roots in the German language.
In this meaning, Yinglish is not the same as Yeshivish, which is spoken by many Orthodox Jews, though the two share many parallels. While Yinglish is generally restricted in definition to the adaptation of Yiddish lemmas to English grammar by Jews, its usage is not explicitly restricted to Jews. 1 German Voegele, vögele also possible. 2  Cf german Word, feigling 'meaning'), coward could be used for anyone slightly, Effeminate, ugh, That moishele washes his, hands what a.. 3  Faygel often used as a disparaging term for a homosexual.  male
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
Many of these words have not been assimilated into English and are unlikely to be understood by English speakers who do not have substantial Yiddish knowledge. Leo Rosten 's book, The Joys of Yiddish, explains these words (and many more) in detail. With the exceptions of blintz, kosher (used in English slang), and shmo, none of the other words in this list are labeled as Yinglish in Rosten's book. 1 German Voegele, vögele also possible. 2  Cf german Word, feigling 'meaning'), coward could be used for anyone slightly, Effeminate, ugh, That moishele washes his, hands what a.. 3  Faygel often used as a disparaging term for a homosexual.  male
Verklempt is a loan word from the Yiddish language that acts as an adjective. It means to be overwhelmed by emotion, perhaps so much that one cannot speak. An alternative spellings include ferklempt, farklempt, verklemmt, and faklempt. However, the v spelling is vastly preferred. Yiddish is a language created by the Ashkenazi Jews and has many words with roots in the German language.
An English sentence that uses these words sometimes is said to be in Yinglish or Hebronics; however, the primary meaning of Yinglish is an anglicism used in Yiddish. 1 German Voegele, vögele also possible. 2  Cf german Word, feigling 'meaning'), coward could be used for anyone slightly, Effeminate, ugh, That moishele washes his, hands what a.. 3  Faygel often used as a disparaging term for a homosexual.  male
Klempt is Wiganese for hungry, starving, about to die from hunger. Wiganese is the local dialect of a friendly beer drinking, pie munching town called Wigan in the North West of England. May be heard in a sentence, 'thar ist fair klempt lad lets grab a pooles pie'. In english, 'One would like to purchase a pastry from the local delicatessen old bean'. Klempt, hungry as a scabby dog. 
kempt - (of hair) neat and tidy; a nicely kempt beard. tidy. groomed-neat and smart in appearance; well cared for; the manager was a beautifully groomed young man; his horse was always groomed. (kĕmpt). adj. Tidy; trim: a nicely kempt beard. [Back-formation from unkempt .]. (kɛmpt). adj. 1. (of hair) tidy; combed. See also unkempt.
Gustav Klimt (July 14, 1862 – February 6, 1918) was an Austrian symbolist painter and one of the most prominent members of the Vienna Secession movement. Klimt is noted for his paintings, murals, sketches, and other objets d'art. Klimt's primary subject was the female body, and his works are marked by a frank eroticism. In addition to his figurative works, which include allegories and portraits, he painted landscapes. Among the artists of the Vienna Secession, Klimt was the most influenced by Japanese art and its methods. Early in his artistic career, he was a successful painter of architectural decorations in a conventional manner.