Heterospory is the production of spores of two different sizes and sexes by the sporophytes of land plants. Heterospory was evolved from isospory independently by several plant groups in the Devonian period as part of the process of evolution of the timing of sex differentiation.
Overview. Heterospory refers to an adaptation seen in later-evolved plants--all seed plants and some ferns--in which spores develop in two different sizes and complete separate reproductive functions. One of the defining traits of plants is that a single adult plant exists in two separate states, called generations, with differing purposes. The sporophyte generation contains a full set of chromosomes in each cell and produces spores. From the spores, the gametophyte generation forms.
Submit. Heterospory refers to an adaptation seen in later-evolved plants--all seed plants and some ferns--in which spores develop in two different sizes and complete separate reproductive functions. One of the defining traits of plants is that a single adult plant exists in two separate states, called generations, with differing purposes. The sporophyte generation contains a full set of chromosomes in each cell and produces spores. From the spores, the gametophyte generation forms.
Gymnosperms are one of the two groups of seed plants. The flowering plants (angiosperms), are the other. In going from mosses and ferns to the seed plants, we see a very significant difference in plant life cycles. In mosses and ferns the propagating units for new individuals are spores. This type of unprotected seed is a naked seed. The name gymnosperm means naked seed.. In contrast, seeds of angiosperms are enclosed in a special structure that at maturity is called the fruit. There are going to be more new terms for you to learn as development of seeds of gymnosperms and angiosperms is considered.
Seeds. In most heterosporous plants, sperm is carried in the form of pollen. When it lands on the female structures of another plant, sexual reproduction occurs, forming a seed. Heterospory allows additional advantages to plants here as well. One of the defining traits of plants is that a single adult plant exists in two separate states, called generations, with differing purposes. The sporophyte generation contains a full set of chromosomes in each cell and produces spores. From the spores, the gametophyte generation forms.
A major distinction we can make between seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) and the non-seed plants (mosses and ferns) is that seed plants are heterosporous and non-seed plants are homosporous. Back to the example of a gymnosperm, the pine tree. This type of unprotected seed is a naked seed. The name gymnosperm means naked seed.. In contrast, seeds of angiosperms are enclosed in a special structure that at maturity is called the fruit. There are going to be more new terms for you to learn as development of seeds of gymnosperms and angiosperms is considered.
A major difference between gymnosperms and angiosperms is how the seeds are attached to the plant. Seeds of gymnosperms are not enclosed; instead, they are open to the surrounding environment. This type of unprotected seed is a naked seed. The name gymnosperm means naked seed.. In contrast, seeds of angiosperms are enclosed in a special structure that at maturity is called the fruit. There are going to be more new terms for you to learn as development of seeds of gymnosperms and angiosperms is considered.
1. Alternative views of character state distributions in the evolution of heterospory and the seed habit. A. Traditional view, in which all major variations on vascular plant life history are projected as steps in trend toward increasing enlargement and protection of the female gametophyte. Exosporic heterospory is a phase between homospory and endosporic heterospory largely due to the belief that evolution is a gradual, directional process; that a morphology can be included as a step means that it must be included.