The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them.
The cerebellum is the part of the brain that controls and  coordinates complex motor activities using signals from other parts  of the brain and the spinal cord. It is locat … ed in the back of the  head at the base of the brain.
1 The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body.
What part of the brain controls the release of hormones by the endocrine system? Hypothalamus, which is the floor of Diencephalon (a part of our Fore brain).
The Hypothalamus Essentials. 1  The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body.
The hypothalamus is known as the master switchboard because it’s the part of the brain that controls the endocrine system. The pituitary gland, which hangs by a thin stalk from the hypothalamus, is called the master gland of the body because it regulates the activity of the endocrine glands.
Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a part of the brain located superior and anterior to the brain stem and inferior to the thalamus. It serves many different functions in the nervous system, and is also responsible for the direct control of the endocrine system through the pituitary gland.
1 Hormone: a chemical message released in the body by cells and glands that affects other cells in an organism. 2  Hypothalamus: a part of the brain that controls things like thirst, hunger, body temperature, and the release of many hormones.
Overview. The endocrine system is primarily composed of glands that produce chemical messengers called hormones. Glands of the endocrine system include the pituitary gland, the thyroid gland, the parathyroid glands, the thymus, and the adrenal glands.