Insulated Cellular Shades. Insulated cellular shades are made of a pleated material and designed to fold up, accordion-like, usually at the top of the window but sometimes at either top or bottom, which provides maximum adjustability for daylight control, view, and privacy. Some insulated shades contain multiple air layers in a honeycomb cross-section. Insulated cellular shades are typically installed inside the window opening. The best-performing cellular products fit into edge tracks with good weather stripping to control air leakage (see photo).
So, interior shades do work to reduce direct solar heat gain, they just do it rather poorly in the grand scheme of things. In the winter, shades reduce radiant heat loss. You will see claims of up to R-8 by some manufacturers of interior shades in terms of reducing heat loss. So, interior shades can keep your house cooler in the summer (during the day) and warmer in the winter (at night). But for real energy savings and overall performance, go with high-performance windows and exterior shading, and relegate interior shading to handling privacy.
In the summer, shades keep out heat, but they also block light. Interior shades (and drapes, blinds, and the like) can reflect light energy back out that would otherwise be converted to heat energy inside the home. So, interior shades can keep your house cooler in the summer (during the day) and warmer in the winter (at night). But for real energy savings and overall performance, go with high-performance windows and exterior shading, and relegate interior shading to handling privacy.
The awnings on this home shade the windows and generate electricity. | Photo courtesy of ©iStockphoto/jhorrocks. You can choose window treatments or coverings not only for decoration but also for saving energy. Some carefully selected window treatments can reduce heat loss in the winter and heat gain in the summer. For example, when completely closed and lowered on a sunny window, highly reflective blinds can reduce heat gain by around 45%. They can also be adjusted to block and reflect direct sunlight onto a light-colored ceiling. A light-colored ceiling will diffuse the light without much heat or glare.
To save energy, shades and blinds must be deployed. Insulated cellular shades are made of a pleated material and designed to fold up, accordion-like, usually at the top of the window but sometimes at either top or bottom, which provides maximum adjustability for daylight control, view, and privacy. Some insulated shades contain multiple air layers in a honeycomb cross-section. Insulated cellular shades are typically installed inside the window opening. The best-performing cellular products fit into edge tracks with good weather stripping to control air leakage (see photo).
Cellular blinds can also work wonders in the summer months. Just as they trap cold air in the winter, cellular blinds do the same exact thing with hot air in the summer. Whether you are running the air conditioning or heat, it doesn’t matter. Either way, cellular-shaped shades are going to save you money. Honeycomb blinds save money and look good while doing it. With the rapidly and wildly rising energy costs, many people are eagerly looking to reduce the heating bill in any way that is feasible. One simple and effective way to reduce the cost of your next heating bill is to install cellular shades. Honeycomb blinds are very popular window treatment solutions and a key component in efficiently and effortlessly saving energy while helping to maintain the indoor temperature in your home or office
BB Commercial Solutions’ cellular window shades can drastically reduce the amount of heat lost during the cold winter months and can keep your building cooler during the hot summer months. Commercial shades are a great way to help lower your bottom line and improve on energy spending. Cellular shades are the workhorse of the window coverings world; they do it all! They filter light beautifully, provide privacy, offer an energy efficient insulating layer between conditioned indoor air and the glass, are immune to the effects of humidity, and are stylish to boot.
Here is how cellular shades work to save money on the heating bill: Honeycomb blinds strategically trap air inside their unique “honeycomb” shaped pockets. These pockets become instant insulators that stop or slow down the transfer of heat between your windows and the rest of your home. Honeycomb blinds save money and look good while doing it. With the rapidly and wildly rising energy costs, many people are eagerly looking to reduce the heating bill in any way that is feasible. One simple and effective way to reduce the cost of your next heating bill is to install cellular shades. Honeycomb blinds are very popular window treatment solutions and a key component in efficiently and effortlessly saving energy while helping to maintain the indoor temperature in your home or offic
We have a Solution for this Issue-Cellular Shades! Cellular and honeycomb fabric are proven when it comes to reducing solar gain. In some instances, they can almost completely eliminate it. Our window and skylight shades are available both in blackout and light filtering options. Both of these fabric options are white to the exterior, this means they don’t attract heat. On the inside, you can pick whatever color you want. 1  Light filtering fabrics are perfect for rooms where you want to trim the heat and prevent UV damage, but allow some light in. 2  You don’t have to have a dark room to keep it cool! 3  Blackout shades block 99% of the light and incoming heat to the room.