Per Se, the much-anticipated restaurant from renowned chef Thomas Keller, debuted in February 2004 in the Time Warner Center complex at Columbus Circle. With striking views of Columbus Circle and Central Park, the dining room is a rare blend of open space and easy intimacy, discreet drama and understated luxury. For dinner, Per Se offers two prix fixe tasting menus for $310; a 9 course Tasting of Seasonal Vegetables or the 9 course Chef’s Tasting Menu, which changes daily. We also offer a five, seven and nine-course menu during lunch on Friday, Saturday and Sunday for $205, $245 and $310 respectively.
Defamation per se is in contradistinction to defamation per quod, which requires proof of special damages. (purr say) adj. Latin for by itself, meaning inherently. Thus, a published writing which falsely accuses another of having a venereal disease or being a convicted felon is libel per se, without further explanation of the meaning of the statement. (See: libel per se).
per se. (purr say) adj. Latin for by itself, meaning inherently. Thus, a published writing which falsely accuses another of having a venereal disease or being a convicted felon is libel per se, without further explanation of the meaning of the statement. (See: libel per se).
In the law of Defamation, slander per se refers to certain language that is actionable as slander in and of itself without proof of special damages, such as the situation in which a person is falsely accused of having committed a crime. (purr say) adj. Latin for by itself, meaning inherently. Thus, a published writing which falsely accuses another of having a venereal disease or being a convicted felon is libel per se, without further explanation of the meaning of the statement. (See: libel per se).
Per se is a latin phrase that means through itself.. It also means by itself or in itself.. Per se if generally used in a legal sense to mean that without referring to anything else, something must be accepted because it is self evident or inherent. Drunk Driving Law: Per se DUI laws also exist in some states making it illegal to drive a vehicle above a specified BAC, typically .08% measured by a blood, breath or urine test. An accusation of violating the per se law is based solely on the defendant's body chemistry.
Per Se is a New American and French restaurant located on the fourth floor of the Time Warner Center at 10 Columbus Circle (at West 60th Street and Broadway) in Manhattan in New York City, owned by chef Thomas Keller. It has been called the best restaurant in New York City by the New York Times. The chef is Eli Kaimeh. Per Se is currently the third most expensive restaurant in the world after Sublimotion and Urasawa with an average guest spending approximately $851.
This is referred to as a DUI Per Se. It differs from a DUI in which a police officer determines that you were too impaired to drive regardless of your BAC – that is, even if your BAC was below .08%. A DUI Per Se is typically determined by a blood or breath test (sometimes urine). In almost every state, a conviction for DUI is permissible in court based on a DUI per se prosecution. This means the breathalyzer (or blood test) test at the time of the arrest recorded your BAC to be above the legal limit and thus no other factors matter; you are automatically guilty of DUI.
per se. adv. Of, in, or by itself or oneself; intrinsically. [Latin. : , per +. , itself .]. per se. adv. 1. by or in itself; intrinsically. [Latin].
Per se may refer to: 1  per se (Latin) , a Latin phrase meaning in itself. 2  Illegal per se, the legal usage in criminal and anti-trust law. 3  Negligence per se, legal use in tort law. 