A phlebolith is doctor-speak for a calcium deposit inside a blood vessel. Phleboliths tend to occur most often in one of the veins in the pelvis. These deposits are quite common, but they don't cause symptoms. You wouldn't know you had one unless it appeared on an x-ray, ultrasound, CT scan or MRI.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Radiology findings: A phlebolith is a small local, usually rounded, calcification within a vein. They are of no clinical importance. Pelviectasia can be a reference to dilation of the vessel in the pelvis. Get help from a doctor now ›. Not sure.: Sometimes a phlebolith can't be differentiated from a distal ureter stone on xray, and a CT is done to make the distinction. Perhaps the calcified vein is a larger vein than the small veins associated with phleboliths, and further evaluation is needed.
Phlebolith. A phlebolith is a small local, usually rounded, calcification within a vein. These are very common in the veins of the lower part of the pelvis, and they are generally of no clinical importance. When located in the pelvis they are sometimes difficult to differentiate from ureteral stones in the ureters on X-ray
Medical Definition of PHLEBOLITH. : a calculus in a vein usually resulting from the calcification of an old thrombus. 
A. A phlebolith is doctor-speak for a calcium deposit inside a blood vessel. Phleboliths tend to occur most often in one of the veins in the pelvis. These deposits are quite common, but they don't cause symptoms. You wouldn't know you had one unless it appeared on an x-ray, ultrasound, CT scan or MRI. Pelvic phleboliths are usually small and round. The deposit may sit inside a vein that is very close to one of the ureters, the tubes that carry urine from the kidney to the bladder. On a plain x-ray, a phlebolith sometimes can look like a kidney stone.
Look up phlebolith in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. A phlebolith is a small local, usually rounded, calcification within a vein. These are very common in the veins of the lower part of the pelvis, and they are generally of no clinical importance. When located in the pelvis they are sometimes difficult to differentiate from kidney stones in the ureters on X-ray. Phleboliths in the pelvic region are present in about 44.2% of people and are more common in females (50.1%) than males (37.3%). The amount of phleboliths increases with age and they also appear more often on the left than on the right side of the pelvic region
Get help from a doctor now ›. Radiology findings: A phlebolith is a small local, usually rounded, calcification within a vein. They are of no clinical importance. Pelviectasia can be a reference to dilation of the vessel in the pelvis. 
Phleboliths are literally vein stones, and represent calcification within venous structures. They are particularly common in the pelvis where they may mimic ureteric calculi, and are also encountered frequently in venous malformations. There is an association with Maffucci syndrome. 
A. A phlebolith is a small local, usually rounded, calcification within a vein. These are very common in the veins of the lower part of the pelvis, and they are generally of no clinical importance. Phleboliths are masses, clots or growths that develop in the wall of a vein and are composed of calcium or lime. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phlebolith. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the User. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the User.User-generated content areas are not reviewed by a WebMD physician.