Fever Facts. A fever -- also known as a high fever or a high temperature -- is not by itself an illness. It's usually a symptom of an underlying condition, most often an infection. Fever is usually associated with physical discomfort, and most people feel better when a fever is treated. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. 100.4 F (38.0 C): Fever in a child is a temperature of 100.4 farenheit or 38.0 celcius. In an infant, this temperature should be measured rectally. Temps taken under the arm in a baby may read falsely lower than the child's real core body temperature. 
1 Your child is younger than 3 months and has a fever. 2  Your child is age 3 to 6 months and has a temperature up to 102 F (38.9 C) and seems unusually irritable, lethargic or uncomfortable. 3  Your child is age 3 to 6 months and has a temperature higher than 102 F (38.9 C). When to seek medical advice. Get medical help for a fever if: 1  Your child is younger than 3 months and has a fever. 2  Your child is age 3 to 6 months and has a temperature up to 102 F (38.9 C) and seems unusually irritable, lethargic or uncomfortable.
A fever is a rise in body temperature. It's usually a sign of infection. The fever itself is generally harmless and probably helpful. Fevers usually don't need treatment. The average body temperature is 98.6 F (37 C). When to seek medical advice. Get medical help for a fever if: 1  Your child is younger than 3 months and has a fever. 2  Your child is age 3 to 6 months and has a temperature up to 102 F (38.9 C) and seems unusually irritable, lethargic or uncomfortable. 3  Your child is age 3 to 6 months and has a temperature higher than 102 F (38.9
A fever is not a reliable indication of your child's state of health, the Nemours Foundation notes. In some cases, viral infections such as colds can raise your child's temperature to high levels without actually causing any great amount of risk. If you take an oral reading, your child's normal temperature should be 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, according to the American Academy of Family Physicians, or AAFP. If you take a rectal reading, your child's normal temperature should be 99.6 degrees Fahrenheit. For oral readings, doctors commonly define a fever as any temperature in excess of 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit. For rectal readings, doctors commonly define a fever as any temperature in excess of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit
Fevers help the body fight infection. Fever is a symptom, not a disease. In most cases, fever means your child has a minor illness. Often you must look at your child's other symptoms to determine how serious the illness is. Although it may be scary when your child's temperature goes up, fever is not harmful. The average normal body temperature is about 98.6°F (37°C) . It usually rises during the day from a low of 97.4°F (36.3°C) in the morning to a high of 99.6°F (37.6°C) in the late afternoon. If you think your child has a fever but you are not able to measure his or her temperature, it is important to look for other symptoms of illness. Children tend to run higher fevers than adults. The degree of fever may not indicate how serious your child's illness is. With a minor illness, such as a cold, a child may have a temperature of 104°F (40°C) , while a very serious infection may not cause a fever or may cause only a mild fever
Introduction. A fever is a high temperature. As a general rule, in children, a temperature of over 37.5C (99.5 F) is a fever. As a parent it can be extremely worrying if your child has a high temperature. However, it's very common and often clears up by itself without treatment. 