~ Captain Ahab on Mermaid Wenches. Mermaids are super-cool species that is half-fish, half-woman. Males, which are much rarer, are called mermen. They are commonly seen in the sea or, more and more frequently, in fresh water lakes. Some people believe there are two types of mermaid-those with the top half of a woman and the bottom half of a fish, and those with the top half of a fish and the bottom half of a woman. But science has shown the alternate type to be biologically impossible.
Similar creatures live in lakes and rivers. In Slavic mythology there are the Rusalki, the spirits of young women who have met their fate through drowning. They appear in the form of beautiful fish-women or mermaids. They have lovely hair, fine features but sad fathomless eyes which tell their tragic tale. All sea-faring cultures have mermaid tales. In the Breton ballads there are the 'Morgan', sea-women, and 'Morverch', sea-daughters; in Ireland and Scotland there are 'Merrow'. The Aegean Sea, it seems, was full of such creatures.
A mermaid is a legendary aquatic creature with the upper body of a female human and the tail of a fish. Mermaids appear in the folklore of many cultures worldwide, including the Near East, Europe, Africa and Asia. The first known mermaid stories appeared in Assyria c. 1000 BC. The goddess Atargatis, mother of Assyrian queen Semiramis, loved a mortal (a shepherd) and unintentionally killed him. Ashamed, she jumped into a lake and took the form of a fish, but the waters would not conceal her divine beauty.
The earliest known mermaid legends come from Syria around 1000 B.C. where the Syrian goddess Atargatis dove into a lake to take the form of a fish, but the powers there would not allow her give up her great beauty, so only her bottom half became a fish and she kept her top half in human form. Later tales in the mythology of mermaids stem from Homer's epic The Odyssey, where some mythologists believe the Sirens to have been in mermaid form. This was an extremely popular version of the mermaid throughout history.
edit Related species. Some people believe there are two types of mermaid-those with the top half of a woman and the bottom half of a fish, and those with the top half of a fish and the bottom half of a woman. But science has shown the alternate type to be biologically impossible.
:: MERMAID HISTORY :: Mermaids-History of Mermaids Mermaids have long fascinated humans, right from the days of Hans Christian Anderson’s novel, The Little Mermaid, to the children of today that read about Mermaids and Mermen in J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter books. The fascination of humans with these peculiar creatures is not restricted to the West.
In ancient Syrian (~ 1000 BC), there was a goddess who went by the name of Atargatis. She was a fertility goddess whose cult eventually spread to Greece and Rome and was associated with water (especially lakes) and fish. Often depicted in mermaid form, Atargatis is perhaps the “original” mermaid. 
No evidence of aquatic humanoids has ever been found. Statue of a sailor mermaid from Portsmouth, Virginia. Mermaids-those half-human, half-fish sirens of the sea — are legendary sea creatures chronicled in maritime cultures since time immemorial. The ancient Greek epic poet Homer wrote of them in The Odyssey
Mermen are mythical male equivalents and counterparts of mermaids – legendary creatures who have the form of a male human from the waist up and are fish-like from the waist down, having scaly fish tails in place of legs. A merboy is a young merman. 
Mermaids have been a popular subject of art and literature in recent centuries, such as in Hans Christian Andersen 's well-known fairy tale . The Little Mermaid  (1836). They have subsequently been depicted in operas, paintings, books, films and comics. The first known mermaid stories appeared in Assyria c. 1000 BC. The goddess Atargatis, mother of Assyrian queen Semiramis, loved a mortal (a shepherd) and unintentionally killed him. Ashamed, she jumped into a lake and took the form of a fish, but the waters would not conceal her divine beauty.