On the west side of the swamp, at Billy's Island, logging equipment and other artifacts remain of a 1920s logging town of 600 residents. Most of the Okefenokee Swamp is included in the 403,000-acre (1,630 km 2) Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge. The swamp was formed over the past 6,500 years by the accumulation of peat in a shallow basin on the edge of an ancient Atlantic coastal terrace, the geological relic of a Pleistocene estuary.
Although we call the Okefenokee a swamp (since swamps by definition are forests sitting in water), it actually isn't a swamp but really a sphagnum bog with lots of trees growing on top of a supporting peat layer. 
The Okefenokee Swamp. Stretching from Waycross, Georgia to the Georgia-Florida border, the Okefenokee Swamp represented the last of the untamed wilderness in Georgia after the War Between the States. 
Confidence votes 77.4K. Lots and lots of fresh water is the key to how the Okefenokee Swamp was created. The land was already naturally flat, and it held the water very well. Vegetation lives and dies and becomes part of the ground cover (mostly peat) in the swamp. The Okefenokee Swamp is a shallow, 400,000-acre, peat-filled swamp located near the southern border of Georgia, in the United States. It is the largest freshwater swamp … in North America. It is believed to have been a prehistoric salt marsh.
Reptiles, Amphibians, and Fish. The largest swamp in North America, the Okefenokee Swamp covers roughly 700 square miles and is located in the southeastern corner of Georgia, encompassing most of Charlton and Ware counties and parts of Brantley and Clinch counties. In more recent geologic times the depression forming the basin of the present-day Okefenokee Swamp was presumably created by wave action associated with an offshore sandbar. Today the depression is filled with fresh water and peat to create what Seminoles called the land of trembling earth..
The Okefenokee Swamp is a shallow, 438,000-acre (1,770 km 2), peat-filled wetland straddling the Georgia – Florida border in the United States. A majority of the swamp is protected by the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge and the Okefenokee Wilderness. The Okefenokee Swamp is considered to be one of the Seven Natural Wonders of Georgia. The Okefenokee is the largest  blackwater  swamp in North America. The swamp was formed over the past 6,500 years by the accumulation of peat in a shallow basin on the edge of an ancient Atlantic coastal terrace, the geological relic of a Pleistocene estuary.
Welcome to the “Land of Trembling Earth”. The Great Okefenokee Swamp is one of North America’s most unspoiled, fascinating and precious natural areas. It is the largest, intact, un-fragmented, freshwater and black water wilderness swamp in North America. 
We Need Your Help! The Okefenokee Swamp Park is a 501.c.3 not for profit swamp showcase that opened its gates to the public in October of 1946. Since then, millions of visitors from around the globe have enjoyed this unique window into the Swamp. We receive no direct contributions from the state, local or federal government.
The refuge is administered from offices in Folkston, Georgia. The refuge was established in 1937 to protect a majority of the 438,000 acre (1,772 km 2) Okefenokee Swamp. The name Okefenokee is a Native American word meaning trembling earth.. Okefenokee NWR has an approved acquisition boundary of 519,480 acres (2,102 km 2), which is 123,480 acres (500 km 2) larger than its current area. Approximately 371,000 acres (1,500 km 2) of the Okefenokee Swamp wetlands are incorporated into the refuge.