Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. 
Breads and Grains. 1  Store-bought bagels: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 2 months (freezer). 2  Commercial breads: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 3 months (freezer). 3  Unopened flavored rice: 6 months (pantry). Dairy Foods. 1  Ice cream: 2 to 4 months (freezer). 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months (refrigerator) or 6-9 months (freezer). 3  Margarine: 4 to 5 months (refrigerator) or 1 year
1 Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). Dairy Foods. 1  Ice cream: 2 to 4 months (freezer). 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months (refrigerator) or 6-9 months (freezer). 3  Margarine: 4 to 5 months (refrigerator) or 1 year
You might be surprised at how long or how short some of your favorite foods are supposed to last in the fridge. It's always a good time to educate yourself on food safety, but with Fourth of July and the inevitable cookouts coming up, now is as good a time as ever to make sure your knowledge is current. Once you've cleared up what belongs where, the next step is knowing how long the food will last. Storing food is a delicate matter -- in the fridge, food might get moist and moldy, and in the freezer it could lose all its moisture or get freezer burn. If you leave food in the fridge or freezer too long, it could not only lose its integrity but it may also become unsafe to eat. FoodSafety.gov has two useful charts listing how long certain foods will stay good in both the refrigerator and the freezer. The first chart lists all kinds of commonly refrigerated foods and the second is specifically for eggs and food made with eggs
If items that have been sitting in the fridge too long are eaten, they can lead to food poisoning and, in some cases, serious health problems. BABY FOOD: LASTS 1 - 3 DAYS IN FRIDGE ONCE OPENED. An open jar of strained fruits and veggies lasts two-to-three days in the fridge. Opened cooked meat and vegetable combos need to go after a day or two. Meat and veggie combos should go after two days, tops. The bottom line: Don't leave open jars of baby food in the fridge longer than three days. EGGS: LASTS 3 - 5 WEEKS. Eggs should last three to five weeks after you put them in the fridge. Keep in mind that it's very important that you don't put eggs in the front of the fridge — even if there are compartments for them there. They'll spoil earlier if they're in the front.
Times are based on a refrigerator set at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Shelf life also depends on the freshness of foods at the time of purchase. 1  Cheese, hard: six months. 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months. 3  Olives and pickles: one month. 4  Fresh eggs (in shell): 3 to 5 weeks. 5  Cheese, soft, unopened: 3 to 4 weeks. 6  Cheese, soft, opened: 1 to 2 weeks. 7  Bacon, cooked: one week. 8  Hard-boiled eggs: one week
1 How long does ground beef last in the fridge once it is cooked? 2  Cooked ground beef will usually stay good for 3 to 4 days in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer. 
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). Dairy Foods. 1  Ice cream: 2 to 4 months (freezer). 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months (refrigerator) or 6-9 months (freezer). 3  Margarine: 4 to 5 months (refrigerator) or 1 year