October 2011 Borrowing for a Property Purchase in an SMSF FACT SHEET The legislation for SMSF allows for borrowing to acquire properties if the specific criteria is met. The property title must be held in a bare trust whose trustee must be different to the SMSF trustee. The borrowing must be non-recourse.A bare trust is trust where the title holder, holds the property for a specified beneficial owner in this case
OK, so you have a self-managed super fund (SMSF) and are comfortable using the cash in it to leverage into a loan to buy property. You know that the super rules allow this if a bare trust is set up as the buyer of the property.
2.3 Under a discretionary trust, the trustees have the power to make various decisions with the trust property such as the power to buy, sell and/or invest various trust assets. In a Bare Trust, however, the Bare Trustee is permitted to do nothing unless at the direction of the beneficiary (the Super Fund trustee).
The bare trust cannot be set up until you’ve identified the property the SMSF intends to purchase. When you’ve identified the property and supplied us with the relevant details, we can set up your bare trust in a matter of hours. Simply copy the following Bare Trust Information section, paste it into an email, enter the required information, and send it to us.
The Bare Trust is used when the SMSF wants to borrow funds from a third party for investment purposes. The Bare Trust consists of a Corporate Trustee, a Custodian Trust and a Bare Trust.
At Superannuation Warehouse we specialise in helping those with a SMSF purchase of an investment property using finance from the bank. This is done through the use of a Bare Trust structure with a Corporate Trustee. The typical structure is set out below:
The name on the contract for the purchase of a property when a SMSF loan is used needs to be the trustee of the custodian trust (holding trust / bare trust). The trustee should be a company, for example: Smith Custodian Pty Ltd [A.C.N. 123 456 789].