In signal processing and related disciplines, aliasing is an effect that causes different signals to become indistinguishable (or aliases of one another) when sampled. It also refers to the distortion or artifact that results when the signal reconstructed from samples is different from the original continuous signal. Aliasing can also occur in spatially sampled signals, for instance digital images. Aliasing in spatially sampled signals is called spatial aliasing.
The Nyquist Theorem tells us that we can successfully sample and play back frequency components up to one-half the sampling frequency. Aliasing is the term used to describe what happens when we try to record and play back frequencies higher than one-half the sampling rate. Consider a digital audio system with a sample rate of 48 KHz, recording a steadily rising sine wave tone. At lower frequency, the tone is sampled with many points per cycle. 
Aliasing is a signal processing term. Aliasing occurs when a system is measured at an insufficient sampling rate. It is perhaps best explained through example. Imagine a disk (or paper plate) with a dot near the edge. If the disk began rotating at one revolution per minute, you could observe the angular velocity by looking at it. Now close your eyes.
Aliasing can occur in signals sampled in time, for instance digital audio, and is referred to as temporal aliasing. Aliasing can also occur in spatially sampled signals, for instance digital images. Aliasing in spatially sampled signals is called spatial aliasing.
Anti-aliasing is a word that’s often thrown around by photographers and gamers when dealing with graphics and images. Take a look at what anti-aliasing is, why we use it, and, most importantly, when it’s best to not use it. It’s an important part of imagemaking and photography—anti-aliasing is certainly something that should be understood as thoroughly as possible to create high quality images. 
Aliasing is a term generally used in the field of digital signal processing. When an analog signal is digitized, any component of the signal that is above one-half the sampling or digitizing frequency will be 'aliased.' This frequency limit is known as the Nyquist frequency. Aliasing occurs when a system is measured at an insufficient sampling rate. It is perhaps best explained through example. Imagine a disk (or paper plate) with a dot near the edge. If the disk began rotating at one revolution per minute, you could observe the angular velocity by looking at it. Now close your eyes.
Aliasing. Digital sampling of any signal, whether sound, digital photographs, or other, can result in apparent signals at frequencies well below anything present in the original. Aliasing occurs when a signal is sampled at a less than twice the highest frequency present in the signal. If an audio signal of containing a ultrasonic 45 kHz tone is sampled at 44.75 kHz, the resulting signal contains a 0.25 kHz tone, approximately middle C!
Part of the Multimedia and graphics glossary: In sound and image generation, aliasing is the generation of a false (alias) frequency along with the correct one when doing frequency sampling. For images, this produces a jagged edge, or stair-step effect. For sound, it produces a buzz. See antialiasing.