But your lease payments may be lower than a loan payment for a similar vehicle. For example, the average lease payment for a Jetta was $287 while the average loan payment was $389. And for a Grand Cherokee, the loan payment averaged $611, compared to $470 for the lease payment. In addition, it may be easier to qualify for a lease than a loan on certain vehicles, at least when it comes to your credit scores. The make and model of the vehicle you choose will also affect your options.
Credit Scores. Auto lenders and lessors examine your credit scores when determining the interest rate on your loan or lease. Your credit score ranges from 300 to 850. Having a higher credit score qualifies you for a lower interest rate -- which translates to a lower monthly payment. Typically, a score of 700 or higher indicates to the lender that you deserve their best rates. If your score is above 680, but below 700, your rate may rise a little, around 1 to 2 percent higher than the best rate
hoozone/iStock/Getty Images. If you want a good interest rate on your car lease, you need to have a credit score above 680. Credit scores are ranked between 300 and 850. If you have a credit score lower than 680, you may still be able to secure financing on a lease, but the loan will be more expensive.
Credit Score Requirements. According to Experian, the average credit score needed for a lease is 717, although the exact number varies. If your score is low, you will likely not be approved or will pay high interest rates. However, you may be able to get a lower interest rate if you put more money down upfront. If you like to get a new car every few years, a lease may be more appealing than buying a car. However, your credit score will still need to be good not only to ensure you pay your lease, but also because you’re being trusted return the car in good condition and within the required mileage.
Know what to expect. When you try to finance or lease a car with a subprime credit score, you can expect to be asked to pay a higher down payment, higher interest rates, and/or a security deposit (for a lease). You may also have trouble getting insurance. 
However, car leasing requires a higher credit score compared to car loans, therefore, a lessee should know what the required credit score for a car lease is before leasing a car. The reason behind the higher credit score needed to lease a car is the nature of a car lease. For most financing companies, approving a car lease is seen as a higher risk than approving a car loan. Many leasing agencies will require no down payments as well as lower interest rates for lessees with a credit score beyond 720. This is the best credit score needed to lease a car.
One of the distinct advantages of leasing is that it may allow you to pay less per month than if you financed the same vehicle. According to Experian Automotive, the average monthly payment for a new lease was $420 in the fourth quarter of 2013, and the majority of leases (66%) were for a 24- to 36-month term. In addition, it may be easier to qualify for a lease than a loan on certain vehicles, at least when it comes to your credit scores. The make and model of the vehicle you choose will also affect your options.
Normally, if a car lease does get approved for scores below 640, a high down payment will be required as well as a higher monthly interest rate. This will defeat the purpose of leasing a car for lower expenses. For better rates, a lessee must strive to have a credit score higher than 700. Many leasing agencies will require no down payments as well as lower interest rates for lessees with a credit score beyond 720. This is the best credit score needed to lease a car.