Harvesting. Beets can be harvested whenever they grow to the desired size. About 60 days are required for beets to reach 1 1/2 inches in diameter, the size often used for cooking, pickling or canning as whole beets. Beets enlarge rapidly to 3 inches with adequate moisture and space. 
Dig your intended beet patch to loosen the soil down at least a foot so the root can grow without obstructions. Mix in fertilizer or compost before planting your seeds. You can plant your beet seeds 3 weeks before your last frost date, and again about 2 weeks after the frost date for a second crop. Your seeding and spacing are somewhat dependent on how you plan on using your beets. For a root-only harvest at the end of the season, you should plant a few seeds every 6 inches. After they’ve sprouted, thin down to one plant in a spot. Your seeds should only be about 1/2 inch deep in the soil
Beets in Arizona. If your beets were soft when you harvested them, you may have waited too long: Large beets (over 3 inches in diameter) can get soft, fibrous, or tough. Smaller beets (about 1 to 2 inches) are more flavorful and have a better texture. Medium beets (2 to 3 inches) are good for some purposes as well. For high-elevation gardens of Arizona (above 6000 feet), you can plant beets around mid-May through mid-June. You can grow most any variety as long as you plant at the proper time (personally we love candy-striped 'Chioggia'). In Louisiana, the best planting dates for beets are 1/15 - 2/28 (spring) or 8/15 -10/1 (fall) because, as you know, they need cooler weather. We'd probably go with a fall planting.
Eat thinned seedlings like spinach; they do not transplant well. It takes about 60 days for a beet to reach 11/2 inches in diameter, a popular size for cooking or pickling. They will quickly grow larger if they have plenty of water. Pull the beets up when they reach your desired size. Types of Beets Beet lovers have several colorful beet types to choose from. Plant beets in rows spaced 12 to 18 inches apart. 1  Detroit Dark Red, harvest at 60 days, is a deep red, finely-grained sweet standard beet. 2  Golden, harvest at 55 days, has gold-colored skin and flesh. 3  Lutz Green Leaf, harvest at 80 days, is often grown as a fall crop; its red flesh has lighter zones.
Beets: 1  Fertilize prior to planting your Beets and again when the plants are 3 to 4 inches tall. 2  Keep the plants well watered. 3  You can harvest your Beets at any time during their growth cycle, but they are typically most tender after 40 to 50 days, when they're between 1½ to 2 inches in diameter. 1 Keep the plants well watered. 2  You can harvest your Beets at any time during their growth cycle, but they are typically most tender after 40 to 50 days, when they're between 1½ to 2 inches in diameter. 3  The greens are best if picked when they're about 4 to 6
Plant more beets. Stagger your beet planting about every 2 to 3 weeks if you want to have beets to harvest over a period of time. Otherwise, all of your beets and beet tops will be ready for harvesting at the same time.You can do this in either the spring or the fall. 
Varies with variety, but about 55 days, from seed. Harvesting Beets: You can start harvesting greens when they are a couple of inches tall. The greens are most tender before they reach 6. Beet roots are ready to harvest when they are approx. 1 ½ - 2 in diameter. Leave at least 1 of the leaves on, to avoid bleeding during cooking. Storing Beets: Beets are ideal root cellar vegetables and can be stored for 3-4 months at near freezing temperatures with high humidity (98 - 100 percent).
Sow beets in the garden 2 to 3 weeks before the last average frost date in spring. Continue succession plantings every 3 weeks until temperatures reach 80°F. Beets can again be planted in late summer or early autumn 6 to 8 weeks before the first average frost in autumn. Beets require 45 to 65 days to reach harvest. Grow beets as a winter crop in mild-winter regions. Description. 