​​The deadline to register 21 days before Election Day. To register to vote in Oregon, you must be a U.S. citizen, an Oregon resident and at least 17 years old. Online registration requires a current Oregon drivers license or state ID card. ​​​​​​​​​​​ ​ ​. If you are 17 years old, you will not receive a ballot until an election occurs on or after your 18th birthday. If you will receive your citizenship on or before an election, you must submit a voter registration card before the 21-day voter registration deadline. After takinig your oath, you must appear and provide evidence of citizenship to the elections office in the county where you live, on or before Election Day
Register to Vote in Oregon. You can register to vote in Oregon: 1  Online using the My Vote portal. 2  Must have current Oregon driver's license or non-driver ID card. 3  By mail with the application for an Oregon Voter Registration Card (Form SEL 500). 4  Mail the form to your local County Elections office. 5  In person at your local county elections office. To change your address on your voter registration: 1  Use the SOS MyVote website IF you have an Oregon driver's license or ID. 2  OR. 3  Complete and submit the Oregon Voter Registration Card (Form SEL 500) application.
In October 2002, the Help America Vote Act was signed into law. The Act changes voter registration requirements nationwide for voting in federal elections. If you are registering to vote in Oregon for the first time, you must provide an Oregon Driver’s License / ID. If you do not have a valid ODL / ID, the last four digits of your Social Security number must be provided. Also, you can download and print a form in PDF format from the Secretary of State's web site at the Oregon Voter Registration link, which can be found at www.oregonvotes.gov. (Make sure your printer is set up for “landscape” printing!).
To register to vote in Oregon, you must be a U.S. citizen, an Oregon resident and at least 17 years old. Online registration requires a current Oregon drivers license or state ID card. If you are 17 years old, you will not receive a ballot until an election occurs on or after your 18th birthday. If you will receive your citizenship on or before an election, you must submit a voter registration card before the 21-day voter registration deadline. After takinig your oath, you must appear and provide evidence of citizenship to the elections office in the county where you live, on or before Election Day
You've missed Washington's voter registration deadline. And if you live in Oregon, you now have just a week left to register before this state's Oct. 14 deadline. Both cutoffs are ridiculously premature, and anti-democratic to boot. Oregon and Washington should adopt same-day voter registration, or at the very least, move their deadlines to within a day or two of Election Day. There is no longer any reason to lock out countless potential voters just when many of them are getting interested in an election.
If the voter registration card is sent after the 21st day before an election, the voter should call the county elections official to find out how to receive a ballot for that election. Voting Absentee. ﻿﻿Absentee ballots are mailed to military and other out-of-state voters in advance of the regular mailing of ballots. ﻿*A voter registration card received in an elections office after the deadline date meets the registration deadline if it has a timely, valid postmark. ﻿The federal Help America Vote Act of 2002 provided new, nationwide voter registration requirements for voting in federal elections.
In 1998, Oregon voters amended state law to require that the primary and general elections in May and November of even-numbered years also be conducted through vote-by-mail. ﻿*A voter registration card received in an elections office after the deadline date meets the registration deadline if it has a timely, valid postmark. ﻿The federal Help America Vote Act of 2002 provided new, nationwide voter registration requirements for voting in federal elections.
Print Email. Comments. The Oregonian Oregon's too-early voter registration deadline stems from fears of a Rajneeshee takeover more than 20 years ago. If you live in Washington, just tuned in to the political debate and now want to register to vote in next month's election, well, too bad. Oregon and Washington should adopt same-day voter registration, or at the very least, move their deadlines to within a day or two of Election Day. There is no longer any reason to lock out countless potential voters just when many of them are getting interested in an election.