Technically speaking it does come from a cherry tree! But a more acurate answer would be in China. Cherry Blossoms originated in China, and then was brought over seas by Europ … ean settelers. Thus making everyone think they come from Japan. The tree Blossoms ... has Blossomed … into a beautiful woman. 2 people found this useful. 1  Cooking Flower Recipes: Battered Squash Blossoms Cooking flower dishes is probably not an everyday activity in your household. 2  Try this recipe for battered squash blossoms, however, and you are likely to change your mind.
Blossom is an American sitcom broadcast on NBC from July 5, 1990 to May 22, 1995. Don Reo created the series which starred Mayim Bialik as Blossom Russo, a teenager living with her father and two brothers. In the pilot, Blossom Russo lived with both her parents, in a more conservative, nuclear household. Her father was played by Richard Masur, and was named Terry Russo; Barrie Youngfellow (fresh off It's a Living, another Witt/Thomas production) played Blossom's mother, named Barbara Russo.
Edible cherries generally come from cultivars of the related species Prunus avium and Prunus cerasus. Cherry blossom are also closely related to other Prunus trees such as the almond, peach, plum and apricot and more distantly to apples, pears and roses. Hanami is the centuries-old practice of picnicking under a blooming sakura or ume tree. The custom is said to have started during the Nara Period (710–794) when it was ume blossoms that people admired in the beginning.
Technically speaking it does come from a cherry tree! But a more acurate answer would be in China. Cherry Blossoms originated in China, and then was brought over seas by European settelers. Thus making everyone think they come from Japan. To be honest, Sakura Tree's actually came from Korea, as a gift to  the Japanese, A few centuries later the western's went to japan.  and Japan gave them the gift of a Sakur … a Tree.    Since then people thought sakura tree's(Cherry Blossom Tree's) Came  from Japan. but infact came from Korea. Answered.
The most popular variety of cherry blossom in Japan is the Somei Yoshino. Its flowers are nearly pure white, tinged with the palest pink, especially near the stem. They bloom and usually fall within a week, before the leaves come out. Therefore, the trees look nearly white from top to bottom. Hanami is the centuries-old practice of picnicking under a blooming sakura or ume tree. The custom is said to have started during the Nara Period (710–794) when it was ume blossoms that people admired in the beginning.
2. Buy a seedling or young cherry blossom plant from your local nursery. If you buy from a local nursery, check for plants that can grow in your zone Cherry blossoms grow well in zones 5 to 8. If these plantings were produced from your zone, that would make them more suitable for transplanting in your area.
Cherry blossom is speculated to be native to the Himalayas. Currently it is widely distributed, especially in the temperate zone of the Northern Hemisphere including Europe, West Siberia, India, China, Korea, Japan, Canada, and the United States. In the Western world, the cherry blossom symbolizes Japan. Hanami is the centuries-old practice of picnicking under a blooming sakura or ume tree. The custom is said to have started during the Nara Period (710–794) when it was ume blossoms that people admired in the beginning.
The flowers are referred to as cherry blossoms. There is a common misconception that these trees produce cherries, but they actually don't. The fruit-bearing cherry tree is a completely different species of tree. The cherry blossom tree's name comes from the soft and pretty pastel pink blossoms they produce. If you buy from a local nursery, check for plants that can grow in your zone Cherry blossoms grow well in zones 5 to 8. If these plantings were produced from your zone, that would make them more suitable for transplanting in your area.