Full Definition of PORTUGUESE. 1. a: a native or inhabitant of Portugal b: one who is of Portuguese descent. 2. : the Romance language of Portugal and Brazil. — Portuguese adjective. Definition of PORTUGUESE for Kids. 1. : a person born or living in Portugal. 2. : the language of Portugal and Brazil.
In March 2006, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, an interactive museum about the Portuguese language, was founded in Sao São, Paulo, brazil the city with the greatest number Of portuguese language speakers in the. World The museum is the first of its kind in the. world It is also the most spoken language in South America and the second-most spoken in Latin America after Spanish, and is an official language of the European Union, Mercosul and the African Union.
Por•tu•guese. 1. a native or inhabitant of Portugal. 2. a Romance language spoken in Portugal, Brazil, the Azores, and Madeira, and used as an auxiliary language in former colonies of Portugal, as Angola and Mozambique. Abbr.: Pg, Pg. 3. of or pertaining to Portugal, its people, or the language Portuguese. portugues, Português sp ]. portugues portugués 
noun. 1  the official language of Portugal, its overseas territories, and Brazil: the native language of approximately 110 million people. 2  It belongs to the Romance group of the Indo-European family and is derived from the Galician dialect of Vulgar Latin. ( 3 plural) -guese a native, citizen, or inhabitant of Portugal. 1
Portuguese (Portugues). Português portuguese is A romance language spoken by about 220 million people mainly In portugal And (Brazil), brasil and also In, Angola (Mozambique), Mocambique Moçambique (Cape Verde), Cabo-Verde (Guinea-Bissau), Guine Guiné bissau Sao, São Tome (Tomé-E), Principe East timor Timor. leste equatorial guinea and macau A reformed Portuguese orthography (nova ortografia), in which words were spelled more in accordance with their pronunciation, was adopted is Portugal in 1916. A slightly modified form was adopted in Brazil in 1943 and revised in 1970.
1 British English: Portuguese Portuguese is the language spoken in Portugal, Brazil, Angola, and Mozambique.If you are intent on learning to speak Portuguese, there is no better place.ˌpɔːtjʊˈɡiːz NOUNlanguage. Arabic: اللغة البرتغالية language. Brazilian Portuguese: portugues português. lingua língua 1 the official language of Portugal, its overseas territories, and Brazil: the native language of approximately 110 million people. 2  It belongs to the Romance group of the Indo-European family and is derived from the Galician dialect of Vulgar Latin.
1 the official language of Portugal, its overseas territories, and Brazil: the native language of approximately 110 million people. 2  It belongs to the Romance group of the Indo-European family and is derived from the Galician dialect of Vulgar Latin. ( 3 pl-guese) a native, citizen, or inhabitant of Portugal. Portuguese /ˌpɔːtjʊˈɡiːz/ n
This is a list of English words potentially borrowed or derived from Portuguese (or Galician-Portuguese). The list also includes words originally derived from other languages and are mainly contradicting the title itself: Negro means black in Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian, being from the Latin word niger (Dative nigro, Accusative nigrum) and the Greek word νέγρος Negros both of the same meaning. It came to English through the Portuguese and Spanish slave trade.
Portuguese (portugues português, or in, full lingua) língua portuguesa Is a romance language and the sole official Language, Of, Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique Angola, Cabo-Verde guinea Bissau And sao São. tome tomé and principe príncipe It is also the most spoken language in South America and the second-most spoken in Latin America after Spanish, and is an official language of the European Union, Mercosul and the African Union.