The triceps are also responsible for extending the arm at the shoulder. The forearm also has anterior (front) and posterior (back) muscles. Some of these muscles attach from the forearm to wrist bones and are used to move the wrist. Other muscles from the forearm attach to the fingers, and are used to move the fingers. Muscles in the front of the forearm bend the wrist and fingers. Muscles in the back of the foreard straighten the wrist and fingers. The trapezius muscles are back muscles that connect between the neck, shoulders, and the thoracic vertebra. There are several different sets of muscle working in the arm. The biceps brachii and triceps brachii, are more commonly known as the biceps and triceps, respectively. The biceps in the front of the upper arm are responsible for flexing or bending the forearm at the elbow.
Biceps. The muscles at the front of your upper arm. You use these when you bend your arm or pick things up. These are the ones you flex when showing someone how big (or small) the muscles in your arms are. Toning these will give shape and definition to your upper arm. 
These bulky muscles also give the arm its strength. The muscles of the arm that can be seen easily on the surface include: 1  Biceps: This large muscle of the upper arm is formally known as the biceps brachii muscle, and rests on top of the humerus bone. 2  It rotates the forearm and also flexes the elbow. 
In addition to moving the arm and pectoral girdle, muscles of the chest and upper back work together as a group to support the vital process of breathing. The diaphragm is a strong, thin, dome-shaped muscle that spans the entire inferior border of the rib cage, separating the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders.
The rotator muscles work with the other muscles to turn the arm and wrist. The pronator quadratus is a small, flat muscle with a quadrilateral form. It arises from the ulna and extends across the front of the radius and ulna and inserts in the shaft of the radius. 
The shoulder forms a base for the arm with most of the upper arm muscles originating from this area. In the upper arm, the biceps and triceps are arranged to give the forearm power to thrust and bend. The two muscles join at the elbow and allow you to bend and straighten your arm and also rotate your wrist and hand. The forearm muscles transmit power to the wrist, hands, and fingers. The biceps brachii (two-headed arm muscle) consists of the long head and the short head. It extends from the shoulder to the elbow and is the main flexor of the elbow joint. When working with other nearby muscles, it can also move the shoulder, since its upper ends are attached to the scapula (shoulder blade).
Muscles of the Arm and Hand. The muscles of the arm and hand are specifically designed to meet the body’s diverse needs of strength, speed, and precision while completing many complex daily tasks. Activities such as lifting weights or heavy boxes require brute strength from the muscles of the arm. Most of the muscles that move the wrist, hand, and fingers are located in the forearm. These thin, strap-like muscles extend from the humerus, ulna and radius and insert into the carpals, metacarpals, and phalanges via long tendons.
The muscles on the front of the trunk help lift the arms and move the body forward and sideways. They also protect the organs in the abdomen. 
Nine muscles of the chest and upper back are used to move the humerus (upper arm bone). The coracobrachialis and pectoralis major muscles connect the humerus anteriorly to the scapula and ribs, flexing and adducting the arm toward the front of the body when you reach forward to grab an object. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders.
Anatomy: The muscles on the front of the upper arm comprise three muscles. Two of the muscles bend the elbow joint (M biceps brachii, M brachialis), while the third muscle (M coracobrachialis) brings the arm towards the body (adduction). The biceps muscle also rotates the hand (suppination). Diagnosis: RUPTURE OF MUSCLE ON THE FRONT OF THE UPPER ARM.