Uses of This Medicine. Clonidine is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly.
Clonidine is the generic name of a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Clonidine works by slowing down your heart rate and relaxing blood vessels. You can take clonidine alone or in combination with other medications to lower blood pressure. Clonidine is in a class of medications called centrally acting alpha-agonist hypotensive agents.
USES: This medication is used alone or with other medications to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Clonidine belongs to a class of drugs (central alpha agonists) that act in the brain to lower blood pressure.
This medication is used alone or with other medications to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Clonidine belongs to a class of drugs (central alpha agonists) that act in the brain to lower blood pressure.
This medication is used alone or with other medications to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Clonidine belongs to a class of drugs (central alpha agonists) that act in the brain to lower blood pressure.
Catapres (clonidine) is a medication that is used in the treatment of high blood pressure. The most common side effects with clonidine are dry mouth, drowsiness, dizziness, constipation, sedation, low blood pressure, weakness, and nausea.
Descriptions. Clonidine is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly.