The meaning of Kristina has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kristina are: 1  Latin meaning: Follower of Christ. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kristina and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Form of: Christina. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kristina and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kristina and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
Origin of the name Kristina: A cognate of Christine, which is derived from the Latin Christiāna, which is from christiānus, a derivative of the Greek christianos (a Christian, a follower of Christ). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Kristina: | Edit. My friend named his daughter Kristina Catherine, thinking she'd have lots of choices for nicknames: Kristine, Kristi, Kris, Tina, Cathy, Catie, Cat, etc. Because there are SO many Kristinas around, she goes by K.C..
The name Kristina is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kristina is: Christian. Swedish Meaning: The name Kristina is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Kristina is: Christian. In American the meaning of the name Kristina is: Christian. English Meaning: The name Kristina is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kristina is: Follower of Christ. Latin Meaning: The name Kristina is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Kristina is: Follower of Christ. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Kristina is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Kristina is: Scandinav
Meaning of Kristina. English name. In English, the name Kristina means-Variant of Christiana. Follower of Christ.. Other origins for the name Kristina include-English, Slovakian, Danish.The name Kristina is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Christiana. Follower of Christ
Kristina /kri-sti-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced kriss-TEEN-ah. It is of Scandinavian, Czechoslovakian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Kristina is follower of Christ. Variant of Christina. Kreatif forms: Kistina, Kristika, Kristinya. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kristina. Kristina is the German, Scandinavian, Slavic and Russian form of Christina, which itself is a feminized version of the Medieval Latin name Christianus meaning (quite obviously) “a Christian”. Ultimately, the Latin word for a Christian is derived from the Greek Christos from “chrio” meaning “to anoint”. 
Meaning of Kristina. Danish name. In Danish, the name Kristina means-One who is Christian.. Other origins for the name Kristina include-Danish, Slovakian, English.The name Kristina is most often used as a girl name or female name. Danish Name Meaning-One who is Christian. Origin-Danish