All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell. In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells.
Skeletal muscle structure. Different types of muscle tissue. An organism's muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells. Multi-unit smooth muscle cells operate independently and single-unit, or visceral, smooth muscle cells operate together as a unit.
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction.
4. Bundles of muscle fibers (fascicles) are wrapped by a tissue known as. epimysium. perimysium. endomysium. superficial mysium. 5. A connective tissue on the surface of muscles (that extends onto the tendon and bone) is known as. fascia
Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, and consists of small elongated cells that are not striated and are under involuntary control. Special Characteristics of Muscle Tissue. Excitability, or irritability, is the ability to receive and respond to a stimulus.
(3) the single long nerve fiber, the axon. These are described in Figure 2.1. The body of a nerve cell (see also (Schad and Ford, 1973)) is similar to that of all other cells. The cell body generally includes the nucleus, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, and other organelles.