8. Iron is another supplement women provide for their baby during pregnancy and it's also important that you don't lack in it prior to getting pregnant. It is important to get enough because it makes hemoglobin, the part of red blood cells that carries oxygen to the cells and tissues of the body. Vitamins to Help Get Pregnant. If you are trying to conceive a baby, you need to know about vitamins to help get pregnant. The body needs a wide range of different vitamins and minerals in order to increase fertility. Supplementing B-Complex, vitamin E and C are needed by the body for healthy conception and pregnancy.
Prenatal Vitamins. Prenatal vitamins consist of a variety of vitamins and minerals that help you baby get the nutrients that are essential for healthy development. During pregnancy, a woman’s daily intake requirements for certain nutrients, such as folic acid (folate), calcium, and iron will increase. 
It's also a good idea during pregnancy to take a prenatal vitamin to help cover any nutritional gaps in the mother's diet. Prenatal vitamins contain many vitamins and minerals. Their folic acid, iron, iodine, and calcium are especially important. Even so, it's a good idea to take a supplement with the right amount of folic acid as a backup. Calcium is also important for a pregnant woman. It can help prevent her from losing her own bone density as the baby uses calcium for its own bone growth.
According to the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), pregnant women should have a diet that consists of a variety foods including proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals and fats. From these you should get the right nutrients and vitamins for pregnancy health and your baby’s development. A balanced diet is the best way to receive nutrients, but vitamin supplements can also be beneficial. Pregnant women should only take vitamin supplements on a health care provider’s recommendation. Supplements do not replace a healthy diet, but rather ensure that a woman is receiving enough daily nutrients. Vitamin supplements work best when taken as part of a healthy diet and not as a substitute for a healthy diet.
As long as you're having a healthy pregnancy, there are only two vitamins you're advised to take as a supplement. They are the B vitamin folic acid and vitamin D. You shouldn't need to take supplements to get the rest of your vitamins and minerals. Folic acid. You should take a 400mcg folic acid supplement every day during the first 12 weeks of your pregnancy (NCCWCH 2008) . Even if you don't take a multivitamin, take this one supplement during your first trimester (FSA nd) .
Iron. Iron is another supplement women provide for their baby during pregnancy and it's also important that you don't lack in it prior to getting pregnant. It is important to get enough because it makes hemoglobin, the part of red blood cells that carries oxygen to the cells and tissues of the body. Vitamins to Help Get Pregnant. If you are trying to conceive a baby, you need to know about vitamins to help get pregnant. The body needs a wide range of different vitamins and minerals in order to increase fertility. Supplementing B-Complex, vitamin E and C are needed by the body for healthy conception and pregnancy.
Prenatal vitamins are a must for pregnant women who need higher amounts of vitamins and minerals like folic acid and iron to keep their growing babies healthy. 
A good prenatal vitamin, talk to your Dr / OB OB/GYN let them know you are trying to get pregnant, and they will give you an Rx.. The proper vitamins make your body more healthy, that is how they DO increase your chances of becoming pregnant. 
Folic acid. What it does: Folic acid is the synthetic form of folate, which is actually a group b-vitamins known as B9. It's a critical supplement for women who want to get pregnant because folic acid helps the baby's neural tube close properly. That happens as early as two or three weeks after conception, when some women may not even know they're expecting.