Classification: There are three physiologic narrowing of the ureter where stones may obstruct. The first narrowing of the ureter is the location where the renal pelvis of the kidney meets the ureter or the uretero-pelvic junction (UPJ). The next level of narrowing is where the ureter crosses the iliac vessels. The third ureteral narrowing exist where the intramural portion of the ureter meets the bladder known as the ureteral vesico-junction, or UVJ, which measures approximately 1 - 5 mm. in size. The majority of stones become stuck at this level
In the event of a ureteral avulsion from the renal pelvis or a very proximal ureteral injury, the ureter may be anastomosed directly into the renal pelvis. Ureterocalicostomy. If the renal pelvis or ureteropelvic junction is damaged beyond repair, ureterocalicostomy may be performed. Approximately 39% of ureteral injuries occur in the upper ureter. The mid ureter and distal ureter account for the remaining 31% and 30%, respectively. Location of injury and vascular integrity of the ureter dictates the choice of repair. Upper ureteral injuries can frequently be repaired with ureteroureterostomy.
A kidney stone can move from the kidney and become lodged inside the ureter, which can block the flow of urine, as well as cause a sharp cramp in the back, side, or lower abdomen. The affected kidney could then develop hydronephrosis, should a part of the kidney become swollen due to blocked flow of urine. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. Histologically, the ureter contains transitional epithelium and an additional smooth muscle layer in the more distal one-third to assist with peristalsis.
INTRODUCTION. The likelihood of spontaneous passage of a ureteral stone is related to both stone size and location. Most stones ≤4 mm in diameter pass spontaneously. Stone diameter ≥5 mm is associated with a progressive decrease in the spontaneous passage rate, which is unlikely with stones ≥10 mm in diameter. Proximal ureteral stones are also less likely to pass spontaneously. The data supporting these conclusions are presented elsewhere. (See Diagnosis and acute management of suspected nephrolithiasis in adults .). The management of ureteral calculi by stone location within the ureter will be reviewed here
In human anatomy, the ureters are tubes made of smooth muscle fibers that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. Histologically, the ureter contains transitional epithelium and an additional smooth muscle layer in the more distal one-third to assist with peristalsis.
The ureter is roughly 25-30 cm long in adults and courses down the retroperitoneum in an S curve. At the proximal end of the ureter is the renal pelvis; at the distal end is the bladder. In the abdominal ureter, the arterial supply is located on the medial aspect of the ureter, whereas in the pelvis, the lateral aspect harbors the blood supply. The upper ureter is supplied by the renal artery and by branches from the gonadal artery and aorta.
Like the renal pelvis, bladder, and proximal urethra, the ureter is lined with transitional cell epithelium, which consists of a short basal layer, one or more layers of columnar cells, and, most apically, umbrella cells. In the abdominal ureter, the arterial supply is located on the medial aspect of the ureter, whereas in the pelvis, the lateral aspect harbors the blood supply. The upper ureter is supplied by the renal artery and by branches from the gonadal artery and aorta.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Between January 2010 and October 2012, 9681 patients received ureteroscopy treatment for stones located in the proximal ureter (n=2656), midureter (n=1980), distal ureter (n=4479), or multiple locations (n=440); location in 126 patients was not specified. Semirigid ureteroscopy was predominantly used for all stone locations. Laser and pneumatic lithotripsy were used in the majority of cases. Stone-free rates were 94.2% for distal ureter locations, 89.4% for midureter locations, 84.5% for proximal ureter locations, and 76.6% for multipl
Abdominal ureter. The ureter is roughly 25-30 cm long in adults and courses down the retroperitoneum in an S curve. At the proximal end of the ureter is the renal pelvis; at the distal end is the bladder. The ureter begins at the level of the renal artery and vein posterior to these structures. In the abdominal ureter, the arterial supply is located on the medial aspect of the ureter, whereas in the pelvis, the lateral aspect harbors the blood supply. The upper ureter is supplied by the renal artery and by branches from the gonadal artery and aorta.