The symptoms of mumps usually develop 14 to 25 days after becoming infected with the mumps virus (this delay is known as the incubation period). The average incubation period is around 17 days. 
Mumps is best known for the puffy cheeks and swollen jaw that it causes. This is a result of swollen salivary glands. The most common symptoms include: 1  Fever. 2  Headache. 3  Muscle aches. 4  Tiredness. 5  Loss of appetite. 6  Swollen and tender salivary glands under the ears on one or both sides (parotitis). 
Mumps: Introduction. Mumps: Measles, mumps, and rubella were once very common diseases in the United States, but they have become rare because of the use of vaccines ... more about Mumps. Mumps: An acute viral disease that causes the salivary glands to become swollen, sore and inflamed. Immunization had greatly reduced the incidence of this disease. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Mumps is available below. 
Background. Mumps is an acute, self-limited, systemic viral illness characterized by the swelling of one or more of the salivary glands, typically the parotid glands. The illness is caused by the RNA virus, Rubulavirus. The mumps virus does share various epidemiologic characteristics with other well-known viral pediatric diseases, such as measles (RNA virus, of the genus Morbillivirus, in the Paramyxoviridae family) and rubella (RNA virus, of the genus Rubivirus, in the Togaviridae family). Mumps occurs worldwide.
Vaccination. Vaccination is the best way to prevent mumps. This vaccine is included in the combination measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and measles-mumps-rubella-varicella (MMRV) vaccines. Two doses of mumps vaccine are 88% (range 66% to 95%) effective at preventing the disease; one dose is 78% range (49% to 91%) effective. In recent U.S. mumps outbreaks (2006, 2009 to 2010), orchitis occurred in 3.3 to 10% of adolescent and adult males. In 60% to 83% of males with orchitis caused by mumps, only one testis is affected. Such orchitis, even bilaterally, very rarely causes sterility.
Orchitis is an inflammation of the testicles that may be caused by mumps. Manage orchitis pain by placing cold packs on the testicles several times a day. Your doctor may recommend prescription-strength painkillers if necessary. In rare cases, orchitis can cause sterility in males. 
Tests and diagnosis. If your doctor suspects that you or your child has mumps, a virus culture or a blood test may be needed. Your immune system normally makes antibodies to help you fight an infection. So if you have mumps, the blood test can detect the antibodies in your system that are fighting the mumps virus.
Mumps. Some people infected with the mumps virus have either no signs or symptoms or very mild ones. When signs and symptoms do develop, they usually appear about two to three weeks after exposure to the virus and may include: 1  Swollen, painful salivary glands on one or both sides of your face (parotitis). 2  Fever. 3  Headache. 4  Muscle aches. 5  Weakness and fatigue.