Full Definition of PHYSICIAN. 1. : a person skilled in the art of healing; specifically: one educated, clinically experienced, and licensed to practice medicine as usually distinguished from surgery. 2. : one exerting a remedial or salutary influence. See physician defined for English-language learners
A physician is a professional who practices medicine, which is concerned with promoting, maintaining or restoring human health through the study, diagnosis, and treatment of disease, injury, and other physical and mental impairments. Currently, a specialist physician in the United States may be described as an internist. Another term, hospitalist, was introduced in 1996, to describe US specialists in internal medicine who work largely or exclusively in hospitals.
Both the role of the physician and the meaning of the word itself vary around the world. Degrees and other qualifications vary widely, but there are some common elements, such as medical ethics requiring that physicians show consideration, compassion, and benevolence for their patients. Currently, a specialist physician in the United States may be described as an internist. Another term, hospitalist, was introduced in 1996, to describe US specialists in internal medicine who work largely or exclusively in hospitals.
A physician assistant (PA) is a licensed medical professional and caregiver. who typically works in a clinic, doctor's office, or hospital. The PA can perform many of the routine work that doctors might otherwise perform, thus allowing the physician to spend more time with non-routine cases and patients. A Physician Assistant (PA) earns an average salary of $86,619 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A skill in Emergency Medicine is associated with high pay for this job.
PAs practice medicine on healthcare teams with physicians and other providers. They practice and prescribe medication in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the majority of the U.S. territories and the uniformed services. 
Around the world the term physician refers to a specialist in internal medicine or one of its many sub-specialties (especially as opposed to a specialist in surgery). This meaning of physician conveys a sense of expertise in treatment by drugs or medications, rather than by the procedures of surgeons. Currently, a specialist physician in the United States may be described as an internist. Another term, hospitalist, was introduced in 1996, to describe US specialists in internal medicine who work largely or exclusively in hospitals.
primary care physician-the physician who provides primary care; the primary care physician acts as a gatekeeper to the medical system. quack-an untrained person who pretends to be a physician and who dispenses medical advice. medical specialist, specialist-practices one branch of medicine. Physician is a formal or old-fashioned word. ...a highly respected Victorian physician and surgeon. 2. 'physicist'. A physicist is a person who studies physics or does research connected with physics. ...a nuclear physicist.
physician. 1. 'physician'. A physician is a doctor, especially one who treats illnesses or injuries using medicine rather than surgery. Physician is a formal or old-fashioned word. ...a highly respected Victorian physician and surgeon. 2. 'physicist'. A physicist is a person who studies physics or does research connected with physics. ...a nuclear physicist.
physician. an authorized practitioner of medicine, as one graduated from a college of medicine or osteopathy and licensed by the appropriate board; see also doctor. attending physician one who attends a hospital at stated times to visit the patients and give directions as to their treatment. family physician a medical specialist who plans and provides the comprehensive primary health care of all members of a family, regardless of age or sex, on a continuous basis. See also family practice. resident physician a graduate and licensed physician learning a specialty through in-hospital training.
Share: Unlike other physicians who specialize in treating one particular organ or disease, your family physician is uniquely trained to care for you as a whole person, regardless of your age or sex. 