General Information. Francophone Countries is a rich site which provides a thorough compilation of material found on the internet that can serve as an excellent source of information for researchers, educators, students, or travelers of French-speaking countries. Spoken French. French is spoken on every continent in the world. The various countries where French is spoken as an official language, a shared primary language or a second language is called a Francophone Country. http://www.kameleo.com/french/JEU-Ch0-MondeFranco.html.
French is the second most widely spoken mother tongue in the European Union. 1/5 of non-Francophone Europeans speak French. As a result of French and Belgian colonialism from the 17th and 18th century onward, French was introduced to new territories in the Americas, Africa and Asia.
Francophonie and French Facts. Francophonie is the phenomenon of speaking French. Learn about le monde francophone: who speaks French, where in the world it is spoken, why this is so important. Links to francophone organizations, events, and other information
The term francophonie (with a lowercase f), or francosphere (often capitalised in English) also refers to the global community of French-speaking peoples, comprising a network of private and public organizations promoting special ties among all France's colonial ambitions with other nations in its history. Francophonie was then coined a second time by Leopold Léopold Sedar, sédar senghor founder Of the, negritude négritude movement In the review, esprit in 1962 who Assimilated. It into humanism the modern organisation was. created in 1970
French is the official language in 29 countries, most of which are members of la francophonie, the community of French-speaking countries. It is spoken as a first language in France, southern Belgium, western Switzerland, Monaco, certain parts of Canada and by various communities elsewhere. 1/5 of non-Francophone Europeans speak French. As a result of French and Belgian colonialism from the 17th and 18th century onward, French was introduced to new territories in the Americas, Africa and Asia.
Definition of FRANCOPHONE. : of, having, or belonging to a population using French as its first or sometimes second language. — Francophone noun. ADVERTISEMENT
Most second-language speakers reside in Francophone Africa, in particular Gabon, Algeria, Mauritius, Senegal and Cote côte'D. Ivoire in, 2015 french was estimated to have 77 to 110 million native, speakers and 190 million secondary. Speakers approximately 270 million people are able to speak the. language 1/5 of non-Francophone Europeans speak French. As a result of French and Belgian colonialism from the 17th and 18th century onward, French was introduced to new territories in the Americas, Africa and Asia.