The Samkhya favours Prakriti-parinamavada. In accordance with the satkaryavada, the Samkhya maintains that the three gunas of Prakriti are also associated with all the world-objects. Prakriti is the primordial and ultimate cause of all physical existence. 
Definition of PRAKRITI. 1. : unmanifested cosmic energy or potential matter that in Sankhya philosophy is constituted of the three gunas and that in contact with purusha produces a disequilibrium among the gunas which in turn results in the production of the manifested world. 2. : the phenomenal world: matter, nature. ADVERTISEMENT
A person’s prakriti is evaluated in part by pulse reading, a system in which 12 positions of the arterial pulse at the wrists are assessed; the ayurvedic practitioner reads the composition of the three doshas and determines the balance or imbalance in the patient’s various organ functions. 
Purusha simply just is. But, because of the presence of prakriti, purusha gets attracted to nature in the way a man is attracted when he watches a beautiful woman dancing. He cannot help but try to get closer. And then the disaster occurs: purusha becomes trapped inside prakriti. Prakriti is not just the physical aspects of the universe that we can sense; it is our very senses themselves-our thoughts, memories, desires, and even our intelligence. Prakriti is everything that is that isn't conscious. Consciousness resides only in purusha, or more properly, as purusha.
And I often find myself explaining to others the difference in Ayurveda between prakriti, meaning nature, and vikriti, meaning imbalance. Prakriti isn’t simply which predominant dosha am I. Prakriti is about your essential nature. In Prakriti Vigyan (Vigyan meaning theoretical knowledge), wholeness systematically expresses itself, from ego to intellect to mind and then to the five elements beginning with space, air, then fire, water, and then earth. Prakriti is the natural functioning of the human physiology.
At the physical level, Prakriti is the body and the mind (kshetra or the field) with all their constituent parts, while Purusha is the indwelling witness Spirit, (kshetragna or the knower of the body), the pure, egoless consciousness that exists beyond the senses and the mind. Prakriti means that which gives shapes signifying Nature or pure energy and Purusha means eastern dawn signifying the Manifest Brahman or the Creative consciousness that sets in motion the entire creative process with the help of His two aspects. Prakriti operates at two levels.
Prakrti or Prakriti or Prakruti (from Sanskrit प्रकृति, prakṛti) means  nature . It is, according to Hinduism, the basic nature of intelligence by which the Universe exists and functions. It is described in Bhagavad Gita as the primal motive force. Prakriti is defined as the ultimate unconscious primal matter or the ultimate cosmic energy, the material cause of the universe. Bansi Pandit :Prakriti is the source of the five great elements earth, water, fire, air, and ether known as Panchamahabhutas.
Prakṛti, also Prakṛiti or Prakṛuti (from Sanskrit language प्रकृति, prakṛti), means nature. It is, according to Hinduism, the basic nature of intelligence by which the Universe exists and functions. According to the ancient vedic science of Ayurveda, the three gunas (sattva, rajas and tamas) as they pertain to the human physiology are called doshas: kapha, pitta, vata. The balance or imbalance of these doshas defines the prakriti or nature of one's body.
… prakriti, like maya and shakti, in the Bhagavata, is something Vishnu possesses and controls. With prakriti becoming a goddess, or even identified with the Goddess, Devi ,... Bansi Pandit :In Prakriti and Gunas, the concept of prakriti is used in Sankhya philosophy to explain the evolution of the universe. Prakriti is defined as the ultimate unconscious primal matter or the ultimate cosmic energy, the material cause of the universe. Bansi Pandit :Prakriti is the source of the five great elements earth, water, fire, air, and ether known as Panchamahabhutas. These five great elements comprise all material objects and the bodies of plants, trees, insects, animals, and human beings
One of the concepts that I would like to discuss in this article is Prakriti. Hinduism recognizes two eternal principles, which are mentioned in the Vedas, the Bhagavadgita, the Sutras and several other Hindu scriptures. They are Purusha and Prakriti. In Hinduism everything that is produced by Prakriti and its derivatives are natural and constitute the illusory world. The human intelligence is a modification of the Tattva called Buddhi. It is purer in the humans to the extent the being is filled with sattva.