adj. 1. a. Of or relating to longitude or length: a longitudinal reckoning by the navigator; made longitudinal measurements of the hull. b. Concerned with the development of persons or groups over time: a longitudinal study of twins. 2. Placed or running lengthwise: longitudinal stripes.
Effects of 660 nm low-level laser therapy on muscle healing process ... by Rodrigues, Natalia C.; Assis, Livia; Fernandes, Kelly R.; Magri, Angela; Ribeiro, Daniel A.; Brunell / Journal of Rehabilitation Research & Development. sections of 4 [micro]m) were deparaffinated in xylene, rehydrated in graded ethanol, and then pretreated by microwave (Brastemp; Sao Paulo, Brazil) with 10 mM citric acid buffer (pH = 6) for 3 cycles of 5 min each at 850 W for antigen retrieval.
lon•gi•tu•di•nal. 1. of or pertaining to longitude or length: longitudinal measurement. 2. extending in the direction of the length of a thing; lengthwise. 3. of or extending along the long axis of the body, or the direction from front to back, or head to tail. 1. a. Of or relating to longitude or length: a longitudinal reckoning by the navigator; made longitudinal measurements of the hull. b. Concerned with the development of persons or groups over time: a longitudinal study of twins. 2. Placed or running lengthwise: longitudinal stripes.
Earthworm-Muscular System. The earthworm has two muscles which it uses for locomotion, both of which run the whole length of the worm's body. These two muscles are circular muscles and longitudinal muscles (Musurca). The longitudinal muscles are the inner layer of the muscular series and cradle the coelom, the innards of the earthworm (Noble). When the circular muscles are contracted, the diameter of the body is reduced, making the worm thin. When the longitudinal muscles are contracted, the length of the body is reduced, making the worm short. So, if an earthworm is short and thin, which is a common reaction, both types of their muscles are contracted.
The muscular layer (muscular coat, muscular fibers, muscularis propria, muscularis externa) is a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body, adjacent to the submucosa. It is responsible for gut movement such as peristalsis. 
1. Running lengthwise; in the direction of the long axis of the body or any of its parts. 2. Data studied over a period of time, diachronic; contrast with cross-sectional or synchronic, which give equivalent results only under certain strict conditions of stability and equilibrium. [L. longitudo, length]. 1  Facebook. 1 pertaining to a measurement in the direction of the long axis of an object, body, or organ, such as the longitudinal arch of the foot.
mus•cle. 1. a tissue composed of elongated cells, the contraction of which produces movement in the body. 2. a specific bundle of such tissue. 3. muscular strength; brawn. 4. power or force, esp. of a coercive nature: They put muscle into their policy and sent the marines. 1. A tissue composed of fibers capable of contracting to effect bodily movement. 2. A contractile organ consisting of a special bundle of muscle tissue, which moves a particular bone, part, or substance of the body: the heart muscle; the muscles of the arm.
Circular muscles. circular muscles. - muscle layer encircling the body between the epidermis and longitudinal muscle layer. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 November 2006, at 08:52.This page has been accessed 18,601 times.
The word come from the latin longitudo meaning length. Hence, longitudinal means along the length, running lengthwise, or (by extension) over the course of time. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 