In order to drive your new car off of the lot with your own coverage (i.e. if you don’t buy temporary coverage from the dealer) you will most likely need to provide proof that your current insurance coverage is adequate.
1 When to switch car insurance: The best and easiest time to switch is three to four weeks before renewal, giving you time to find a new policy and to qualify for any early-shopper discount. 2  But you are free to switch companies at any time.
When you move to a new state you usually have between 30-90 days to register your vehicle. Use those months to get your car insurance situation straightened out; do not do it before you move. That is the major caveat: do not cancel your old car insurance policy before setting up your new one.
And any new automatic coverage in Texas only lasts up to 30 days so during that time you must inform your insurer of the new car and decide what exact coverages you want on it. Whatever your extension period is, if you wait past the deadline to notify your insurance company you will lose coverage on the new vehicle.
Some car insurance policies only cover a new vehicle if it’s replacing a vehicle on your policy and only extend the same coverage. For instance, if you only had liability insurance for your old car, your new car will only have liability coverage.
Depending on the dealer, you might be able to just show your insurance paperwork (in which case you’ll have 10-30 days before you have to report your new car to your insurance company), but other dealers may require that your insurance company fax over proof of insurance.
If you already have car insurance and you're replacing your car, you generally have 14 to 30 days to notify your insurance company of the purchase. Your auto insurance premium for comprehensive and collision coverage will then be adjusted based on the new vehicle make and model.
When to switch car insurance. The best time to shop for insurance is about three to four weeks before your old policy is about to renew. Depending on the regulations in your state, a renewal notice will be sent to you approximately a month before your new policy period begins.
When to get insurance on a new car If you already have car insurance for your current vehicle, then your existing policy may offer temporary coverage for your new car for a limited time.