Average Iv Technician Salaries. The average salary for iv technician jobs is $42,000. Average iv technician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term iv technician anywhere in the job listing.
For example, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) in 2014, phlebotomists who work in a hospital made $15.00 an hour, in laboratories they made almost $16.00 per hour, and in a physician's office they made about $15.00 per hour. One is rarely just an IV technician; rather, LPNs, LVNs, EMTs and medical assistants may administer IVs if they have been properly trained. Whether or not an allied health professional may initiate an IV depends on state law.
Average IV Certified Pharmacy Technician salaries for job postings in Dallas, TX are 2% higher than average IV Certified Pharmacy Technician salaries for job postings nationwide. 
(United States). A Hospital Pharmacy Technician earns an average wage of $14.38 per hour. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Chemotherapy, IV Admixture, and Hospital Education. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience
Education requirements for IV technicians vary by state and job title. IV technician courses are mainly offered by community colleges. These courses may be geared towards certified phlebotomists, medical assistants, LPNs or LVNs, and courses may include state-specific coursework. One is rarely just an IV technician; rather, LPNs, LVNs, EMTs and medical assistants may administer IVs if they have been properly trained. Whether or not an allied health professional may initiate an IV depends on state law.
Ryder Tech IV. In addition, the Tech IV will assist other Technicians in repairs and will be expected to comply with Safety and EPA procedures and continue to... Easily apply. 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Ryder Systems jobs in Lebanon, TN-Lebanon jobs. 2  Salary Search: Tech Charge salaries in Lebanon, TN
Phlebotomist working in for insurance carriers had the highest hourly wages at almost $21.00 per hour. The BLS expected faster-than-average job growth for phlebotomists (27%) from 2012-2022. The BLS reported that licensed practical nurses made a median salary of about $42,000 as of 2014. One is rarely just an IV technician; rather, LPNs, LVNs, EMTs and medical assistants may administer IVs if they have been properly trained. Whether or not an allied health professional may initiate an IV depends on state law.
What is the average annual salary for Industrial Engineering Technician IV? The annual salary for someone with the job title Industrial Engineering Technician IV may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Industrial Engineering Technician IV in the United States is $64,397 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Industrial Engineering Technician IV in the United States are expected to make less than $64,397. Source: HR Reported data as of August 2015.
IV technicians may insert and monitor IV equipment and medication, but they usually also work within a broader capacity, for example as licensed practice nurses (LPNs), licensed vocational nurses (LVNs) registered nurses (RNs), medical assistants, emergency medical technicians (EMTs) or as phlebotomists. One is rarely just an IV technician; rather, LPNs, LVNs, EMTs and medical assistants may administer IVs if they have been properly trained. Whether or not an allied health professional may initiate an IV depends on state law.