Here are some things to consider about tanning before your vacation begins: o A base tan can help to prevent the sunburn that comes from uncommon exposure to the sun. If you don't normally spend time in the sun, you'll find that you rapidly burn on vacation (which tends to ruin the whole experience). A base tan obtained before vacation minimizes that problem. Those who tan regularly may already have this base tan but those who don't might want to make a few appointments at the indoor tanning salon before vacation begins. o Tanning before vacation will give you information about tanning that will be useful on the trip. When you go to a tanning salon, you learn about the different types of tanning lotions, exposure levels and other details that are right for your skin
Many people wonder whether or not to tan before going on vacation. For some, tanning is a part of their regularly salon routine and they don't know if they should break (or maintain) that routine when vacation time rolls around. Those who tan regularly may already have this base tan but those who don't might want to make a few appointments at the indoor tanning salon before vacation begins. o Tanning before vacation will give you information about tanning that will be useful on the trip. When you go to a tanning salon, you learn about the different types of tanning lotions, exposure levels and other details that are right for your skin
1 Many people use indoor tanning beds to get a base tan before going on vacation, particularly if they are traveling to tropical destinations. 2  To develop a good base tan before going on a vacation, start tanning indoors 3 or 4 weeks before your intended departure date. Tips. 1  Many people use indoor tanning beds to get a base tan before going on vacation, particularly if they are traveling to tropical destinations. 2  To develop a good base tan before going on a vacation, start tanning indoors 3 or 4 weeks before your intended departure date.
If you are developing a base tan before going on a winter vacation, please start tanning two to three weeks before you are scheduled to leave. Tanning takes place in the top layer of skin, the epidermis. This outer layer, with oxidized melanocytes, is shed every 30 days, causing the tan to fade. 
Furthermore, UVA rays, which were once incorrectly believed to be less dangerous than UVB rays, are also carcinogenic. There is no healthy tan. Tanning beds are out! MYTH #2: Artificial tanning before going on vacation helps prepare skin for exposure to the sun by providing a “base tan”. Artificial tanning (or even natural) does not offer effective protection against sunburn during a vacation down south. Tanning only provides a sun protection factor (SPF) of 2 to 3. 
There's little evidence to support the idea that a base tan protects you against sunburn. A few sessions of indoor tanning will not prevent you from burning in the sun. A base tan is no substitute for good sun protection. Plus, the risks of long-term tanning outweigh the unproven benefits of a base tan. Tanning under the sun or a sunlamp gives protection that is equivalent to a sun protection factor (SPF) of 4 or less. Repeated exposure to UV radiation — whether from the sun or a tanning bed — increases your risk of premature skin aging and skin cancer. Use these methods to prevent sunburn and other skin conditions: 1  Avoid sun exposure between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. 2  The sun's rays are strongest during these hours.
I could hit a tanning bed for a few minutes every day for weeks and still not tan, and certainly not enough to build up a base that would give me some additional protection on vacation. The OP said her goal was to build enough of a 'base tan' so that she could go outside and not burn on vacation. I'm not saying this is a good thing to do, but you can build a base tan by using tan beds for very short periods of time (like 5 mins) and go in few times before a trip. I don't think there's a difference between types of tan beds as far as the risks.
Tanned skin is damaged skin. Even if the base tan helps prevent sunburn, you had to damage your skin to get that tan in the first place. Using artificial tanning to rush a tan before you get on your flight can be even more damaging. Go to Hawaii, swim with the dolphins, lounge by the pool. Cover up, wear sunscreen, sit in the shade. Your skin needs a vacation too. Photo: J Benabio, MD. Pin It. 1  Recommend on Facebook. 2  Share with Stumblers.