Perdomo Champagne Cigars. Perdomo Reserve 10 Year Anniversary cigars are a decade in the making. The cigars were created to celebrate the next generation of Tabacalera Perdomo's award winning and highly acclaimed original La Tradicion Perdomo Reserve line. 
Click on a circle in the chart to view Perdomo immigration records. You can find out when most of the Perdomo families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Click on a circle in the chart to view Perdomo birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Perdomo. Tabacalera Perdomo has a long tradition in the tobacco industry, dating back to the 1930s when Silvio Perdomo worked in the cigar business in San Jose de las Lajas, Cuba. 
-2 Hours from the International Airport of the Cibao (STI). The town of Sosua, located on the north coast of the Dominican Republic, is made up of several dispersed areas that include El Batey, Los Charamicos, Playa Chiquita, La Mulata, El Choco, amongst several others. 
The Perdomo Cigars story begins with the family patriarch, Silvio Perdomo, who was born and raised in San Jose de las Lajas, Cuba, 17 miles southeast of Havana. During the early 1930's Don Silvio apprenticed at Cuesta y Cia until 1937 when he moved on to the H. Upmann factory. 
Perdomo. Nick Perdomo is one of the true legends in the premium cigar industry, and no one makes cigars with the strict quality control that he employs to deliver boutique quality cigars of unparalleled quality. 
Perdomo Cigars. Perdomo cigars run the gamut from mild to full-bodied and feature a wide variety of profiles and wrapper shades, as well as a wide range of price points. With such an array of phenomenal cigars in their portfolio, it's hard to believe that Nick Perdomo started out making cigars in his garage back in 1992. 
Perdomo. Take my word for it when I tell you there's no one in the industry like Nick Perdomo. And in the same breath, no one makes cigars like him either. Handmade in Nicaragua, Perdomo cigars are made using exceedingly strict quality control standards to deliver boutique handmades of the highest quality. Each Perdomo cigar performs like a dream, bringing rich balanced flavors in droves. 
EDICION DE SILVIO. The Edicion de Silvio was created by Nick Perdomo, Jr. as a tribute to his late grandfather and mentor Silvio Perdomo. The Edicion de Silvio is hand-crafted with a masterful blend of exquisite tobaccos. 