Missing too many days of school will also add to the length of time it takes to complete the program; in most states, 1,500 hours of training is required in order to be eligible to take the licensing exam. An apprenticeship program takes 24 months. The student's training must be a minimum of 30 hours per week and will be reported monthly to the State Board of Cosmetology by the sponsor. Many high schools offer cosmetology in their vocational programs. It is included in the student's class schedule and will take four years of high school to complete the program.
Many full cosmetology programs can be competed in less than two years while some programs in nail technology and esthetics can often be completed within six months. Contact schools near you for more information on how long their programs take to complete. Cosmetology schools teach students a host of beauty skills to work with hair, nails, skin, makeup and other beauty procedures. Cosmetology students learn how to choose and apply these services for clients through in-class lectures, the issued textbooks, and hands-on training in student salons.
Overall, how long cosmetology school is varies by each state's training hour requirements. Regardless of which beauty program you take, exactly how long it will take to complete the required training hours will depend on whether you are enrolled full time or part time. Cosmetology schools teach students a host of beauty skills to work with hair, nails, skin, makeup and other beauty procedures. Cosmetology students learn how to choose and apply these services for clients through in-class lectures, the issued textbooks, and hands-on training in student salons.
A full cosmetology program is the most comprehensive and require the most hours. The national average is between 1,400 to 1,600 hours. The national average for Nail Technology is 300 hours; Electrologist is 500 hours; and Esthetics is 650 hours. Check with your state licensing board for the required number of hours. 
You can just go to a normal cosmetology school, or you can join a vocational school, if not apprenticeship. The time frame to complete your cosmetology course varies with your choice of institution. It is the institution which will decide how long does cosmetology school take. It can finish in 10 month or it can take 18 months. The condition of job, i.e. if it is full-time or half time is also a factor which will decide how long does cosmetology school take.
Tuition and fees for cosmetology schools range from $10,000 to $20,000, depending on the courses offered, the school's location, hours of education required and the facilities and equipment available. You can enroll in cosmetology school at a private school, community college, or a for-profit cosmetology program. Most cosmetology programs require you to be at least 16 years of age and to have a high school diploma or a GED to enter. But every state has slightly different regulations and requirements, so before you proceed, you should check with the cosmetology boards of different states to see what you need to do.
3. Complete cosmetology school. Most schools take between 9-15 months to complete. While most states require around 1,600 training hours before you get your license, some require a lot more or less, falling in the range of 1,000 hours and 2,300 hours. Most cosmetology programs require you to be at least 16 years of age and to have a high school diploma or a GED to enter. But every state has slightly different regulations and requirements, so before you proceed, you should check with the cosmetology boards of different states to see what you need to do.
To become a Licenced cosmetologist you will need to obtain 1500 hours at a accredited cosmetology school. Some schools allow you to complete 1200 hours and go on and complete … 300 hours of supervised apprentership.After you have completed your 1500 hours you must take the state board test. cosmetologist training school neededYou need to go to a training school for cosmetologist. The reason for this, is to learn about new styles and how diffrent hair types react … to certain chemicals and what to do with damaged hair etc.
The answer to how long cosmetology school is depends on three factors: which beauty program you enroll in, your state's required hours for that program, and whether you enroll in cosmetology school on a part-time or full-time basis. Cosmetology schools teach students a host of beauty skills to work with hair, nails, skin, makeup and other beauty procedures. Cosmetology students learn how to choose and apply these services for clients through in-class lectures, the issued textbooks, and hands-on training in student salons.
If you are going to study cosmetology in high school then the answer is different to how long does cosmetology school take. The high school will offer cosmetology as a part of their vocational programs and will take a course of 4 years to produce well created cosmetologists. It can finish in 10 month or it can take 18 months. The condition of job, i.e. if it is full-time or half time is also a factor which will decide