part time hotel manager salary part time hotel manager average salary is $ 57200 median salary is with a salary range from $ 57200 to $ 57200 part time hotel manager salaries are collected from government agencies and companies each salary is associated with a real job position 
$ 22000 average part time data entry salaries for job postings nationwide are 62 % lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide
Average Part Time salaries for job postings in California are 7% higher than average Part Time salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average salary for mcdonalds part time jobs is $13,000. Average mcdonalds part time salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term mcdonalds part time anywhere in the job listing. 
Salary results for Part Time. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again
In the retail sector, this extra hour of work per week usually means a multi-dollar per hour difference in median compensation. According to Demos, an organization focused on public policy, the lowest earning part-time retail employees receive a median wage of $8.25. When all part-time retail workers are included, the median wage rises to $9.61. By comparison, their full-time counterparts receive median wages of $9.61 to $14.42. 
This is not your average Part-Time Opportunity. AT&T's Part-Time Retail Sales Consultants earn a base salary plus commission and are eligible for competitive benefits packages. 
The average salary for part time jobs for teens jobs is $56,000. Average part time jobs for teens salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. 
That’s close to 1 million fewer than the number of involuntary part-time workers at the peak of the recession in 2009, but it’s still nearly twice the number who did so before the recession began in 2007. But just because you are working a part-time job doesn’t mean you can’t still earn full-time pay – or close to it. The salary comparison website PayScale.com provided MainStreet with a list of the best paying-jobs for workers who put in less than 30 hours a week, based on salary surveys from the previous 12 months.
While the average salary for part-time jobs in this time period was just $11.90, PayScale found several positions that pay more than $20 and some that pay close to $30 an hour. What’s more, several of these positions could easily serve as stepping stones to full-time careers in industries like teaching and health care. The salary comparison website PayScale.com provided MainStreet with a list of the best paying-jobs for workers who put in less than 30 hours a week, based on salary surveys from the previous 12 months.