1 This will cost between $10.50 and $21 per square foot depending upon the size of the basement and the system selected; 2  Sealing-of course the actual leaks or cracks can be mended instead of simply removing the water, and this is the best way to waterproof a basement permanently. 1 According to Essortment.com the best way to address this problem is to install a baseboard drain leading to a sump pump that removes the water mechanically. 2  This will cost between $10.50 and $21 per square foot depending upon the size of the basement and the system selected;
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Exterior Caulking project. For a basic 125 linear feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Caulk Perimeter Of Home ranges between $1.30 - $1.64 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.
The common approach is to dig a trench around the interior basement wall, and then install a drain that feeds to a sump pit, where it is pumped to the outside. You can expect to pay a contractor $30 to $40 per linear foot to install this perimeter drainage, plus the costs of the sump pump. 
Just recently my next door neighbor had his foundation repaired. The contractor charged $100 per linear foot.... which included: crew of 3 guys hand digging repair the wall waterproofing the wall replacing the weepers backfill Pull out the yellow pages and call the contractors in your area to get local costs.   an ounce of perception -- a pound of obscure . - Rush. 
You might be able to get away with spending $20 to extend them away from the house.. and avoid this operation all together. foundation waterproofing can cost upwards of $1000 / linear foot... so not always cheap! LOG IN TO THANK No one has yet thanked Busybuyer888 for this post. Not to state the obvious but.... are your gutters running at least 10feet away from house? You might be able to get away with spending $20 to extend them away from the house.. and avoid this operation all together
1 Window well drain installation - $850 - $1200 per window well; 2  External excavation and waterproofing (average cost to fix weeping tile) - $100 - $250 per linear foot influenced by excavation depth and accessibility (minimums usually apply); 3  Exterior crack repair - $400 - $1400; This leak costs $150 or so to repair Below are the price ranges for basement waterproofing repairs in the Greater Toronto Area. The prices listed were obtained during meetings with clients that had obtained several estimates.
Retaining Wall Cost. Poured retaining walls with elaborate curves require complex formwork and will drive up cost for a wall. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot. If you add a decorative finish, curves, steps, lighting or other upgrades, the cost will rise. 
In general, the cost to fix a basement leak can be as low as $150, to 10’s of $1,000’s; obviously the repair method and the amount of waterproofing will determine the actual cost to waterproof a basement. This leak costs $150 or so to repair Below are the price ranges for basement waterproofing repairs in the Greater Toronto Area. The prices listed were obtained during meetings with clients that had obtained several estimates.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Waterproof a Basement! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Basement Waterproofing project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Waterproof a Basement ranges between $7.22 - $9.08 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.