The Office Clipboard works with the standard Copy and Paste commands. Just copy an item to the Office Clipboard to add it to your collection, and then paste it from the Office Clipboard into any Office document at any time. Up to 24 collected items stay on the Office Clipboard until you exit all Office programs or you delete the items from the Clipboard task pane. You can paste items from the Office Clipboard individually or all at the same time. Click where you want the items to be pasted. You can paste collected items into any Office program. Do one of the following: To paste items one at a time, in the Clipboard task pane, double-click each item that you want to paste.
Level 1 (0 points). I have copied text from a web-site and have tried to paste the copied text into a Pages document. OLD copied material is getting inserted instead of the document instead of the new copied text. I have even opened up my mail and pasted into an e-mail and the OLD copied material is getting inserted here too. I will how head down to my pc to work on this assignment -- quite disgusted. 
How to highlight text in a document. Before you can copy, cut, or paste text data you must be able to highlight, or select, the text that you want to perform the action on. This is called highlighting and allows you to select all the information in a document or certain portions of it. How to select files and folders. Just as you can highlight, or select, text you can also highlight files and folders for use with the copy, cut, and paste commands. Selecting files and folders work a little differently then text though.
Click where you want to paste the items, and then press CTRL+V. Click Paste Options, which appears after you paste the text. I don't see a Paste Options button when I paste text. If you don't see a Paste Options button when you paste text, turn on the option for displaying it. Press CTRL+Z to undo the paste. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Word Options. Click Advanced, and then scroll down to the Cut, copy, and paste section. Select the text that you want to move or copy, and then press CTRL+X to move the text, or press CTRL+C to copy the text. Click where you want to paste the text, and then press CTRL+V. Click Paste Options, which appears after you paste the text. I don't see a Paste Options button when I paste text.
Keyboard shortcut To copy an item, press CTRL+C. Continue copying items from the same or other files until you have collected all of the items that you want. The Office Clipboard can hold up to 24 items. If you copy a twenty-fifth item, the first item on the Office Clipboard is deleted. You can paste items from the Office Clipboard individually or all at the same time. Click where you want the items to be pasted. You can paste collected items into any Office program. Do one of the following: To paste items one at a time, in the Clipboard task pane, double-click each item that you want to paste.
To select all items on a page or folder, you can use the CTRL+A or Command + A shortcut: hold down the CTRL button (on Windows) or Command key (on Mac) then hit the A key. Then hit these keys together to copy, cut, and paste them: Windows: Hold down the CTRL key then click. 1  C to copy. 2  or. 3  X to cut. 4  V to paste. For example, you can have two Windows Explorer windows open side by side and drag a file from one to the other to copy it over. 1  Select the item as in the first step. 2  Press and hold down your mouse button to grab it. 3  Then move your mouse to the other window and release the button.
Firefox for Android does not support copy and paste, but it is fixed in the latest version. Firefox for Android lets you easily copy and paste text directly from a web page. This article will show you how it's done. 1  Long-tap a word to select it on a web page. 2  Drag the set of bounding handles to include the amount of text you want to copy. This article will show you how it's done. 1  Long-tap a word to select it on a web page or within an entry field. 2  Drag the set of bounding handles to include the amount of text you want to copy. 3  Tap the selected text again to copy to the clipboard. 4  Long-tap the entry field where you want to paste the text. 5  Tap Paste.
Here's how to use Paste Special instead: 1  Select the cell that contains the format you want to copy and press [Ctrl]+C. 2  Click inside the column or row you want to format. 3  With the row or column selected, choose Formatting from the Paste drop-down in the Clipboard group. 1 Select the data and press [Ctrl]+C to copy the selected values to the Clipboard. 2  Select a cell in the destination column. 3  On the Home tab, click the Paste option in the Clipboard group and choose Keep Source Column Widths.