Variety of Yellow / Orange Colors. Jewelry with yellow and golden colored gem stones come in a variety of different shades, including amber, canary, champagne, gold, lemon, mustard, ochre and saffron. Shown below are pictures of some common and uncommon yellow stones including citrine, yellow sapphire, amber and stone canyon jasper. The links below provide more information about a specific gemstone, pictures of jewelry made with the stone, or its corresponding birthstone facts. This page will show you pictures of all the yellow birthstones.
Yellow Fluorite. Fluorite, also called fluorspar, is a fluorescent (a word derived from its name) stone that comes in a range of colors, including red, green, blue, black and yellow. The yellow gemstones are common enough, but are rather soft, and hence not widely used in jewelry. Beside black, red, green and almost all other colors, tourmaline is also available as yellow stones, though the yellow gems are very rare. The yellow gemstones come from the species of tourmaline called dravite, as well as the more valuable elbaite. The yellow rocks are mined in Brazil and Africa.
If yellow quartz is called citrine and violet quartz amethyst, green quartz is called prasiolite, also spelled praziolite. Like aventurine, prasiolite — also called vermarine or just green quartz — is a variety of quartz that occurs as green crystals. Beside white, black, red and yellow, precious opal also occurs as green stones, or white/black stones that display a play of color involving green. Green fire against white background is the most common of the precious opals; green against black body tone is much more valuable.
Yellowstone National Park is called a Super-Volcano, Because of its imense size. It is approx more than 5x the Diameter of Mt St Helens. It is also a Super volcano because of … the MASSIVE caldera of magma caverns only Mere Kilometers below the surface. 
Yellow is a bright color, and yellow stones in jewelry light up your look with the brilliant glints and touch such as only yellow gemstones can. Yellow gems give the colors beside them that desirable golden highlight, making you look even brighter and glamorous. Beside black, red, green and almost all other colors, tourmaline is also available as yellow stones, though the yellow gems are very rare. The yellow gemstones come from the species of tourmaline called dravite, as well as the more valuable elbaite. The yellow rocks are mined in Brazil and Africa.
The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera and supervolcano located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. 
Pictures of Yellow Gemstones. Jewelry with yellow and golden colored gem stones come in a variety of different shades, including amber, canary, champagne, gold, lemon, mustard, ochre and saffron. Shown below are pictures of some common and uncommon yellow stones including citrine, yellow sapphire, amber and stone canyon jasper. The links below provide more information about a specific gemstone, pictures of jewelry made with the stone, or its corresponding birthstone facts. This page will show you pictures of all the yellow birthstones.
Best Answer: Yellowstone's name is historically credited to the Native Americans who lived in and around the park area. The name is basically derived from the Yellowstone River. The Yellowstone River has high yellow rock cliffs along its banks in the northern area of the present day park. The Native American Minnetaree tribe called the river Mi tsi a da zi, which means Rock Yellow River.. French fur trappers translated this to Yellow Rock or Yellow Stone.. The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. The caldera is located in the northwest corner of Wyoming, in which the vast majority of the park is contained