IRS rules do not require you to report any gains or losses from investments until an investment is sold and you have realized the gain or loss. This means you control when a gain or loss is reported on your taxes. You can use a maximum of $3,000 of capital losses each year as a write-off against income other than capital gains. If your losses are greater than your gains by more than $3,000, the extra losses above the $3,000 limit should be carried forward to future tax years. In the next tax year, the carry forward loss would again be first used against capital gains, and another $3,000 of excess would reduce other income
A. A mutual fund's tax-loss carry-forwards, along with any unrealized losses on securities it still holds, act like built-in tax shelters. Funds with a large amount of embedded capital losses—both realized and unrealized—can potentially minimize their taxable distributions for years to come. For mutual-fund investors, April truly is the cruelest month. Taxes can be due on profits made selling fund shares, and even more taxes if any of your funds' managers booked more gains than losses when trading shares in the fund's portfolio.
Best Answer: Long-term capital losses on financial assets can be offset against long-term capital gains on other assets, although there would have been no tax at all had the assets in question generated a capital gain instead of a loss. 
Using Capital Losses. The tax rules are very specific on how an investment loss -- called a capital loss -- must be used when you file your taxes. All gains and losses are classified as short-term or long-term: short-term means that you held the asset for one year or less; long-term means you help the asset longer. The tax rules will disallow your loss write-off if you sell your mutual fund shares and buy them right back. This tactic is referred to as a wash sale.. The wash sale rule requires that you have not purchased replacement shares in the same mutual fund within 30 days before or after you sold your shares for a loss.
But if your losses of one type exceed your gains of the same type, then you can apply the excess to the other type. For example, if you were to sell a long-term investment at a $15,000 loss but had only $5,000 in long-term gains for the year, you could apply the $10,000 excess to any short-term gains. Realizing a capital loss can be effective even if you didn’t have realized capital gains of either type this year.
A tax loss carryforward takes place where a business or individual reports losses on a tax return up to seven years after the loss occurred. Frequently the logic behind this is to reduce tax liability during a year where the income or profits are high if losses were experienced previously. 
In addition, net capital losses generated after enactment carry forward as short-term or long-term depending on the original character of the losses. These new capital loss carryforward provisions apply to tax periods of the RIC beginning after the Act’s enactment date (December 22, 2010). Capital losses generated by a RIC for tax periods prior to the effective date of the Act were carried forward as short-term capital losses for up to 8 years.
If you still have capital losses after applying them first to capital gains and then to ordinary income, you can carry them forward for use in future years. The least effective implementation of a tax-loss harvesting strategy, on the other hand, would be to apply short-term capital losses to long-term capital gains. For example, if you were to sell a long-term investment at a $15,000 loss but had only $5,000 in long-term gains for the year, you could apply the $10,000 excess to any short-term gains. Realizing a capital loss can be effective even if you didn’t have realized capital gains of either type this year.
In fact, a new law updates the tax-loss carry-forward rules for mutual funds so that they now more closely resemble the rules for individuals. In the past, funds could only carry forward capital losses for a maximum of eight years. Now funds will have unlimited use of their capital-loss carry-forwards, just as individuals do. For mutual-fund investors, April truly is the cruelest month. Taxes can be due on profits made selling fund shares, and even more taxes if any of your funds' managers booked more gains than losses when trading shares in the fund's portfolio.