Roll slitting is a shearing operation that cuts a large roll of material into narrower rolls. There are two types of slitting: log slitting and rewind slitting. In log slitting the roll of material is treated as a whole (the 'log') and one or more slices are taken from it without an unrolling/re-reeling process. In rewind slitting the web is unwound and run through the machine, passing through knives or lasers, before being rewound on one or more shafts to form narrower rolls. For rewind slitting the machine used is called a slitter rewinder, a slitter or a slitting machine-these names are used interchangeably for the same machines.
Slitting is the action of cutting a parent coil into one or a number of narrower widths using rotary slitting knives. Each of the finished widths is known as a strand, and is recoiled to produce a finished width slit coil. The strands can be of varying widths. After coil slitting, the material is recoiled on the finishing mandrel to produce a number of narrow coils which are banded. We can also cut coils in half, or using Slitter 3 (our narrow line), re-slit into yet smaller sizes.
Rotary shear slitting is used to shear a wide range of materials, and similarly there are a wide range of blade designs for both the top and bottom slitter blades. The blade material also varies depending on the material to be cut, cutting application, budgeting, and other factors. In rotary shear slitting there are two cutting surfaces typically referred to as the top and bottom blades. These rotary slitter knives spin in opposite directions allowing a sheet of material to pass smoothly though the blades.
A Slitting Line is used to break master coils down into smaller coils of a specific width and or weight. A Slitting Line will uncoil a master coil and slit it to a specified width(s). The slit coils sometimes referred to as “mults” or “strips” are then recoiled. The finished slit coils produced by Slitting Lines are used in a wide variety of applications such as roll forming, stamping operations, and tube production.
During a typical slitting process, the master roll is unwound, travels through a series of blades that “slits” the material, and is rewound around a core that is suitable for the next step in the production process. 
Rotary shear slitting is the industrial equivalent to the cutting process used by a standard pair of scissors. In rotary shear slitting there are two cutting surfaces typically referred to as the top and bottom blades. These rotary slitter knives spin in opposite directions allowing a sheet of material to pass smoothly though the blades.
Coil Processing, Slitting & Shearing. Slitting is a type of metal cutting process where large rolls, or coils, of sheet metal stock are cut using extremely sharp rotary blades. In metal slitting, straight lines are cut lengthwise into the large coil to create strips of metal that are narrower in width. As the coil runs through the slitter, circular blades – one upper, the other lower – make the cuts.
During the slitting process, the metal coil passes lengthwise through the slitter's circular blades. The slitting process characteristics include: 1  being restricted to cutting relatively thin materials (0.001 to 0.125 in.), 2  leaving left-over burrs on slit edges of the narrower coals, 3  its ability to be used on both ferrous and nonferrous metals, View an overview of slitting services any of the metal forming processes offered by Advantage Fabricated Metals, or view a full table that matches the metals to the metal fabricating services we offer.
Slitting. Slitting is also a shearing process, but rather than making cuts at the end of a workpiece like shearing, slitting us used to cut a wide coil of metal into a number of narrower coils as the main coil is moved through the slitter. View an overview of slitting services any of the metal forming processes offered by Advantage Fabricated Metals, or view a full table that matches the metals to the metal fabricating services we offer.