It is connected to the nuclear envelope. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant) and it serves different functions in each. The Smooth ER also contains the enzyme Glucose-6-phosphatase which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The network of smooth endoplasmic reticulum allows increased surface area for the action or storage of key enzymes and the products of these enzymes. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum is known for its storage of calcium irons in muscle cells. The job of the smooth ER is to produce functions.
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
Endoplasmic Reticulum. Endoplasmic reticulum is a continuous membrane, which is present in both plant cells, animal cells and absent in prokaryotic cells. It is the membrane of network tubules and flattened sacs, which serves a variety of functions within the cell. Endoplasmic reticulum of plant cell possesses some additional functions, which is not found in animal cells. The additional function involves cell to cell communication between specialized cells and also it serves as a storage site for proteins.
Definition of the Smooth ER. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum, or smooth ER, is an organelle found in both animal cells and plant cells. An organelle is a sub-unit within a cell that has a specialized function. The main function of the smooth ER is to make cellular products like hormones and lipids. Lesson Summary. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is a cellular organelle made up of a tube-like structure that folds over on itself many times. An organelle is a sub-unit within a cell that has a specialized function. It is responsible for making products and undergoing processes that the cell needs to function.
Smooth ER consists of tubules and vesicles that branch forming a network. In some cells there are dilated areas like the sacs of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The network of smooth endoplasmic reticulum allows increased surface area for the action or storage of key enzymes and the products of these enzymes. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum is known for its storage of calcium irons in muscle cells. The job of the smooth ER is to produce functions.
Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum Function. The endoplasmic reticulum is composed of a network of smooth tubules and sac-like structures. The endoplasmic reticulum that does not have ribosomes attached to its surface, is known as smooth endoplasmic reticulum. 
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. About 50% of the total membrane surface in an animal cell is provided by endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. 
Two patterns are found in the cell, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum packages proteins for transport, synthesizes membrane phosolipids, and releases calcium. Other functions of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum include transformation of bile pigments, glycogenolysis (the breakdown of glycogen), and detoxification of many drugs and chemical agents. There are tow types of Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER): Smooth ER and Rough ERSmooth ER-Breaks down carbohydrates; synthesis of lipids, phospholipids, steroids; helps to detoxify … blood; stores Calcium ionsRough ER-Helps with protein synthesis; has ribosomes it acts as an intracellular highway through the cell.