1 Vitamin A obtained from colorful fruits and vegetables is in the form of provitamin A carotenoids, which are converted to retinol by the body after the food is ingested. 2  Good food sources of provitamin A carotenoids include carrots, sweet potatoes, spinach, kale and cantaloupes.
What is Vitamin A Good for. Vitamins are essential nutrients required to carry out most of the important functions in the body. Vitamins are divided into 6 types, viz. Vitamin A, B, C, D, E and K. Among them, vitamins A, D, E and K are fat-soluble ones while vitamins B and C are water-soluble vitamins.
Vitamin A is essential for good health. It promotes growth, the immune system, reproduction, and vision. However, recent research suggests that too much vitamin A, particularly in the form of retinol, may be bad for your bones.
Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that has several important functions in the body. 1  It helps cells reproduce normally, a process called cellular differentiation. 2  It is essential for good vision. 3  It is needed for the proper development of an embryo and fetus.
Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in many foods. Vitamin A is important for normal vision, the immune system, and reproduction. Vitamin A also helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly. There are two different types of vitamin A. The first type, preformed vitamin A, is found in meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. The second type, provitamin A, is found in fruits, vegetables, and other plant-based products. The most common type of provitamin A in foods and dietary supplements is beta-carotene.
Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use. Beta-carotene is found naturally in mostly orange and dark green plant foods, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, mangos, and kale.
What is Vitamin A Deficiency. The foremost answer to the question what is vitamin A good for, is to improve vision. Therefore, lack of vitamin A in one's diet can lead to poor vision. The diseases caused by lack of a particular vitamin / nutrient in the diet are known as deficiency diseases.