How old should free husky puppies be before they are separated from their mother? The ideal age at which to remove a husky (or any other) puppy from its mother is 8 to 12 weeks, and they should not be removed before 7 weeks under any circumstances. They should be separated at five weeks old but you can at 3 1/2 weeks. five is best. Make sure to separate the female hamsters from the male because the males are sexualy acti … ve a 6 weeks old and will try to mate with a sibiling which is very bad to do.
Can a 1 month old puppy be separated from its mother? A puppy should be separated from its mother at 6 to 8 weeks. A puppy at 4 weeks (1 month) is far too young to be taken from it's mother. They should be separated at five weeks old but you can at 3 1/2 weeks. five is best. Make sure to separate the female hamsters from the male because the males are sexualy acti … ve a 6 weeks old and will try to mate with a sibiling which is very bad to do.
The recommended age for separating puppies from their litter is 6 to 8 weeks, according to Dr. David W. Reinhard, a consulting veterinarian for Nationwide pet insurance. By this time, puppies should have been socialized to their human counterparts, a process that takes place between 3 and 12 weeks of age, Reinhard says. 
What you need to know that your puppy should never leave its mother and litter mates before they are at least 8 weeks of age. It frustrates me to read a behaviour related question, to then find out that the dog was allowed to be removed from the mother and siblings before the age of 8 or 9 weeks old. 
Best Answer: The average age of taking a puppy home is 8 to 12 weeks. One month old puppy is 5 to 6 weeks and that is not old enough. Just wait a little longer until then. Also, potty training is the most important of keeping a dog. how long should i wait to separate a puppy from its mother? the puppy we want is 1 month old. is that old enough?
A puppy should be separated from its mother at 6 to 8 weeks. A puppy at 4 weeks (1 month) is far too young to be taken from it's mother. 
A puppy's mother provides vital nutrition, warmth, personal care and attention. Weaning a puppy from its mother is a gradual process that should start at about 4 weeks of age and finish between 7 to 8 weeks of age. Therefore, it's not recommended to take a dog away from its mother before 6 weeks of age. Socialization with humans should begin once the puppies are weaned from their mother, at about 7 to 8 weeks of age. It's important to remember that all puppies, up until about 12 weeks of age, are still young and sensitive.
Separation Age. Puppies need to be together with their mothers and siblings for a minimum of 8 weeks, according to the website for the Wisconsin Humane Society as well as most other authorities on dogs. Premature separation from mother dogs can lead to a lot of socialization problems down the line. Weaning. Puppies rely on their mother dogs for nourishment completely for about four weeks and then partially until they're approximately 7 or 8 weeks old. Their first feedings are of the mother's nutrient-rich colostrum, which provides the puppies' protection until their own immune systems can sustain them.
Answer by Katie (92). In general, puppies should be separated from their mother when they are no less than 8 months old (8 to 12 months is considered the optimal time). Answer by ilango (226). puppies should be stayed with mother for atleast 7 weeks. beacuse they need mother milk and it help to prevent the diseases and help to improve their health considerably. It learns the manner and habits from mother. so puppies will not separate before 7 to 8 weeks.
A reputable breeder will keep pups until 10-12 weeks, or sometimes longer. Toy & small breed dogs should be no younger than 12 weeks. During this time period, puppies are still learning from their mother and each other about social interacitons, pack behavior, bite inhibition, etc.. 