Fees. The fee for certification and initial registration to practice as a nurse practitioner (NP) in each specialty practice area is $85. ($50 certificate application fee plus a $35 fee for initial registration.). Fees are subject to change. Information about NP practice requirements and prescribing, are available in the NP Practice section of this web site. Questions may also be referred to the Nursing Board Office by e-mailing nursebd@mail.nysed.gov or by calling 518-474-3817 ext.
In. , where I practice, the agreement must be reviewed by the boards of nursing and medicine. After passing these reviews, you can expect to receive a letter of temporary approval that allows you to begin practice as an NP. The final approval letter should be received 2 weeks later. Be sure to include with your application a request that your test results be faxed to your state board of nursing or any other licensing body that requires it for you to practice. Results may not be mailed for 2 to 4 weeks after the exam.
Each test and its requirements vary slightly. Most FNP certification exams require students to sit for the test 20–90 days after registering. Both exams are administered at independent testing centers across the country, and pass/fail results are available immediately after the exam. Certification certificates will arrive by mail in three to four weeks
1 Your NP registration certificate will authorize you to practice as a NP for 3 years. 2  You must renew your NP registration and your RN registration with NYSED in order to continue practicing as a nurse practitioner. Information about NP practice requirements and prescribing, are available in the NP Practice section of this web site. Questions may also be referred to the Nursing Board Office by e-mailing nursebd@mail.nysed.gov or by calling 518-474-3817 ext.
Candidates who meet the requirements and successfully pass the appropriate certification examination to become certified by AANPCP are qualified to use the credential NP-C (Nurse Practitioner-Certified) to indicate their certification status. The AANPCP Examinations are entry-level, competency-based examinations for nurse practitioners reflective of nurse practitioner knowledge and expertise for each of the following specialties:
The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) and the American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP) are the two organizations that administer the tests to become board certified as a nurse practitioner. 
The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) and the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners (AANP) offer certification for FNPs, plus exams for gerontology, adult, pediatric, acute care, and others. Most FNP certification exams require students to sit for the test 20–90 days after registering. Both exams are administered at independent testing centers across the country, and pass/fail results are available immediately after the exam.
After years of study and dedication to your education, graduating from a Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) program is something to be proud of. You know all too well the countless hours of study and the amount of dedication required to become an effective FNP, but there’s one more crucial step. Most FNP certification exams require students to sit for the test 20–90 days after registering. Both exams are administered at independent testing centers across the country, and pass/fail results are available immediately after the exam.