1 Citalopram (Celexa) is used to treat depression, Social Anxiety Disorder, Panic Disorder, OCD and many other problems. 2  The usual dose for adults is 20-40 mg/day. 3  Most people start at 20 mg/day, and the dose is increased as necessary. 1 Talk to your doctor before you stop taking citalopram. 2  Your dose may need to be tapered down slowly to prevent uncomfortable withdrawal symptoms. 3  Most people experience a few mild side effects, like dry mouth, fatigue or drowsiness when they begin
Most people begin taking 20 mg of citalopram daily. The dose can be increased to 40 mg after a week if necessary. The maximum recommended dose is 60 mg/day. Elderly people and people with liver disease may need a lower dose of citalopram and may start with 10 mg/day. 1 Talk to your doctor before you stop taking citalopram. 2  Your dose may need to be tapered down slowly to prevent uncomfortable withdrawal symptoms. 3  Most people experience a few mild side effects, like dry mouth, fatigue or drowsiness when they begin
Citalopram is one of a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is used to treat the depression associated with mood disorders. It is also used on occassion in the treatment of body dysmorphic disorder and anxiety. 
Citalopram (sye tal' o pram) and escitalopram (es sye tal' oh pram) are antidepressants that belong to the class of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Liver test abnormalities have been reported to occur in less than 1% of patients on citalopram, and elevations are usually modest and rarely require dose modification or discontinuation.
Citalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) . Serotonin is a neurotransmitter — a chemical that relays signals between the cells in your brain. SSRIs increase the amount of serotonin in your brain, and this is how citalopram is thought to improve the symptoms of depression.
Citalopram is available as tablets of 10, 20 and 40 mg and in an oral solution of 10 mg/5 mL in several generic forms and under the brand name of Celexa. Liver test abnormalities have been reported to occur in less than 1% of patients on citalopram, and elevations are usually modest and rarely require dose modification or discontinuation.
Citalopram (Celexa, Cipramil, Emocal, Sepram, Seropram). Citalopram is a SSRI antidepressant that was introduced in 1989 by Lundbeck, a niche pharmaceutical company that specializes in developing medications for disorders of the central nervous system. 1 Talk to your doctor before you stop taking citalopram. 2  Your dose may need to be tapered down slowly to prevent uncomfortable withdrawal symptoms. 3  Most people experience a few mild side effects, like dry mouth, fatigue or drowsiness when they begin
Pharmacology. Citalopram is one of a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is used to treat the depression associated with mood disorders. It is also used on occassion in the treatment of body dysmorphic disorder and anxiety. The antidepressant, antiobsessive-compulsive, and antibulimic actions of Citalopram are presumed to be linked to its inhibition of CNS neuronal uptake of serotonin.
Citalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a type of antidepressant that prevents serotonin from being reabsorbed by nerve cells from this neurotransmitter soup. This allows serotonin to accumulate and normalizes the biochemical balance at the neural junctions. 1 Talk to your doctor before you stop taking citalopram. 2  Your dose may need to be tapered down slowly to prevent uncomfortable withdrawal symptoms. 3  Most people experience a few mild side effects, like dry mouth, fatigue or drowsiness when they begin
Metabolism and Elimination Following intravenous administrations of citalopram, the fraction of drug recovered in the urine as citalopram and DCT was about 10% and 5%, respectively. The systemic clearance of citalopram was 330 mL/min, with approximately 20% of that due to renal clearance. Celexa (citalopram HBr) Page 16 of 37 Digoxin-In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day Celexa, combined administration of Celexa and digoxin (single dose of 1 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or digoxin.