If in both the cases, there is a line, then the problem is with the video card. if the line is only seen on the display, then the problem is with monitor, which means you will need to get the screen replaced, or get a new monitor. Restart ur computer and get into the BIOS. check if the line is there also. then plug in an external monitor into the VGA connector of the system and check if the line appear
Answers. Best Answer: This most likely a problem with the screen itself. - Resolution needs to be changed-Refresh rate needs to be changed-Switch monitor off and computer and disconnect monitor and then reconnect. - Make sure monitor is not next to other electrical equipment. - Make sure that you are not placing anothing on top of monitor blocking vents. - Make sure that you do not have a cell/mobile phone too near to monitor/computer.
Even when I start up my PC grind lines show up on the windows loading screen as the computer starts up. I have no idea how it happened, just randomly all of a sudden they popped up and now I have no idea as how to get rid of them. So try looking through your monitor settings and mixing around a little and let me know how you go! Another way i knew it was my monitor was by turning the monitor off and on. Id turn it off then back on and notice that the grid lines temporarily disappeared for a few seconds. 70 people found this helpful.
Instructions. Power down your monitor. Leave the monitor powered down for several minutes. Sometimes your monitor just needs a few minutes to cool down. Power the monitor back on and see if the line is still there or not. Look at the cable connection running between your monitor and your computer. Make sure the cable is inserted completely into both devices. Launch your Internet browser and make your way to the website of your monitor's manufacturer.
To get rid of it: 1  Place your cursor into the paragraph immediately preceding the line. 2  Go to Format, Borders and Shading (Word 2002-2003) or click the Border drop-down in the Paragraph section of the Home tab of the Ribbon (Word 2007-2010). 3  Click None (or No Borders) to turn off all the borders. 
1 If you're using a laptop, connect an external monitor to the computer. 2  If the black lines aren't visible on the external screen, the laptop screen may need to be replaced. 3  If the black lines are also visible on the external screen, the video card or motherboard may need to be replaced. 1 If the black lines aren't visible on the external screen, the laptop screen may need to be replaced. 2  If the black lines are also visible on the external screen, the video card or motherboard may need to be replaced. 3  In some cases, a loose video card can cause problems with the monitor video.
How to Fix Vertical Lines on the Computer Screen. Computer screens, like any component of a computer system, work or fail to work because of a series of possible factors: the input from the computer, the settings on the screen, and the performance of the screen itself. Reconnect and turn the computer back on. Look for the lines at boot up: if you see lines before Windows loads, the problem is either with the video card, the video connection cable -- whether HDMI or VGA -- or the monitor itself.
This may be a hint you need a new computer monitor. You can also right click on the desktop, select properties, and go to the settings tab, and hit the Advanced button. Click the Monitor tab, and click the Screen Refresh Rate menu (the arrow pointed down) and change the hertz. Click Apple, then ok, then ok again. This may change it, it may not. Hmm... Also on the monitor itself, there should be little buttons