If this directory is present, android studio will give the containing folder an android studio icon in it's open file browser window in the windows version. You can click on the directory with this icon in intellij (android studio) and open the project. At least in the version I have, like intellij the android studio project files are stored in a folder called '.idea' in the root of your workspace (though you can explicitly create one that looks up the tree and have it not be in the root).
Simply open the file “build.gradle” which was created by Eclipse in the very root of your multi-project setup and you will see something like this: Here is the problem: Eclipse exported 0.5.+ as the version number. The fix is to change this to 0.7.+ like so: You are now telling Android Studio to use Gradle version 1.9. Eclipse, by default, seems to export bad Gradle files (out of date) and Android Studio does not like this. The fix is quite easy, I’ll cover it later on in this guide.
Use the import project function on the build.gradle file in your project root (not the folder itself!) to open the project again in Android Studio. share | improve this answer. answered Jan 3 '14 at 15:04. nhaarman. 25.5k 29 116 168. Thanks for the answer. At least in the version I have, like intellij the android studio project files are stored in a folder called '.idea' in the root of your workspace (though you can explicitly create one that looks up the tree and have it not be in the root).
1 Do this in Android Studio: Tools/Android/Sync Project with Grade files. 2  Go to File/Project Structure, inside Modules pick your ‘app’, then from the Tab pick: Dependencies, click + to add new dependency, pick Module Dependency, and add :library:opencv dependency to your project. 1 Rename that folder to “opencv”, so that you will end up having your Android Studio project with subfolder “libraries/opencv”. 2  Now, inside this “opencv” folder, create a build.gradle file, with the following content: 3  Edit your settings.gradle file in your application’s main directory and add this line:
Let's now look at the elements of the Android Studio environment with your new project open. When it creates a new project, Android Studio opens the layout and Activity files for editing, as well as loads a preview of your app's UI on a virtual device screen. Android Studio will build your project and create a folder for it in the workspace. Like Eclipse, Android Studio manages the files for a project in a single directory and they are all saved inside a folder named AndroidStudioProjects onto your system. Tip: Android Studio can be pretty unstable.
Firstly, you can export your project from Eclipse, use ADT to generate the necessary Gradle build file, and then import this project into Android Studio. Or, you can import your Eclipse project directly into Android Studio, without performing an export first. 1. Launch Android Studio. On the ‘Welcome’ screen, opt to ‘Import Project.’. 2. Navigate to where your Eclipse project is stored, and click ‘Import.’. 3. Read the message explaining the import process, and then click ‘Next.’. 4. At this point, Android Studio presents you with some options.
Your selected projects remain in the same location but now contain a build.gradle file and are ready for Android Studio. Import into Android Studio. 2.Locate a project you exported from Eclipse, select the project's root directory and click OK. 3.Select Create project from existing sources and click Next. 4.Follow the walk-through to complete the import process
1.Update your Eclipse ADT Plugin (you must have version 22.0 or higher). 3.In the window that appears, open Android and select Generate Gradle build files. 4.Select the projects you want to export for Android Studio and click Finish. Import into Android Studio. 2.Locate a project you exported from Eclipse, select the project's root directory and click OK. 3.Select Create project from existing sources and click Next.
In this tutorial, we're going to choose the New Project option. However, you can choose Import Project if you'd like to import a project from, for example, Eclipse, into Android Studio. Android Studio will convert the Eclipse project to an Android Studio project, adding the necessary configuration files for you. If you select Open Project from the list of options, you can open projects created with either Android Studio or IntelliJ IDEA. 