Someone else can put their hand on your head and tell if you are warm, hot, flushed or whatever, but it is very difficult for you to tell with any degree of reliability. If you have a really high fever, you will feel hot and flushed. Source(s): old lady · 9 years ago. This Site Might Help You. RE: How to tell if you have a fever without a thermometer? Is there any reliable way to tell if you have a fever without a thermometer? Other than just putting your hand on your forehead and seeing if it&#39;s hot?
You may have heard that you can tell whether your dog has a fever by feeling his nose -- cool and wet is good, hot and dry means fever -- but it’s not that simple. In fact, dog fever often goes unrecognized or undetected. 
Instructions. Place your hand on your forehead. If your forehead feels hot to the touch, the chances are that you may have a fever. In fact, the skin on your entire body may feel hot if a fever is present. Look for signs of dehydration, a telltale sign of a fever. Indications of being dehydrated include extreme thirst, dry mouth, dry skin and problems being able to urinate. Drink plenty of fluids to cool down your body temperature. 
You may have the flu if you have some or all of these symptoms: 1  fever*. 2  cough. 3  sore throat. 4  runny or stuffy nose. 5  body aches. 6  headache. 7  chills. 8  fatigue. 9  sometimes diarrhea and vomiting. 
Ad. 2. Try to feel the skin of the person in question. If you're trying to self-diagnose fever, it's going to be hard to tell whether your temperature is at 98.7°F or at 101.2°F. You're probably better off trying to look for other symptoms of a fever (see below). 1 If you're trying to diagnose fever in someone else, try feeling the temperature of your own skin and then quickly checking the temperature of the person in question's skin. 2  This should give you a good comparison for whether the person is feverish.
1. Take your temperature if you have a thermometer. If your temperature is 103°F (39.4°C) or lower, try to treat the fever at home, seeing whether it responds to at-home care. If it's 104°F or higher, call emergency services or go straight to the emergency room; you may need immediate medical attention. 1 If you're trying to diagnose fever in someone else, try feeling the temperature of your own skin and then quickly checking the temperature of the person in question's skin. 2  This should give you a good comparison for whether the person is feverish.
Some differences: the flu virus is more likely to cause fever -- and a higher fever, at that. Flu sufferers have more severe symptoms overall and are more likely to face fatigue, body aches and a dry cough. The flu virus is a respiratory illness and can cause many of the symptoms that everyone has experienced at one time or another: fever, body aches, coughing, congestion and fatigue.
Warnings. 1  If you have a fever for more than 48 hours (in general), without it going down, go to your doctor. 2  If you do have a thermometer, it's best to use it so you know how serious a fever is; if it is 103 degrees (Fahrenheit) for more than 24 hours and isn't going down, go to your doctor. 1 If you're trying to diagnose fever in someone else, try feeling the temperature of your own skin and then quickly checking the temperature of the person in question's skin. 2  This should give you a good comparison for whether the person is feverish.
1. Feel the person's forehead or neck. The most common way to check for a fever without a thermometer is to feel the person's forehead or neck to see if it feels hotter than usual. 1  Use either the back of your hand or your lips, since the skin on your palm isn't as sensitive as these other areas.
1 If you have a fever for more than 48 hours (in general), without it going down, go to your doctor. 2  If you do have a thermometer, it's best to use it so you know how serious a fever is; if it is 103 degrees (Fahrenheit) for more than 24 hours and isn't going down, go to your doctor. 1 If you're trying to diagnose fever in someone else, try feeling the temperature of your own skin and then quickly checking the temperature of the person in question's skin. 2  This should give you a good comparison for whether the person is feverish.