In data processing, a pivot table is a data summarization tool found in data visualization programs such as spreadsheets or business intelligence software. The term pivot table is a generic phrase used by multiple vendors. In the United States, Microsoft Corporation has trademarked the specific compound word form, PivotTable. Pivot tables can be seen as a simplification of the more complete and complex online analytical processing concepts (OLAP).
Excel shows a preview of a few recommended pivot tables. After the pivot table is built, Excel displays a task pane summarizing the data in the pivot table. You can easily rearrange the information in the pivot table by checking the boxes and dragging the buttons to a new position. 
Infobright. vs. Teradata. A pivot table is a program tool that allows you to reorganize and summarize selected columns and rows of data in a spreadsheet or database table to obtain a desired report. A pivot table doesn't actually change the spreadsheet or database itself
Excel Pivot Tables. If your work involves the analysis of large amounts of data, you will almost certainly benefit from using Excel pivot tables, to help you to interpret and make sense of the data. Imagine you have the simple spreadsheet below, containing sales data for 2011. 
If you are unfamiliar with pivot tables or with the data in the source spreadsheet you may also find the creation process unintuitive, adding to the complexity of using this tool. Pivot tables work with the data available at the time of creation, though, and may not immediately update when the data changes or new data become available. Instead, you may need to refresh pivot tables or even completely recreate the tables after data changes in order to reflect the most current information.
The number one barrier I see to pivot table adoption is data that is laid out in a report format rather than in a flexible list. The most obvious benefit of using pivot tables is reporting flexibility-you can view your data grouped any way you like all with a simple drag, drop, point and click interface. This leads to a further benefit-spreadsheets with pivot tables are more simple than intensive formula driven reports. Possibly the most useful aspect of pivot tables is the design discipline they enforce by separating the actual data from the view(s) of the data. Many people are blocked from experiencing the true power of pivot tables because their data is already half pivoted.
Difficulty. Though pivot tables allow Excel users to quickly sort data into a useful crosstab format, some users may feel intimidated by the tool’s apparent complexity. Danny Rocks, owner of the software training company The Company Rocks, explains that users can create a basic pivot table in as few as 10 mouse clicks. Pivot tables work with the data available at the time of creation, though, and may not immediately update when the data changes or new data become available. Instead, you may need to refresh pivot tables or even completely recreate the tables after data changes in order to reflect the most current information.
Select the range of cells that you want to use for your pivot table. If you plan to add more rows later on, it might be worthwhile to use a data list instead. That way, when you add rows to the data list and refresh the pivot table, Excel automatically includes them in the pivot table. . The first step of the PivotTable and PivotChart Wizard appears. (Figure 5 shows all three steps in the pivot table creation process.). Figure 5. Select the type of data you're using. Usually, this is Microsoft Office Excel list or database, which corresponds to a range of cells or a data list on the worksheet
Pivot tables are one of Excel 's most powerful features. A pivot table allows you to extract the significance from a large, detailed data set. Our data set consists of 214 rows and 6 fields. Order ID, Product, Category, Amount, Date and Country. 