Sunlight in February at Miami lasts for 11 hours and 18 minutes a day on average. The shortest day of the month is the 1st with 11 hours and 0 minutes of daylight. By the end of the month, the days have lengthened to 11:37 from sunrise to sunset. The sun's rays reach the ground in Miami during 68 percent of daylight hours on average in February, for a total of 216 hours in the month. Typically on 8 days this month the sky is mainly clear, with at most 30 percent cloud cover.
Location. This report describes the typical weather at the Miami International Airport (Miami, Florida, United States) weather station over the course of an average February. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Miami, Florida has a tropical monsoon climate with short dry season. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by marshes (37%), oceans and seas (32%), built-up areas (13%), grasslands (11%), and croplands (6%).
The temperature rises every day during February to over 60 °F (16 °C) in Miami. The city averages 12 days this month when the thermometer reaches into the 80s °F (over 26 °C). Temperatures above 90 °F (32 °C) are not expected here this month. The thermometer dips to 50 °F (10 °C) or below on an average of two nights. The sun's rays reach the ground in Miami during 68 percent of daylight hours on average in February, for a total of 216 hours in the month. Typically on 8 days this month the sky is mainly clear, with at most 30 percent cloud cover.
The average temperature of the sea during this month remains at 24 C. Miami in February has a lower expectaion of rain that in January, with an expecation for an average rainfall of 53 mm over 6 days throughout the month. Even in winter, Miami experiences a lot of sunshine, with an average of 8 hours of sunshine seen per day throughout the month. The climate does not tend to vary much within the winter months. The average daily temperature in Miami in February is 24 C, which can drop to an average minimum temperature of 16 C.
Miami Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Miami, Florida during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below by month and annually for Miami, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature. 
Miami: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Miami with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 20°C (68°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in July. The wettest month is October with an average of 234mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in August when the average sea temperature is 30°C (86°F).
Averages for Miami in February. February is still winter in Miami, which means the temperatures are at their lowest throughout the year. However, as Miami has a tropical climate, the winters remain warm and pleasant. The climate does not tend to vary much within the winter months. The average daily temperature in Miami in February is 24 C, which can drop to an average minimum temperature of 16°C. The climate does not tend to vary much within the winter months. The average daily temperature in Miami in February is 24 C, which can drop to an average minimum temperature of 16 C.
In most years, Miami averages a daily maximum temperature for February that's between 76 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (24 to 27 degrees Celsius). The minimum temperature usually falls between 59 and 65 °F (15 to 19 °C). The sun's rays reach the ground in Miami during 68 percent of daylight hours on average in February, for a total of 216 hours in the month. Typically on 8 days this month the sky is mainly clear, with at most 30 percent cloud cover.
Weather Report: The average February temperature range in Miami is 63ºF (low) to 75ºF (high). This month is in the dry season and has an average rainfall of 2.42 inches. That’s sufficient to maintain the lush landscape and not spoil outdoor plans. Average wind speed is 10 mph. Atlantic water (sea surface) temperature averages 73ºF. 