It was initially used as a herbal remedy during the early years of the 1840's by Dr L. Phares of Mississippi. Passion flower (Passiflora incarnata) is a herb used to calm the nerves and support the everyday balance of the nervous system. The active components of this herb include flavonoids, cyanogenic glycosides, alkaloids and saparin.
This plant, also referred to as passion vine, passion flowers and passiflora vine, grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 5 through 12, depending on the species.
There are around 400 species of Passiflora, the majority of which originated in North and South America, according to the University of California Cooperative Extension. The vine is known for its large, distinctive flowers, usually 2.5 to 3 inches in size.
Passion flower (Passiflora incarnata). The passion flower is known by several names, some of them being maypop, and apricot vine. The name passion flower is actually very misleading; this flower has nothing to do with passion. The name was given to the flower by Spanish explorers and missionaries, who felt that the flower resembled the crown of thorns worn by Christ.
Toxicity. While the University of California, Davis, lists Passiflora species as generally safe for both people and pets, some species contain toxins that could be harmful to your dog. The Royal Horticultural Society considers blue passion flower (Passiflora caerulea) somewhat poisonous to both humans and pets.
The charming passion flower is known by numerous names, some of them being maypop, and apricot vine. The name passion flower' can be extremely misleading; this flower has nothing to do with passion.
Passionflower (Passiflora incarnata) is a vine that sprawls up to 25 feet in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 5 through 9. Its flower and fruit are so unusual that the mind screams toxic, but Fido can munch a bunch without evil effect.
Note that the purple passion vine (Gynura aurantiaca) is unrelated to the Passiflora species and is considered nontoxic to dogs, according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Purple passion grows in USDA zones 10 through 12. 1  Dig This.