The lymphatic system. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood.
Outside of the system of lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes, there are masses of non-encapsulated lymphatic tissue known as lymphatic nodules. The lymphatic nodules are associated with the mucous membranes of the body, where they work to protect the body from pathogens entering the body through open body cavities. Lymph Nodes. Lymph nodes are small, kidney-shaped organs of the lymphatic system. There are several hundred lymph nodes found mostly throughout the thorax and abdomen of the body with the highest concentrations in the axillary (armpit) and inguinal (groin) regions.
The lymphatic system has three functions: 1  The removal of excess fluids from body tissues. 2  Absorption of fatty acids and subsequent transport of fat, chyle, to the circulatory system. 3  Production of immune cells (such as lymphocytes, monocytes, and antibody producing cells called plasma cells). The lymphatic system plays an integral role in the immune functions of the body. It is the first line of defense against disease. This network of vessels and nodes transports and filters lymph fluid containing antibodies and lymphocytes (good) and bacteria (bad).
The primary function of the lymph system is to protect the body from infection and disease via the immune response. It does this by production, maintenance and distribution of lymphocytes (infection fighting cells). The lymph system also helps to maintain fluid movement between the cells and the bloodstream. The lymph vessels which absorb, collect and transport lymph throughout the body are equipped with one way valves which propel the lymph in one direction. The lymph fluid is moved by muscle contraction, breathing, arterial pulsations or application of external pressure, such as massage or compression of some sort.
What the lymphatic system is. The lymphatic system is a system of thin tubes and lymph nodes that run throughout the body. These tubes are called lymph vessels or lymphatic vessels. The lymph system is an important part of our immune system. It plays a role in fighting bacteria and other infections and destroying old or abnormal cells, such as cancer cells. You can read detailed information about the immune system and cancer. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
The lymphatic system is a network of very small tubes (or vessels) that drain lymph fluid from all over the body. The major parts of the lymph tissue are located in the bone marrow, spleen, thymus gland, lymph nodes, and the tonsils. The heart, lungs, intestines, liver, and skin also contain lymphatic tissue. The lymphatic system plays an integral role in the immune functions of the body. It is the first line of defense against disease. This network of vessels and nodes transports and filters lymph fluid containing antibodies and lymphocytes (good) and bacteria (bad).