The leaves and fruits of chili peppers are toxic when touched and eaten. The burning sensation you get when you handle or eat hot peppers is the toxicity of the plant. When large quantities of pepper are consumed, you will feel a burning of the throat, tongue, eyes and skin. The ornamental pepper plant, Solanum pseudocapsicum, may also be known by the deceptive names natal cherry, winter cherry and Jerusalem cherry. The names suggest that ornamental peppers are something that should be eaten, when in fact they are poisonous and dangerous to pets and wildlife. The plant is toxic to dogs, cats and horses. When ingested, ornamental pepper plants may cause gastrointestinal ulcers, seizures, respiratory problems and shock
1 Major Toxicity: These plants may cause serious illness or death. 2  If ingested, immediately call the Poison Control Center -- (800) 222-1222 -- or your doctor. 3  Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 1 Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 2  If ingested, call the Poison Control Center or your doctor. 3  Oxalates: The juice or sap of these plants contains oxalate crystals.
Ornamental Pepper Plant. The ornamental pepper plant (botanical name: Capsicum annuum) is grown as an annual plant indoors, although it's a perennial when grown in the correct conditions. Also known as the Christmas pepper plant. We have all seen in grocery stores, eaten or cooked a variety of this plants fruit known as capsicum, sweet peppers, cayenne peppers, and chilli peppers, which this species has been bred from for ornamental purposes.
Toxic Plants (by scientific name). To search for photos of these plants, check the UC Berkeley CalPhotos: Plants site. Toxicity Class (third column in table below). 1  Major Toxicity: These plants may cause serious illness or death. 2  If ingested, immediately call the Poison Control Center -- (800) 222-1222 -- or your doctor. 1 Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 2  If ingested, call the Poison Control Center or your doctor. 3  Oxalates: The juice or sap of these plants contains oxalate crystals.
The Solanaceae, or nightshades, are an economically important family of flowering plants. The family ranges from annual and perennial herbs to vines, lianas, epiphytes, shrubs, and trees, and includes a number of important agricultural crops, medicinal plants, spices, weeds, and ornamentals. The solanaceas include such important food species as the potato (Solanum tuberosum), the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), the pepper (Capsicum annuum) and the aubergine or egg plant (Solanum melongena). Nicotiana tabacum, originally from South America, is now cultivated throughout the world to produce tobacco.
Solanum pseudocapsicum is a nightshade species with poisonous fruit. It is commonly known as the Jerusalem cherry, Madeira winter cherry, or, ambiguously,  winter cherry . These perennials can be grown decoratively as house plants, but in some areas of South Africa, Australia and New Zealand it is regarded as a weed. 
1 Major Toxicity: These plants may cause serious illness or death. 2  If ingested, immediately call the Poison Control Center -- (800) 222-1222 -- or your doctor. 3  Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 4  If ingested, call the Poison Control Center or your doctor. 1 Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 2  If ingested, call the Poison Control Center or your doctor. 3  Oxalates: The juice or sap of these plants contains oxalate crystals.
Toxicity Class (third column in table below). 1  Major Toxicity: These plants may cause serious illness or death. 2  If ingested, immediately call the Poison Control Center -- (800) 222-1222 -- or your doctor. 3  Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 1 Minor Toxicity: Ingestion of these plants may cause minor illnesses such as vomiting or diarrhea. 2  If ingested, call the Poison Control Center or your doctor. 3  Oxalates: The juice or sap of these plants contains oxalate crystals.
Hot Peppers. Hot peppers, Capsicum annuum, also called chili peppers, are toxic. Chili peppers are commonly used in the garden and the kitchen for their hot, spicy flavor. The hot flavor is actually a result of the mildly poisonous nature of the plant. The ornamental pepper plant, Solanum pseudocapsicum, may also be known by the deceptive names natal cherry, winter cherry and Jerusalem cherry. The names suggest that ornamental peppers are something that should be eaten, when in fact they are poisonous and dangerous to pets and wildlife. The plant is toxic to dogs, cats and horses. When ingested, ornamental pepper plants may cause gastrointestinal ulcers, seizures, respiratory problems and shock