Xanax is the brand name for a drug called alprazolam. Xanax is a type of medication called a benzodiazepine, which is a central nervous system depressant that decreases abnormal excitement in the brain. Doctors most frequently prescribe Xanax as a tablet, but it can also come in a liquid concentration as well. Xanax can also be used to treat mental health disorders and is currently being studied in the treatment of nausea and vomiting caused by some cancer treatments. * agoraphobia (fear of open spaces). * anxiety disorders. * cancer treatments (for nausea and vomiting).
A: Xanax (alprazolam) is in a drug class called benzodiazepines. Xanax is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders and panic disorders. Xanax is thought to work by affecting brain chemicals and lessening abnormal brain excitement. A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine.
Alprazolam is mostly used to treat anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and nausea due to chemotherapy. The FDA label advises that the physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug. Alprazolam is a chemical analog of triazolam that differs by the absence of a chlorine atom in the o-position of the 6-phenyl ring. The same scheme that was used to make triazolam can be used to make alprazolam, with the exception that it begins with 2-amino-5-chlorobenzophenone.
A: Xanax (alprazolam) is in a drug class called benzodiazepines. Xanax is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder. Xanax is also used for the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms. Xanax is also used to treat panic disorders. A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine.
Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine (ben-zoe-dye-AZE-eh-peen). Alprazolam affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Alprazolam is used to treat anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and anxiety caused by depression. Alprazolam may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Alprazolam is a prescription drug used to treat conditions which are clinically referred to as panic disorders, panic attacks, or anxiety disorders. Alprazolam is most effective for diminishing abnormal excitement in the brain. It's also used to treat depression, premenstrual syndrome, and agoraphobia (fear of open spaces).
Xanax is the brand name of alprazolam, a prescription drug used to treat anxiety disorders. Xanax is prescribed for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , anxiety associated with depression, and panic disorder. Other uses include treatment of depression and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) . A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine.
Uses of This Medicine. Alprazolam is used to relieve symptoms of anxiety, including anxiety caused by depression. It is also used to treat panic disorder in some patients. Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines belong to the group of medicines called central nervous system (CNS) depressants, which are medicines that slow down the nervous system. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Alprazolam /aelˈpraezəlaem/ ælˈpræzəlæm /or/ , aelˈpreɪzəlaem ælˈpreɪzəlæm available as the Trade /name/ xanax ˈzaenaeks, ˈzænæks among others-is a short acting anxiolytic of. The benzodiazepine class it is commonly used for the treatment, of panic disorder, and anxiety disorders such as (GENERALIZED) anxiety disorder gad or (SOCIAL). anxiety disorder sad Alprazolam is a chemical analog of triazolam that differs by the absence of a chlorine atom in the o-position of the 6-phenyl ring. The same scheme that was used to make triazolam can be used to make alprazolam, with the exception that it begins with 2-amino-5-chlorobenzophenone.