The head of the pancreas is located on the right side of the abdomen, is the largest part of the organ, and is nestled in the duodenum. The duodenum is the first part of the small intestine and extends immediately from the stomach. The body of the pancreas extends across the spine and is in the midline of the abdomen. The tail of the pancreas is located on the left side of the abdomen and is adjacent to the spleen. The pancreas makes insulin as well as other hormones. These hormones enter the bloodstream and travel throughout the body.
Location of the pancreas. “The pancreas is located in the upper abdomen behind the stomach,” Knowlton said. The right end of the pancreas is wide and called the head. From the head, the organ tapers to the left. View full size image. The pancreas is an abdominal organ that is located behind the stomach and is surrounded by other organs, including the spleen, liver and small intestine. The pancreas is about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) long, oblong and flat. The pancreas plays an important role in digestion and in regulating blood sugar
Anatomy of the Pancreas. The pancreas is located behind the stomach in the upper left abdomen. It is surrounded by other organs including the small intestine, liver, and spleen. It is spongy, about six to ten inches long, and is shaped like a flat pear or a fish extended horizontally across the abdomen. 
The pancreas is located in the upper left portion of the abdomen, between the stomach and the spine. It lies partially behind the stomach. In the Related Links, it is the yell … ow organ. The pancreas is a small (5 to 6 inches) gland that produces insulin and enzymes used for digestion. Insulin regulates the use of blood sugar throughout the body and is therefo … re necessary for life. The pancreas also produces a fluid that neutralizes stomach acid.
Illustration: pancreas and nearby organs. Illustration: the pancreas, common bile duct, and small intestine. The pancreas is a gland that is located deep in the abdomen between the stomach and the spine. The pancreas is about 6 inches long and extends from the right to the left side of the abdomen. The body of the pancreas extends across the spine and is in the midline of the abdomen. The tail of the pancreas is located on the left side of the abdomen and is adjacent to the spleen. The pancreas makes insulin as well as other hormones. These hormones enter the bloodstream and travel throughout the body.
The pancreas is a long flattened gland located deep in the belly (abdomen). Because the pancreas isn’t seen or felt in our day to day lives, most people don't know as much about the pancreas as they do about other parts of their bodies. 
The pancreas is in the abdomen, behind the stomach. It is shaped a little like a tadpole and is approximately 25cm long. The pancreas is an organ of the digestive system and o … f the endocrine (hormonal) system. The pancreas adds its own digestive juices and enzymes to food in the duodenum, via a small duct. The pancreas is a small (5 to 6 inches) gland that produces insulin and enzymes used for digestion. Insulin regulates the use of blood sugar throughout the body and is therefo … re necessary for life. The pancreas also produces a fluid that neutralizes stomach acid.
Front View of the Pancreas. The pancreas is about 6 inches long and sits across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine) through a small tube called the pancreatic duct. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body.
Pancreatitis, Acute ». The pancreas is a gland located in the upper, posterior abdomen and is responsible for insulin production (endocrine pancreas) and the manufacture and secretion of digestive enzymes (exocrine pancreas) leading to carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. Read More on Medscape Reference ».