This can place extreme pressure on the wrist or cause it to twist or stretch beyond its limits. The end result can be tears or breaks in the ligaments. Depending on how severe a wrist sprain is, it can take anywhere from two weeks to three months to heal. Minor sprains will heal quicker than more severe sprains. If the wrist sprain consists of snapped ligaments, a person will likely need surgery to repair it and healing time will be longer. 
Rest your wrist to give it time to heal. You may find that, depending on the severity of the sprain, immobilization through a soft cast is necessary. If your sprain is the result of a sports injury, you should stop playing the sport immediately, at least for a few weeks while your wrist heals. Rest and immobilize your wrist for faster healing. A sprained wrist is a common fall-related injury, since you instinctively extend your hand and often land with your weight on your wrist.
1 Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 4  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5
To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can
Best Answer: It took my severely sprained wrist about 10 days to get close to normal. It still felt weak for quite awhile and the nifty colors of the bruising didn't go away for about two weeks. It all depends on how bad the sprain is. Sometimes you can tear tendons and muscles, and if you tore a tendon it is worse than a broken bone, in that case it would take some time to heal. If you know for sure that it is not broken, then wrap it and give it a rest. mingus_optech · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 2.
Severe sprains take number of weeks to even months to get cured completely. Wrist sprains occur due to any injury to the ligaments present in the wrist. Wrist injuries are very common depending on our usage and function or wrists. When we begin to fall, we put our hands out to break our fall. This is a very natural instinct, which results in sudden twisting of the wrist forcibly.
How long does it take for a sprained wrist to heal? texting or use other hand I sprained my arm by falling off the couch and it took 3 to 4 to 5 days to heal! then today at school i tripped and broke it. It will take 2-3 we … eks to be normal, but to heal it rest it then it will take 5-6 days. How long it can take for a sprained knee to heel is dependent upon  the severity of the injury and the patients capacity to heal. It  could take anywhere from a few weeks to … a couple of months for  healing to occur.
Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries. There's a grade one, where the ligament that holds the joint in place is stretched. There's sometimes a grade two, where you can get some tearing of the ligament, or a grade three, where it is torn completely. As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together.