When a person has only one kidney or one working kidney, this kidney is called a solitary kidney. The three main causes of a solitary kidney are. 1  birth defects. 2  People with kidney agenesis are born with only one kidney. 3  People born with kidney dysplasia have both kidneys; however, one kidney does not function.
If someone is born with only one kidney, the kidney can grow to reach a size similar to the combined weight of two kidneys. It can filter as much as two kidneys would normally and handle the extra load. While you only have one kidney, it does not mean that your renal function is discounted by 50%.
Many people are born with a single kidney. It is more common in males, and the left kidney is the one more often absent. The ureter (the tube that takes urine from the kidney to the bladder) on the affected side is usually abnormal or absent.
There are three main reasons why a person may have only one kidney: 1  A person may be born with only one kidney. 2  This condition is called renal agenesis. 3  Another condition, which is called kidney dysplasia, causes a person to be born with two kidneys, but only one of them works.
Points to Remember. 1  When a person has only one kidney or one working kidney, this kidney is called a solitary kidney. 2  The three main causes of a solitary kidney are birth defects, surgical removal of a kidney, and kidney donation. 3  In general, people with a solitary kidney lead full, healthy lives.
1 A person may be born with only one kidney. 2  This condition is called renal agenesis. 3  Another condition, which is called kidney dysplasia, causes a person to be born with two kidneys, but only one of them works. 4  Most people who are born without a kidney (or with only one working kidney) lead normal, healthy lives.
1 People born with kidney dysplasia have both kidneys; however, one kidney does not function. 2  Many people with kidney agenesis or kidney dysplasia do not discover that they have a solitary kidney until they have an x ray, an ultrasound, or surgery for an unrelated condition.
1 This condition is called renal agenesis. 2  Another condition, which is called kidney dysplasia, causes a person to be born with two kidneys, but only one of them works. 3  Most people who are born without a kidney (or with only one working kidney) lead normal, healthy lives.