Upgrade your processor to a better one to improve video buffering. Add more RAM to your computer or, at the very least, clear the temporary Internet cache and history to free up resources. Upgrade your Internet connection if you have dial up service. Contact your ISP and switch over to high speed Internet. Add a software video player from your preferred TV network. Pause the video at the first sign that it is stopping.
This page will help you free up more resources to play the video. Buffering is your computer downloading the video faster than it plays. If it cant downloaded the and played the video at the same time, it will stop and create a buffer between the play time and download time. 
Slow and Constant Buffering-This problem can be attributed to two factors internet speed and your media player. You can tweak your PC setting in both areas to cut down on slow streaming video. Remember that each player has its own buffer settings. Below is an how to change buffer setting in Media Player. 
The video will be loaded in to your Web Cache. If this area is full, the video will be slow streaming. To clear the web cache 1. Quit Internet Explorer, Firefox, or any other web browser 2. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Internet Options. 3. On the General tab, click Delete Files under Temporary Internet Files. 4. To Fix Online Video Buffering Problems: If you are using Internet Explorer, Please perform these steps and check if it helps: 1. Open the Internet Explorer browser and then click the Start button. 2.
1 If video streaming is unusably slow, pause it and wait for it to buffer, or download the video instead if a download link is provided. 2  If YouTube will only buffer a small section at a time, change this option using the YouTube Center add-on. 3  Keeping your browser or video-streaming app updated is also a good idea. Log in to your router settings. Enter the username and password you selected for your router, or the default password for your brand of router. Once you have accessed the settings, continue reading to optimize your network for video streaming. 3. Turn on QoS or WMM.
Method 2–Stop Choppy Playback To stop choppy playback and slow video streaming is to Disable the use of hardware acceleration. Click on Start 1. Click Control Panel and Click Display 2. Select the Settings tab and click on the Advanced. To Fix Online Video Buffering Problems: If you are using Internet Explorer, Please perform these steps and check if it helps: 1. Open the Internet Explorer browser and then click the Start button. 2.
If you do have a low performance computer or video card, right-clicking within the video (Flash) will give you the option to turn off hardware acceleration. Right-Click in your video and select Settings. Then uncheck Enable hardware acceleration. Turn Off Hardware Acceleration in Flash Videos. This option may only give improvements if you have really slow hardware that actually hinders the display of the video-in these cases, the software acceleration may provide less video stutter and fix buffering problems.
Please try again later. You can increase your internet speed in just few min. no software needed, just setting your computer to get maximum speed and it will increase your buffering and download speed both for more videos subscribe and like my video i am going to make video on utorrent speed increasing also. 
Here is a list of 5 things you can try to improve streaming video playback problems. Of course, you will usually have video stops and pauses if you're on an Internet plan which provides less than 1 Mbps of bandwidth-in such cases, you may want to consider upgrading your ISP's plan. Turn Off Hardware Acceleration in Flash Videos. This option may only give improvements if you have really slow hardware that actually hinders the display of the video-in these cases, the software acceleration may provide less video stutter and fix buffering problems.
Tips. 1  If video streaming is unusably slow, pause it and wait for it to buffer, or download the video instead if a download link is provided. 2  If YouTube will only buffer a small section at a time, change this option using the YouTube Center add-on. 3  Keeping your browser or video-streaming app updated is also a good idea. Log in to your router settings. Enter the username and password you selected for your router, or the default password for your brand of router. Once you have accessed the settings, continue reading to optimize your network for video streaming. 3. Turn on QoS or WMM.