The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services.
In order to establish what is the average cost of a cremation in your area, you need to compare prices purely on a local level, and you need to ensure you are comparing apples to apples. You will find that there are different brackets of cremation providers and funeral homes offering cremation services. Consider the differing costs for a cremation container, casket or rental casket. A simple cardboard container is generally charged at anything between $50 and $400. Some cremation providers include this in their direct cremation price, but others do not, so be sure to check.
1 See How Much Does Embalming Cost. 2  The body must be in a container when it is cremated. 3  A simple unlined and unfinished container or casket starts around $20-$250; cardboard or softwood caskets covered with fabric cost $200-$1,000; and a hardwood casket can be $1,200-$8,000. 1 The body must be in a container when it is cremated. 2  A simple unlined and unfinished container or casket starts around $20-$250; cardboard or softwood caskets covered with fabric cost $200-$1,000; and a hardwood casket can be $1,200-$8,000. 3  See How Much Does a Casket or Coffin Cost.
California Cremation Costs. The average cost of cremation is a fraction of funeral and burial costs in California, less than a quarter of the $10,000+ cost of an average funeral and burial. With cremation, there is no need to embalm or to purchase a cemetery plot, casket, burial vault, or gravestone. The low cost of cremation in California is a significant factor in choosing cremation for final needs. Other considerations in choosing cremation include avoiding the environmental impact of burials, and the ease and simplicity of the cremation process.
The cost of pet cremation depends on location, where the cremation is done, and time of cremation. The American Humane Society’s cost for cremation of 22.5 kg (50 lb). or less pet is $110 while 23 kg (51 lb). or more is $145. The cremated remains are available for the owner to pick up in seven to ten business days. Urns for the companion animal range from $50 to $150
According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services.
1 Urns to hold the ashes typically cost $50 to $150 for a classic bronze, brass or enamel vase, depending on size, but can run as high as $1,000 for a large wax-cast urn in an elaborate shape. 2  Experts recommend choosing urn size based on the pet's pre-cremation body weight, with one cubic inch of space per pound. 1 Pet cremation typically costs between $150 and $350 for dogs between 50 and 120 pounds and up, with very large dogs falling at the high end.
Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style. However, in addition to the cost of the basic cremation service -- processing a body into the ash-and-bones mixtures called cremains -- a number of other charges may be added for related paperwork, goods, and services, including: Getting an original death certificate and copies.
Although the cost of cremation varies based on several factors, including whether you have a viewing in a casket prior to the cremation, the process is usually cheaper than a traditional funeral. 
Cremation Packages average prices to expect. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500. This cost varies between areas. In Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix you can arrange a direct cremation for as little as $495 - $580. However, in most metro areas across the U.S. a direct cremation costs between $795 and $1,200. Consider the differing costs for a cremation container, casket or rental casket. A simple cardboard container is generally charged at anything between $50 and $400. Some cremation providers include this in their direct cremation price, but others do not, so be sure to check.