The majority of Mexicans speak Spanish and as such, Mexico is the biggest Spanish-speaking country in the whole world. Mexicans use Spanish mainly because of their history; Mexico was colonized by Spain. Mexico is also known for its alcoholic drink, tequila. Tequila comes from the agave cactus that grows in Mexico, particularly in central Mexico because of its climate. Tequila is also popular all over the world and is now being used to make other cocktails
Colombia is for sure well known for the best coffee, but Mexico stills produces one of the best. Mexico is well known all over the world for it´s food, it´s mariachi music, it´s tequila and most of all prehispanic culture such as Mayan and Aztec. For the Tequila, original from a small town in Jalisco with the same name Tequila. Also is known for the Mariachi, a musical group formed by several instruments such as violin, guitar, trompet, bass, they play folkloric music.
Famous Mexicans. Just like their food and Tequila, Mexicans are culturally known for their zest and intensity, which in turn, makes their global influence undeniable.
It's known as the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and separates the Gulf of Mexico from the Pacific Ocean. If you mean, however, what is the thin but long peninsula that stretches a … long northwestern Mexico, it is known as the Baja California Peninsula. It is also known for being the home of a number of ancient pre-Colombian civilizations, having one of the world's most populous city for a capitol, and being able to survive while having the United States for a northern neighbor.
Mexico is known for its rich culture which includes its distinct food, clothing and arts. There have been some big changes in the Mexican culture over the last few decades. Around half of the population resided in the cities, while others are in smaller rural towns and communities. Mexico is also known for its alcoholic drink, tequila. Tequila comes from the agave cactus that grows in Mexico, particularly in central Mexico because of its climate. Tequila is also popular all over the world and is now being used to make other cocktail
Living and working at information systems companies for more than 10 years. Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). Mexico is mostly known as being the southern neighbor of the United States. It is also known for being the home of a number of ancient pre-Colombian civilizations, having one of the world's most populous city for a capitol, and being able to survive while having the United States for a northern neighbor.
The diets of middle-and upper-income Mexicans are more closely aligned with diets of Americans and Europeans and include a wide variety of food items prepared in wide range of culinary styles. Mexico is known for its tequila, which is made from agave cactus that is well suited to the climate of central Mexico. Languages of Mexico. The overwhelming majority of Mexicans today speak Spanish. According to the CIA, Spanish is spoken by 92.7 percent of the Mexican population. About 6 percent of the population speaks Spanish and indigenous languages, such as Mayan, Nahuatl and other regional languages.
Another concentration of Arab-Mexicans is in Baja California facing the U.S.-Mexican border, esp. in cities of Mexicali in the Imperial Valley U.S./Mexico, and Tijuana across from San Diego with a large Arab American community (about 280,000), some of whose families have relatives in Mexico. Afro-Mexicans are an ethnic group that predominate in certain areas of Mexico. Such as the Costa Chica of Oaxaca and the Costa Chica of Guerrero, Veracruz (e.g. Yanga) and in some towns in northern Mexico.
Mexicans (Spanish: Mexicanos) are the people of Mexico, a multiethnic country in North America, and those who identify with the Mexican cultural and/or national identity. Afro-Mexicans are an ethnic group that predominate in certain areas of Mexico. Such as the Costa Chica of Oaxaca and the Costa Chica of Guerrero, Veracruz (e.g. Yanga) and in some towns in northern Mexico.