Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lyla and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lyla and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Lyla has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Lyla are: 1  Persian-Iranian meaning: Dark-haired beauty; night. 2  Sanskrit meaning: Divine play.
The most trendy girl names in this compilation are Delilah (#130) , Lilah (#312) , Lyla (#140) , Leila (#241) and Laila (#149) , and there is a rekindling in baby name popularity for Delilah, Leila, Lilah and Lyla. Shown below is the birth name popularity of Lyla for girls. Lyla entered the list in 1890-1899 and reached its top position of #127 in the U.S. in the year 2011, and is currently at #140. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the girl name Lyla and related names.
Lyla is a fast-rising variation of Lila that is now at Number 140. Although the Lyla spelling helps clarify the name's pronunciation, we prefer the original Lila. Laila, Layla, and Leila are all further variations on the same theme. 
Origin of the name Lila: Derived from the Arabic leila (night, dark beauty) or the Persian leila (dark-haired). Its use in England began with George Byon's poem The Giaour (1813). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Lyla: | Edit. My name is Lyla. Whenever someone asks my name and I tell them, they always say That's a pretty name!. Or that's beautiful. I never found it so special myself, but apparently, everyone likes it. Though, it is a pretty unique name.
Meaning of Lyla. English name. In English, the name Lyla means-feminine of lyle from the island variant of delilah.The name Lyla originated as an English name. The name Lyla is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-feminine of lyle from the island variant of delilah. Origin-England. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
The name Lila is a Polish baby name. In Polish the meaning of the name Lila is: Of the people. American Meaning: The name Lila is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lila is: Of the people. Greek Meaning: The name Lila is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lila is: Lily. Latin Meaning: The name Lila is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lila is: Lily. English Meaning: The name Lila is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lila is: Feminine of Lyle: from the island.
Lyla is a very prominent first name for females (#2009 out of 4276, Top 47%) but an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Lyla for girls. Lyla entered the list in 1890-1899 and reached its top position of #127 in the U.S. in the year 2011, and is currently at #140. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the girl name Lyla and related names. Popular variation forms of Lyla (#140 last year) are Delilah (#130 last year) , Laila (#149) , Lila (#183) , Leila (#241) , Lilah (#312) and Delila
The different meanings of the name Lyla are: The meaning of the name “Lyla” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. The meaning of Lyla has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Lyla are: 1  Persian-Iranian meaning: Dark-haired beauty; night. 2  Sanskrit meaning: Divine play.
English Meaning: The name Lyla is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lyla is: Feminine of Lyle: from the island. American Meaning: The name Lyla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lyla is: Feminine of Lyle: from the island.