How to apply for your *FID Card. In Massachusetts, in order to lawfully purchase or possess a rifle or shotgun which is not large capacity, or ammunition, a person must have a *Firearms Identification Card. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: fid (Noun). A pointed tool without any sharp edges, used in weaving or knotwork to tighten and form up weaves or complex knots; used in sailing ships to open the strands of a rope before splicing. Compare marlinespike. fid (Noun). 
Full Definition of FIDELITY. 1. a: the quality or state of being faithful b: accuracy in details: exactness. 2. : the degree to which an electronic device (as a record player, radio, or television) accurately reproduces its effect (as sound or picture). See fidelity defined for English-language learners. 
Simpactor FID pin mill by Food Manufacturing. Bahrain's prime location and its attractiveness to investors have led to a lot of criminals worldwide laundering their money here, said. director Shaikha Mai bint Mohammed Al Khalifa in a statement. 
If you have an account on NetBenefits, use the same username and password. Username. Username Information. For U.S. employees, your username (up to 15 characters) can be any customer identifier you've chosen or your Social Security number (SSN). If you use your SSN to log in, please create a personalized username for added security. Use the Need Help links to the right to change your login information. For outside the U.S. employees, your Participant Number is your Username and if you created a PIN previously, it is now considered your Password. Remember me. 
fidelity. 1. Faithfulness or devotion to a person, a cause, obligations, or duties: allegiance, constancy, faithfulness, fealty, loyalty, steadfastness. 2. Faithfulness to obligations, duties, or observances. b. The condition or behavior of engaging in sex only with one's spouse or only with one's partner in a sexual relationship. 2. Exact correspondence with fact or with a given quality, condition, or event; accuracy: the fidelity of the movie to the book.
fid. n. Nautical. 1. A square bar used as a support for a topmast. Fid. A wooden pin, usually only a few inches long, tapered to a point and used to separate the strands of small rope. A marlinespike is generally much heavier, often of metal, and used on steel cable and larger rope.
Definition of FID. : a tapered usually wooden pin used in opening the strands of a rope. ADVERTISEMENT. origin unknown. 
FID File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your FID file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your FID file. Answer: FID files are Data Files primarily associated with Bruker Aspect NMR Data File. FID files are also associated with File Investigator (RobWare) and FileViewPro. Additional types of files may also be using the FID file extension.