Once at the gate, any item in excess of the carry-on baggage size or allowance requirements will be checked to your final destination and may be subject to applicable service charges. Carry-on items that are acceptable to transport in the cabin but are fragile or bulky will be considered cabin-seat baggage. As on mainline flights, any item larger than the allowed carry-on size or exceeding the one carry-on and one personal item limit will be white-tagged and checked to your final destination. Baggage service charges may apply if the item is checked and tagged at the ticket check-in counter.
Some of the four-wheeled carry ons that do fit all airlines' limits are the Briggs and Riley U122CX Baseline at 21 by 14 by 7.7 inches and 8.9 pounds (approximately $469) and the Travelpro Platinum Magna at 21 by 14 by 9 inches and 7.6 pounds (approximately $239). Southwest and JetBlue have a more generous 24 by 16 by 10-inch carry-on limit, which makes that FAA claim suspect. If you're looking for the perfect carry-on bag, here's some advice. First, obviously, make sure it's small enough to comply with even these new, more stringent size limits.
Bags that exceed an airline’s size or weight allowance may be subject to a fee at the gate or removed by personnel and stowed with checked luggage. By weighing and measuring your packed carry-on bag before you leave for the airport, you can avoid extra expense and aggravation. Get a Luggage Scale (compare prices). 
Or change airlines. It's interesting that not all airlines have the same size limits. Southwest and JetBlue have a more generous 24 by 16 by 10-inch carry-on limit, which makes that FAA claim suspect. If you're looking for the perfect carry-on bag, here's some advice. First, obviously, make sure it's small enough to comply with even these new, more stringent size limits.
Carry-on bag. The maximum dimensions for a carry-on bag are 9 inches x 14 inches x 22 inches (22 cm x 35 cm x 56 cm), including handles and wheels. The maximum dimensions for your personal item, such as a shoulder bag, backpack, laptop bag or other small item, are 9 inches x 10 inches x 17 inches (22 cm x 25 cm x 43 cm). To determine if a bag will fit onboard, bag sizers will be available in the airport lobby. As on mainline flights, any item larger than the allowed carry-on size or exceeding the one carry-on and one personal item limit will be white-tagged and checked to your final destination. Baggage service charges may apply if the item is checked and tagged at the ticket check-in counter.
Click on the airline name to get a full explanation of carry-on size restrictions for that airline. For example, some airlines allow more for first or business class, and some airlines have different restrictions based on the type of airplane. 
You may also check your bags at the airport kiosk, ticket counter, or curbside. If your bag exceeds weight or size limits, please review the Additional, Overweight, and Oversized Baggage section. You may also carry on one bag and one small personal item at no charge. Visit our Carry-on Baggage section for more information. 
In order to keep the passenger compartment uncluttered and safe, the airlines place rules and size limits on the luggage that each traveler can carry on the plane. The primary rule is the size limit stating that bags carried on board must be small enough to store below your seat or in the overhead compartment. Currently the basic rule is that carry on baggage must be no taller than 22 inches, no wider than 14 inches, and no deeper than 9 inches. In many cases, you'll also have to contend with limits on weight. 
Liquids Rule. You are allowed to bring a quart-sized bag of liquids, aerosols, gels, creams and pastes in your carry-on bag and through the checkpoint. These are limited to 3.4 ounces (100 milliliters) or less per item. Placing these items in the small bag separate from your carry-on baggage facilitates the screening process. 