Plantar warts, medically known as verruca plantaris, are small, non-cancerous growths on the bottom of the foot. They are caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV), which enters through a cut or abrasion on the sole of the foot and infects the surrounding skin. Wrap your foot in duct tape. There are many anecdotal reports, although no quality research, that claim that applying regular duct tape to plantar warts (over the course of a week or so) is an effective treatment, although how it may work is still a mystery.
Verrucas are a common complaint amongst children and adults. A verruca is a small skin lesion which is commonly found on the bottom surface of the foot. Causes of Verruca. 1  All verrucas are caused by the human papilloma virus. 2  This is common in all environments but does not readily attack the skin. 3  If there is a break, scratch or a thorn in the skin, this will give the virus a opportunity to enter the skin.
Foot care health centre. Verrucas, sometimes called plantar warts or spelled verrucae, are warts that develop on plantar surfaces -- that is, the soles (or bottom) of the feet. The pressure from normal standing and walking tends to force the warts into the skin, and this can make the warts painful
Print article. Verrucas, sometimes called plantar warts or spelled verrucae, are warts that develop on plantar surfaces -- that is, the soles (or bottom) of the feet. The pressure from normal standing and walking tends to force the warts into the skin, and this can make the warts painful
Introduction. Warts are small lumps that often develop on the skin of the hands and feet. Warts vary in appearance and may develop singly or in clusters. Some are more likely to affect particular areas of the body. For example, verrucas are warts that usually develop on the soles of the feet
How verrucas spread. Like other warts, verrucas are caused by strains of papillomavirus (usually papillomavirus type 1). There is lots of papillomavirus around, and many people carry it on the surface of their skin. It does not cause any harm unless it penetrates into the skin, where it can take hold and cause a wart. Cover the verruca with a piece of the tape for 6 days. If the tape falls off, put a new piece on. Remove the tape after the 6 days, soak your foot in luke-warm water, and gently scrape off any dead cells with a blunt instrument (not a sharp knife or corn knife).
A. A verruca is a virus, the human papilloma virus, and the same virus that causes warts on the fingers. There are a few strains of the virus that cause different types of verruca. Verrucas are very vascular and they develop a layer of hard skin tissue over their surface. 
Verrucas. Introduction Verruca. Verrucas are a common complaint amongst children and adults. A verruca is a small skin lesion which is commonly found on the bottom surface of the foot. The lesion is usually approximately 1cm in diameter but can be larger. Causes of Verruca. 1  All verrucas are caused by the human papilloma virus. 2  This is common in all environments but does not readily attack the skin. 3  If there is a break, scratch or a thorn in the skin, this will give the virus a opportunity to enter the skin.
A plantar wart also known as veruca, myrmecia and veruca plantaris is a wart caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) occurring on the sole (Latin planta) or toes of the foot. HPV infections in other locations are not plantar; see human papillomavirus. Plantar warts are usually self-limiting, but treatment is generally recommended to lessen symptoms (which may include pain), decrease duration, and reduce transmission. Infection occurs in an estimated 7–10% of the US population, and genetics plays an important role in determining susceptibility.