Best known as: Russell Simmons's ex-wife and director of Baby Phat fashions. The creative director of Baby Phat fashions, Kimora Lee Simmons is a former model and the wife of record and clothing mogul Russell Simmons. She was born and raised in St. Louis, Missouri but spent her teen years as a supermodel for Chanel of Paris and others. In 1998 she married Simmons, the founder of Def Jam Records and creator of the Phat Farm clothing brand. Kimora was put in charge of Baby Phat, a spinoff of Phat Farm, and made her reputation as a savvy businesswoman.
Kimora Lee Simmons (nee Née; perkins Born may, 4) 1975 is An american former fashion model and fashion. Designer she took Over Baby phat After Russell simmons and WAS/Ceo Creative director through. 2010 In March 2007, Simmons was dating actor and model Djimon Hounsou. In the summer of 2008, Simmons and Hounsou participated in a traditional Benin commitment ceremony, and in May 2009, their son Kenzo Lee Hounsou was born.
Early life [edit]. Simmons was born in St. Louis, Missouri. Her Japanese/Korean mother, Joanne Perkins, was adopted by an American serviceman during the Korean War and raised in the USA. She later worked as an administrator for Social Security. In March 2007, Simmons was dating actor and model Djimon Hounsou. In the summer of 2008, Simmons and Hounsou participated in a traditional Benin commitment ceremony, and in May 2009, their son Kenzo Lee Hounsou was born.
Early Career. Model and fashion icon Kimora Lee Perkins was born on May 4, 1975, in St. Louis, Missouri. Simmons was born to an African-American father, Vernon Whitlock, Jr., and Japanese mother, Joanne Perkins. At the age of 11, Kimora Lee's mother enrolled her in a modeling class. Two years later, Kimora was awarded an exclusive modeling contract from Chanel.
The creative director of Baby Phat fashions, Kimora Lee Simmons is a former model and the wife of record and clothing mogul Russell Simmons. She was born and raised in St. Louis, Missouri but spent her teen years as a supermodel for Chanel of Paris and others. 
Kimora Lee Simmons was born May 4, 1975 in St. Louis, Missouri. At age 14, she landed a modeling contract with Chanel and moved to Paris. At 17, she met Russell Simmons. They married in 1998. Simmons was born to an African-American father, Vernon Whitlock, Jr., and Japanese mother, Joanne Perkins. At the age of 11, Kimora Lee's mother enrolled her in a modeling class. Two years later, Kimora was awarded an exclusive modeling contract from Chanel.
Kimora Lee Simmons was born on May 4, 1975 in St. Louis, Missouri, USA as Kimora Lee Perkins. She is a producer and actress, known for Brown Sugar (2002), Def Jam Fight for NY (2004) and Kimora: Life in the Fab Lane (2007). She has been married to Tim Leissner since December 2013. They have one child. 
Kimora Lee Simmons (nee Née; perkins Born may, 4) 1975 is An american former fashion model and fashion. designer In March 2007, Simmons was dating actor and model Djimon Hounsou. In the summer of 2008, Simmons and Hounsou participated in a traditional Benin commitment ceremony, and in May 2009, their son Kenzo Lee Hounsou was born.