Schiltron has performed throughout Scotland at castles, fairs and other locations, indoors and outdoors; including Traquair House, Castle Fraser, Drum Castle, Fyvie Castle, Banff Castle and Aberdeen city; and also at mediaeval events at Dinan in France and Tewkesbury in England. As well as depicting historical events publicly, Schiltron meets privately to focus on the art and culture of the mediaeval era. We stage banquets and engage in activities such as dance, costume-making, war skills practice, and visits to places of period interest.
Click on the image to view a larger version. BBC History-Archaeology-Bannockburn and the schiltron. Learn how the Scots army used the terrain of Bannockburn to their advantage and what the experience of being in a schiltron was like for a Scottish soldier. The Scots army was made up of peasants, burgesses and common folk. Wallace and Moray had trained a rag-tag host of farmers and small landowners into an army that had defeated battle-hardened English knights and men-at-arms. The schiltron lay at the heart of the Scots battle strategy. A schiltron was a ‘great circle’ - a battle formation with as many as 2000 men carrying massive 12-foot-long spears. They formed huge circles or rectangles that bristled with spears like a giant lethal hedgehog
A sheltron (also sceld-trome, schiltrom or shiltron) is a compact body of troops forming a battle array, shield wall or phalanx. There are two recorded Scottish instances of circular schiltrons: William Wallace 's army at Falkirk (1298), and Thomas Randolph 's forces on the first day of Bannockburn (1314).
Schiltron's best use is in multiplayer, when you're facing an opponent with lots of cavalry. Putting the guys on the edge of your infantry line in schiltron makes you much less vunerable to being flacked by cavalry. I've even made made circles of shiltrons on a hill, with arrow troops in the middle. 7,701. Originally Posted by Soryn Arkayn The Schiltron formation would be more useful if it were accurately portrayed in M2:TW. The problem is that it's portrayed as a circle formation with pikes out so that it's protected on all sides, but that's not what it's supposed to be.
While doubtless a Scottish development, the schiltron fits into a Northern European context of infantry combat. Parallels with Scandinavian practice have already been drawn (see Etymology above) and the multiple-ranked tightly-packed infantry formations were standard across Europe during the Middle Ages. There are two recorded Scottish instances of circular schiltrons: William Wallace 's army at Falkirk (1298), and Thomas Randolph 's forces on the first day of Bannockburn (1314).
Schiltron, originally founded in Aberdeen in 2004, is now based near Edinburgh, although the group retains connections with the North-east and other parts of Scotland. As well as depicting historical events publicly, Schiltron meets privately to focus on the art and culture of the mediaeval era. We stage banquets and engage in activities such as dance, costume-making, war skills practice, and visits to places of period interest.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A schiltron or schiltrom or shiltron is a group of soldiers wielding outward-pointing pikes and/or other polearms to ward off cavalry attacks. The term does not denote any particular shape or alignment of the formation. 
The purpose of the schiltron is to stand in the schiltron formation. ... That said, it's just standing close in a circle with spears pointed out. It's no RTW phalanx spear wall of doom, but it does do some of the work, especially if you use it right at the city gates. 7,701. Originally Posted by Soryn Arkayn The Schiltron formation would be more useful if it were accurately portrayed in M2:TW. The problem is that it's portrayed as a circle formation with pikes out so that it's protected on all sides, but that's not what it's supposed to be.