A group is especially vulnerable to groupthink when its members are similar in background, when the group is insulated from outside opinions, and when there are no clear rules for decision making. References (also see annotated bibliography of books, articles and websites below). Janis, Irving L. (1972).
The term (sociologie) was first coined by the French essayist Emmanuel Joseph Sieyes (sieyès-1748). (1836 from The: latin, socius; companion and the-suffix, ology the study … , of From greek, λόγος, logos. lógos knowledge
What is the term for group leadership that emphasizes the completion of tasks? 16. Which concept refers to group leadership that emphasizes collective well-being? 17. You are part of a task force with a group leader who has a distant relationship with group members and who is concerned with getting the job done.
1 In that context, groupthink takes on an invidious connotation. 2  Exactly such a connotation is intended, since the term refers to a deterioration in mental efficiency, reality testing and moral judgments as a result of group pressures. 3  Irving Janis, in Groupthink, in Psychology Today (November 1971), p. 43.
-Groupthink, a term coined by social psychologist Irving Janis (1972), occurs when a group makes faulty decisions because group pressures lead to a deterioration of mental efficiency, reality testing, and moral judgment.
Groupthink, a term coined by social psychologist Irving Janis (1972), occurs when a group makes faulty decisions because group pressures lead to a deterioration of mental efficiency, reality testing, and moral judgment (p. 9).
Groups affected by groupthink ignore alternatives and tend to take irrational actions that dehumanize other groups. A group is especially vulnerable to groupthink when its members are similar in background, when the group is insulated from outside opinions, and when there are no clear rules for decision making.
Goals and means-Robert Merton’s theory that examines how members of a society adapt their goals to the means that society provides of achieving them. Government-The institution responsible for making and enforcing the rules of society and for regulating relations with other societies.
Quotes [edit]. I use the term groupthink as a quick and easy way to refer to the mode of thinking that persons engage in when concurrence-seeking becomes so dominant in a cohesive ingroup that it tends to override realistic appraisal of alternative courses of action.
Groupthink is a psychological phenomenon that occurs within a group of people, in which the desire for harmony or conformity in the group results in an incorrect or deviant decision-making outcome.