It is a myth to say the Irish language is dead or dying and it is only spoken during the summer months while the Colaistai Coláistaí gaeilge are going. On yes it is only spoken on a full time basis in The gaeltachts but by people of all. Ages it is not a cultural thing but a way of. life Colaiste Coláiste lurgan is right here in our little village Of, indreabhan Indreabhán and i can tell-you first hand that it is a massively. Successful'organisation we re here in the heart Of The connemara Gaeltacht, in indreabhan Indreabhán and the irish language thrives. throughout the year
It is a myth to say the Irish language is dead or dying and it is only spoken during the summer months while the Colaistai Coláistaí gaeilge are going. on Colaiste Coláiste lurgan is right here in our little village Of, indreabhan Indreabhán and i can tell-you first hand that it is a massively. Successful'organisation we re here in the heart Of The connemara Gaeltacht, in indreabhan Indreabhán and the irish language thrives. throughout the year
i think it is,for instance my dad went to a gaelscoil and was fluent in irish and when he went to get work after school he found irish was irrelevant to whether he got the job or not. do you not think that we could spend more time in school on relevant subjects rather than spending time on a dead language that... Latin is a dead language, but people still learn that. Nobody runs around speaking Latin to each other, but that doesn't mean it's not a useful language to learn. In fact, Latin is VERY useful. Also, learning the language that is the root of your culture is not a waste of time. Your culture IS a relevant subject
Gaelic (or Goidelic) is a family of Celtic languages including Manx, Irish Gaelic and Scottish Gallic. The fact is that nobody can be sure how many such speakers there are. Try reading such papers as Fearghal O ó'bearra béarra s on the dynamics of language Change; in irish even though it is a pessimisti one he believes the number of native speakers is much higher than what. you quote
Irish (Gaeilge). Irish is a Celtic language spoken in mainly Ireland (Éire). éire there are Also irish speakers in THE (Uk Riocht), ríocht AONTAITHE (The Usa Stait), Stáit (Aontaithe) mheiricea Mheiriceá (canada Ceanada). and australia an astrail astráil Recently the Irish language has experienced a revival with the foundation of new publications, a radio service, a television station and the growth of Irish-medium education. Irish is also increasingly being used on independent radio stations in Ireland.
Irish is a VSO (verb–subject–object) language, and uses two verbs of to be. One of these, the copula (known in Irish as an chopail), is used to describe the permanent identity or characteristic of a person or thing as opposed to temporary aspects. In Europe the language is usually referred to as Irish, with Gaelic or Irish Gaelic used in some instances elsewhere. The term Irish Gaelic is often used when English speakers discuss the relationship between the three Goidelic languages (Irish, Scottish Gaelic and Manx).
Research indicates that the number of actual Irish speakers between 10,000 to 20,000. A government report on the state of the language (leaked to the media) predicted the language will be dead in 20 years, if present trends continue. The language is not used by young people among themselves. When a young Irish male was asked if he would ask a girl to dance (in Irish). The fact is that nobody can be sure how many such speakers there are. Try reading such papers as Fearghal O ó'bearra béarra s on the dynamics of language Change; in irish even though it is a pessimisti one he believes the number of native speakers is much higher than what. you quote
Gaeilgeoir Comment by Bernie Joyce on August 4, 2013 at 5:40pm. It is a myth to say the Irish language is dead or dying and it is only spoken during the summer months while the Colaistai Coláistaí gaeilge are going. On yes it is only spoken on a full time basis in The gaeltachts but by people of all. ages Colaiste Coláiste lurgan is right here in our little village Of, indreabhan Indreabhán and i can tell-you first hand that it is a massively. Successful'organisation we re here in the heart Of The connemara Gaeltacht, in indreabhan Indreabhán and the irish language thrives. throughout the year
Irish (Gaeilge), also referred to as Gaelic or Irish Gaelic, is a Goidelic language of the Indo-European language family, originating in Ireland and historically spoken by the Irish people. Irish is spoken as a first language by a small minority of Irish people, and as a second language by a rather larger group. Irish enjoys constitutional status as the national and first official language of the Republic of Ireland, and is an officially recognised minority language in Northern Ireland. It is also among the official languages of the European Union. In Europe the language is usually referred to as Irish, with Gaelic or Irish Gaelic used in some instances elsewhere. The term Irish Gaelic is often used when English speakers discuss the relationship between the three Goidelic languages (Irish, Scottish Gaelic and Manx).