UK debit card overseas charges. If you use your debit card overseas, there's usually a non-sterling transaction fee, which will apply to both purchases and ATM withdrawals. You'll also usually be charged a cash machine fee, but there'll be no interest charged as it's taking cash from your current account.
Paying for goods in the UK use a Natwest debit card. Use your Natwest Visa Debit card to pay for goods where ever you see the Visa symbol. Remember to check the amount before you enter your PIN or sign a sales voucher. You can spend up to the balance on your account, or the amount of any agreed overdraft.
We show how much your bank charges you each time you make a purchase or withdraw abroad. The 'Total charge' is based on debit card transactions of 2 x £50 purchases and 3 x £50 cash withdrawals. If your bank is one of the more expensive on the market, then a Best Rate credit card for overseas spending is worth considering and can save you money on your next holiday.
Natwest debit card. Natwest Visa Debit Card Review. The Natwest debit card is Visa branded, Your Visa Debit Cards can be used to. 1  Pay for goods or services in shops, restaurants, wherever you see the Visa logo shown on your debit card. Use your Natwest Visa Debit card to pay for goods where ever you see the Visa symbol. Remember to check the amount before you enter your PIN or sign a sales voucher. You can spend up to the balance on your account, or the amount of any agreed overdraft.
When you use your card abroad, you can sometimes pay in sterling rather than local currency. Paying this way is often more expensive than paying in the local currency as there could be a local charge. If you do pay in sterling, then the Non Sterling Transaction Fee on both RBS debit and credit cards will not apply. Please note that if you withdraw cash abroad or in the UK using your credit card, regardless of currency, then a 3% (min £3) cash fee will always apply.
Paying in Sterling abroad. When you use your card abroad, you can sometimes pay in sterling rather than local currency. Paying this way is often more expensive than paying in the local currency as there could be a local charge. Let us know that you'll be using your card abroad. Holidays are about being free to do what you want. Let us know at least 24 hours in advance so that we can reduce the likelihood of your debit or credit card being blocked and you should be able to spend freely without worrying.
A NatWest or RBS customer spending 1 with a debit card will still be charged a 1 fee for using it outside the UK, despite the switch to lower charges so holidaymakers should avoid using these cards like the plague when abroad. Related MSE Guides. 1  Overseas Spending Charges Full debit & credit card breakdown. See our Overseas Spending guide for the top picks. From 1 June, travellers who spend on NatWest or RBS debit cards abroad will pay 2.75% of the transaction value, or 1 whichever is greater. Currently, customers are charged a 1.25 fee, plus 2.75% of the transaction, each time they spend abroad.
Please note that if you withdraw cash abroad or in the UK using your credit card, regardless of currency, then a 3% (min £3) cash fee will always apply. If you're withdrawing money from cash machines using your NatWest debit or credit card, make sure you know your daily withdrawal limit. But remember, you'll need to know what your limit is when converted to the country's currency. Let us know that you'll be using your card abroad. Holidays are about being free to do what you want. Let us know at least 24 hours in advance so that we can reduce the likelihood of your debit or credit card being blocked and you should be able to spend freely without worrying.
Using your Debit Card abroad. To use your Visa Debit card, just look for the Visa logo in retailers or on cash machines next time you are abroad, then use your card as normal. Remember to let us know your travel plans when you’re travelling