Page 1 of 5 All employees can report incidents through Datix (as long as the computer is linked to the Trust Network)  What should you report? Any adverse incident which has the potential to produce unexpected or unwanted effects, or any incident which has a consequence or a learning point. ie.
Datix is highly configurable, which means you can tailor it to your structure and unique requirements. Datix delivers a complete patient safety risk workflow, where all improvement actions can be managed together, regardless of whether they are initiated by an investigation, a complaint or an informal comment.
It's free! Datix is a leading enterprise software consulting firm based in St. Louis, MO, USA. For the last 17 years, Datix has helped mid-market innovators best select, implement, integrate, and optimize their ERP, CRM, and other mission critical software.
The solution delivers the following safety, risk and governance elements through a variety of integrated software modules, enabling you to provide a comprehensive oversight of your risk management activities: 1  Incident, adverse event and near miss reporting. 2  Patient relations. 3  Malpractice claims management.
The Datix Difference: Process, People and Transparency. Datix delivers custom implementations of mission critical software, services and processes to manufacturing companies ready to extract more value out of their operations and sales. But as soon as everything is in place, the world changes.
Datix has been designing enterprise software solutions for the last 17 years. In our infancy, Datix was a provider of custom enterprise software to one of the largest real estate firms in the United States. As we evolved, Datix began consulting with manufacturing and distribution businesses in the mid market to assist in building out their enterprise software systems.
Datix Inc. is a rapidly growing software consulting services company based in St. Louis, MO with clients throughout North America. Since 1997, we have applied our unique approach to optimizing business processes to clients in a wide range of industries.
Datix’s Risk Register tools help healthcare providers to understand patterns of risk, anticipate future adverse events and take effective and sustainable corrective action. Combined with our comprehensive risk management database, the Datix Risk Register is a powerful ally in your quest for patient safety.