Flooding affects people in a multitude of ways. People suffer stress on multiple fronts, not just as flooding occurs, but also in the anticipatory period preceding a flood and during the cleanup and recovery phase. Flooding can damage properties, destroy homes, create financial burden and cause emotional hardship.
Floods can have momentarily have an affect on peoples lives. They can all have a knock on affect to a change in quality of life. They can also have an affect on peoples life's environmentally, health and economically. Floods have wiped out cities in the past and left the people that survived the flood homeless and where the city was is usually left barren forever.
They can all have a knock on affect to a change in quality of life. They can also have an affect on peoples life's … environmentally, health and economically. Floods have wiped out cities in the past and left the people that survived the flood homeless and where the city was is usually left barren forever.
Enter Title. When we have a drought, it can affect our communities and our environment in many different ways. Everything in the environment is connected, just like everything in our communities is connected. Each different way that drought affects us is what we call an impact of drought.
Confidence votes 71. Floods can have momentarily have an affect on peoples lives. They can all have a knock on affect to a change in quality of life. They can also have an affect on peoples life's environmentally, health and economically. Floods have wiped out cities in the past and left the people that survived the flood homeless and where the city was is usually left barren forever.
Drought affects our lives in many different ways because water is such an important part of so many of our activities. We need water to live, and animals and plants do too. We need water to grow the food we eat.
Floods can affect every area of life and property: Floods can damage homes and kill people and animals. Floods destroy growing crops and wash away the rich topsoil that is so … necessary for growing crops.