Kapha Vata Body Type. Kapha with Vata …..water supported by the Air is the condition of your Kapha Vata Body type. These are opposite to each other so when these two Kapha and Vata meet these bring up downs in health. At one time you might have dryness in body while at other moment smoothness might be there. Body Systems controlled by the Kapha Vata Dosha. Digestive System: Both the Kapha and Vata Doshas are cold in nature which is opposite to the digestive fire; this disturbs the digestive system with gaseous belching and indigestion.
Vata is a force conceptually made up of elements ether and air. The proportions of ether and air determine how active Vata is. The amount of ether (space) affects the ability of the air to gain momentum. If unrestricted, as in ocean, air can gain momentum and become forceful such as a hurricane. A Food Plan to Balance Pitta Dosha. Kapha is the conceptual equilibrium of water and earth. Kapha is structure and lubrication. One can visualize the Kapha force as the stirring force to keep the water and earth from separating.
Just like we contain all of the elements, we all contain Vata, Pitta and Kapha as well, but in varying degrees. Our dosha is determined at the time of conception. This is our constitution or our Prakriti which we are born with and it never varies. It is like our thumbprint. When Vata people are out of balance, this leads to fear and anxiety. Pitta, heat, is made up of the elements fire and water. Pitta governs digestion, nutrition, metabolism and body temperature. The qualities of Pitta are hot, sour, pungent, sharp and acidic.
Home Ayurveda and you. Ayurveda, is the art of living in harmony with nature. The term Ayurveda is taken from the Sanskrit word ‘Ayur’ , meaning life or lifespan. The word ‘Ayur’ literally means ‘life’ and ‘veda’, the ‘science’ or ‘knowledge’ . There are four Vedas or treatises that form the basis of the Indian medical philosophy
Vata is composed of Space and Air, Pitta of Fire and Water, and Kapha of Earth and Water. The doshas are dynamic energies that constantly change in response to our actions, thoughts, emotions, the foods we eat, the seasons, and any other sensory inputs that feed our mind and body. A Vata individual will display physical and mental characteristics that reflect these qualities in both a balanced and an imbalanced state. The main locations of Vata in the body are the colon, thighs, bones, joints, ears, skin, brain, and nerve tissues.
Kapha which is the flesh body or the mucus body and is made up of the elements earth and water. Kapha is our bones, muscles, teeth and everything dense in our bodies. The qualities of Kapha are slow, steady, heavy, oily, and cold. When Kapha people are in balance, kapha people are loving, nurturing and grounded. When Vata people are out of balance, this leads to fear and anxiety. Pitta, heat, is made up of the elements fire and water. Pitta governs digestion, nutrition, metabolism and body temperature. The qualities of Pitta are hot, sour, pungent, sharp and acidic.
Ayurveda emerged as a branch of Atharva Veda (one of the four most ancient books of Indian knowledge, wisdom and culture). It dates back to over five thousand years and is one of the world’s oldest and most complete systems of natural healing. There are three doshas in Ayurveda: Vata, Pitta, and Kapha. Ayurveda, is the art of living in harmony with nature. The term Ayurveda is taken from the Sanskrit word ‘Ayur’ , meaning life or lifespan. The word ‘Ayur’ literally means ‘life’ and ‘veda’, the ‘science’ or ‘knowledge’ . There are four Vedas or treatises that form the basis of the Indian medical philosophy
Only a qualified Ayurvedic practitioner can accurately assess the exact balance of Vata, Pitta, and Kapha energies in your physical constitution; however, it is possible to get some idea from a simple self-test. We've included the test here to permit you to take the first step toward a more healthy, balanced future. 