Two Methods: Preparing for the Talk Breaking the News. Telling your parents that you're pregnant can be almost as scary as being pregnant. Once you've learned that you are pregnant, you may be feeling too overwhelmed to figure out a way to tell your parents.
Got a bun in the oven? Congratulations! Here are some funny, cute, and totally creative ways to break the news to your family and friends when you're ready to announce your pregnancy, from our Facebook fans! Tags: Sharing the News, Most Popular.
4. Get to the point quickly when you approach your parents or when you write them a letter. Let them know that you love them, need them, and are sorry to have to bring them bad news. Then, just spill it. Tell them you’re pregnant, apologize, and inform them of your plan. 5. Wait for a reaction from your parents. They may have questions, they may give orders, they may demand that you get out of their face.
For a member of the royal family, the announcement that you're pregnant can be a very formal affair in which a simple statement is issued to the media. But if they, or any other new parents, want to mark the news of their new arrival in a more creative way there are lots of fun options to explore. Take a look at this round up of the best pregnancy announcements from social media and tell us how you told-or plan to tell-your friends and family about your own new arrival, via the form below. Getty. 9 fun ways to announce that you're pregnant.
Say it on a shirt. One creative way to tell your family members you are pregnant is with the gift of t-shirts. We told my parents by getting them t-shirts that read, 'I'm going to be a grandma' and 'I'm going to be a grandpa,' says mommy-to-be Lindsay Carmichael. How To Announce Your Pregnancy. Telling your family you are pregnant is a big moment. Instead of doing it with a simple phone call, think out of the box and come up with a creative way to announce your pregnancy. We talked to real moms about the fun ways they revealed their pregnancies to family and friends
When I was pregnant, I surprised my family by telling them they would each have the same gift. They thought it was tickets to a broadway show. Instead when they opened the envelope it read: Congratulations you have just become a Grandmom, Aunt, Great Aunt etc. They were all ecstatic of course. We had them made with a fortune that read Megan and Tim are having a baby! and then made the lucky numbers the baby's due date. We brought Chinese food to my parents for dinner and slipped our cookies into the order.
If you're looking for a funny photo to post on your Facebook page to tell people about your pregnancy, we think this one's a winner. Not only does it ensure that both parents are involved in the announcement, you also get to eat loads of food-or, in Dad's case, it's a free pass to have two pints. Take a look at this round up of the best pregnancy announcements from social media and tell us how you told-or plan to tell-your friends and family about your own new arrival, via the form below. Getty. 9 fun ways to announce that you're pregnant.
Pregnancy Announcements. Time to share the news that you're pregnant ! We've got tips on how to tell your partner and talk with your boss. Plus, check out our creative ways to share your baby news with friends and family. 1  Facebook. 2  Pinterest. 3  Google Plus. 4  Email. 
Classic way to tell your parents your pregnant. We just went on a trip and told them we wanted them to see some of the pictures. We arranged the pictures in order so that the last one shows a picture of us holding a sign saying we are pregnant. 