Bruising is a very general term for a condition in which blood leaks out of the blood vessels into the tissues of the skin, mucus membranes or other organs, including muscles and bones. Contusions. Contusions are common types of bruises that are caused by trauma, often blunt-force injury, that damages and breaks open the tiny blood vessels in the tissues of the skin, mucus membranes or other organs. Contusions are often accompanied by pain and swelling due to the body’s inflammatory response to injury.
Black and blue marks are often associated with bruises. A bruise, or “contusion,” appears on the skin due to trauma. Examples of trauma are a cut or a blow to the area. The injury causes tiny blood vessels called capillaries to burst. The blood gets trapped below the skin’s surface, which causes a bruise. Bruises can occur at any age. Some bruises appear with very little pain, and you might not notice them. While bruises are common, it’s important to know your treatment options and whether your condition warrants emergency medical attention.
Bruises are usually caused by skin injury that damages the blood vessels or causes your blood vessels to break. Clinically called contusion, bruising is the body’s way to respond to any injury and the reasons may range from age to nutrition to diseases. Deficiency of Vitamin K affects normal clotting of the blood and bruising, while lack of Vitamin C in the body may interfere with proper synthesis of collagen (skin and blood vessels component that helps in withstanding the impact physical factors and thus causes bruising).
Easy bruising can occur when the blood vessels are weakened by diseases (such as scurvy), medications (such as aspirin, prednisone, and prednisolone), and aging. Easy bruising can also occur because of absent or deficient blood-clotting elements. 
Most bruises form when small blood vessels (capillaries) near the skin's surface are broken by the impact of a blow or injury — often on the arms or legs. When this happens, blood leaks out of the vessels and initially appears as a black-and-blue mark. Eventually your body reabsorbs the blood, and the mark disappears. 
Blood leaks into tissues under the skin and causes the black-and-blue color. As bruises (contusions) heal, usually within 2 to 4 weeks, they often turn colors, including purplish black, reddish blue, or yellowish green. Sometimes the area of the bruise spreads down the body in the direction of gravity. 
Purpura. Purpura is caused by spontaneous leaking of blood from tiny blood vessels (capillaries). It is a type of bruising that causes purple or red flat spots or patches on the skin and mucus membranes. Purpura that results in tiny spots on the skin is called petechiae. Contusions. Contusions are common types of bruises that are caused by trauma, often blunt-force injury, that damages and breaks open the tiny blood vessels in the tissues of the skin, mucus membranes or other organs. Contusions are often accompanied by pain and swelling due to the body’s inflammatory response to injury.
Bruises are caused when blood vessels are damaged or broken as a result of skin injury. Blood leaks from these injured blood vessels into surrounding tissues resulting in a bruise. It is the body’s response to the injury. #2 Nutritional deficiencies: Deficiency of certain vitamins and minerals can cause bruises due to their role in blood clotting and wound healing. 1  Vitamin K: It helps blood to clot and is an essential component of bone structure. 2  Deficiency of this vitamin affects normal blood clotting, thus causing bruising.
Bleeding into the skin from damaged blood vessels causes bruising. This is also called a bruise. Bruises cause a black and blue mark when they first occur. After a few days to weeks, depending on how severe the bruising is, the damaged area will turn more yellowish in color. This is as the body reabsorbs the blood under the skin.