List of Big Cats. “Big cats” is a term commonly used in reference to large wild cats. The list of big cats below includes the different types of big cats worldwide, from tigers (the largest big cats) to clouded leopards (the smallest big cats). You will also find species info, common and scientific names and links to more big cat information, articles, news, pictures and research. Big cat populations are declining all over the planet due to illegal wildlife trade, hunting, poaching, habitat loss and the loss of prey. Many big cats are listed as CRITICALLY ENDANGERED or ENDANGERED on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
Populations of the latter survived in the mountains of North Carolina and West Virginia until perhaps the 1970s, but existing wild populations are thought to occur no closer to Georgia than western Oklahoma and Texas. An occasional individual, like the Troup County panther, occurring in Georgia is one thing, but a population of them is another. I contend there cannot be a population of big cats in Georgia or else we would have more proof.
Choose another Topic. Georgia is home to a diverse collection of wildlife-some of it in federally protected wildlife refuges-but much still in the wild as well. This section of GeorgiaInfo is divided into six areas of Georgia wildlife-mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, and invertebrates. Where possible, photographs of animals have been included along with information and links.
The bobcat (Lynx rufus) is a native mammal in Georgia and a member of the Felidae family. It may be classified as Felis rufus in some texts. Bobcats are about twice the size of the common house cat. Bobcats are generally yellowish brown with various streaks or spots of dark brown or black. The under parts are usually white with black spots and black bars on the insides of the legs. Bobcats in Georgia are classified both as a game animal and a furbearer. This allows hunters and trappers to pursue the bobcat within regulated seasons. Hunting techniques for bobcat include the use of dogs and the use of manual predator calls.
The bay cat is the size of a large domestic cat and only found on the island of Borneo. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species: Endangered. Black-footed Cat. One of the smallest wild cats, the black-footed cat Inhabits the African countries of South Africa, Botswana and Nambia. Jungle Cat A small wild cat that lives in various Middle Eastern and Asian countries areas near water, including Egypt, Sir Lanka, Thailand, Indochina and Vietnam. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species: Least Concern.
It seems that one of the oldest animal discussions in Georgia is the one centered on big black cats-Black Panthers. While there are panthers and other cats on the terrain of Georgia, it is debatable as to whether there are large black panthers in the state. One of the oldest sightings of a black panther was in 1958 near Rome, Georgia. Make no mistake that there are Big cats in Georgia. A road kill of a mnt. lion on hwy 106 a few years back in Madison county was all the proof I needed. My mother in law called 911 to get one out of her backyard about the same time. Too many people see them.
The Small Wild Cats. Of the world’s total species of wild cats, over 80% are small wild cats. They can be found in Africa, Asia, North America, South America, Central America and Europe. Many of these small cats are listed as THREATENED, ENDANGERED or CRITICALLY ENDANGERED on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Jungle Cat A small wild cat that lives in various Middle Eastern and Asian countries areas near water, including Egypt, Sir Lanka, Thailand, Indochina and Vietnam. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species: Least Concern.
But, sightings of tan panthers probably deserve a little more attention now that we know one animal has been confirmed from the state. Even so, most biologists in Georgia agree that if there is any validity to sightings of tan-colored big cats, they are more likely to be released or escaped pets than from a wild source. Believe it or not, some folks keep mountain lions and cougars as pets, and in adjacent Alabama it is perfectly legal to do so. An occasional individual, like the Troup County panther, occurring in Georgia is one thing, but a population of them is another. I contend there cannot be a population of big cats in Georgia or else we would have more proof.
Wildlife Introduction. Georgia is home to a diverse collection of wildlife-some of it in federally protected wildlife refuges-but much still in the wild as well. This section of GeorgiaInfo is divided into six areas of Georgia wildlife-mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, and invertebrates. Where possible, photographs of animals have been included along with information and links.
The black panther is actually a rare color morph of the jaguar, a species that naturally occurs only in Central and South America. Black panther sightings in Georgia and elsewhere in the United States are most likely attributable to otters, black bears, black housecats, black labs, or way too many Budweisers. An occasional individual, like the Troup County panther, occurring in Georgia is one thing, but a population of them is another. I contend there cannot be a population of big cats in Georgia or else we would have more proof.