Sodexo, Inc. was formerly known as Sodexho, Inc. and changed its name to Sodexo, Inc. in April 2008. The company was founded in 1966 and is based in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Sodexo, Inc. designs, manages, and delivers on-site, benefits and rewards, and personal and home services in the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
It has operations in the United States and Canada. Sodexo Group is publicly traded in France (EN Paris:SW), but not in the United States, and so is not required to submit filings to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). As of 2012, Sodexo Group is still heavily invested in the private prison industry, managing 115 prisons across Europe and five in Chile. Justice Services accounted for two percent of the company's total revenue in 2012.
Sodexo (formerly Sodexho Alliance) is a French food services and facilities management multinational corporation headquartered in the Paris suburb of Issy-les-Moulineaux, France. Today Sodexo is on the Fortune Global 500 list and the second largest employer among all French multi-national corporations. Throughout the 1970s, the company expanded in France and internationally; first in Belgium, then Africa, and finally the Middle East.
Company Overview. Sodexo, Inc. designs, manages, and delivers on-site, benefits and rewards, and personal and home services in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. It provides quality of life services in corporate, education, government, health care, senior living, sports and leisure, and remote site segments
In 1998, Sodexho merged with Marriott Management Services, at the time one of the largest food services companies in North America. Included in the merger was a name change to Sodexho Marriott Services. The merger helped the company become one of the largest food services providers in America. Today Sodexo is on the Fortune Global 500 list and the second largest employer among all French multi-national corporations. Throughout the 1970s, the company expanded in France and internationally; first in Belgium, then Africa, and finally the Middle East.
Sodexo Inc. is the fully-owned North American subsidiary of the French multi-national corporation Sodexo Group (formerly Sodexho Alliance). As of 2012, Sodexo Group is still heavily invested in the private prison industry, managing 115 prisons across Europe and five in Chile. Justice Services accounted for two percent of the company's total revenue in 2012.
In 2000, Sodexo came under fire from university campuses in the U.S. for its investments in private prison company Corrections Corporation of America (from 1994-2001). It subsequently withdrew from the private prison industry in the United States. As of 2012, Sodexo Group is still heavily invested in the private prison industry, managing 115 prisons across Europe and five in Chile. Justice Services accounted for two percent of the company's total revenue in 2012.
With about $8.8 billion in annual revenues from operations in North America, Sodexo is a primary driver of the privatization and outsourcing of food services in America. Most famously, Sodexo was implicated in the British horsemeat scandal earlier this year, when the company found horse DNA in some of its products and withdrew all frozen beef products from its catering operations at 2,300 British schools, care facilities, military bases, prisons, office canteens, and sporting venues.
Sodexo is one of the largest companies in the world in its business, with 380,000 employees, representing 130 nationalities, present on 34,000 sites in 80 countries. For fiscal year 2010 (ending August 2009) revenues reached 15.3 billion euros, with a market capitalization of 6.5 billion euros. Today Sodexo is on the Fortune Global 500 list and the second largest employer among all French multi-national corporations. Throughout the 1970s, the company expanded in France and internationally; first in Belgium, then Africa, and finally the Middle East.