Disuse of the muscles, such as when muscle tissue is immobilized for even a few days of unuse – when the patient has a primary injury such as an immobilized broken bone (set in a cast or immobilized in traction), for example – will also lead rapidly to disuse atrophy. Muscle atrophy results from a co-morbidity of several common diseases, including cancer, AIDS, congestive heart failure, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), renal failure, and severe burns; patients who have  cachexia  in these disease settings have a poor prognosis.
Atrophy is the general physiological process of reabsorption and breakdown of tissues, involving apoptosis. When it occurs as a result of disease or loss of trophic support due to other disease, it is termed pathological atrophy, although it can be a part of normal body development and homeostasis as well. Astronauts in microgravity must exercise regularly to minimize atrophy of their limb muscles. There are many diseases and conditions which cause atrophy of muscle mass. For example diseases such as cancer and AIDS induce a body wasting syndrome called  cachexia , which is notable for the severe muscle atrophy seen.
Muscle atrophy is defined as a decrease in the mass of the muscle; it can be a partial or complete wasting away of muscle, and is most commonly experienced when persons suffer temporary disabling circumstances such as being restricted in movement and/or confined to bed as when hospitalized. Muscle atrophy results from a co-morbidity of several common diseases, including cancer, AIDS, congestive heart failure, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), renal failure, and severe burns; patients who have  cachexia  in these disease settings have a poor prognosis.
Muscle mass is reduced as muscles atrophy with disuse. Muscle atrophy occurs by a change in the normal balance between protein synthesis and protein degradation. During atrophy, there is a down-regulation of protein synthesis pathways, and an activation protein degradation. Muscle atrophy results from a co-morbidity of several common diseases, including cancer, AIDS, congestive heart failure, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), renal failure, and severe burns; patients who have  cachexia  in these disease settings have a poor prognosis.
Atrophy. Definition: Decrease in the size of cells, tissues, or organs. Causes of atrophy include poor nourishment, poor circulation, loss of hormonal support, loss of nerve supply to the target organ, disuse or lack of exercise, or disease intrinsic to the tissue itself. Hormonal and nerve inputs that maintain an organ or body part are referred to as trophic. Atrophy is a general physiological process of reabsorption and breakdown of tissues, involving apoptosis on a cellular level. It can be part of normal body development and homeostatic processes, or as a result of disease.
Background. Optic atrophy is the final common morphologic endpoint of any disease process that causes axon degeneration in the retinogeniculate pathway. Clinically, optic atrophy manifests as changes in the color and the structure of the optic disc associated with variable degrees of visual dysfunction. Pressure or traction atrophy is observed in diseases such as glaucoma and papilledema. Postinflammatory atrophy. Postinflammatory atrophy is observed in diseases such as optic neuritis, perineuritis secondary to inflammation of the meninges, and sinus and orbital cellulites.
There are two types of muscle atrophy. 1  Disuse atrophy occurs from a lack of physical activity. 2  In most people, muscle atrophy is caused by not using the muscles enough. 3  People with seated jobs, medical conditions that limit their movement, or decreased activity levels can lose muscle tone and develop atrophy. 1
Cellular Adaptation — Atrophy. Atrophy is a form of cell adaptation in response to decreased trophic influences, decreased functional demands or decreased nutrition. Cellular Atrophy is a decrease in cell size caused by loss of subcellular organelles and substances. Atrophied cells have fewer and smaller organelles. Organ Atrophy is a decrease in the tissue mass of an organ due to either a decrease in size of individual cells (cellular atrophy), a decrease in number of cells, or both.
Atrophy resulting from disease of the tissue itself, or loss of trophic support due to other disease is termed pathological atrophy. Shrinkage in the size of the cell by loss of cell substance is known as atrophy. It represents a form of adaptive response and may culminate in cell death. Hormonal and nerve inputs that maintain an organ or body part are referred to as trophic. Atrophy is a general physiological process of reabsorption and breakdown of tissues, involving apoptosis on a cellular level. It can be part of normal body development and homeostatic processes, or as a result of disease.