Causes and Risk Factors. The light/white blotches of skin associated with vitiligo form when melanocytes fail to produce melanin. It is not known what causes melanocytes to die or stop producing melanin, but the following may play a role: 1  Autoimmune disease. 2  Autoimmune diseases occur when the body mistakenly attacks and destroys its own cells. 
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and fibromyalgia (feye-broh-meye-AL-juh) (FM) are not autoimmune diseases. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  FM is a disorder in which pain or tenderness is felt in multiple places all over the body. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  Symptoms of CFS come and go. 3  The cause of CFS is not known.
This autoimmune disorder is primarily muscular in nature, but because dermatomyositis also affects the skin, it is sometimes categorized with skin-related autoimmune conditions. Dermatomyositis goes hand-in-hand with polymyositis, an autoimmune disease that causes muscle weakness, soreness, and stiffness. Since this autoimmune disorder extends throughout the body, patients can experience not only skin changes, but also symptoms in blood vessels, muscles, and organs. A localized form of scleroderma results in patches of thickened skin, while systemic scleroderma is the form that has the greatest impact on people’s lives.
Autoimmune disorders are conditions in which a person's immune system attacks the body's own cells, causing tissue destruction. Autoimmunity is accepted as the cause of a wide range of disorders, and it is suspected to be responsible for many more. 
Graves’ disease. An autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland that results in the overproduction of thyroid hormone. This causes such symptoms as nervousness, heat intolerance, heart palpitations, and unexplained weight loss. Immune system. Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling
An autoimmune disorder is a malfunction of the body's immune system that causes the body to attack its own tissues. What triggers autoimmune disorders is not known. Symptoms vary depending on which disorder develops and which part of the body is affected. 
Burning Skin Autoimmune Disease. Though hypothyroidism infections. In such cases besides burning skin autoimmune disease rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms show up in so many side-effects and nerves and wrists. A common blood joints and land elsewhere. Your new skin undergoes some degree of the problem of pain in their property. 
The body reacts in a variety of ways to autoimmune disorders, which cause a person’s immune system to attack its own tissues. Depending on the condition, an autoimmune disorder can affect a variety of organs, joints and muscles, or other bodily tissues. One tissue that’s commonly affected by autoimmune disorders is the skin. There are many different types of skin-related autoimmune disorders, including scleroderma, psoriasis, dermatomyositis, epidermolysis bullosa, and bullous pemphigoid. Scleroderma. Since this autoimmune disorder extends throughout the body, patients can experience not only skin changes, but also symptoms in blood vessels, muscles, and organs. A localized form of scleroderma results in patches of thickened skin, while systemic scleroderma is the form that has the greatest impact on people’s lives.