Other parties. In the Republic of India, a chief minister is the head of government of each of twenty-nine states and two union territories (Delhi and Puducherry). According to the Constitution of India, at the state-level, the governor is de jure head, but de facto executive authority rests with the chief minister. 
List of Ministers of India-Narendra Modi's Cabinet 2014. The 16th Lok Sabha of India came into being on 26th May 2014 with the oath taking ceremony of the 15th Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with other cabinet ministers.
It is also responsible for all government programs relating to family planning in India. The Minister of Health and Family Welfare holds cabinet rank as a member of the Council of Ministers. The current minister is Shri. Jagat Prakash Nadda. The Ministry regularly publishes the Indian Pharmacopoeia since 1955 through Indian Pharmacopoeia Commission (IPC) an autonomous body under the ministry for setting of standards for drugs, pharmaceuticals and healthcare devices and technologies in India. The ministry is composed of four departments: Health & Family Welfare; Health Research; AIDS Control; and Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH).
Following is the full list of cabinet ministers and ministers of state: PRIME MINISTER : Narendra Modi: Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy Department of Space, All important policy issues and all other portfolios not allocated to any minister. Modi's pictures with mom leave Sharif, mother emotional. Arun Jaitley has turned out to be the most important person in the new government after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with three heavy portfolios of finance, defence and corporate affairs, it was announced Tuesday.
As a collective, the Council of Ministers is responsible to the lower house of the Indian Parliament, called the House of the People. According to the Constitution of India, the total number of ministers in the Council of Ministers must not exceed 15% of the total number of members of the House of the People. Ministers must be members of parliament
Presently Ghulam Nabi Azad is the Minister of Health & Family Welfare of India. Ghulam Nabi Azad is the present health minister of India. 
The Union Council of Ministers exercises executive authority in the Republic of India. It consists of senior ministers, called Cabinet Ministers, and junior ministers, called  Ministers of State . It is led by the Prime Minister. A smaller executive body, called the Union Cabinet is the supreme decision-making body in India. According to the Constitution of India, the total number of ministers in the Council of Ministers must not exceed 15% of the total number of members of the House of the People.