The purpose of ethidium bromide is as an intercalating agent commonly used as a fluorescent tag (nucleic acid stain) in molecular biology laboratories for techniques such as a … garose gel electrophoresis.
The most commonly used stain for detecting DNA/RNA is ethidium bromide. Ethidium bromide is a DNA interchelator, inserting itself into the spaces between the base pairs of the double helix.
Ethidium bromide is an intercalating agent commonly used as a fluorescent tag (nucleic acid stain) in molecular biology laboratories for techniques such as agarose gel electrophoresis. It is commonly abbreviated as EtBr , which is also an abbreviation for bromoethane.
Ethidium bromide is an intercalating agent that attaches itself between the helix of a DNA. Because the ethidium molecule lights up when illuminated by an ultraviolet light, it is used often in biochemistry laboratories so that fragment of DNA that has been separated by gel can be visualized.
Ethidium Bromide. Ethidium bromide is commonly used in molecular biology laboratories. While it is not regulated as hazardous waste, the mutagenic properties of this substance may present a hazard if it is poured down the drain untreated or placed in the trash.
Ethidium bromide is the most commonly used dye for DNA and RNA detection in gels. Ethidium bromide is a DNA intercalator, inserting itself between the base pairs in the double helix. Ethidium bromide has UV absorbance maxima at 300 and 360 nm, and an emission maximum at 590 nm.
Ethidium Bromide Staining. The most commonly used stain for detecting DNA/RNA is ethidium bromide. Ethidium bromide is a DNA interchelator, inserting itself into the spaces between the base pairs of the double helix. Ethidium bromide possesses UV absorbance maxima at 300 and 360 nm.
As with most fluorescent compounds, ethidium bromide is aromatic. Its core heterocyclic moiety is generically known as a phenanthridine, an isomer of which is the fluorescent dye acridine. Absorption maxima of EtBr in aqueous solution are at 210 nm and 285 nm, which correspond to ultraviolet light.
Ethidium bromide may be a mutagen, a carcinogen, or a teratogen, although this depends on the organism exposed and the circumstances of exposure.