Posted on June 11, 2014May 18, 2015 by algone. Milky white cloudy aquarium water is often just temporary. Poorly rinsed gravel in a new aquarium can cause white cloudiness. Restarting the filters after a shutdown can cause debris and tiny air bubbles to create a white haze. 
There can be many causes for cloudy aquarium water. Below we will look as some of the root causes and how you can fix them. Be aware that often this problem goes along with other problems, such as Ammonia Spikes. Fixing this issue is important to keeping your fish healthy. 
1 In these cases the cause is usually due to bacterial bloom. 2  As the new aquarium goes through the initial break in cycle, it is not unusual for the water to become cloudy, or at least a little hazy. 3  It will take several weeks to several months to establish bacterial colonies that are able to clear wastes from the water. 1 Gravel Residue-If the water is cloudy immediately, or within an hour or two of filling the tank, it's probably due to insufficiently washed gravel. 2  Drain the tank and rinse the gravel until the water runs clear.
As the cycle runs its course, this cloudiness will clear upusually your tank will go from cloudy to nearly crystal clear overnightas soon as it is ready. During this time, remember to continue your extra water changes (about 10-15% twice a week while the tank cycles), and to be very careful about feeding your fish. Cloudy Water in New Aquariums. When you first set up your tank, your tank has to cycle so the biological elements of the filter are ready to handle the waste produced by the fish. Cloudy or milky water is common during this process, but it usually does not show up until fairly late in the cycle.
A white cloudiness in the water is caused by bacteria. This will usually occur in newly set up tanks that are cycling and will continue until the process is complete. Br … own or green cloudiness is caused by algae in the water, and is usually a result of too much light or too little cleaning. If you have sand in the bottom of your aquarium, large clouds of that may also be tossed up in your tank and will take a little time to settle. 3 people found this useful.
There are three common causes of cloudy water. The most common is a (white water)that is found in newly set up tanks. This is caused by billions of very fine air bubbles that … are suspended in the water. These bubbles will eventually rise to the surface and dissipate back into the air leaving the water clear. White cloudy water is a result of a bacteria bloom. Sometimes the cleaning of all filters at once, or the changing of the gravel can trigger a bacteria bloom, due to the rem … oval of bacterial colonies that had settled on the filter media or substrate.
A white cloudiness in the water is caused by bacteria. This will usually occur in newly set up tanks that are cycling and will continue until the process is complete. Brown or green cloudiness is caused by algae in the water, and is usually a result of too much light or too little cleaning. White cloudy water is a result of a bacteria bloom. Sometimes the cleaning of all filters at once, or the changing of the gravel can trigger a bacteria bloom, due to the rem … oval of bacterial colonies that had settled on the filter media or substrate.
If your tank is insufficiently filtered, or if your filter is not maintained properly, then the filter will not be able to efficiently process all the water in the tank, which, like insufficient water changes, can lead to cloudiness directly, or to algae or bacteria blooms that appear cloudy. Cloudy Water in New Aquariums. When you first set up your tank, your tank has to cycle so the biological elements of the filter are ready to handle the waste produced by the fish. Cloudy or milky water is common during this process, but it usually does not show up until fairly late in the cycle.
2. The cloudy aquarium water may be a bacterial bloom. This is quite common in a new tank and it should clear up on its own as well. Initially the imbalance in a new aquarium can cause good ‘nitrifying bacteria’ to reproduce at a faster then normal rate, producing a white cloudiness in the water. 1 Overfeeding is common and probably the main cause for cloudy water problems. 2  Do not perform large water changes. 3  While the intentions may be good, large water changes can severely affect the balance of the aquarium leading to a further deterioration of the water quality. 4  Consider your fish population.