1 It is illegal for anyone under the age of 18 to consume alcohol. 2  Parents, guardians, and others taking care of people under 18 shall prohibit underage drinking, or risk administrative fines of 10000 to 50000 new Taiwan dollars when the situations are serious. 3  One shall not supply alcohol to anyone under the age of 18. In other countries, it is not illegal for minors to drink alcohol, but the alcohol can be seized without compensation. In some cases, it is illegal to sell or give alcohol to minors. The following list indicates the age of the person for whom it is legal to consume and purchase alcohol.
While there is no age requirement for drinking alcohol in Denmark, there are laws which prevent minors from buying alcohol: 1  In order to buy alcohol above 1.2% and below 16.5% ABV in stores, one must be 16 years of age. 2  In order to buy alcohol above 16.5% ABV in stores, one must be 18 years of age. In other countries, it is not illegal for minors to drink alcohol, but the alcohol can be seized without compensation. In some cases, it is illegal to sell or give alcohol to minors. The following list indicates the age of the person for whom it is legal to consume and purchase alcohol.
Before the minimum drinking age law, 16- to 20-year-olds were the most common drunken drivers. When the drinking age was raised, the number of fatal crashes involving a young driver dropped significantly, from 61% in 1982 to 31% in 1995. It went down more for that age group than any older age group. But while the law did have a significant impact on drinking and driving, it did not stop kids from drinking
The legal drinking age in all states is 21. Under most states' MIP laws, when a person under the legal drinking age is found to have been in possession of alcohol, punishment can take a number of forms. These include: 1  revocation of driver's license (usually for at least 30 days). 2  payment of fines. 3  enrollment in alcohol education programs, and. 4  community service
Legislation concerning the legal minimum drinking age in the United States can be traced back to the days of prohibition. In 1920, the 18th amendment to the U.S. Constitution declared it illegal to manufacture, transport, or sell intoxicating liquors. As the minimum legal drinking age was still left to the discretion of the state, the act did not violate the 21st amendment which reserved the right to regulate alcohol for all responsibilities not specifically appointed to the federal government to the states.
Return the drinking age to 18 -- and then enforce the law. The current system, which forbids alcohol to Americans under 21, is widely flouted, with disastrous consequences. Teaching people to drink responsibly before they turn 21 would enormously enhance public health. Raising the drinking age to 21 hasn't reduced drinking -- it’s merely driven it underground, to the riskiest of settings. The current law, passed in all 50 states in the 1980s, was intended to diminish the number of traffic deaths caused by young drunk drivers.
For other meanings, see legal drinking age. The National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984 (23 U.S.C. § 158) was passed on July 17, 1984. It punished every state that allowed persons below 21 years to purchase and publicly possess alcoholic beverages by reducing its annual federal highway apportionment by ten percent. As the minimum legal drinking age was still left to the discretion of the state, the act did not violate the 21st amendment which reserved the right to regulate alcohol for all responsibilities not specifically appointed to the federal government to the states.
The 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act [23 U.S.C 158] which required that States prohibit persons under 21 years of age from purchasing alcohol, as a condition of receiving State highway funds, is being amended. 
The legal drinking age is the age at which a person can consume or purchase alcoholic beverages. These laws cover a wide range of issues and behaviours, addressing when and where alcohol can be consumed. In other countries, it is not illegal for minors to drink alcohol, but the alcohol can be seized without compensation. In some cases, it is illegal to sell or give alcohol to minors. The following list indicates the age of the person for whom it is legal to consume and purchase alcohol.
Most laws apply only to drinking alcohol in public places, with alcohol consumption in the home being mostly unregulated (an exception being the UK, which has a minimum legal age of five for supervised consumption in private places). In other countries, it is not illegal for minors to drink alcohol, but the alcohol can be seized without compensation. In some cases, it is illegal to sell or give alcohol to minors. The following list indicates the age of the person for whom it is legal to consume and purchase alcohol.