Crocin. Crocin is a natural carotenoid chemical compound that is found in the flowers crocus and gardenia. It is the diester formed from the disaccharide gentiobiose and the dicarboxylic acid crocetin. It has a deep red color and forms crystals with a melting point of 186 °C. When dissolved in water, it forms an orange solution. Crocin is the chemical ingredient primarily responsible for the color of saffron.
Crocin is an analgesic and an anti-pyretic drug that goes under several brand names depending on the country that it is being marketed. In Brazil, Canada and South Korea and in the United States, Crocin is called Tylenol and Panadol. In the United Kingdom and in India it is called Crocin. Crocin is a common over-the-counter (OTC) drug, a mild to moderate pain reliever and a fever reducer. Crocin relieves headaches, menstrual pain and tooth ache, as well as backache and muscular aches and pain. It is also used to treat arthritis and the symptoms of a cold.
'Your trusted paracetamol'. Crocin has been a trusted household healthcare name for over three decades and enjoys a strong medical heritage. Widely used as an effective remedy for mild-to-moderate pain, Crocin is an over-the-counter medicine which is easily accessible to patients. It commands a strong medical equity and enjoys the confidence and trust of medical practitioners across the country. Crocin Advance. Works upto 5x faster than your regular paracetamol-A smart choice! Crocin Pain Relief. A clinically proven pain relief medicine with a higher dose of paracetamol along with caffeine which provides quick and effective relief from your daily aches and pains.
crocin. Pharmacognosy. A mixture of two flavonol glycosides, crocetin (a carotenoid-dicarboxylic acid) and alpha-crocin (a di-gentiobiose ester of crocetin), which are abundant in the stigmas and styles of saffron (Crocus sativus) flowers and have a prostaglandin-like structure. 
Definition of CROCIN. : a yellow glycoside C44H64O24 of crocetin occurring in species of crocus (as saffron) and gardenia that is active in inducing sexual change in certain algae. ADVERTISEMENT. Origin of CROCIN. International Scientific Vocabulary croc- (from Latin crocus saffron) + -in; probably originally formed in German — more at crocus. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
Crocin is a natural drug carotenoid chemical compound that is found in the flowers crocus and gardenia. It is the diester formed from the disaccharide gentiobiose and the dicarboxylic acid crocetin. It has a deep red color and forms crystals with a melting point of 186 °C. Crocin has been shown to be a potent neuronal antioxidant. The antioxidant behavior of crocin is related to the sugar moiety in crocin molecule which has a vital role in its chemical reactivity.
Generic Name: Acetaminophen (Paracetamol). Crocin® is an international brand name for paracetamol (also known as acetaminophen) is one of the most commonly used analgesics (pain relievers) in Western medicine. Widely available either by itself or in cold and flu remedies, it is used to relieve aches and pains on an as-needed basis. Acetaminophen is a pain reliever and a fever reducer. Acetaminophen is used to treat many conditions such as headache, muscle aches, arthritis, backache, toothaches, colds, and fevers. Acetaminophen may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Crocetin is a natural carotenoid dicarboxylic acid that is found in the crocus flower and Gardenia jasminoides (fruits). It forms brick red crystals with a melting point of 285 °C. The chemical structure of crocetin forms the central core of crocin, the compound responsible for the color of saffron. Crocin and crocetin may provide neuroprotection in rats by reducing the production of various neurotoxic molecules, based on an in-vitro cell study.
Crocin is a natural carotenoid chemical compound that is found in the flowers crocus and gardenia. It is the diester formed from the disaccharide gentiobiose and the dicarboxylic acid crocetin. It has a deep red color and forms crystals with a melting point of 186 °C. When dissolved in water, it forms an orange solution. Crocin is the chemical ingredient primarily responsible for the color of saffron