Endoplasmic Reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum is the cell's highway and is responsible for the production of the protein and lipid components of most of the cell's organelles. 
Mitochondria are cellular organelles that function as power plants within a cell. In the same way that a local power plant produces electricity for an entire city, mitochondria are responsible for the production of energy derived from the breakdown of carbohydrates and fatty acids. 
Proteins then mix food and oxygen together. This is the only place in the cell that oxygen mixes with food molecules. In text references? The mitochondria act as the power plant of the cell.They are organelles that act like a digestive system that takes in nutrients, breaks them down, and creates energy for the cell. Mitochondria are bound by a double membrane. Each of these membranes is a phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. The outermost membrane is smooth while the inner membrane has many folds. These folds are called cristae.
MitochondrIa. .The mitochondria act as the power plants of the cell.They are organelles that act like a digestive system that takes in nutrients, breaks them down, and captures energy for the cell. Mitochondria are bound by a double membrane. Each of these membranes is a phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. The outermost membrane is smooth while the inner membrane has many folds. These folds are called cristae.
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. A considerable variation can be seen in the structure and size of this organelle. Unless specifically stained, they are not visible.
The cell membrane controls what goes into and out of the cell as the city limits control what goes in and out of the city. The. endoplasmic reticulum. consists of a network of a tube-like passageway that proteins from the ribosomes are transported through. 
This is similar to how the city hall keeps information relating to the city and is the place where major decisions are made to keep the city functioning efficiently. Mitochondria The mitochondria would be the power plants in cell city. Their main function in cells is to provide energy for the cell. This is done by transferring energy from organic compounds (like glucose) to ATP. Cell Membrane The cell membrane would be the city limits and ring road of cell city. The cell membrane is used to define the integrity of the cell and determines what can pass and exit the cell. A cell membrane can either be semi-permeable or not permeable at all
A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. This is done by oxidizing the major products of glucose: pyruvate, and NADH, which are produced in the cytosol. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. A considerable variation can be seen in the structure and size of this organelle. Unless specifically stained, they are not visible.
This spinning of turbines produce electricity which is like ATP. Ribosomes The ribosomes would be would be the numerous factories of cell city. In cells they have the important role of synthesizing protein. Protein has many applications in the body, making it a vital. Cell Membrane The cell membrane would be the city limits and ring road of cell city. The cell membrane is used to define the integrity of the cell and determines what can pass and exit the cell. A cell membrane can either be semi-permeable or not permeable at al