The basic gear changing rule is ‘gears to go-brakes to slow'. As the car increases speed, change up through the gears. When you want to slow down, use the foot brake. You need only change to a lower gear when you need the accelerator again to 'drive' the car along. This means that you may sometimes miss out gears. For example, by changing from fifth or fourth gear to second gear. This method is called ‘selective’ or ‘block’ gear changing. Introduction Having mastered moving off in a straight line, you now need to learn how to change gear in order to make progress as you drive along. Smooth gearing changing is the first of three key foundation skills that you will need to learn. The others being steering and clutch control.
This has nothing to do with the direction you move the gear lever, it simply means that you change to a higher gear (4 or 5) or a lower gear (1 or 2). The basic rule is that you change up through the gears as the speed of the car increases and down when you need more power from the engine. Gears. Introduction. Smooth gear changing is the first of three key foundation skills you need to learn, the others being steering and clutch control. Before moving onto Road Skills, part 2 of the Learner Driving programme, it is vitally important that these three foundation skills become second nature to you.
Changing car gears tutorial. Changing gear works in relation with the clutch and the accelerator. With practice you will be able to change gear at the correct time and smoothly. As a learner it is tempting to look down at the gears whilst driving. This is not only dangerous but will fail your driving test. Practice changing up and down gears. On a quiet, clear road select 1st and move off when safe to do so. Change into 2nd as soon as you can. At around 15 - 20mph select 3rd gear and at around 30mph select 4th.
Before learning to drive, ask a family member or friend if you can practice changing gear in their car. Ensure the car is turned off and all you will need to do is keep the clutch pressed to the floor. When you become proficient in changing gears, practice without looking at the gear lever. Change from 5th straight into 1st, 4th straight into 1st, and 3rd into 1st gear. Now we’ll look at the correct method for changing gears. When moving off for the first time, this is the most challenging and is often when a learner stalls the car.
Where appropriate, you can miss a gear. This is called block changing. Say you are driving at 60mph but have to brake and slow the car to 20mph. Here you wouldn't have to change down through the gears but could go from fifth to third, or even to second. To change gear in a car 1  : Release the accelerator pedal and at the same time press the clutch pedal down. 2  Remove your left hand from the steering wheel, cup it around the gear knob and move the lever gently but positively from one position to another. 3  Return your left hand to the steering wheel
Part of the revolutionary LD System of learning to drive. This video shows the key points you need to learn in preparation for the driving lesson on Gears. The video is used in conjunction with the LDC driving skills workbook. 
Your first driving lesson will involve the instructor explaining briefly what the gears in a car do and how to change gear. Changing gears can be a difficult process for many learner drivers as it requires operating the clutch, keeping control of the car and observations all at the same time. Change from 5th straight into 1st, 4th straight into 1st, and 3rd into 1st gear. Now we’ll look at the correct method for changing gears. When moving off for the first time, this is the most challenging and is often when a learner stalls the car.
When you want to slow down, use the foot brake. You need only change to a lower gear when you need the accelerator again to 'drive' the car. Selective gear changing. Selective gear changing means you sometimes miss out gears, for example, by changing from fifth or fourth gear to second gear. Gears. Introduction. Smooth gear changing is the first of three key foundation skills you need to learn, the others being steering and clutch control. Before moving onto Road Skills, part 2 of the Learner Driving programme, it is vitally important that these three foundation skills become second nature to you.