Fig trees grow lots of fruit and are often found in the rainforests where orangutans live. However, they will also eat other items including insects, shoots, leaves, seeds, and tree bark. There has been a great deal of research conducted regarding the types of items that orangutans feed on. Orangutan eating a fruit. Some orangutans have been noted to consume rocks or soil as well. This is puzzling because it isn’t deemed as a type of normal eating. However, the results of this indicate that they may do so to help when they aren’t getting enough nutrients from their diet.
Sumatran orangutans eat a wide variety of foods. These foods include fruits such as figs. They will also eat insects and various plant matter. Sumatran orangutans grow to be sizes of 4 - 5 feet in height with females generally being smaller than males. They weigh between 100 - 200 pounds. Sumatran orangutans are generally smaller than their close relatives, Bornean orangutans.
Approximately 90% of the diet that an orangutan consumes is fruit. What they will consume depends on their natural habitat as well as the season. They have a preference though for fruits that are full of sugar and that are full of pulp. Orangutan eating a fruit. Some orangutans have been noted to consume rocks or soil as well. This is puzzling because it isn’t deemed as a type of normal eating. However, the results of this indicate that they may do so to help when they aren’t getting enough nutrients from their diet.
Orangutans eat mostly fruit-their favourites are huge spiky fruits called Durian, these fruits smell very bad, and taste a bit like custard and garlic, but orangutans love them! Orangutans also eat some flowers, honey, bark, leaves and insects. 
About 90% of an orangutan's diet is made up of fruit but they also eat nectar, honey, nuts, bark, seeds, lots of young leaves, insects, and fungi, with some occasional meat su … ch as rats, birds and eggs. The orangutan's favorite fruit is the durian, which has a very pungent flavor and is covered in sharp spikes. Fruit, Termite, Bark. vegetables and leaves. They can eat things such as fruit smoothies and fruit ice lollies (100% frozen fruit). When food is Scarce they eat bark but Fruit and vegetables are a common favourite and are preferred to bark.
Orangutan Diet. Primarily frugivorous, orangutans have an important role as seed dispersers. They selectively choose ripe fruit whose seeds are adapted to withstand passage through the orangutans' gut. As well as acting as seed dispersers, orangutans help to open up the forest canopy. This allows light to reach the forest floor, which helps the forest to regenerate naturally. They are a vital cog in the workings of the rainforest ecosystem.
Confidence votes 4.2K. For orangutan's diet, they rely on primarily fruit, with young leaves, bark, flowers, insects, and bird's eggs are also eaten. One of their preferred foods is the fruit of the durian tree, which tastes somewhat like sweet, cheesy garlic custard. Fruit, Termite, Bark. vegetables and leaves. They can eat things such as fruit smoothies and fruit ice lollies (100% frozen fruit). When food is Scarce they eat bark but Fruit and vegetables are a common favourite and are preferred to bark.
Diet in the wild: Orangutans are omnivorous; they eat both plants and animals such as: fruit, leaves, flowers, bark, nuts, shoots, insects, bird eggs, and small mammals. 
Because over 60% of their diet is fruit (based on averaging thousands of observations), they are considered frugivores; however, orangutans also will eat young leaves (approximately 25% of their diet), flowers and bark (approximately 10%) and insects, mainly ants, termites, pupae, and crickets (approximately 5%). Likewise, if fruit and insects are unavailable, they may eat bark, leaves and foods of lower nutritional value to satisfy their hunger. Wild orangutans learn to eat hundreds of different food types as youngsters by observing their mother and being allowed to take food from their mother's mouth or hands. 1  Prev. 2  Next.