The core theory of product segmentation is that a company can produce a single product with relatively minor variations, market it to different customer groups -- sometimes under different brand names -- and thereby increase market share while reducing the cost of developing radically different products. Segmentation relies on market research to identify the product characteristics that resonate with target markets. Product development engineers then provide different iterations of the same basic model that meet the preferred traits for each market segment.
DEFINITION of 'Market Segmentation'. A marketing term referring to the aggregating of prospective buyers into groups (segments) that have common needs and will respond similarly to a marketing action.
An effective market segmentation solution forms the foundation for a winning market strategy as it reveals how and why customers are different and pinpoints what unmet needs customers are looking to satisfy with new products and services. Using Strategyn’s outcome-based market segmentation methodology, a company is able to identify underserved and overserved customer segments, determine which needs are unmet in each segment, and determine the degree to which they are unmet.
Demographics. Demographic market segmentation is one of the most common approaches to segmenting markets. With this strategy, a company simply divides the larger market into groups based on several defined traits. Age, race, gender, marital status, occupation, education and income are among the commonly considered demographics segmentation traits.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Market segmentation is a marketing strategy which involves dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers, businesses, or countries who have, or are perceived to have, common needs, interests, and priorities, and then designing and implementing strategies to target them. Segmentation according to demography is based on variables such as age, gender, occupation and education level or according to perceived benefits which a product or service may provide. Benefits may be perceived differently depending on a consumer's stage in the life cycle.
Related Terms: Demographics; Target Market. Market segmentation is the science of dividing an overall market into customer subsets or segments, whose in segment sharing similar characteristics and needs. Segmentation typically involves significant market research and can thus be costly. Applying a market segmentation strategy is most effective when an overall market consists of many smaller segments whose members have certain characteristics or needs in common.
Segmentation strategy is the concept of dissembling your clients and choosing to base your marketing efforts on a specific target group. The effectiveness of segmentation strategy largely depends on the efforts that a company puts into it. In the online world designing different websites and emails for segmented clients is an excellent approach to reap the benefits of the market targeting strategy.
Top 10 facts about the world. Market segmentation is a marketing strategy that involves dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers who have common needs and applications for the relevant goods and services. Market segmentation is dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers who have common needs and applications. Demographic classification is one aspect of market segmentation.