Treatments. Lateral collateral ligament tears do not heal as well as medial collateral ligament tears do. Grade 3 lateral collateral ligament tears may require surgery. In some cases, all that is required is rest, wearing a brace, taking pain relievers such as ibuprofen and having physical therapy.
It may take up to eight weeks to fully recover, depending on the grade of your injury. If the lateral collateral ligament was torn where it attaches to the thighbone (femur) or shinbone (tibia), the surgeon will re-attach the ligament to the bone using large stitches or a metal bone staple.
Finally, the deltoid ligament (link to http://www.bartleby.com/107/illus354) on the inner, or medial, side of the ankle may be injured. These injuries are referred to as medial ankle sprains and produce pain on the inner, or medial, side of the ankle.
Most ankle ligament injuries are caused when the foot twists inwards. All of the body's weight is then placed on the lateral ankle ligaments. The anterior and middle fibres of the ankle stretch or tear a in sprain or strain of the ankle. Occasionally small pieces of bone may be torn off with the ligaments. In a few cases, a twisting force on the ankle may cause other damage.
Grade 1 lateral ligament sprain symptoms include tenderness on the outside of the knee over the ligament. Usually there will be little or no swelling. When the knee is bent to 30 degrees and force applied to the inside of the knee which puts the ligament under stress, pain is felt but there is no joint laxity.
It all depends on the ligament and the grade of the tear. For example a grade 3 tear on the ACL(anterior cruciate ligament) can be devastating and usually requires surgery and recovery times of up to a year. So it all depends on the ligament and injury to it.
Collateral ligaments. These are found on the sides of your knee. The medial collateral ligament is on the inside and the lateral collateral ligament is on the outside. They control the sideways motion of your knee and brace it against unusual movement. Cruciate ligaments. These are found inside your knee joint.