Written By: Ashok Sharma. Potentiometer also known as pot is generally used in circuits to provide variable resistance or variable voltage. The heart of the potentiometer is a resistive strip inside it through which one can adjust the amount of resistance/voltage to pass in a circuit through it. 
A potentiometer is also referred to as a variable resistor or pot. They have three terminals, where the one in the middle is known as the wiper, and the other two are known as ends. The wiper is a movable contact where resistance is measured with respect to it and either one of the end terminals. When reading the potentiometer, one multimeter lead must always be on the wiper or middle part, and the other one can be on either of the remaining terminals. For example, place one multimeter lead on the wiper, and the other on the left terminal of the potentiometer.
Introduction. In electrical engineering parlance, the term potentiometer is used in either one of two ways. It may refer to an instrument that measures an unknown emf or voltage by comparing it to a standard emf. When reading the potentiometer, one multimeter lead must always be on the wiper or middle part, and the other one can be on either of the remaining terminals. For example, place one multimeter lead on the wiper, and the other on the left terminal of the potentiometer.
One device frequently used as a voltage-dividing component is the potentiometer, which is. a resistor with a movable element positioned by a manual knob or lever. The movable element, typically called a wiper, makes contact with a resistive strip of material (commonly called the. Potentiometers: what they are, how they work and how to use them with Arduino. Last updated on Wed, 2010-07-14 01:30. Originally submitted by fabio on 2010-06-10 12:02. In this blog post I'll start experiencing with potentiometers
Potentiometer Basics. A potentiometer is a variable resistor. A resistor is an electric component that resists the flow of electricity, slowing it down, but not stopping it. Unlike with a normal resistor, the resistance of a potentiometer can be changed, usually either by turning a knob or adjusting a slider. A terminal called the base in the potentiometer attaches to a strip of a resistive element, such as graphite. Another terminal called the wiper attaches to a blade that rubs against the resistor. When the slider is moved or the knob is turned, the wiper moves along the resistor strip.
The symbol for a potentiometer is the same one as a resistor, save for an arrow in the middle. In a circuit where they are used strictly as variable resistors or rheostats, only two terminals are wired to the other components. All three terminals are wired separately when they function as voltage dividers. When reading the potentiometer, one multimeter lead must always be on the wiper or middle part, and the other one can be on either of the remaining terminals. For example, place one multimeter lead on the wiper, and the other on the left terminal of the potentiometer.
Ground the first terminal of the pot. For use as a volume control (by far the most common application), terminal 1 will provide the grounding. To do this, you will need to solder one end of a length of wire to the terminal, and solder the other end to the chassis or frame of the electrical component. Terminal 2 is the input of the potentiometer, meaning the output line from the circuit should connect to it. For example, on a guitar, this would be the wire leading away from the pickup. In an integrated amplifier, this would be the wire leading from the pre-amp stage.
A potentiometer /pɵˌtɛnʃiˈɒmɨtər/ , informally a pot, is a three-terminal resistor with a sliding or rotating contact that forms an adjustable voltage divider. If only two terminals are used, one end and the wiper, it acts as a variable resistor or rheostat. A logarithmic taper potentiometer has a resistive element that either 'tapers' in from one end to the other, or is made from a material whose resistivity varies from one end to the other.
Potentiometers, more commonly known simply as pots, are a type of electrical component called a variable resistor. They usually function in conjunction with a knob; the user turns the knob, and this rotational motion is translated into a change in resistance in the electrical circuit. Terminal 2 is the input of the potentiometer, meaning the output line from the circuit should connect to it. For example, on a guitar, this would be the wire leading away from the pickup. In an integrated amplifier, this would be the wire leading from the pre-amp stage.