This article is about the anatomy of the superficial back muscles – their attachments, innervations and functions. The superficial back muscles are situated underneath the skin and superficial fascia. They originate from the vertebral column and attach to the bones of the shoulder – the clavicle, scapula and humerus. All these muscles are therefore associated with movements of the upper limb. The muscles on each side form a trapezoid shape. It is the most superficial of all the back muscles. 1  Attachments: Originates the skull, spinous processes of C7-T12 and the ligamentum nuchae. 2  The fibres attach to the clavicle, acromion and the scapula spine.
The muscles of the back can be divided into three groups – superficial, intermediate and intrinsic: 1  Superficial – associated with movements of the shoulder. 2  Intermediate – associated with movements of the thoracic cage. 3  Deep – associated with movements of the vertebral column. The muscles on each side form a trapezoid shape. It is the most superficial of all the back muscles. 1  Attachments: Originates the skull, spinous processes of C7-T12 and the ligamentum nuchae. 2  The fibres attach to the clavicle, acromion and the scapula spine.
1 Each portion has a different action on the body. 2  The anterior portion flexes and medially rotates the arm, while the middle portion abducts the arm. 3  Finally the posterior portion extends and laterally rotates the arm. 4  The deltoid muscle takes over lifting the arm once the arm is away from the side. 1 It also draws the shoulder downward and backward and keeps the inferior angle of the scapula against the chest wall. 2  Side (lateral) muscles of the shoulder: 3  The large deltoid muscle provides the characteristic contour of the shoulder and is the largest, strongest muscle of the shoulder.
Contraction of the deltoid muscle results in a wide range of movement of the arm at the shoulder due to its location and the wide separation of its muscle fibers.... Click to read more below. The deltoid muscle is a rounded, triangular muscle located on the uppermost part of the arm and the top of the shoulder. 
1 The anterior or clavicular fibers arises from most of the anterior border and upper surface of the lateral third of the clavicle. 2  The anterior origin lies adjacent to the lateral fibers of the pectoralis major muscle as do the end tendons of both muscles. Though traditionally described as a single insertion, the deltoid insertion is divided into two or three discernible areas corresponding to the muscle's three areas of origin. The insertion is an arch-like structure with strong anterior and posterior fascial connections flanking an intervening tissue bridge.
1 The large deltoid muscle provides the characteristic contour of the shoulder and is the largest, strongest muscle of the shoulder. 2  It originates in three portions, the anterior, middle and posterior portions. 3  The anterior portion arises from the anterior border and superior surface of the clavicle. 1 It also draws the shoulder downward and backward and keeps the inferior angle of the scapula against the chest wall. 2  Side (lateral) muscles of the shoulder: 3  The large deltoid muscle provides the characteristic contour of the shoulder and is the largest, strongest muscle of the shoulder.
by aerojez4fox11, Nov. 2009. Subjects: anterior axilla back chest lateral muscles of shoulder superficial the wall. 1  Click to Rate Hated It. 2  Click to Rate Didn't Like It. 3  Click to Rate Liked It. 4  Click to Rate Really Liked It. 5  Click to Rate Loved It. Muscles of the Shoulder. 1) six muscles running from the axial skeleton (skull, vertebral coumn, sacrum, rib cage) to the pectoral girdle (scapula, clavicle): a) trapezius, levator scapulae, rhonboids (major & minor), serrattus anterior, pectoralis minor.