In order to gain social worker certification and become eligible to work in the field, individuals must earn at least a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts. A master's degree in social work is usually required for state licensure as a clinical social worker. Some programs offer training in specialized fields. 
A bachelor's degree in social work is the minimum education required to become an entry-level social worker. Bachelor's degrees usually take four years to complete and require both general education courses and courses specific to social work. A bachelor's or a Master's degree in social work is required to take the bachelor's or Master's degree examinations. An advanced generalist examination is open to those with an MSW degree and two years of supervised filed experience.
A bachelor’s degree is the minimum education requirement for social work positions in every state. Many positions require a bachelor’s degree in social work, but a degree in sociology, psychology and similar fields may also be acceptable. For advanced licensure, a social worker must have a Master of Social Work (MSW) or doctoral degree. An MSW generally requires one to two years to complete and should be earned at schools accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). Social Work License Requirements.
Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work. For the most part, a person will need at least bachelor’s degree in social work to become a social worker. A bachelor’s social work degree can be earned in about four years. Social Work Master’s Degree. For those students who wish to continue their education, it is possible to earn a master’s degree in social work. With this type of credential, a person will be more likely to secure a position as a social work department supervisor or professor.
Become a Social Worker: Starting Out. If you are interested in becoming a social worker, the first step, from a licensing standpoint, is to get a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accredited social work degree. But in reality, the first step is to make yourself competitive for admission. The most important thing, when it comes to choosing a program, is accreditation by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). A baccalaureate in social work is not a prerequisite for entering a master’s program – a liberal arts degree will be fine.
Full-time MSW@USC students can earn a Master of Social Work degree in four consecutive semesters. Students can also complete the program in a three-year (part-time to full-time) accelerated program or as a four-year part-time option. 
To enroll in a social work program, a student will need a high school diploma as well as complete a variety of general education courses, including English, college algebra and history. To enter into a master’s program, a student will first need to obtain a bachelor’s degree in social work. Social Work Master’s Degree. For those students who wish to continue their education, it is possible to earn a master’s degree in social work. With this type of credential, a person will be more likely to secure a position as a social work department supervisor or professor.
Earning your bachelor’s degree in social work provides you with the skills necessary to make a difference in the lives of others. A degree in social work provides you with a sense of purpose, a range of career options, and the knowledge that you will make a positive impact on the world. 