I drive for Uber in the San Francisco Bay Area. My story is I don't really make that much as an Uber driver. Guess people have the misconception of Uber drivers making tons of money due to their advertising. In reality, it ranges from $3 to $35 an hour depending on the distance of the ride. For example, if the ride is long (e.g. San Francisco Airport to Mountain View), Uber pays me about $35 after fees.
There are three basic types of Uber drivers: Full-time drivers, who work regular straight shifts that add up to about 40 to 50 hours per week; part-time drivers, who often work the weekends; and what we'll call smart drivers—the ones that pack in the hours during the most lucrative times. This means a before-tax figure of $100,800 per year—even higher than Uber’s median number, and clearly a generous income. This level of earning comes at a cost. The smart driver we spoke says he works “normal hours”—which turns out to be around 12 hours a day, six days a week.
Depending on whom you ask, driving for Lyft or UberX is either a gold mine or an exploitative labor practice. Uber last year infamously claimed many of its drivers made more than $90,000 per year, but it did not account for the cost of driver expenses like gas and car maintenance. Guess people have the misconception of Uber drivers making tons of money due to their advertising. In reality, it ranges from $3 to $35 an hour depending on the distance of the ride. For example, if the ride is long (e.g. San Francisco Airport to Mountain View), Uber pays me about $35 after fees.
If the best a smart driver can take home is $29 per hour, he'd have to work about a 60-hour week to bring home Uber's $90,000. For a smart driver to earn $150,000 would take a 96-hour working week, a pace few people could reasonably maintain for a month let alone an entire year. This means a before-tax figure of $100,800 per year—even higher than Uber’s median number, and clearly a generous income. This level of earning comes at a cost. The smart driver we spoke says he works “normal hours”—which turns out to be around 12 hours a day, six days a week.
Last week, the taxi cab startup, which is currently valued at $18.2 billion, offered one answer to that question, claiming an Uber driver could earn $90,000 a year working in New York City, and $70,000 in San Francisco. To put that in context, an ordinary cab driver in San Francisco earns around $35,000 a year. This means a before-tax figure of $100,800 per year—even higher than Uber’s median number, and clearly a generous income. This level of earning comes at a cost. The smart driver we spoke says he works “normal hours”—which turns out to be around 12 hours a day, six days a week.
By the end of the day I made little less that $150 which is typical for a slow weekday. Usually, the average is around $200 – $250 for an eight hour period. The per hour rate for a slow day comes out to be $18/hour before Uber commission and other expenses. After expenses the earning would be around $14 – $15/hour. UberX weekly earning. The trip earnings is the amount of money an UberX driver made after deducting UberX commission which in Seattle is 20%. The commission may or may not be different in other US cities (You can talk with local Uber office representative). The total trip earning before UberX commission was $1,103.77.
DRIVE WITH UBER. Earn money on your own terms. Full-time and part-time driving jobs for independent contractors in Columbus give you the flexibility to work as much or as little as you want. Uber takes care of all the details so you can focus on driving your car when it works for you. That's why we partner with thousands of locals who keep Columbus moving. Together we're energizing the local economy, helping make streets safer from drunk and distracted driving, and fostering a more connected, less congested environment. Check the app to see if Uber is available near you.
While Uber doesn’t provide data on average miles driven per hour, we can make a few educated guesses based on the information provided. The US government has deemed the average cost of operating a vehicle to be $0.56 per mile, $0.235 of which are variable costs based on mileage. Using the same analysis, but with a 3 mile average fare, we arrive at an hourly increase of $8.91 (35 percent) in after-operating expense income in exchange for doing 73 percent more work. [ Note: it's unclear if the NYC gross hourly income data provided by Uber is income to the driver or to the company.
Linehaul: Team drivers generate $1,260.00 to $1,510.00 per week, per driver. On average teams accrue between 5000 to 6000 miles each week. Trips start on Monday or Tuesday and have one overnight stop once per week in your home domicile city of Columbus or Cleveland Ohio. Reset in your domiciled city at home. Team Pro Drivers are home 3 nights per week, call 866 619-0922 and ask how you can apply.
The trip earnings is the amount of money an UberX driver made after deducting UberX commission which in Seattle is 20%. The commission may or may not be different in other US cities (You can talk with local Uber office representative). UberX weekly earning. The trip earnings is the amount of money an UberX driver made after deducting UberX commission which in Seattle is 20%. The commission may or may not be different in other US cities (You can talk with local Uber office representative). The total trip earning before UberX commission was $1,103.77.