Hello, Guest. Not too long ago, Temperance was found only on lists of Puritan baby names. With increased increase in virtue names, and Dr. Temperance Bones Brennan on long-running television series Bones, this name has experienced a surprising revival.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Temperance. Temperance is a Virtue Name. The three main theological virtues are, of course, Faith, Hope and Love. The four cardinal virtues are known as Prudence, Justice, Restraint/Temperance, and Fortitude/Courage. 
Temperance Tarot Meaning. It is hard, at first, to see where Sagittarius, the ruling sign of this card, fits in. Sagittarius is an expansive sign and we often identify Temperance with abstinence. Temperance, however, really means moderation.
Full Definition of TEMPERANCE. 1. : moderation in action, thought, or feeling: restraint. 2. a: habitual moderation in the indulgence of the appetites or passions b: moderation in or abstinence from the use of alcoholic beverages. See temperance defined for English-language learners. See temperance defined for kids. Word Root of TEMPERANCE. The Latin word temperāre, meaning “ to make mild, ” “ to control, ” or “ to soften, ” gives us the root temper. Words from the Latin temperāre have something to do with mildness or control. To temper is to soften or make something less strong or difficult.
Temperance is a rare given name for women and an equally rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Temperance for girls. Temperance was first listed in 2011 and reached its top position of #838 in the U.S. in the year 2012, and is presently at #854.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Temperance in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Temperance in Nautical Flags page.emperance is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 10 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Tem-pe-rance. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 854 in baby name popularity for girls with 320 occurrences.
English Meaning: The name Temperance is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Temperance is: Temperance. One of the qualities adopted as a first name by the Puritans after the Reformation. SoulUrge Number: 7.
0 5. The meaning of Temperance is  Moderation, self-restraint . Its origin is  English . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 892nd in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Temperance is an English word meaning moderation or self-restraint.. In the 19th-century, the term also became closely associated with the movement to discourage the consumption of alcohol. It first came into use as a given name among the Puritans in the 17th-century.
Temperance is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 10 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Tem-pe-rance. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 854 in baby name popularity for girls with 320 occurrences.