LarreaRx has been used to treat herpes for centuries, but it is only recently that modern research has tuned into the anti-herpes effect of LarreaRx. They have found, both from case studies and from laboratory research, that LarreaRx is both safe and effective. If you already have liver problems, you should enlist the help of your health practitioner to monitor your liver function. Otherwise, LarreaRx is safe.
It is also used for many skin disorders because of these same properties. Chapar ral larrea has been used by people with such conditions as cancer, arthritis, diarrhea, tuberculosis, colds, bronchitis, venereal disease and bowel cramps. As an alternative to the unavailable LarreaRx lotion and spray, I have arranged for our customers to obtain a clinically tested, effective, powerful, topical antiviral product (applied directly to a problem spot such as a cold sore, blister or other lesion anywhere on the skin).
Larrea tridentata is a shrub, also known as chaparral and creosote bush, that is indigenous to deserts of the southwestern United States and parts of Mexico. It has been used by people with conditions as diverse as cancer, arthritis, diarrhea, tuberculosis, colds, bronchitis, venereal disease and bowel cramps. As an alternative to the unavailable LarreaRx lotion and spray, I have arranged for our customers to obtain a clinically tested, effective, powerful, topical antiviral product (applied directly to a problem spot such as a cold sore, blister or other lesion anywhere on the skin).
“The most important study to date shows that Larrea extract is 1000 times more potent than synthetic antiviral drugs.”. An Effective, Natural remedy for Cold sores, Genital herpes, Shingles, Chickenpox, Epstein-Barr, and other herpes outbreaks. Here's the link to some quite impressive studies. 
It is abundant and widespread at elevations under 3000 ft. Often incorrectly referred to as chaparral which refers to a grouping of dense thicket and shrubbery in the desert, not just one plant as with Larrea tridentata. This remarkable plant has a long history of use by Native Americans and European settlers in the southwestern deserts of the United States.
Add to Cart. LarreaRx Antiviral Complex made from the Larrea Plant. Product Uses. The active ingredient in all the LarreaRx products is an extract of the ancient desert plant Larrea tridentata. This powerful plant commonly known as the cresote bush offers some unique healing powers. In addition to the lignans the Larrea plant produces flavanoids, which also have antiviral activity. The Larrea plant produces more than two-dozen of the 2,000 or so known flavonoids. What makes the Larrea plant such an effective antiviral is the combination of chemicals the plant produces.
It is also used for many skin disorders because of these same properties. Chaparral larrea has been used by people with such conditions as cancer, arthritis, diarrhea, tuberculosis, colds, bronchitis, venereal disease and bowel cramps. As an alternative to the unavailable LarreaRx lotion and spray, I have arranged for our customers to obtain a clinically tested, effective, powerful, topical antiviral product (applied directly to a problem spot such as a cold sore, blister or other lesion anywhere on the skin).
Larrea tridentata is a shrub, also known as chaparral and creosote bush, that is indigenous to deserts of the southwestern United States and parts of Mexico. It has been used by people with conditions as diverse as cancer, arthritis, diarrhea, tuberculosis, colds, bronchitis, venereal disease and bowel cramps. The Native Americans used chaparral larrea for a variety of ailments from arthritis to the common cold. It is said to have analgesic, expectorant, as well as strong anti-inflammatory properties. Chaparral larrea has a high antioxidant content, which can protect against the cell damage that leads to cancer.
Larrea tridentata is known as creosote bush and greasewood as a plant, chaparral as a medicinal herb, and as gobernadora in Mexico, Spanish for governess, due to its ability to secure more water by inhibiting the growth of nearby plants. In Sonora, it is more commonly called hediondilla.. Larrea tridentata is often referred to as chaparral when used as a herbal remedy and supplement; however, it does not grow in the synonymous plant community chaparral.