The lighted diyas on Diwali also remind us of the same teaching of the Upanishads. Diya can be defined as a small earthen lamp that is specially lit on Diwali for pujan and decoration purposes. A cotton wick is used in diyas, and oil or ghee serves as the burning fuel. Diyas are plain and colored, big and small, simple and fancy, and so. 
The oil in the diya represents the dirt (greed, jealousy, hatred, lust etc) that humans tend to nurture while the cotton wick is symbolic of the aatman (self). So in order to attain enlightenment and unite with the Brahman (the supreme power), one must get rid of materialism. An ignorant person would often remain in dark and wouldn’t be able to keep a check on the events happening around him. It is only when he feels the need to gain some knowledge that he will realise the purpose of his existence. And hence in this case, a diya/jyot signifies the removal of ignorance through knowledge.
A diya or an earthen lamp is synonymous to the festival of Deepavali or Diwali. An ignorant person would often remain in dark and wouldn’t be able to keep a check on the events happening around him. It is only when he feels the need to gain some knowledge that he will realise the purpose of his existence. And hence in this case, a diya/jyot signifies the removal of ignorance through knowledge.
Diwali Diyas (candles). Sunita, one of our viewers, writes: The Indian New Year is Diwali and we celebrate good over evil by lighting rows of lamps or 'diyas'. Thanks Sunita! A Diwali Diya is a small lamp that is lit especially at Diwali (New Year's in India). Diyas are typically made of clay with Ghee or oil used as the fuel and cotton wool as the wick. DLTK's Countries and Cultures-India
Founded in 2009, Diya TV is America's first 24/7 free digital over-the-air South Asian TV network. Diya TV is breaking new ground in South Asian programming, rooted in news and investigative journalism, featuring programming in Hindi, English, Punjabi, Urdu, Marathi and Bengali. Show less. 
Diya is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Diy-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1168 in baby name popularity for girls with 208 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Diya Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Diya has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Diya to other names. Diya is a variant spelling of Ziya. Diya in Nautical Flags. Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names.
A diya, divaa, deepa, deepam, or deepak is an oil lamp, usually made from clay, with a cotton wick dipped in ghee or vegetable oils. Clay diyas are often used temporarily as lighting for special occasions, while diyas made of brass are permanent fixtures in homes and temples. Diyas are native to India, and are often used in Hindu, Sikh, Jain and Zoroastrian religious festivals such as Diwali or the Kushti ceremony. A similar lamp called a butter lamp is used in Tibetan Buddhist offerings as well.
IT Services in Mangalore. Diya Systems is the largest technology firm located in Mangalore, India. Mangalore is the chief port city of the Indian state of Karnataka. A city replete with breathtaking scenery and a picturesque backdrop of waterfalls and aquatic life... GlowTouch & Diya Systems. Diya Systems is a fully owned subsidiary of GlowTouch Technologies, an award-winning technology services firm delivering custom technology services to business of all sizes around the globe. Diya Systems is headquartered in Mangalor