Split and merge into it. Answer by Austin Elder. Confidence votes 273. The Punisher's Skull has the same meaning as the common symbol of a skull-it means death, pain, suffering, ect. It represents the Punisher's violent and brutal treatment of criminals, and it's a symbol meant to strike fear into their hearts.
The Punisher’s skull has the same meaning as the common symbol of a skull-it means death, pain, suffering, ect. It represents the Punisher’s violent and brutal treatment of criminals, and it’s a symbol meant to strike fear into their hearts.
15 Punisher tattoo designs. The Punisher is a fictional character, an antihero that appears in comic books published by Marvel Comics. The Punisher made his first appearance in The Amazing Spider-Man (1974).
The Punisher No Sweat t-shirt. The battle-worn skull on the front of this Punisher tee is a testament to Frank Castle's one-man war on the mob and all criminals in general. This version of The Punisher skull logo offers more of a three dimensional, brazen appearance.
Death The Crystal Skull is a representation of life and Human consciousness, and the Skull Effigy is the honoring of life. The Harley-Davidson Skull and Wings logo represents … Death as that honoring of life. The H-D Skull is the reminder that we are here on Earth for our soul purpose, to manifest our destiny.
The Punisher is a fictional character, an antihero that appears in comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by writer Gerry Conway and artists John Romita, Sr., and Ross Andru, with publisher Stan Lee providing the name. The Punisher made his first appearance in The Amazing Spider-Man #129.
The Punisher is a fictional antihero that appears in comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by writer Gerry Conway and artists John Romita, Sr. , and Ross Andru, with publisher Stan Lee providing the name.
M/M means M etal M ulisha, the helmet and skull stands for old  school bikers. Metal Mulisha is a dirtbike crew. It's not similar  to SS-Logo used by nazi in WW2 and has no … political background.