Best Answer: The answer is A: collar cells Collar cells are flagellated cells that choanoflagellates (phylum of protists) have as well. They get nutrition by diffusion the mesoderm forms the internal organs during development, and once again, sponges are simple and don't have these structures. a nematocyst is a structure that Cnidarians have (such as jellyfish) which is why they sting.
A top view shows the movement of cells inside the sponge body. (It appears rapid in these scenes sped up to thousands of times normal speed.) Canals also appear, and these are lined with choanocytes, the cells that create currents in the sponge. Eventually, a new sponge grows, complete with an outflow pore, or osculum. In high wave-shock areas, these sponges are usually only a centimeter or two in thickness. Another good place for biology classes to find living sponges is attached to submerged wood in lakes or streams. Sponges are the simplest living animals, but they are often brightly-colored and spectacular.
Although they may look plant-like, sponges are the simplest of multi-cellular animals. A sponge is a bottom-dwelling creature which attaches itself to something solid in a place where it can, hopefully, receive enough food to grow. The scientific term for sponges is Porifera which literally means pore-bearing.. Within the canals of the sponge, chambers are lined with specialized cells called choanocytes, or collar cells. The collar cells have a sticky, funnel shaped collar and a hairlike whip, called a flagellum. The collar cells serve two purposes.
Porifera: The Cells. Sponges have a cellular grade of organization. They do not possess any structures that can be considered organs. For instance, sponges do not have stomachs or kidneys. Instead, sponge cells of various types are responsible for bodily functions, the day-to-day activities that sustain life. Many of the most common types of cells are illustrated below in a cartoon view of the wall of a poriferan
They are thought to be the connection between Kingdom Protista and Kingdom Animalia. the endoderm is the innermost layer that is formed during development that eventually becomes the lining of the digestive tract, but sponges don't have a digestive tract. They get nutrition by diffusion the mesoderm forms the internal organs during development, and once again, sponges are simple and don't have these structures. a nematocyst is a structure that Cnidarians have (such as jellyfish) which is why they sting.
Class Demospongia. Class Demospongia is by far the most diverse class of sponges, with over 95% of the known species. Most Demospongia have siliceous spicules, although none of these are the 6-pointed type found in hexactinellids. A number of species in class Demospongia have a skeleton made of interlocking, flexible fibers of collagen. In high wave-shock areas, these sponges are usually only a centimeter or two in thickness. Another good place for biology classes to find living sponges is attached to submerged wood in lakes or streams. Sponges are the simplest living animals, but they are often brightly-colored and spectacular.
The beating of the choanocytes’ flagella creates the sponge’s water current. * Porocytes are tubular cells that make up the pores into the sponge body through the mesohyl. * Pinacocytes which form the pinacoderm, the outer epidermal layer of cells. This is the closest approach to true tissue in sponges. * Myocytes are modified pinacocytes which control the size of the osculum and pore openings and thus the water flow.
All sponges have pores over their surfaces that allow water to enter and leave the sponge body. In general, the most conspicuous pores seen on the sponge surface are the outflow pores, or oscula. 1  They feed by filtration. 2  They have a unique type of cell not found in other animal phyla-the choanocyte, or collar cell. In high wave-shock areas, these sponges are usually only a centimeter or two in thickness. Another good place for biology classes to find living sponges is attached to submerged wood in lakes or streams. Sponges are the simplest living animals, but they are often brightly-colored and spectacular.
Sponges are built up from relatively few cell types, the main ones being choanocytes, pinacocytes, amoebocytes and lophocytes. Pinacocytes, these form much of the epidermis of sponges and are as close as a sponge gets to having a tissue. Generally they cover the exterior and some interior surfaces. A sponge is a simple organism that is easy to describe. A sponge is a sedentary, filter-feeding metazoan which has a single layer of flagellated cells that drive a unidirectional current of water through its body. such a brief description though does not do them justice.
Sponges are animals of the phylum Porifera (/pɒˈrɪfərə/ ; meaning pore bearer). They are multicellular organisms that have bodies full of pores and channels allowing water to circulate through them, consisting of jelly-like mesohyl sandwiched between two thin layers of cells. Sponges are similar to other animals in that they are multicellular, heterotrophic, lack cell walls and produce sperm cells. Unlike other animals, they lack true tissues and organs, and have no body symmetry.