Function. Radon forms from the natural, radioactive breakdown of uranium in rock, soil and water. Because rock is needed for radon to form, it is less likely to be found in areas of the world with sandy soil. When the uranium breaks down, radon gas is released into the air. Shares & Saves. Save. Radon, a radioactive gas that causes cancer, can be found in countries throughout the world. Radon becomes a problem when it is trapped in a building and becomes concentrated.
Radon is a chemical element with symbol Rn and atomic number 86. It is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, tasteless noble gas, occurring naturally as a decay product of radium. Its most stable isotope, 222Rn, has a half-life of 3.8 days. Radon is one of the densest substances that remains a gas under normal conditions. Radon is produced by the radioactive decay of radium-226, which is found in uranium ores, phosphate rock, shales, igneous and metamorphic rocks such as granite, gneiss, and schist, and to a lesser degree, in common rocks such as limestone.
Radon is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, and chemically inert radioactive gas. It is formed by the natural radioactive decay of uranium in rock, soil, and water. It can be found in all 50 states. Testing for it is the only way of telling how much is present. 
Soil and Air. Radon gas is a ubiquitous element found in rock and soil. The burning of coal and other fossil fuels also releases radon. When radon escapes from soil or is discharged from emission stacks to the outdoor air, it is diluted to levels that are normally, but not always, lower than indoor air. Radon gas in rocks and soil can move to air, groundwater, and surface water. Radon may also enter homes through the water supply. The concentration of radon in water from wells may be higher than that from surface sources.
Radon is a naturally occurring radioactive gas that is colorless, odorless, and tasteless. It is formed by the natural breakdown of uranium in rock, soil and water. Radon gas moves up through the soil and can be drawn into our homes by slight pressure differences. 
Radon is an invisible and odorless radioactive gas. Elevated levels of radon have been found in homes all across the country. Any home in any state may have a radon problem: new and old homes, well-sealed and drafty homes, and homes with or without basements. 
PRODUCTION: Radon is not produced as a commercial product. Radon is a naturally occurring radioactive gas and comes from the natural breakdown (radioactive decay) of uranium. It is usually found in igneous rock and soil, but in some cases, well water may also be a source of radon. PROPERTIES: Radon is a gaseous highly radioactive element discovered by English physicist Ernest Rutherford in 1899. The discovery is also credited to German physicist Friedrich Ernst Dorn in 1900. More specifically, Rutherford discovered radon's alpha radiation and Dorn discovered that radium was releasing a gas.
Radon is a colorless, tasteless, odorless, radioactive gas. It occurs naturally and is produced by the breakdown of uranium in soil, rock, and water. It can also dissolve into our water supply. For more information about radon illness and treatment, please visit CDC-ATSDR's radon page. 
Radon is an odorless, tasteless gas that occurs in nature. It can be found anywhere. On the periodic table, it is element Rn, and is found on the right edge, beside astatine. But, I doubt that's what you really mean... 