People with Tay-Sachs lack a specific protein (enzyme) called hexosaminidase A. This enzyme deficiency causes a fatty substance, GM2 ganglioside, to build up in the brain. It is this accumulation that causes the symptoms of Tay-Sachs. Although anyone can be a carrier of Tay-Sachs disease, the disease is much more common among people of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish descent. One in every 30 people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent is a carrier.
Tay-Sachs disease (the most severe form of Hexosaminidase A deficiency) is a progressive, fatal genetic condition that affects the nerve cells in the brain. Although anyone can be a carrier of Tay-Sachs disease, the disease is much more common among people of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish descent. One in every 30 people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent is a carrier.
1 A rare form of this disease, known as Adult-Onset or Late-Onset Tay–Sachs disease, usually has its first symptoms during the 30s or 40s. 2  In contrast to the other forms, late-onset Tay–Sachs disease is usually not fatal as the effects can stop progressing. 1 Infantile Tay–Sachs disease. 2  Infants with Tay–Sachs disease appear to develop normally for the first six months after birth. 3  Then, as neurons become distended with gangliosides, a relentless deterioration of mental and physical abilities begins.
Tay-Sachs disease is a rare disorder passed from parents to child. In the most common form, a baby about 6 months old will begin to show symptoms. Tay-Sachs disease results when an enzyme that helps break down fatty substances is absent. 
Because there's no cure for Tay-Sachs disease, the goal of treatment is support and comfort. Some ways that your child's Mayo Clinic treatment team works toward that goal include: 1  Medication. 2  To reduce your child's symptoms, a number of prescription medications are available, including seizure medications. 
Back to Top Causes. Tay-Sachs disease occurs when the body lacks hexosaminidase A, a protein that helps break down a chemical found in nerve tissue called gangliosides. Without this protein, gangliosides, particularly ganglioside GM2, build up in cells, especially nerve cells in the brain. Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a defective gene on chromosome 15. When both parents carry the defective Tay-Sachs gene, a child has a 25% chance of developing the disease. The child must receive two copies of the defective gene -- one from each parent -- in order to become sick.
General Discussion. Tay-Sachs disease is a rare, neurodegenerative disorder in which deficiency of an enzyme (hexosaminidase A) results in excessive accumulation of certain fats (lipids) known as gangliosides in the brain and nerve cells. Tay Sachs Disease. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Tay Sachs Disease is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Symptoms associated with Tay-Sachs disease may include an exaggerated startle response to sudden noises, listlessness, loss of previously acquired skills (i.e., psychomotor regression), and severely diminished muscle tone (hypotonia). Tay Sachs Disease. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Tay Sachs Disease is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
1 Adult/Late-Onset Tay–Sachs disease. 2  A rare form of this disease, known as Adult-Onset or Late-Onset Tay–Sachs disease, usually has its first symptoms during the 30s or 40s. 3  In contrast to the other forms, late-onset Tay–Sachs disease is usually not fatal as the effects can stop progressing. 1 Infantile Tay–Sachs disease. 2  Infants with Tay–Sachs disease appear to develop normally for the first six months after birth. 3  Then, as neurons become distended with gangliosides, a relentless deterioration of mental and physical abilities begins.
1 Adult-onset Hexosaminidase A deficiency causes slow but progressive muscle weakness and wasting as well as trouble speaking clearly, cognitive problems, and dementia. 2  Up to 40% of people have psychiatric problems (which can be present without dementia). 3  Severity, even within a family, is very variable. Although anyone can be a carrier of Tay-Sachs disease, the disease is much more common among people of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish descent. One in every 30 people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent is a carrier.