Structure [edit]. The brachialis originates from the lower half of the front of the humerus, near the insertion of the deltoid muscle, which it embraces by two angular processes. Its origin extends below to within 2.5 cm of the margin of the articular surface of the humerus at the elbow joint. The brachialis muscle and brachial muscle can be considered as the anglicized variant of the Latin expression musculus bracchialis. In classical Latin bracchialis means of or belonging to the arm, and is derived from classical Latin bracchium ,arm.
The brachialis muscle is located in the upper arm. It lies underneath the biceps muscle. It acts as a structural bridge between the humerus, which is the bone of the upper arm, and the ulna, which is one of the forearm bones. The muscle is innervated by both the musculoskeletal nerve and the radial nerve. In some people, the muscle may appear doubled. Also called the brachialis anticus, its primary action is to flex the forearm muscles at the elbow. Due to its high contractile strength, the branchialis makes many arm and elbow movements possible. Such movements are important for the activities of daily life
The brachialis (brachialis anticus) is a muscle in the upper arm that flexes the elbow joint. It lies deeper than the biceps brachii, and is a synergist that assists the biceps brachii in flexing at the elbow. It makes up part of the floor of the region known as the cubital fossa. The brachialis muscle and brachial muscle can be considered as the anglicized variant of the Latin expression musculus bracchialis. In classical Latin bracchialis means of or belonging to the arm, and is derived from classical Latin bracchium ,arm.
The brachialis muscle can contribute to pain in the shoulder, arm, elbow, hand and thumb. 1  Pain at the front and /or back of the base of the thumb. 2  Pain on the outside of the upper arm near the elbow. 3  Numbness or tingling in the back of the forearm and thumb. 4  Difficulty bending the elbow. The Elite-Kold Wrist and Elbow Ice Wrap is a good choice for brachialis pain. I like this wrap because it can be used for the elbow and forearm. To treat the brachialis muscle, begin with the wrap at the elbow then reposition the wrap to treat the wrist, thumb, and thumb pad (20 minutes per position).
Anatomy and supply. The Brachialis is a long and strong muscle of the upper arm. It originates at the distal half of the anterior side of the humerus. In addition, the origin tendon attaches to the medial and lateral intermuscular septa of the arm, two dividing membranes separating the flexor from the extensor muscles. Pathology. In cases of extreme strain of the elbow, inflammation of the brachialis tendon (brachialis tendonitis) or injuries of the joint capsule often occur. Too many pull-ups, excessive tennis practice or other inappropriate strain of the elbow are among the typical causes.
When properly developed, the brachialis muscles help the biceps appear bigger, especially the lower portion of the biceps. The brachialis helps in elbow flexion when an overhand grip is used on a weight bar, and also helps to initiate elbow flexion. 
The brachialis is a muscle located at the front of your upper arms. It originates at the lower half of the front of the humerus, or upper arm bone, and inserts at the front of the ulna, or outer forearm bone. If you look directly at the front of your upper arms, you can't see the brachialis. This is because it actually lies underneath the two-headed biceps muscle group. To see the brachialis, you need to flex your arms by bending your elbows and then look at the outer side of your upper arms.
The brachioradialis is a superficial, fusiform muscle on the lateral side of the forearm that attaches proximally on the lateral supracondylar ridge of the humerus and distally on the radius, close to its styloid process. Near the elbow, it forms the lateral limit of the cubital fossa, or elbow pit. The brachioradialis is a stronger elbow flexor when the forearm is in a midposition between supination and pronation at the radioulnar joint. When pronated, the brachioradialis is more active during elbow flexion since the biceps brachii is in a mechanical disadvantage.
Function. The brachialis is the strongest flexor of the elbow joint. It is even a stronger flexor than the biceps brachii, because it is closer to the joint axis and furthermore only stretches over one joint in contrast to the biceps brachii. A small contraction of the muscle consequently leads to a larger flexion in the elbow. Pathology. In cases of extreme strain of the elbow, inflammation of the brachialis tendon (brachialis tendonitis) or injuries of the joint capsule often occur. Too many pull-ups, excessive tennis practice or other inappropriate strain of the elbow are among the typical causes.