0. 7. An MRCP scan is a scan that uses magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to produce pictures of the liver, bile ducts, gallbladder and pancreas. Note: the information below is a general guide only. The arrangements,and the way tests are performed, may vary between different hospitals.
MRCP (Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography) is a non-invasive MRI exam used to visualize the bile ducts, pancreatic duct and the pancreas. 
Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography or MRCP uses a powerful magnetic field, radio waves and a computer to evaluate the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct for disease. It is noninvasive and does not use ionizing radiation. Physicians use MRCP to: 1  examine diseases of the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct. 2  evaluate patients with pancreatitis to detect the underlying cause. 3  help to diagnose unexplained abdominal pain. 4  provide a less invasive alternative to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).
1 The MRCP test can range anywhere from as little as $400 to as much as $7,000 without any sort of insurance. 2  For those who do have health insurance, be sure to check with your provider to learn about what is going to be covered and what you will be responsible for. 1 Often, diagnostic testing facilities offer MRI at a lower rate compared with the cost offered at hospitals. 2  For instance, MRI done at Battlefield Imaging, LLC in Ringgold, GA costs $1,700 while in West George Health System West Georgia Medical Center in Lagrange, GA, MRI costs $3,100. 3  Type of MRI test.
1 Type of MRI test. 2  MRI can be done on different parts of the body. 3  The following are some of the specific MRI procedures and their national cost averages: general MRI – $3,700; Cardiac MRI – $3,600; Chest MRI – $2,850; Brain MRI – $2,550; Pelvic MRI – $2,475; MRI of the head – $1,950; Bone MRI – $1,650. 1 Often, diagnostic testing facilities offer MRI at a lower rate compared with the cost offered at hospitals. 2  For instance, MRI done at Battlefield Imaging, LLC in Ringgold, GA costs $1,700 while in West George Health System West Georgia Medical Center in Lagrange, GA, MRI costs $3,100. 3  Type of MRI test.
1 According to a Diagnostics Tools blog, the cost of an MRI examination can range from $400 to more than $2,000, with the typical cost being approximately $800. 2  CompareMRICost.com states that MRI costs can range from $400 to $3,500, depending on what type of MRI procedure is performed and where it will be performed. 1 Often, diagnostic testing facilities offer MRI at a lower rate compared with the cost offered at hospitals. 2  For instance, MRI done at Battlefield Imaging, LLC in Ringgold, GA costs $1,700 while in West George Health System West Georgia Medical Center in Lagrange, GA, MRI costs $3,100. 3  Type of MRI test.
Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is a special type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) exam that produces detailed images of the hepatobiliary and pancreatic systems, including the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct. Physicians use MRCP to: 1  examine diseases of the liver, gallbladder, bile ducts, pancreas and pancreatic duct. 2  evaluate patients with pancreatitis to detect the underlying cause. 3  help to diagnose unexplained abdominal pain. 4  provide a less invasive alternative to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).
The MRCP test is known as the Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography test. The MRCP test is used to generate images of the pancreas, the gall bladder, the bile ducts, the liver and the pancreatic ducts. The MRCP test for gallstones is thus usually recommended for many.
MRCP(UK) Part 1 Examination dates and fees. Dates for the 2015 and 2016 MRCP(UK) Part 1 Examinations are available below. Details are correct at the time of publication, however MRCP(UK) reserves the right to change these at any time. 