Capricorn! The sign Capricorn is one of the most stable and (mostly) serious of the zodiacal types. These independent, rocklike characters have many sterling qualities. They are normally confident, strong willed and calm. These hardworking, unemotional, shrewd, practical, responsible, persevering, and.
Certified Astrologer; NCGR Member. The perfect person for a Capricorn is an individual that is responsible, ardent and funny, with an entire other set of personality characteristics thrown in for good measure! Capricorn gets a bad rap for being serious and, like fellow earth signs Taurus and Virgo, very responsible. To a certain extent, these characteristics are true; Capricorns are serious and responsible, but this is just the tip of the Capricorn iceberg.
Characteristics of People Born in Sign Capricorn. Capricorn is the 10th zodiac sign. This is a feminine sign and is the lord of south direction. Its primary element is earth. Saturn is the lord of Capricorn. Mars is exalted and Jupiter is debilitated on this sign. Natives born in Capricorn are practical and have conventional outlook towards life. Every step of the natives of Capricorn is the result of their immense calculation and awareness. Astrology points out some shortcomings in their character. They are jealous of other people’s success. They are not big hearted enough to see the betterment of other people.
The Capricorn personality is one of a natural perfectionist who always strives to do and be the absolute best possible. They thrive as entrepreneurs, trailblazers, accountants, and idea men. Capricorns are typically also diplomatic sorts who win people over with their razor sharp wits and biting senses of humor. Ruled by stern, serious Saturn, Capricorn natives are folks who approach life from a rational standpoint, are big on tradition, and tend to be conservative in their approach to life in general.
Capricorn is the tenth sign of the astrological year and is known by its astrological symbol, the Goat. Capricorn individuals are controlled, conscientious, and practical. With Saturn as the ruling planet, people born under this sign are self-disciplined and hard-working. They are highly efficient and dedicated to becoming a success.
Capricorn brings about a trait of not being contented with prevelant conditions, which is good in a way because it spurs people to do something about it, but it also brings about this other not so congenial and understanding side. There is the never-give-up always fighting, always moving, always gaining altitude kind of person and there is also the confined person with self-imposed restrictions, who likes to stay at one place and work for what he values the most.
People born in Capricorn sign are down to earth and very realistic. These traits of their nature make them a little suspicious. They are cautious about everything they come in contact with and always stay alert. Every step of the natives of Capricorn is the result of their immense calculation and awareness. Astrology points out some shortcomings in their character. They are jealous of other people’s success. They are not big hearted enough to see the betterment of other people.
Capricorns are people who seem to be a little formal, a little out of place with their fun-loving background, but that is because they actually like to have the right thing in the right place. There is the never-give-up always fighting, always moving, always gaining altitude kind of person and there is also the confined person with self-imposed restrictions, who likes to stay at one place and work for what he values the most.