A Slingbox is an audio-video (AV) device that you can use to watch and control your TV wherever you are, on your desktop or laptop computer, phone, tablet, and more. This is called placeshifting. A Slingbox connects to your TV's set-top box, your TV, and your home network.
Slingbox Software. Slingbox works in conjunction with the SlingPlayer software you install on your computer. Together, they sling NTSC or PAL video data to another location. It works with regular TV, satellite TV, cable TV, a DVD player, DVR or camcorder.
The network connector on the Slingbox then connects to your Internet router with a standard ethernet cable, or wirelessly with a special bridge adapter. An infrared cable from the Slingbox, pointed at your TV or DVR gives you the ability to remotely control them from your computer.
The Slingbox is a TV streaming media device made by Sling Media that encodes local video for transmission over the Internet to a remote device (sometimes called placeshifting).
Slingbox is a hardware device that transmits signals from a cable or satellite television connection to a personal computer over the Internet. The device, which is manufactured and distributed by Sling Media, is intended for TV placeshifting with individual computers.
A Slingbox is a physical device that you attach to your cablebox/DVR and it allows you to control and view your TV/cablebox/DVR content from afar using a broadband Internet connection and the SlingPlayer app on your mobile phone, iPad, or through Slingbox software on your laptop.
The Good The Slingbox 500 streams video from your TV or DVR (or any analog source) to your PC, tablet, smartphone, and some streaming boxes at resolutions up to full 1080p HD. IR blasters are built into the box’s body, eliminating the need for annoying extra external wires.
Save up to $50 on Slingbox M2 or 500. Imagine having access to your favorite shows and channels – on any device, in any location. With Slingbox, you can watch live cable or satellite TV, video apps, recorded shows, and on demand shows on your phone, tablet, and computer. Anywhere in the world.