Background. Metabolic acidosis is a clinical disturbance characterized by an increase in plasma acidity. Metabolic acidosis should be considered a sign of an underlying disease process. Identification of this underlying condition is essential to initiate appropriate therapy. Metabolic acidosis is a primary decrease in serum HCO 3. Rarely, metabolic acidosis can be part of a mixed or complex acid-base disturbance in which 2 or more separate metabolic or respiratory derangements occur together. In these instances, pH may not be reduced or the HCO 3 - concentration may not be low.
1 Both diarrhea and vomiting can cause this type of acidosis. 2  Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 3  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid. 4  These include chronic alcohol use, heart failure, cancer, seizures, liver failure, prolonged lack of oxygen, and low blood sugar. 1 This base helps to keep the blood neutral. 2  Both diarrhea and vomiting can cause this type of acidosis. 3  Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 4
Metabolic acidosis, as a disruption of the body's acid/base balance, can be a mild symptom brought on by a lack of insulin, a starvation diet, or a gastrointestinal disorder like vomiting and diarrhea. Metabolic acidosis can indicate a more serious problem with a major organ like the liver, heart, or kidneys. In compensated acidosis pH may be normal, with a high blood bicarbonate concentration (due to increased renal retention) when the cause was respiratory, or with a low blood carbon dioxide (due to hyperventilation) when the cause was metabolic. See also glycolysis, lactic acid.
Acidosis is a serious metabolic imbalance in which there is an excess of acidic molecules in the body. This can occur as a result of acid overproduction, impaired acid transport, acid underexcretion, or any combination. With overproduction, the body makes too much acid. This can occur in sepsis, a life-threatening widespread infection in which the body makes too much lactic acid. With underexcretion, the body is unable to rid itself of excess acid. This can occur in renal failure and various lung diseases. In renal failure, the kidneys are unable to cleanse the blood of acid.
A normal serum HCO 3 - level does not rule out the presence of metabolic acidosis, because a drop in HCO 3 - from a high baseline (ie, preexisting metabolic alkalosis) can result in a serum HCO 3 - level that is within the reference range, concealing the metabolic acidosis. Metabolic acidosis is a primary decrease in serum HCO 3. Rarely, metabolic acidosis can be part of a mixed or complex acid-base disturbance in which 2 or more separate metabolic or respiratory derangements occur together. In these instances, pH may not be reduced or the HCO 3 - concentration may not be low.
acidosis. 1. the accumulation of acid and hydrogen ions or depletion of the alkaline reserve (bicarbonate content) in the blood and body tissues, resulting in a decrease in pH. 2. a pathologic condition resulting from this process, characterized by increase in hydrogen ion concentration (decrease in pH). In compensated acidosis pH may be normal, with a high blood bicarbonate concentration (due to increased renal retention) when the cause was respiratory, or with a low blood carbon dioxide (due to hyperventilation) when the cause was metabolic. See also glycolysis, lactic acid.
For acidosis referring to acidity of the urine, see renal tubular acidosis. Acidosis is an increased acidity in the blood and other body tissue (i.e. an increased hydrogen ion concentration). If not further qualified, it usually refers to acidity of the blood plasma. Acidosis is said to occur when arterial pH falls below 7.35 (except in the fetus-see below), while its counterpart (alkalosis) occurs at a pH over 7.45. Arterial blood gas analysis and other tests are required to separate the main causes
It is defined as excessive blood acidity caused by one of the following conditions: an overabundance of acid in the blood, a loss of bicarbonate from the blood (metabolic acidosis), or by a buildup of carbon dioxide in the blood due to poor lung function or slow breathing (respiratory acidosis). 
Acidosis occurs when your kidneys and lungs can’t keep your body’s pH in balance. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa. Respiratory acidosis occurs when your lungs do not properly eliminate the carbon dioxide (CO2). 1 This base helps to keep the blood neutral. 2  Both diarrhea and vomiting can cause this type of acidosis. 3  Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 4  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid.