culture noun. › [C or U] the way of ​life, especially the ​general ​customs and beliefs, of a particular ​group of ​people at a particular ​time: You will need ​time to get used to ​working in a different culture. In today's culture, ​wireless is ​part of our ​daily ​lives. 
For example, there is common agreement in a culture on what things mean. Members of a culture share specific symbolic meanings, including (but not limited to) language. In America, for example, brides wear white as a symbol of purity. In China, red is worn by a bride as a celebratory or happy color, while white is the color of mourning. Thus colors take on symbolic meaning, as do religious symbols (icons), art, etc. All culture is learned; none is inherited.
noun. Antipathy is defined as a strong feeling of opposition or dislike. An example of antipathy is how a staunch Republican might feel about a Democrat. The definition of antipathy is something which is naturally opposed or disliked. An example of an antipathy is a tarantula. 1 Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike; repugnance; distaste. 2  Natural contrariety; incompatibility; repugnancy of qualities; as, oil and water have antipathy.
[A] phobia about homosexuals.... It was a fear of homosexuals which seemed to be associated with a fear of contagion, a fear of reducing the things one fought for — home and family. It was a religious fear and it had led to great brutality as fear always does. Beyond sexology there is no consensus as to the meaning of the term because it is also used to mean fear of the opposite such as in Pierre-Andre André 'taguieff S The force Of: Prejudice On racism And Its (doubles). 2001
Culture is the characteristics and knowledge of a particular group of people, defined by everything from language, religion, cuisine, social habits, music and arts. The word culture derives from a French term, which in turn derives from the Latin colere, which means to tend to the earth and grow, or cultivation and nurture.
Homophobia encompasses a range of negative attitudes and feelings toward homosexuality or people who are identified or perceived as being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT). Beyond sexology there is no consensus as to the meaning of the term because it is also used to mean fear of the opposite such as in Pierre-Andre André 'taguieff S The force Of: Prejudice On racism And Its (doubles). 2001
Antipathy is a voluntary or involuntary dislike for something or somebody, the opposite of sympathy. Thus, the origin of antipathy has been subject to various philosophical and psychological explanations, which some people find convincing and others regard as highly speculative. The exploration of a philosophical aspect for antipathy has been found in an essay by John Locke, an early modern 17th century philosopher.
Thus, it can be seen as the growth of a group identity fostered by social patterns unique to the group. The word culture derives from a French term, which in turn derives from the Latin colere, which means to tend to the earth and grow, or cultivation and nurture.
1 Culture is the sum of total of the learned behavior of a group of people that are generally considered to be the tradition of that people and are transmitted from generation to generation. 2  Culture is a collective programming of the mind that distinguishes the members of one group or category of people from another. CULTURAL ETHNOCENTRISM. 1  Ethnocentrism is the belief that one's own culture is superior to that of other cultures. 2  It is a form of reductionism that reduces the other way of life to a distorted version of one's own.
1 A culture is a way of life of a group of people--the behaviors, beliefs, values, and symbols that they accept, generally without thinking about them, and that are passed along by communication and imitation from one generation to the next. CULTURAL ETHNOCENTRISM. 1  Ethnocentrism is the belief that one's own culture is superior to that of other cultures. 2  It is a form of reductionism that reduces the other way of life to a distorted version of one's own.