Scandinavia is a large region of Northern Europe that is mainly made up of the Scandinavian Peninsula. As such, it includes the countries of Norway and Sweden. In addition, Denmark, Finland and Iceland are also included in Scandinavia. Geographically, the Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Europe and it extends from above the Arctic Circle at 66.5°N latitude south to the North and Baltic Seas. 
Click on above map to view higher resolution image. Denmark geography information. Denmark consists of a peninsula (Jutland) and many islands, for example, Zealand, Fyn and Bornholm. Greenland, one of the world's largest islands, is self-governing but part of the Kingdom. The eighteen Faroe Islands, which have some degree of self-government, are also part of the Kingdom of Denmark. The country is low and flat with rolling hills
For the most part Denmark consists of flat lands with very little elevation, except for the hilly central area on the Jutland Peninsula. Its average height above sea level is only 31 meters (101 feet) and the highest natural point is Mollehoj, at 170.86 meters (560.6 ft). Denmark's lowest point is Lammefjord, at 7 meters below sea level. The coastline is indented by many fjords, with LimFjord (in the north) the largest. In addition to the Jutland Peninsula, the country includes over 440 named islands; Zealand is the largest, followed by Funen, Lolland, Falster and Bornholm, an island located in the Baltic Sea to the east of Zealand
The territory of Denmark includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the rest of metropolitan Denmark, but excludes the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Its position gives Denmark complete control of the Danish Straits (Skagerrak and Kattegat) linking the Baltic and North Seas. Denmark is located southwest of Sweden and due south of Norway and is bordered by the German state (and former possession) Schleswig-Holstein to the south, on Denmark's only land border, 68 kilometres (42 miles) long. Denmark borders both the Baltic and North Seas along its 7,314 km (4,545 mi) tidal shoreline.
View More. Geography of Denmark: Read this article to learn information about the Scandinavian country of Denmark. Learn about Denmark's history, government, economy, geography and climate from Geography at About.com
Geography. Smallest of the Scandinavian countries (half the size of Maine), Denmark occupies the Jutland peninsula, a lowland area. The country also consists of several islands in the Baltic Sea; the two largest are Sjaelland, sjælland the site Of, copenhagen And. fyn 
Denmark is a Nordic country located in Northern Europe. It consists of the Jutland peninsula and several islands in the Baltic sea, referred to as the Danish Archipelago. Denmark is located southwest of Sweden and due south of Norway and is bordered by the German state (and former possession) Schleswig-Holstein to the south, on Denmark's only land border, 68 kilometres (42 miles) long. Denmark borders both the Baltic and North Seas along its 7,314 km (4,545 mi) tidal shoreline.
Denmark is the smallest of the regions countries. Most of Denmark lies on the Jutland Peninsula. More than 55% of Denmark's land is used for farming. Denmark borders the Baltic Sea and the North Sea also includes two major islands (Sjaelland and Fyn). Denmark is humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool summers. 
See photos of the top happiness hot spots around the world—Denmark, Singapore, Mexico, and San Luis Obispo, California—and discover some of the secrets of thrivers. 