We recycle silicon wafers; scrap, broken patterned wafers, IC bare wafers, IC broken wafers, rejected, IC flake with plastic, polished or coated silicon wafer scrap, and IC wafer, we purchase any type of scrap wafers. We recycle silicon wafers manufactured during the semi-conductors production process. We also recycle large quantities of wafers from solar panels. The solar panels are made from rejected and discarded wafers. If you have any scrap wafers to recycle, we can provide you with a high quality solution, please contact your local Juz Electronic office for more details.
Grind Down Old Silicone for Recycling. To recycle silicone, grind down the old silicone into small, shredded pieces. One achieves this with either some craft scissors or a blade. If a large amount of silicon is being recycled, a kitchen grinder is an ideal option. How to Buy Recycled Silicone. To find the necessary equipment and products to recycle your own silicone at home, search eBay for what you need. Simply type  silicone molding kit into the search bar on any eBay page. Use the search category options to find the item you desire.
Search word tags:Phoenix Recycling, recycle Silicone, plastic recycling, Silicone Scrap recycling, plastic waste, Silicone recycler, Silicone Scrap waste, scrap Silicone Scrap, plastic scrap, Silicone scrap, Silicone plastic, Silicone recycling, Silicone waste, Silicone exporter, buy Silicone, sell Silicone. 
Steps to Recycling Silicone. One can recycle silicone at home with a few basic pieces of equipment and some simple techniques. Many people like to recycle silicone rubber they have available around the house instead of throwing it in the trash. How to Buy Recycled Silicone. To find the necessary equipment and products to recycle your own silicone at home, search eBay for what you need. Simply type  silicone molding kit into the search bar on any eBay page. Use the search category options to find the item you desire.
Scrap Silicon, Wafers & Solar Cells. Targray can take care of all your silicon recycling needs. Our capabilities include reclaiming and recycling of scrap silicon, including bare, coated and patterned IC silicon wafers, as well as broken solar cells. We will buy reclaim material from any part of the solar manufacturing chain including: 1  Silicon Scrap
ECO U.S.A’s process begins by identifying the users of silicone, whether you are a manufacturer or the end user, our experts will analyze your manufacturing processes and pin-point an optimal waste removal solution for your post-production silicone. Not only do we recycle silicone, we are capable of recycling cured-silicone rubber! We also have the capability of recycling past shelf life materials, as well as, off-spec products. Basically, we can recycle. product made from silicone rubber! We fully understand your concerns with the safety of handling your post-production material. We guarantee the material we collect to only be recycled
Technically, silicone is considered part of the rubber family. But, if you define plastics widely, as we do, silicone is something of a hybrid between a synthetic rubber and a synthetic plastic polymer. Silicone can be used to make malleable rubber-like items, hard resins, and spreadable fluids. So silicone is a kind of hybrid material. (Terry, p. 277). Thus, while most plastics have a polymer backbone of hydrogen and carbon, silicones have a backbone made of silicon and oxygen, and hydrocarbon side groups-all of which gives them plastic-like characteristics. Silicone is often used for baby nipples, cookware, bakeware, utensils, and toy
It is made by curing or vulcanizing natural rubber. Silicon is injected into the long hydrocarbon chains of natural rubber under high heat and pressure. The result is silicone rubber. Silicone rubber is a silicon polymer with rubberized qualities. It was first produced under the chemical name of polydimethlysiloxane. Silicone rubber is heat resistant so can be used to make cookware including oven mitts, tongs, pot holders and pan handles. Silicone rubber also possesses non-stick qualities, so it can be formed into flexible cookware such as muffin and cake pans. All silicone is inert, it does not react with other elements or compounds. There are (as yet) no known health hazards of silicone. Silicone is not biodegradable, but it can be recycled easily – where facilities exist. Silicone comes in two grades, food and medical grade silicone.