This does not men that the skin condition is hereditary. Genital warts are one of the easiest to contact. It can be contacted through sexual intercourse. In case the mother has genital warts, the infant can come in contact with it during child labor. Warts are very contagious and it can also come up on several parts of the body. It can come up on the face and even the genitals. Any body contact with the skin condition is enough to get someone infected with it.
Genital warts are a virus which only affects the top layers of your skin. Honeslty there are over 100 types of hpv but there are only a certain few that can cause gental warts. They are highly contagious and are spread through sexual contact. hope this helps. nothing life threating at all.. 
Answers. Best Answer: No genital warts are not hereditary Like warts that appear on other areas of your skin, genital warts are caused by a virus — HPV — that infects the top layers of your skin. There are more than 100 different types of HPV, but only a few can cause genital warts. These strains of the virus are highly contagious and spread through sexual contact with an infected person. About two-thirds of people who have sexual contact with someone who has genital warts develop the condition — usually within three months of contact, but in some cases not for years
Warts are caused through direct contact with HPV, which is contagious. HPV may spread by person-to-person contact or through direct contact with an object used by a person with the virus. The virus that causes warts also can spread to other places on the body of the person with warts. 
Genetics of Warts: Warts is NOT a genetic disease. Warts is an infectious disease. In general, an infectious disease can be caused by a pathogenic organism (viruses, bacteria, fungi, worms, parasites) that can invade the body and cause infection. 
Genetics of Genital wart: Genital wart is NOT a genetic disease. Genital wart is an infectious disease. In general, an infectious disease can be caused by a pathogenic organism (viruses, bacteria, fungi, worms, parasites) that can invade the body and cause infection. 
Warts are a very common skin condition the world over. So many people are having it and the rate at which it is benign transmitted is very high. Warts are very contagious and it can also come up on several parts of the body. It can come up on the face and even the genitals. Any body contact with the skin condition is enough to get someone infected with it.
The HPV virus has a life cycle. The type of HPV that causes warts on the hands will get into the epithelial or outer layer of skin through tiny cuts or abrasions. Once this virus is inside the tissue, its genetic material is transported to the core of the skin cells. 