Hand, foot and mouth disease is a viral infection that can affect young children. It doesn't usually pose a serious threat to a child's health, but it can be be an unpleasant condition, particularly if it affects younger children.
1 Because hand-foot-and-mouth disease is highly contagious, people with the illness should limit their exposure to others while they have active signs and symptoms. 2  Keep children with hand-foot-and-mouth disease out of child care or school until fever is gone and mouth sores have healed.
It usually takes 3 to 6 days for a person to get symptoms of hand-foot-and-mouth disease after being exposed to the virus. This is called the incubation period.
Hand, foot and mouth disease is a self-limiting condition, which means that it will get better by on its own without treatment. The symptoms will usually pass within seven days. However, speak to your GP or call NHS Direct (0845 46 47) if you are unsure whether your child has hand, foot and mouth disease.
1 Isolate contagious people. 2  Because hand-foot-and-mouth disease is highly contagious, people with the illness should limit their exposure to others while they have active signs and symptoms. 3  Keep children with hand-foot-and-mouth disease out of child care or school until fever is gone and mouth sores have healed.
However, the coxsackievirus may spread for weeks after signs and symptoms have disappeared.Keep children with hand-foot-and-mouth disease out of child care or school until fever is gone and mouth sores have healed.
No! You do not have to keep your child home because they have Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease. Other children in your child's classroom have already been exposed to the Hand, Foot, and Mouth germs before your child became symptomatic.
However, speak to your GP or call NHS 111 if you're unsure whether your child has hand, foot and mouth disease. You should also contact your GP if your child isn’t drinking any fluid or their symptoms last longer than seven days.
Keep your child home until 7 days after rash starts. Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease If your student has hand, foot, and mouth disease, she should be out of school or childcare while she has fever, excessive drooling, difficulty swallowing, or is too sick to do routine school activities.
A doctor can tell if your child has hand-foot-and-mouth disease by the symptoms you describe and by looking at the sores and blisters.