Gothic architecture [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: A style of architecture developed in northern France that spread throughout Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries; characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches. Classified under: Nouns denoting cognitive processes and contents. English-Gothic; English-Gothic architecture; perpendicular; perpendicular style (a Gothic style in 14th and 15th century England; characterized by vertical lines and a four-centered (Tudor) arch and fan vaulting).
Gothic-a style of architecture developed in northern France that spread throughout Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries; characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches. Gothic architecture. 
3. a style of architecture developed in northern France that spread throughout Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries; characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches. Familiarity information: GOTHIC used as a noun is uncommon. • GOTHIC (adjective). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of Gothic): English-Gothic; English-Gothic architecture; perpendicular; perpendicular style (a Gothic style in 14th and 15th century England; characterized by vertical lines and a four-centered (Tudor) arch and fan vaulting)
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of Gothic architecture): English-Gothic; English-Gothic architecture; perpendicular; perpendicular style (a Gothic style in 14th and 15th century England; characterized by vertical lines and a four-centered (Tudor) arch and fan vaulting).
Gothic, Gothic architecture (noun). a style of architecture developed in northern France that spread throughout Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries; characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as French work, with the term Gothic first appearing during the latter part of the Renaissance.
Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance. There can be no doubt that the term 'Gothic' as applied to pointed styles of ecclesiastical architecture was used at first contemptuously, and in derision, by those who were ambitious to imitate and revive the Grecian orders of architecture, after the revival of classical literature.
Gothic architecture is a style of architecture that flourished during the high and late medieval period. It evolved from Romanesque architecture and was succeeded by Renaissance architecture. There can be no doubt that the term 'Gothic' as applied to pointed styles of ecclesiastical architecture was used at first contemptuously, and in derision, by those who were ambitious to imitate and revive the Grecian orders of architecture, after the revival of classical literature.
: of or relating to a style of writing that describes strange or frightening events that take place in mysterious places. : of or relating to a style of architecture that was popular in Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries and that uses pointed arches, thin and tall walls, and large windows. 
Later Gothic depiction of the Adoration of the Magi from Strasbourg Cathedral. Gothic sculpture, late 15th century, Amiens Cathedral. Gothic art was a style of Medieval art that developed in Northern France out of Romanesque art in the 12th century AD, led by the concurrent development of Gothic architecture. It spread to all of Western Europe, never quite effacing more classical styles in Italy. The Gothic period is essentially defined by Gothic architecture, and does not entirely fit with the development of style in sculpture in either its start or finish.