Two forms of vitamin A are available in the human diet: preformed vitamin A (retinol and its esterified form, retinyl ester) and provitamin A carotenoids [ 1-5 ]. Preformed vitamin A is found in foods from animal sources, including dairy products, fish, and meat (especially liver). By far the most important provitamin A carotenoid is beta-carotene; other provitamin A carotenoids are alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin. 
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to retinol (chemically an alcohol) in the small intestine. The retinol form functions as a storage form of the vitamin, and can be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal. Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
1 Some types of fish, such as salmon. 2  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 3  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 4  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 5  Fortified breakfast cereals. 1 Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 2  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 3  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 4
As the body does not store water-soluble vitamins, these vitamins are generally not harmful. However, this doesn't mean that all large amounts are necessarily harmless. Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air. They can also be lost in water used for cooking
These are foods that contain vitamin A or its precursor called beta-carotene. Animal foods contain vitamin A whereas no plant food provides vitamin A but instead they have beta-carotene which is converted to vitamin A in the liver. The foods listed in this article are good sources of vitamin A or beta-carotene. 
Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  : Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
1 Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. 3  It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate. Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A is found naturally in many foods and is added to some foods, such as milk and cereal. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat). 1 Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 2  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 3  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 4  Fortified breakfast cereals.
There are two different types of vitamin A. The first type, preformed vitamin A, is found in meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. The second type, provitamin A, is found in fruits, vegetables, and other plant-based products. 1 Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 2  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 3  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 4  Fortified breakfast cereals.
The form of vitamin A found in fruits and vegetables is known as carotenoids. The most common type of carotenoid is-carotene (beta carotene). These carotenoids are used to build the type of vitamin A used by our body. Vitamin A is important to vision and the growth of the bones. 