Introduction. Ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution granted American women the right to vote—a right known as woman suffrage. At the time the U.S. was founded, its female citizens did not share all of the same rights as men, including the right to vote
The 15th Amendment to the Constitution granted African American men the right to vote by declaring that the right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.. March 7, 1965 The Selma-to-Montgomery March for African American voting rights began on March 7, 1965. On the outskirts of Selma the marchers, in plain sight of photographers and journalists, were brutally assaulted by heavily armed state troopers and deputies.
Introduction. The Voting Rights Act, signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson (1908-73) on August 6, 1965, aimed to overcome legal barriers at the state and local levels that prevented African Americans from exercising their right to vote under the 15th Amendment (1870) to the Constitution of the United States. In 1965, at the time of the passage of the Voting Rights Act, there were six African-American members of the U.S. House of Representativesandno blacks in the U.S. Senate. By 1971, there were 13 members of the House and one black member of the Senate.
In 1789, African-Americans were defined in the Constitution as 3/5 of a person for counting representation, and could not vote at all. (Constitution's Article 1, section 2, and elsewhere). In 1865, following the Civil War, African-Americans were given the right to vote and the 3/5ths clause was rescinded. (14th and 15th Amendment). 
African-American men received the right to vote in 1870, as a result of the 15th Amendment to the constitution. Voting has been a state issue since the Founding. Some states allowed free Blacks to vote early in US history, most did not. The post-Civil War amendments outlawed state and f … ed rules forbidding voting by race. The US Constitution granted African-American men the right to vote under the Fifteenth Amendment in 1870. African-American women were not allowed to vote until the Nineteenth Amendment (women's suffrage) was ratified in 1920
The 15th Amendment, ratified in 1870, gave African-American men the right to vote. Women (both black and white) did not receive suffrage till the 19th Amendment was ratified i … n August 1920. Voting has been a state issue since the Founding. Some states allowed free Blacks to vote early in US history, most did not. The post-Civil War amendments outlawed state and f … ed rules forbidding voting by race. The US Constitution granted African-American men the right to vote under the Fifteenth Amendment in 1870. African-American women were not allowed to vote until the Nineteenth Amendment (women's suffrage) was ratified in
Black Americans got the right to vote when the Republicans passed the 15th Amendment. It was ratified on February 3, 1870 and was the 3rd of the Reconstruction amendments. Many uninformed people think the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that was filibustered by the Democrats, gave blacks the right to vote. It didn'
The Fifteenth Amendment, ratified in 1870, granted African-American men the right to vote; African-American women did not receive this right until the Nineteenth Amendment (wo … men's suffrage) was ratified in 1920. Voting has been a state issue since the Founding. Some states allowed free Blacks to vote early in US history, most did not. The post-Civil War amendments outlawed state and f … ed rules forbidding voting by race. The US Constitution granted African-American men the right to vote under the Fifteenth Amendment in 1870. African-American women were not allowed to vote until the Nineteenth Amendment (wo