Vitamins: Introduction and Index. Vitamins are organic molecules that are necessary for normal metabolism in animals, but either are not synthesized in the body or are synthesized in inadequate quantities. Consequently, vitamins must be obtained from the diet. Most vitamins function as coenzymes or cofactors
Vitamins That Function As Coenzymes. B vitamins act as coenzymes to help enzymes do their work in metabolism. Photo Credit Fred Froese/Photodisc/Getty Images. Members of the vitamin B complex serve as coenzymes that assist every cell in the human body. They help the body metabolize carbohydrates, proteins and fats and build DNA for new cells. Without its coenzyme, an enzyme will not function. Vitamins work together in impressive ways as coenzymes or precursors to coenzymes.
Cofactors, mostly metal ions or coenzymes, are inorganic and organic chemicals that assist enzymes during the catalysis of reactions. Coenzymes are non-protein organic molecules that are mostly derivatives of vitamins soluble in water by phosphorylation; they bind apoenzyme to proteins to produce an active holoenzyme. Sometimes, they are called cosubstrates and are considered substrates that are loosely bound to the enzyme. In metabolism, coenzymes play a role in group-transfer reactions, such as ATP and coenzyme A, and oxidation-reduction reactions, such as NAD+ and coenzyme Q10.
We will use this chapter to introduce all of the vitamins and coenzymes. In a few cases--NAD + , FAD, coenzyme A--the mechanisms of action will be covered. For the remainder of the water-soluble vitamins, discussion of function will be delayed until we encounter them in metabolism. 
Coenzymes And Metabolism. Coenzymes carry out fairly simple chemical reactions, but these reactions have a major impact on metabolic functions. Vitamin K prevents blood clotting by speeding up the synthesis of gamma-carboxyglutamate, a molecule that binds to free-floating calcium ions. 
Thiamin, or vitamin B1, functions as a coenzyme in the oxidation of glucose. Thiamin serves as a coenzyme for several enzymes that take part in metabolic reactions. Members of the vitamin B complex serve as coenzymes that assist every cell in the human body. They help the body metabolize carbohydrates, proteins and fats and build DNA for new cells. Without its coenzyme, an enzyme will not function. Vitamins work together in impressive ways as coenzymes or precursors to coenzymes.
What are coenzymes. Enzymes are protein catalysts that are responsible for lowering the energy barrier of many biological reactions. They function by reducing the activation energy of the reactions that they catalyse which allows the metabolic reaction to occur faster and at physiological temperatures. Role of coenzymes. Coenzymes are a type of cofactor and they are bound to enzyme active sites to aid with their proper functioning. Coenzymes which are directly involved and altered in the course of chemical reactions are considered to be a type of secondary substrate.
Organic cofactors are often vitamins or are made from vitamins. Many contain the nucleotide adenosine monophosphate (AMP) as part of their structures, such as ATP, coenzyme A, FAD, and NAD+ . This common structure may reflect a common evolutionary origin as part of ribozymes in an ancient RNA world. A cofactor is a non-protein chemical compound that is required for the protein's biological activity. These proteins are commonly enzymes, and cofactors can be considered helper molecules that assist in biochemical transformations.
Pyridoxine, also called vitamin B6, is a precursor to a coenzyme for important reactions that involve protein metabolism, including the synthesis of amino acids. When you eat meat, fish and poultry, you benefit from vitamin B6. It also occurs in many vegetables, such as potatoes and tomatoes. Members of the vitamin B complex serve as coenzymes that assist every cell in the human body. They help the body metabolize carbohydrates, proteins and fats and build DNA for new cells. Without its coenzyme, an enzyme will not function. Vitamins work together in impressive ways as coenzymes or precursors to coenzymes.
Coenzyme Vitamins. Vitamins are substances needed in small amounts for normal body functions that the body cannot synthesize in adequate amounts. In many cases vitamins act as cofactors that are needed in order to allow enzymes to perform their important work of facilitating metabolism in the body. In this case the vitamins are called coenzyme vitamins.