African-American name. In African-American, the name Shani means-Of Swahili origin, meaning marvelous.. Other origins for the name Shani include-African-American, Egyptian, Irish.The name Shani is most often used as a girl name or female name. African-American Name Meaning-Of Swahili origin, meaning marvelous. Origin-African-American.
The different meanings of the name Shani are: The meaning of the name “Shani” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Pronunciation: (shah nee). Form of: Itself (Shani). Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Shani and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Shani and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Shani is fascinating, learn more about it
In addition, Shani is a form of the English Shannon. Shani is also a familiar form (Welsh) of the Welsh and English Sian. Siân shani has 13. Forms forms of the name Include, Shainee, Shaini, Shanea, Shanee, Shaney, Shanie, Shannea, Shannee, Shanney, Shanni, Shannie, shanny And. Shany shani is rare as a baby girl. name In addition, Shani is a form of the English Shannon. Shani is also a familiar form (Welsh) of the Welsh and English Sian. Siân shani has 13. Forms forms of the name Include, Shainee, Shaini, Shanea, Shanee, Shaney, Shanie, Shannea, Shannee, Shanney, Shanni, Shannie, shanny And. shany
American Meaning: The name Shani is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Shani is: Wonderful. Irish Meaning: The name Shani is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Shani is: Present. Also a feminine form of Sean: Irish God is gracious; gift from God. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc
Shani /sha-ni/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Shani) is pronounced SHAH-nee. It is of Hebrew and Swahili origin, and the meaning of Shani is crimson; a marvel, wondrous. Refers to the metaphorical Scarlet thread or theme of a story. Kreatif forms: Shanni, Shini, Shuni. Shani is a very prominent first name for females (#2002 out of 4276, Top 47%) and a slightly less prominent last name for all people (#111740 out of 150436, Top 74%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Shani for girls.
More About Swahili Name: Shani. Shani is a unisex baby name of Hebrew origin, and its meaning is crimson, scarlet; red.. Shani has also been used in the United States as a variant of Shaina or Shawnee, or as a pet name of such names as Shannon. As a Hebrew name, Shani means red, crimson, scarlet