Search. An abstract noun is a word which names something that you cannot see, hear, touch, smell, or taste. It is the opposite of a concrete noun. Examples: It is not always easy to spot an abstract noun, and it is common for grammarians to argue over whether the thing represented by a noun is perceivable or not. 
The word 'this' is not a noun. The word this is a  pronoun, an adjective, and an  adverb.    The word 'this' is a demonstrative pronoun, a word  that takes the place … of a noun, indicating near or far in place or  time.   The demonstrative pronouns are: this, that, these, those. I is a pronoun, not a noun; I is a first person, singular, subject pronoun. A pronoun is a word that takes the place of a noun to make a sentence easier to say and write. Exam … ple use: My name is Mary. I live in Texas and I like to go swimming. We use the pronoun because to keep using the name becomes clumsy
12. team: collective noun. Notes. A proper noun is the name of a particular person, place or thing. A common noun is a name given in common to every person or thing of the same class or kind. A collective noun is the name of a collection of people or things taken together and spoken of as a whole. 
The word 'kind' is both an adjective and a noun. The noun kind, a singular, common, abstract noun is a word for a group of individuals or instances sharing common traits; a ca … tegory. The noun forms for the adjective kind are kindness and kindliness. Yes, a possessive noun is a kind of noun; a possessive noun is a noun in the possessive case. Example: noun: tree possessive noun: the tree's leaves noun: Robert possessive n … oun: Robert's bicycle noun: story possessive noun: the story's end. + 1 other found this useful. Leonardo Amaya. Notyouraveragedummy ..
The word 'your' is not a noun. The word 'your' is a  pronoun.    A pronoun is a word that takes the place of a noun in a sentence.   The pronoun 'your' is a the se … cond person, possessive adjective. I is a pronoun, not a noun; I is a first person, singular, subject pronoun. A pronoun is a word that takes the place of a noun to make a sentence easier to say and write. Exam … ple use: My name is Mary. I live in Texas and I like to go swimming. We use the pronoun because to keep using the name becomes clumsy
A noun is a word for a person, a place, or a thing.   A pronoun is a word that takes the place of a noun in … a sentence.    The pronoun 'he' is a personal pronoun, a word that takes  the place of a noun (name) for a male. I is a pronoun, not a noun; I is a first person, singular, subject pronoun. A pronoun is a word that takes the place of a noun to make a sentence easier to say and write. Exam … ple use: My name is Mary. I live in Texas and I like to go swimming. We use the pronoun because to keep using the name becomes clumsy
TYPES OF NOUN. DEFINITION: Noun is a word which is used to name something as a person, animal, thing and place. There are six kinds of noun in English. 1) Proper Noun. 2) Common Noun. DEFINITION: Common Noun is a name which is given in common to everyone (person, thing, animal…..). Example: Man, teacher, doctor, dog, cat, house, chair…. 3) ABSTRACTIVE NOUN. DEFINITION: Abstractive Noun is the name of idea, quality and action that is the name of something we can’t touch, see, smell and taste.
The noun woods is a common, concrete noun; as a singular noun, a word for a group of trees; as a plural noun a word for more than one woodwind musical instrument. The noun w … ood is an uncountable (mass) noun for a substance; the plural form for uncountable nouns is reserved for 'types of', 'kinds of'. Yes, a possessive noun is a kind of noun; a possessive noun is a noun in the possessive case. Example: noun: tree possessive noun: the tree's leaves noun: Robert possessive n … oun: Robert's bicycle noun: story possessive noun: the story's end. + 1 other found this useful. Leonardo Amaya. Notyouraveragedummy ..