The BLS states the median yearly salary for a General and Operations Managers is $95,150. If you invested $0 in your Business Management Bachelor's degree and started a career as a General and Operations Managers, your estimated return on investment would be $2,854,500 throughout your career.*. » Use our Estimator to Calculate the Cost of Your Degree.
Associate Degree Programs Overview. With an Associate's degree in Business Management, you will be in a position to supervise others, decide the daily priorities of your office, delegate projects and coordinate teams to meet the goals of your organization. The Business Administration Associate's degree is a great opportunity for the individual looking to get a foot in the management door. One of the best things about this two 2-year program is the options it gives to a graduate.
Business Management Degree Tuition. Be part of the changing market with a career in Business Management. Your coursework includes business math, entrepreneurship and management principles. You’ll learn how to supervise within a company or start your own business. 
Associate Degree Programs. Our online Associate of Applied Business in Business Management and Associate of Applied Business in Paralegal Studies Degree programs can place you on a career path to today's most lucrative professions. Earning your Associate Degree online at Lakewood College is a great way to get there. The Business Administration Associate's degree is a great opportunity for the individual looking to get a foot in the management door. One of the best things about this two 2-year program is the options it gives to a graduate.
The online associate degree programs at University of Phoenix give you the flexibility to study at a time that’s convenient for you. Gain a foundation in accounting or business, or complete a program that prepares you for industry-recognized IT certification exams — with an associate degree from University of Phoenix. 
As a Rasmussen College Business Management Bachelor's degree graduate, you may be eligible to earn your Master of Business Administration (MBA) in as little as one year through Benedictine University and Lewis University. Talk to a program manager to learn more about earning your professional degree. If you invested $0 in your Business Management Bachelor's degree and started a career as a General and Operations Managers, your estimated return on investment would be $2,854,500 throughout your career.*. » Use our Estimator to Calculate the Cost of Your Degree.
Program Outline. With an Associate's degree in Business Management, you will be in a position to supervise others, decide the daily priorities of your office, delegate projects and coordinate teams to meet the goals of your organization. The Business Administration Associate's degree is a great opportunity for the individual looking to get a foot in the management door. One of the best things about this two 2-year program is the options it gives to a graduate.
Online Associate Degrees. The University offers a broad array of online associate degrees, each designed to help individuals meet their educational objectives in the knowledge-based economy. The real-world curriculum is designed and taught by scholar-practitioners with you in mind. Our associate degrees are designed to prepare students for further study at the bachelor’s degree level. 1  8- and 16-week courses available in most programs. 2  Tuition is among the lowest nationwide for regionally accredited universities. 3  No application fee.
Online Business Management Overview. The Penn Foster College online Associate Degree in Business Management is an affordable way to pursue your educational and professional dreams, at only $79 per credit. Earning an Associate Degree in Business Management allows you to explore a variety of career paths and industries while in school. You can also build a foundation for future studies, as many of your credits will transfer to Penn Foster College's Business Management Bachelor's Degree. Program Goal. To provide students with the education they need to launch their own business or join an established business in an entry-level position developing the strategies, plans, procedures, and policies that guide a business on both a day-to-day and long-term basis.
Online Associate Degree for Business Leaders. The university designed the Online Associate of Arts in Business Administration degree specifically for new and working professionals seeking to learn critical business principles used in the field today. Online Associate of Arts in Business Administration. Our university prepares students to be principled leaders in the global business community through a flexible learning environment that leverages technology and best practices focused on the practical application of knowledge.