It depends on the type of diabetes. Type 1, your body attacks your pancreas and makes it unable to produce insulin. This affects your muscles, making them unable to absorb sugar from the blood, which makes sugar accumulate in the blood. Report Abuse. It affects your whole body as the diabetes travels all over your body through your circulatory system. The body parts most affected are the limbs like the legs and hands. If you get an injury in your legs and you don't get it checked out you could loose your leg cause of amputation.
Diabetes affects the entire body. Diabetics are also much more likely to have high blood pressure and high cholesterol. The pancreas is the organ that … makes insulin, if that was what you really wanted to know, but diabetes effects the eyes, all circulatory system organs, kidneys, nerves, and digestive system. In the pancreas, a leaf-shaped organ near the duodenoum, there are special cells called the Islets of Langherhans, of which there are 4 types, the A cells secrete … a hormone Glucagon which raises the blood glucose level.
Best Answer: Diabetes can affect your eyes, your internal organs. It also can affect your blood flow to these organs from the blood vessels. Especially your kidneys. Going to the American Diabetes Foundation website will also give you a lot of information. Report Abuse. It affects your whole body as the diabetes travels all over your body through your circulatory system. The body parts most affected are the limbs like the legs and hands. If you get an injury in your legs and you don't get it checked out you could loose your leg cause of amputation.
Type 1 diabetes can affect major organs in your body, including heart, blood vessels, nerves, eyes and kidneys. Keeping your blood sugar level close to normal most of the time can dramatically reduce the risk of many complications. Long-term complications of type 1 diabetes develop gradually, over decades. 1 Kidney damage (nephropathy). 2  The kidneys contain millions of tiny blood vessel clusters that filter waste from your blood. 3  Diabetes can damage this delicate filtering system. 4  Severe damage can lead to kidney failure or irreversible end-stage kidney disease, which requires dialysis or a kidney transplant.
Diabetes affects the entire body. Diabetics are also much more likely to have high blood pressure and high cholesterol. The pancreas is the organ that makes insulin, if that was what you really wanted to know, but diabetes effects the eyes, all circulatory system organs, kidneys, nerves, and digestive system. The major organs affected though are the eyes (retinopathy-which can cause blindness) kidneys (nephropathy-can cause kidney failure) and the circulation of limbs. You can have decreased circulation and damage to the nerves (diabetic neuropathy) which makes people prone to injury of their feet.
Diabetes and the Body. Diabetes affects the body and the body affects diabetes. Click on a body system or body part and see the role that organs, hormones and responses play in ensuring the body functions and how diabetes can affect them. 
The major organs affected though are the eyes (retinopathy-which can cause blindness) kidneys (nephropathy-can cause kidney failure) and the circulation of limbs. You can have decreased circulation and damage to the nerves (diabetic neuropathy) which makes people prone to injury of their feet. In the pancreas, a leaf-shaped organ near the duodenoum, there are special cells called the Islets of Langherhans, of which there are 4 types, the A cells secrete … a hormone Glucagon which raises the blood glucose level.
But in fact, it can affect the major organs of the body if left uncontrolled, including the digestive system. Other organs that are often linked with the diabetes complications are kidneys, heart & blood vessels, eyes, and nerves. 
diabetes on the Body. Diabetes is a group of diseases that affect the body’s ability to produce or use insulin, a hormone that allows your body to turn glucose into energy. Diabetes can be effectively managed, but potential complications include heart disease, stroke, and kidney damage. The Effects of Diabetes on the Body. After you eat or drink, your body breaks down the sugars in your blood and turns it into glucose. The glucose travels through your bloodstream and provides your body with energy. To accomplish this, your pancreas needs to produce a hormone called insulin.
How diabetes affects the skin. Diabetes affect on the skin is usually a result of its affect on the nerves and circulation which can lead to dry skin, slow healing of cuts, burns and wounds, fungal and bacterial infections and loss of feeling in the foot. Effect of diabetes on the kidneys. The kidneys are another organ that is at particular risk of damage as a result of diabetes and the risk is again increased by poorly controlled diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol.