CHOICE shadow shopped for replacement keys for 11 popular models at car dealerships in NSW and SA, and found the cost of a single replacement key ranges from $267 to $740. In addition to the cost, there are waiting times for ordering, cutting and coding the key – which could mean up to a full day off the road. While the cost of a single replacement key is high, if you lose all the keys to your car, the costs and time off the road will increase significantly if the car's computer has to be reset or completely replaced to match the new replacement keys.
Your one-stop-shop on the web for replacement keys, keyless entry remotes, and innovative original products you can only get at iKeyless. Take a look inside for more details on our great products and industry-leading customer service. 
Whether your car came with one or two keys from the factory can play a big part in replacing them. Drive contacted a number of metropolitan dealerships for prices for replacement keys for 16 different current-model vehicles, and found the average cost to replace a single unit was about $479. At the other end of the market, some of the more humble offerings, such as the cheap-and-cheerful Suzuki Alto, can still cost plenty for a new key. The Alto was one of the least expensive keys to replace yet was still far from cheap, with quoted prices of $250 and $278 including cutting and coding.
iTrader: 0 reviews. Question on getting a replacement key. I need to get a 2nd key made since my car only came with one. The Mazda dealer quoted me at $56 for the key, $114 if i get the switchblade, and $90 for the hour it will take to program it. 
Mazda car keys and remote fobs. Mazda car keys, Mazda remote keyless entry fobs, Mazda Smart Keys can be found in this Mazda car key, Mazda car keyless remote entry category. Autotransponder is your final stop in finding the right Mazda car key transponder, Mazda Remotes keyless fob for low prices. Free programming is included when applicable for all Mazda Keys and keyless remote entry. 
The Mazda dealership will be able to replicate chipped keys and program them for you on site. Depending on the size of the dealership and the age of your car, the dealership might also be able to replicate a key for your car without having the original key. This can usually only be done with recently manufactured cars. Contact an automotive locksmith to make a replacement key for your vehicle. This will only work if your car key does not have a computer chip inside of it. Car keys with computer chips have to be able to sync with the car's computer system in order to work. Go to your local Mazda dealership and have them make you another key.
Replacement car key Mazda. Now select your state to find out where you can duplicate or copy, at your local Locksmith, a replacement for your lost or broken car key. back to the homepage
i lost one of the keys for my 2012 cx 9 i got a replacement off ebay for $ 90 after the dealer wanted $ 350 i took it to them and the manager had originally quoted me $ 100 for programming $ 30 for the re cut ket he ended up not charging me for the re program so it only cost me the $ 30 for replacement cut key when i called the dealer to get a second key they quoted me $ 280 just for the key fob switchblade and then another $ 42 98 to get it programmed and cut i said the hell with that it s not even that much for my acura s smart key system i found the key fob switchblade on ebay for only $ 39
Other (slightly) below-average blippers include Mazda's 3 ($470) and Volkswagen's Golf ($450). The cost of the car isn't directly reflective of how much a replacement key will cost, though. Ford's Fiesta small-car averaged a whopping $575 from the dealers we phoned. To be fair, though, you do get two keys for that price. At the other end of the market, some of the more humble offerings, such as the cheap-and-cheerful Suzuki Alto, can still cost plenty for a new key. The Alto was one of the least expensive keys to replace yet was still far from cheap, with quoted prices of $250 and $278 including cutting and coding.