Vitamin A also helps reduce the risk of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and it inhibits the formation of cataracts. AMD and cataracts are the leading causes of visual impairment, so getting enough Vitamin A is essential to the health of your eyes. Antioxidants – Vitamin A. Vitamin A is an antioxidant found in foods derived from animals, including meat and eggs, and also in fruits and vegetables like carrots and spinach. Most types of milk are also fortified with vitamin A. Vitamin A is essential to the proper functioning of the retina.
There is evidence to show that a healthy diet prevents the development of eye conditions, although this link isn't as strong as it is for other conditions such as heart disease. However, eating a healthy balanced diet rich in fruit and vegetables may help to keep your eyes as healthy as they can be. Protein. The protein found in meat, fish, eggs, milk and dairy and in pulses such as beans, nuts and seeds are important for repair and growth of your body. Protein is also a good source of vitamins and minerals, such as iron, zinc and B vitamins.
Vitamin B2, also known as riboflavin, aids in the function of your nervous system and metabolism, as well as many other body processes. This nutrient also helps promote healthy eyes and might have a role in reducing eye redness. Food sources of vitamin B2 include broccoli, mushrooms, milk, eggs, meat and almonds.
Beta-carotene. 1  Eye benefits of beta-carotene: When taken in combination with zinc and vitamins C and E, beta-carotene may reduce the progression of macular degeneration. 2  Food sources: Carrots, sweet potatoes, spinach, kale, butternut squash. 3  RDA: None (most supplements contain 5,000 to 25,000 IU). Selenium. 1  Eye benefits of selenium: When combined with carotenoids and vitamins C and E, may reduce risk of advanced AMD. 2  Food sources: Seafood (shrimp, crab, salmon, halibut), Brazil nuts, enriched noodles, brown rice. 3  RDA: 55 mcg for teens and adults (60 mcg for women during pregnancy and 70 mcg when breast-feeding).
Antioxidants include Vitamin C, Vitamin E, and Vitamin A. These antioxidants can help prevent age-related macular degeneration and other eye diseases, and they can slow thew growth of cataracts. Fruits and vegetables are good sources of antioxidants, with the highly pigmented ones having a higher concentration. Antioxidants – Vitamin A. Vitamin A is an antioxidant found in foods derived from animals, including meat and eggs, and also in fruits and vegetables like carrots and spinach. Most types of milk are also fortified with vitamin A. Vitamin A is essential to the proper functioning of the retina.
Vitamins for the eyes can also help prevent many diseases. Although we can obtain all the vitamins and minerals we need by eating certain foods, it is nearly impossible in these fast food-oriented times to get a healthy meal with all the vitamins and minerals we need. That is where eye vitamins come in. 1 Vitamin E: Like vitamin C, vitamin E is found in the lens of the eye. 2  It is also a major player in the body’s antioxidant defense system. 3  Because it is found in the eye’s lens, it is believed to help prevent cataracts. 4  Vitamin E is also found in the retina, and is said to help prevent macular degeneration.
Eye Benefits of Vitamins and Micronutrients. A healthy diet for your eyes should include plenty of colorful fruits and vegetables. The following vitamins, minerals and other nutrients have been shown to be essential for good vision and may protect your eyes from sight-robbing conditions and diseases. Selenium. 1  Eye benefits of selenium: When combined with carotenoids and vitamins C and E, may reduce risk of advanced AMD. 2  Food sources: Seafood (shrimp, crab, salmon, halibut), Brazil nuts, enriched noodles, brown rice. 3  RDA: 55 mcg for teens and adults (60 mcg for women during pregnancy and 70 mcg when breast-feeding).
1. Eat a rainbow of fruits and vegetables. Orange and yellow fruits and vegetables, such as carrots, pumpkins, lemons and oranges, contain vitamins and antioxidants that will help keep your eyes white. Eating green, leafy foods like spinach and kale also have a positive effect on your eye health. Nuts like almonds, walnuts and peanuts also contain minerals that promote eye health. 1  These fruits and veggies will also help to detoxify your liver. 2  A healthy liver will help keep the whites of your eyes clear and bright. Try blue eye drops. A company from Switzerland, Innoxa, makes eye drops that are actually colored blue. In addition to relieving burning and redness symptoms, Innoxa Blue Drops also coat your eyes with a light film of blue, which counteracts the yellowish tinge in your eyeballs to make them appear whiter.
Vitamins for General Eye Health. Bausch + Lomb Ocuvite eye vitamin and mineral supplements focus on one single thing: the health of your eyes.* Just as your bones need calcium to stay healthy and strong, your eyes have their own set of nutritional needs. Ocuvite Lutein & Zeaxanthin Eye Vitamins contain antioxidants and nutrients, including vitamins C, E, and Zinc, plus 6 mg of Lutein/Zeaxanthin to help filter blue light and support the health of your eyes.*.
Eye Vitamins. Eye vitamins are essential to have the healthy eyes for a longer period and nowadays it is impossible for us to have the entire eye vitamins in our food as we are fast in our activities and no time to think of these vitamins. So there comes the vitamin in pills form to cope up with the speed. Vitamin A is fat soluble and an antioxidant which helps in promoting eye health, skin, lung, intestinal tissues and for proper brain function. This vitamin is available in carrots, green leafy vegetables, green pepper and spinach.