This will be true no matter where you go to work. A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 23, 2014, on page SR11 of the New York edition with the headline: How to Get a Job at Google. But Bock is saying something important to them, too: Beware. Your degree is not a proxy for your ability to do any job. The world only cares about — and pays off on — what you can do with what you know (and it doesn’t care how you learned it).
In February, I interviewed Laszlo Bock, who is in charge of all hiring at Google-about 100 new hires a week-to try to understand what an employer like Google was looking for and why it was increasingly ready to hire people with no college degrees. Shuffling through resumes of some of Google's 100 hires that week, Bock explained: I was on campus speaking to a student who was a computer science and math double major, who was thinking of shifting to an economics major because the computer science courses were too difficult.
It can be very difficult to get a job at Google or Microsoft. Like applying to a top tier school, there is fierce competition. Many arguably talented people are not hired. Furthermore, the interview process can vary quite a lot. However, if you actually want to get an interview, DONT JUST APPLY ONLINE. Go to any events Microsoft or Google is hosting at your school. Talk to recruiters, give them your resume, follow-up, etc. Once you actually get the interview, you'll have a phone screen.
“There are five hiring attributes we have across the company,” explained Bock. “If it’s a technical role, we assess your coding ability, and half the roles in the company are technical roles. For every job, though, the No. 1 thing we look for is general cognitive ability, and it’s not I.Q. But Bock is saying something important to them, too: Beware. Your degree is not a proxy for your ability to do any job. The world only cares about — and pays off on — what you can do with what you know (and it doesn’t care how you learned it).
For parents, new grads and those too long out of work, I hope some of this helps. I invite you to follow me on Twitter. A version of this op-ed appears in print on April 20, 2014, on page SR1 of the New York edition with the headline: How to Get a Job at Google, Part 2. Loading... In February, I interviewed Laszlo Bock, who is in charge of all hiring at Google — about 100 new hires a week — to try to understand what an employer like Google was looking for and why it was increasingly ready to hire people with no college degrees.
I've never met anyone personally that has gotten any position with Google. From what I've heard, getting a job at Google is very difficult and very competitive, and if you get an interview I think you should give yourself a pat on the back. However, if you actually want to get an interview, DONT JUST APPLY ONLINE. Go to any events Microsoft or Google is hosting at your school. Talk to recruiters, give them your resume, follow-up, etc. Once you actually get the interview, you'll have a phone screen.
We’re looking for people who are good for Google—and not just for right now, but for the long term. This is the core of how we hire. Our process is pretty basic; the path to getting hired usually involves a first conversation with a recruiter, a phone interview and an onsite interview at one of our offices. But there are a few things we’ve baked in along the way that make getting hired at Google a little different.
Walls, Borders, a Dome and Refugees. Don’t get him wrong, Bock begins, “Good grades certainly don’t hurt.” Many jobs at Google require math, computing and coding skills, so if your good grades truly reflect skills in those areas that you can apply, it would be an advantage. But Bock is saying something important to them, too: Beware. Your degree is not a proxy for your ability to do any job. The world only cares about — and pays off on — what you can do with what you know (and it doesn’t care how you learned it).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It's pretty difficult. From what I've heard, Google puts all of their applicants through a series of tests (on theory, programming, etc.) in order to test their skills. It's worth it, though. Google is a great place to work. You're going to have to first have a degree in Computer Science (preferably get your Master's or Ph. D. - the more education, the better). Take your college experience seriously -- obtaining a degree in Computer Science is hard work! Make the best grades you can in your major classe