Activity, Not Gender. People who are more active may be able to eat more carbohydrates than people who get little exercise, according to the ADA. The range for carbohydrates in a diabetic meal plan is quite broad: 45 to 60 grams a meal. Gender doesn’t really affect those recommendations, but activity does, with more active people on the high end of carbohydrate intake. 
Even though the USDA recommends a minimum intake of 130 grams of carbohydrates a day, Phinney and Volek claim that a low-carb higher-fat diet reduces your need for energy in the form of carbohydrates by promoting the formation of ketones, a byproduct of fat oxidation. 
Now, 180 grams of carbohydrates works out to 720 calories (1 gram of carb=4 calories). In a daily diet of 2000 calories, eating the minimum recommended carbs would set the daily percentage of carbs at 27% (540/2000) and the maximum carbs would be 36% (720/2000). On their website, the American Diabetes Association directs diabetics to eat between 45-60 grams of carbohydrates at each meal. Assuming a person eats three meals a day, this advice works out to telling diabetics to eat a minimum of 135 grams to a maximum of 180 grams of carbohydrates per day.
Keep a food diary to keep track of the food you eat and your carb intake. The daily carb intake for male diabetics recommended by the American Diabetes Association varies between 135 and 180 grams for your three basic meals along with up to 60 to 90 grams of extra carbohydrates at snack time. Keeping your daily carb intake to 20 grams a day helped significantly decrease the average blood-sugar levels and triglyceride levels within two weeks, according to a study published in 2005 in the Annals of Internal Medicine..
Your carb intake is one of the principal factors influencing your blood-sugar levels. Male diabetics can usually handle slightly more carbs compared to female diabetics, but the optimal amount of carbs you should eat will also depend on your weight, physical activity level and blood-sugar control. Keeping your daily carb intake to 20 grams a day helped significantly decrease the average blood-sugar levels and triglyceride levels within two weeks, according to a study published in 2005 in the Annals of Internal Medicine..
The Institute of Medicine report Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids (IOM, 2002) established a Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for carbohydrate of 130 g per day for adults and children. 
Instructions for Carbohydrate Homework Record your blood glucose before and 90 min after each meal for three breakfasts, three lunches, and three dinners. Record what and how much you eat for each of the nine meals. Record the grams of carbohydrate eaten at each meal. After a discussion of the different nutrients, I have patients do what I call carbohydrate homework.. This involves recording nine meals and blood glucose levels pre-and 90 minutes post-meal. Patients record their blood glucose levels pre-and post-meal for three different
Adjust the carb content according to the serving you consume. For example, if the label of a package of rice says that 1 cup of cooked rice contains 45 grams of carbs and you usually eat 2 cups of rice, your carb intake will reach 90 grams. Keeping your daily carb intake to 20 grams a day helped significantly decrease the average blood-sugar levels and triglyceride levels within two weeks, according to a study published in 2005 in the Annals of Internal Medicine..
Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan.