Find Your Wheel Hub. To find the correct wheel hub that is guaranteed to fit your car at an unbeatable price, use the Year, Make, and Model search at the top left of this page. If you find the wheel hub cheaper somewhere else, give one of our US based auto specialists a call and we will match that price, 1-888-907-7225. If you have ABS, there are going to be more steps to go through to repair or replace your wheel hub. In addition if you need bearing to be pressed in, this will add to the time it takes and cost to the repair. Unfortunately there is no short answer to this question unless.
Labor and Part Costs. The cost of a wheel hub (assembly or bearings) can start from as low as $60 and go well over a hundred dollars. The make and model of your car, will determine the exact price. Wheel hub replacement costs can vary from car to car as well as who you buy them from. If you have ABS, there are going to be more steps to go through to repair or replace your wheel hub. In addition if you need bearing to be pressed in, this will add to the time it takes and cost to the repair. Unfortunately there is no short answer to this question unless.
The wheel bearing can be found inside the wheel hub assembly. If you're driving a front wheel drive vehicle and need to replace one of your front wheel bearings, it's important to check the wheel hub for wear. If you find that you are in need of a new wheel hub, don't fret! We've got a wheel hub replacement for you. Inside our online catalog, you'll find a huge selection of wheel hub assembly kits and wheel bearings. The wheel hub is one of the most crucial parts of the wheel, as it securely fastens them in place. This comes in different dimensions and types, each offering its own set of advantages. So if you're trying to get your hands on the right wheel hub for your vehicle, here's a guide to help you out.
The cost of wheel bearings vary based upon the type of vehicle. Prices also vary based on whether you are replacing a front or rear bearing. For a Toyota Corolla, a front wheel bearing costs approximately $47.99, while a rear wheel bearing is a staggering $325.99. Bearings for a Dodge Ram pickup are around $18.99 for rear bearings and $259.99 for front bearings. A wheel bearing replacement can take anywhere from one to three hours depending on the type of vehicle you are driving. This means the cost of labor involved for this job can be anywhere from $30 to $270 in addition to the cost of parts.
At JC Whitney, we offer the best selection of Ford F-150 Wheel Bearings & Hubs parts and accessories. We offer an industry leading 30-day Guarantee so that you can shop with confidence! Narrow your selection below by providing the year of your vehicle for a custom list of Ford F-150 Wheel Bearings & Hubs products. 
Wheel Bearing & Hub-Front at 1A Auto. Your front wheel bearings and hubs are important parts of your vehicle's steering, suspension, and braking systems. Most modern vehicles use a one-piece hub assembly that incorporates the hub, wheel bearing, ABS wheel speed sensor, and mounting flange. 
Labor: $194 - $246. Parts: $132 - $214. The average cost for a wheel bearing replacement-front is between $326 to $460. Labor costs are estimated between $194 to $246 while parts are priced between $132 to $214. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
If you have a truck odds are it will be a more involved process than a small car. If you have ABS, there are going to be more steps to go through to repair or replace your wheel hub. In addition if you need bearing to be pressed in, this will add to the time it takes and cost to the repair. Unfortunately there is no short answer to this question unless.
There are two kinds of wheel bearing designs: 1) the bearings can be serviced by taking them apart, cleaning them, and re-packing them with fresh grease, or 2) the wheel bearing is of a “sealed” design that requires no service other than replacement when found to be defective. On most cars manufactured before 1997, there are two wheel bearings per front tire (1 inner and 1 outer). Most car manufacturers recommend wheel bearing cleaning, re-packing with grease, and having them inspected every 30,000 miles.