How much does a large t-shirt weigh? A regular large t-shirt weighs about seven ounces. T-shirt sizes  that begin with a small size and go up through 3XL will range in  weight from 6.0 to 9.5 ounces. This is ab … out 0.5 ounces added to  each succeeding size. How much does a medium sized t-shirt weigh?   On average: Small: 6 oz. Medium: 6.5 oz Large: 7 oz X-Large 7.50 2X-Large 8.75 3X-Large 9.50 But it can vary depending on material.
The weight of a polo shirt depends on the size and fabric. The  average weight for a men's short-sleeved polo shirt in size large  is about 8 ounces. 1 person found this useful. How much does a medium sized t-shirt weigh?   On average: Small: 6 oz. Medium: 6.5 oz Large: 7 oz X-Large 7.50 2X-Large 8.75 3X-Large 9.50 But it can vary depending on material.
When you are looking at the various blank apparel to use for your printing or embroidery project, you will notice that most of them have some weight associated with them. And this will vary greatly by the type of apparel. You might see a t-shirt that is 4.3-oz (ounce) or 5.5-oz or 6.1-oz. Or a hoodie that is 7.75-oz or 10-oz. 
A regular large t-shirt weighs about seven ounces. T-shirt sizes  that begin with a small size and go up through 3XL will range in  weight from 6.0 to 9.5 ounces. This is ab … out 0.5 ounces added to  each succeeding size. A polo t-shirt can vary in price. It can be as little as $5.00 for a basic shirt up to over $100. The name brand shirts such as Calvin Klein will increase the price drasticall … y.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The weight of a polo shirt depends on the size and fabric. The average weight for a men's short-sleeved polo shirt in size large is about 8 ounces. A polo t-shirt can vary in price. It can be as little as $5.00 for a basic shirt up to over $100. The name brand shirts such as Calvin Klein will increase the price drasticall … y.
I just thought of this earlier but, how much does a t-shirt weigh? does anyone have any idea or does it differ widely between size and brand? It will differ since (for example) the fabric AA uses is 4.3oz, vs. a Hanes Beefy 6.1oz (and AA using slightly less fabric per shirt than Hanes since their sizing is smaller) - so the Hanes should weigh about 50% more than the AA (can't say I've actually checked).
Re: how much does a t-shirt weigh? It will differ since (for example) the fabric AA uses is 4.3oz, vs. a Hanes Beefy 6.1oz (and AA using slightly less fabric per shirt than Hanes since their sizing is smaller) - so the Hanes should weigh about 50% more than the AA (can't say I've actually checked).
Report Abuse. It just depends on the thread count of the t-shirt, I definatly have shirts that weigh more than others that are the same size, Plus it is also how much they were worn. Donnelle M · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Just a normal medium sized cotton t-shirt in grams, trying to work out how much it is to post! Source(s): shirt weigh: https://tr.im/qB7gi. Issiah · 2 months ago. Thumbs up