Full Definition of SARDINE. 1. : any of several small or immature fishes of the herring family; especially: the European pilchard (Sardina pilchardus) especially when young and of a size suitable for preserving for food. 2. : any of various small fishes (as an anchovy) resembling the true sardines or similarly preserved for food.
Example sentences. 1  Fish high in EPA and DHA include salmon, mackerel, sardines, herring, anchovies, rainbow trout, bluefish and white albacore tuna canned in water. 2  Salmon, mackerel, herring, sardines, pilchards and fresh tuna are the best source of Omega 3 which is rich in Eicosapentaenoic acid. 1 Salmon, mackerel, herring, sardines, pilchards and fresh tuna are the best source of Omega 3 which is rich in Eicosapentaenoic acid. 2  Salmon, tuna, swordfish, mackerel, sardines, anchovies pompano, bluefish-they're forgiving in the kitchen and big enough to take on some bigger beers.
Sardines are a nutrient-rich fish commonly consumed by humans. They are commonly served in cans, but fresh sardines are often grilled, pickled, or smoked. Sardines are rich in vitamins and minerals. A small serving of sardines once a day can provide 13% of vitamin B2; roughly one-quarter of niacin, and about 150% of the recommended daily value of vitamin B12.
A can of sardines, which is equal to about 3.75 ounces, contains 10.53 grams of fat, but only 1.4 grams are saturated. The rest of the fat in a can of sardines is healthy unsaturated fat, which can help lower your cholesterol and reduce your risk of heart disease. Sardines contain magnesium, potassium and zinc as well. One drawback to sardines is their high sodium content. One can of sardines contains 465 milligrams of sodium. The daily limit of sodium is 2,300 milligrams for healthy adults and 1,500 milligrams for individuals with
Sardines, or pilchards, are common names used to refer to various small, oily fish within the herring family of Clupeidae. The term sardine was first used in English during the early 15th century and may come from the Mediterranean island of Sardinia, around which sardines were once abundant. The terms sardine and pilchard are not precise, and what is meant depends on the region. The United Kingdom's Sea Fish Industry Authority, for example, classifies sardines as young pilchards. One criterion suggests fish shorter in length than 15 cm (6 in) are sardines, and larger ones pilchards
What is a Sardine? 1  Sardines -- a type of small fish in the herring family -- are rich in calcium and other minerals, vitamin D, and omega-3 fatty acids. The sardine is a small, silvery fish with a protruding snout and large mouth. Sardine species can be found in northern and southern waters, and favor estuaries or inter-tidal zones.
1 Sardines -- a type of small fish in the herring family -- are rich in calcium and other minerals, vitamin D, and omega-3 fatty acids. 2  Sardines are often found close to the ocean's surface. 3  Sardines are a popular catch for the fishing industry. 4  Sardines are often canned in oil. The sardine is a small, silvery fish with a protruding snout and large mouth. Sardine species can be found in northern and southern waters, and favor estuaries or inter-tidal zones.
The terms sardine and pilchard are not precise, and what is meant depends on the region. The United Kingdom's Sea Fish Industry Authority, for example, classifies sardines as young pilchards. One criterion suggests fish shorter in length than 6 inches (15 cm) are sardines, and larger ones pilchards. Sardines are rich in vitamins and minerals. A small serving of sardines once a day can provide 13% of vitamin B2; roughly one-quarter of niacin, and about 150% of the recommended daily value of vitamin B12.
This article is about the fish. For use in food, see Sardine (food) . For the children's games, see Sardines (game) . For the pilot of Inside No. 9, see Sardines (Inside No. 9) . The term sardine was first used in English during the early 15th century and may come from the Mediterranean island of Sardinia, around which sardines were once abundant. The terms sardine and pilchard are not precise, and what is meant depends on the region.
1 Fish high in EPA and DHA include salmon, mackerel, sardines, herring, anchovies, rainbow trout, bluefish and white albacore tuna canned in water. 2  Salmon, mackerel, herring, sardines, pilchards and fresh tuna are the best source of Omega 3 which is rich in Eicosapentaenoic acid. 1 Salmon, mackerel, herring, sardines, pilchards and fresh tuna are the best source of Omega 3 which is rich in Eicosapentaenoic acid. 2  Salmon, tuna, swordfish, mackerel, sardines, anchovies pompano, bluefish-they're forgiving in the kitchen and big enough to take on some bigger beers.