Mercury takes 58.646 Earth days to rotate once. That's called a sidereal day. The Earth rotates once in 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds. There's also the solar day which depends on the apparent movement of the Sun in the sky. That depends on a planet's orbital motion around the Sun, as well as its rotation period. The sidereal day on Venus is about 243 Earth days. As a year on Venus is only about 224.7 … Earth days, this makes Venus' day longer than its year. Venus is the only planet in our Solar System to have this feature.
1 One day on Venus is longer than one year. 2  Due to the slow rotation on its axis, it takes 243 Earth-days to complete one rotation. 3  The orbit of the planet takes 225 Earth-days – making a year on Venus shorter on day on Venus. 
1 Whereas Earth rotates in about 24 hours Venus rotates in the contrary sense (retrograde rotation) in 243 days. 2  The orbital period of Venus is 225 days so that a Venus year takes less than a full day. 1 The combination of these two periods results in the Sun appearing from the West and dissapearing over the East with a day-night cycle of 117 days. 2  The atmosphere of Venus is 90 times more dense than that on Earth and it is made of 96.5% of CO2 and a 3% of nitrogen.
The Earth rotates in about 23 hours and 56 minutes. That's called the sidereal day. The sidereal day on Venus is about 243 Earth days. As a year on Venus is only about 224.7 … Earth days, this makes Venus' day longer than its year. Venus is the only planet in our Solar System to have this feature.
Stranger still is the fact that a day on Venus is longer than a year! It's orbital period around the Sun is only 225 days. According to the Venusian calendar, WW II ended only 56 days ago! Venus is one of only two planets that rotate the opposite direction, called retrograde motion. 
A planet's day is the time it takes the planet to rotate or spin once on its axis. Venus rotates much more slowly than Earth does, so a day on Venus is much longer than a day on Earth. A day on Venus lasts for 243 Earth days or 5,832 hours! A day on Earth is 23.943 hours. Venus also rotates backwards compared to the Earth and most of the other planets. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmo
Firstly its axis of rotation is inclined at 177.36 degrees (compared to 23.5 degrees on Earth). This means that Venus rotates in a retrograde direction from east to west, making the Sun rise in the west and set in the east. Further to this the rotation is very slow: a sidereal day on Venus lasts 243 Earth days. This is even longer than a Venusian year which is only 224.7 Earth days. Despite several missions to Venus there is still much that is unknown about our celestial neighbour.
Venus and Earth Compared Venus, the second planet from the Sun, lies, on average, 108 million km from the Sun, about 30% closer than the Earth. Venus is often referred to as our sister planet because of similarities in size, mass, density and volume. Further to this the rotation is very slow: a sidereal day on Venus lasts 243 Earth days. This is even longer than a Venusian year which is only 224.7 Earth days. Despite several missions to Venus there is still much that is unknown about our celestial neighbour.
Venus takes 224.7 Earth days to complete one orbit around the Sun. So a year on Venus is 0.62 as long as an Earth year. One interesting fact about Venus is that a day on Venus is actually longer than a year on Venus. A Venusian day lasts 243 days, and a year is 224 days. That means that the day on Venus is 19 days longer than the year. Another interesting fact is that a Venus rotates backwards compared to the other planets in the Solar System. So on Venus, the Sun rises in the West, and sets in the East
Venus takes 224.65 days to complete each orbit. This is a little less than a year on Earth. But instead of a similar rotational period to Earth’s 24 hours, Venus takes 243 days to rotate once. In other words, a day on Venus is longer than a year. This is the longest day in the entire Solar System. Even stranger, Venus rotates backwards compared to the other planets in the Solar System