A single-gene disorder is the result of a single mutated gene. Over 4000 human diseases are caused by single-gene defects. Single-gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. Genomic imprinting and uniparental disomy, however, may affect inheritance patterns. Whether, when and to what extent a person with the genetic defect or abnormality will actually suffer from the disease is almost always affected by the environmental factors and events in the person's development.
(October 2008). A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. Whether, when and to what extent a person with the genetic defect or abnormality will actually suffer from the disease is almost always affected by the environmental factors and events in the person's development.
These disorders are known as monogenetic disorders (disorders of a single gene). Some examples of monogenetic disorders include: 1  cystic fibrosis, 2  sickle cell anemia, 3  Marfan syndrome, 4  Huntington's disease, and. Single gene inheritance. Single gene inheritance, also called Mendelian or monogenetic inheritance. This type of inheritance is caused by changes or mutations that occur in the DNA sequence of a single gene. There are more than 6,000 known single-gene disorders, which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births
Genetic diseases are disorders that are inherited by a person from his or her parents or are related to some type of spontaneous genetic change. 
1 This type of inheritance is caused by changes or mutations that occur in the DNA sequence of a single gene. 2  There are more than 6,000 known single-gene disorders, which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births. Most genetic diseases are the direct result of a mutation in one gene. However, one of the most difficult problems ahead is to find out how genes contribute to diseases that have a complex pattern of inheritance, such as in the cases of diabetes, asthma, cancer and mental illness.
1 Single gene inheritance -- Also called Mendelian or monogenic inheritance. 2  This type of inheritance is caused by changes or mutations that occur in the DNA sequence of a single gene. 3  There are more than 6,000 known single-gene disorders, which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births. Most genetic diseases are the direct result of a mutation in one gene. However, one of the most difficult problems ahead is to find out how genes contribute to diseases that have a complex pattern of inheritance, such as in the cases of diabetes, asthma, cancer and mental illness.
1 Mitochondrial inheritance -- This type of genetic disorder is caused by mutations in the nonchromosomal DNA of mitochondria. 2  Mitochondria are small round or rod-like organelles that are involved in cellular respiration and found in the cytoplasm of plant and animal cells. Most genetic diseases are the direct result of a mutation in one gene. However, one of the most difficult problems ahead is to find out how genes contribute to diseases that have a complex pattern of inheritance, such as in the cases of diabetes, asthma, cancer and mental illness.