Raisins Kishmish. we offer black raisins both in seedless and seeded form that are a special variety of raisins. These raisins have a 70 % of pure fructose and provide quick energy on consumption. These raisins are fat free and a good source of fibre and antioxidants. These are also called as nature's candy.
It was in late 19th century that raisins became popular in America, when a heat wave destroyed the grape harvest and left behind the dehydrated form. Today, California, Australia, Turkey, Greece, Iran and Chile are amongst the leading producers of raisins. Health Benefits of Kishmish (Raisins).
Magnesium and potassium in raisins, two elements present in antacids, are known to be effective in reducing acidity by neutralizing the production of acids in the body and lowering any chances of a condition called acidosis (abnormally high acidity of the blood and other body tissues).
Raisin. Kishmish in Urdu-also called Currants, are dried grapes that have a higher sugar content and a different flavor from regular grapes. Raisins are eaten out-of-hand and used in cereals, puddings, cookies, cakes, muffins, stuffings, salads, and rolls.
SULTANA The sultana is a white (pale green), oval seedless grape variety also called the sultanina, oval-fruited Kishmish, Lady de Coverly (England), and Thompson Seedless (United States). It is assumed to originate from the Asian part of the Ottoman Empire.
Raisins Nutrition. Raisins are small fruits which are adored for their bittersweet taste and are probably one of the most popular dry fruits in the world. Also known as ‘kishmish’ in India, raisins are a part of many snacks, baked dishes and desserts. Raisins are made by allowing grapes to dry out naturally or with the help of driers.
Oral health-This dry fruit contains an acid called oleanolic that prevents the formation of cavities and tooth decay. Raisins also prohibit the formation of harmful bacteria which gives rise to the problems of gingivitis and periodontal disease. So, its able to treat the distress of tooth pain as well.
Raisins (Kishmish) are the dried grapes that are found in many regions of the world. You can eat them in raw form or use in cooking, baking and brewing.