Drum Castle. Ten miles from the center of Aberdeen, is one of the most beautiful castles of Royal Deeside. It is a living building, the story of which is packed with historical incident and personal drama. 
Drum Castle Guidebook. A visit to Drum Castle is a little like striding across the centuries. It has evolved with the additions made to the building over the years. Here you'll find a medieval tower, a Jacobean mansion house and …. William de Irwyn was gifted the Royal Forest of Drum and the Tower of Drum by King Robert the Bruce in 1323. The tower has benefitted from various improvements over the centuries, including a Jacobean mansion house extension in 1619 and Victorian adaptations, such as the impressive library converted from the lower hall.
Drum Tower. A drum tower was a round tower built into a wall, usually connecting stretches of exterior curtain wall. The large drum towers at Beaumaris Castle are some of the best examples of this type of structure in Wales
The Tower has a separate entrance from the main castle so make sure that you don't miss it. In addition to the Tower at Drum Castle, you can see several rooms in the later Jacobean and Victorian sections of the castle, which are all furnished with antiques. Drum Castle is a jumbled collection of adjoining buildings from different periods. The core of the castle is a 13th century tower, to which the Irvine Family then added a Jacobean Mansion, and then some civilized Victorian dwellings. Drum Castle's Tower, which you can climb to get views from, is still in its medieval state with unglazed windows, bare stone walls and earth floors. The spiral stair way in the tower is narrow and the stairs that lead to the roof of the tower are very steep
Possibly the oldest occupied castle in Scotland, Drum Castle in Aberdeenshire, was home to the Irvine family for more than six and a half centuries, a full twenty-four generations of nearly unbroken succession. 
Drum Castle is a castle near Drumoak in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. For centuries it was the seat of the chief of Clan Irvine. The place-name Drum is derived from Gaelic druim, 'ridge'. The original 13th-century tower of Drum Castle has been suggested as the work of medieval architect Richard Cementarius, who built the Bridge of Don in Old Aberdeen. It is believed to be one of the three oldest tower houses in Scotland (and notably unaltered)
An inner courtyard of a castle, sometimes called a Bailey. Basilica. A section at the base of a castle wall that is angled in such a manner to make dropped stones bounced away from the curtain wall and into the enemy. The batters also add strength to the base of the wall walk. Batters. Fighting position on the top of the castle wall or tower
Castles Glossary. Bailey: A castle courtyard. Barbican: A stone building protecting the gateway or entrance of a castle. Battlements: A parapet with indentations and raised portions (merlons). Battlements are sometimes called crenellations. Buttress: Projection from the wall that provides extra support for the building. Gatehouse: A building protecting the entrance to a castle. Great Hall: The main room in the building where the castle owner and his family lived. Keep: Main stone tower