This page lists all the various symbols in the Currency signs category. A currency sign is a graphic symbol used as a shorthand for a currency's name, especially in reference to amounts of money. They typically employ the first letter or character of the currency, sometimes with minor changes such as ligatures or overlaid vertical or horizontal bars. 
South Africa, Rand. The South African Rand is the currency of South Africa. Our currency rankings show that the most popular South Africa Rand exchange rate is the ZAR to USD rate. The currency code for Rand is ZAR, and the currency symbol is R. Below, you'll find South African Rand rates and a currency converter.
The rand (sign: R; code: ZAR) is the currency of South Africa. The rand has the symbol R and is subdivided into 100 cents, symbol c. The ISO 4217 code is ZAR, from Dutch Zuid-Afrikaanse Rand. (South African rand). The rand is the currency of the Common Monetary Area between South Africa, Swaziland and Lesotho. 
The real (/reɪˈɑːl/ ; Brazilian Portuguese : [ʁeˈaw] ; pl. reais) is the present-day currency of Brazil. Its sign is R$ and its ISO code is BRL. It is subdivided into 100 centavos (Cents). In Portuguese the word real means both royal and real. 
The currency abbreviation for the Romanian new leu (RON), the currency for Romania. The Romanian new leu is made up of 100 bani and is often presented with the symbol L. The new leu is expected to remain the currency of Romania until it adopts the euro in 2014. Next Up. 
World Currency Symbols. This page lists global currency symbols used to denote that a number is a monetary value, such as the dollar sign $, the Pound sign £, and the Euro sign €. This list is constantly under development and we rely on input from users like you to keep it as complete and accurate as possible. Once the Code2000 font is installed, you can begin using the symbols in your documents. 1  Ensure that you have Code2000 downloaded and installed. ( 2 See above for details). 3  Start a new document Microsoft Word, or open an existing Word document into which you wish to place the currency symbol. 4  See screen shot).
AD. This page lists global currency symbols used to denote that a number is a monetary value, such as the dollar sign $, the Pound sign £, and the Euro sign €. This list is constantly under development and we rely on input from users like you to keep it as complete and accurate as possible. Once the Code2000 font is installed, you can begin using the symbols in your documents. 1  Ensure that you have Code2000 downloaded and installed. ( 2 See above for details). 3  Start a new document Microsoft Word, or open an existing Word document into which you wish to place the currency symbol. 4  See screen shot).