An antispasmodic is a type of medication that may be used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. Antispasmodics may cause dangerous allergic reactions in some people. An antispasmodic is a type of medication that may be used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. Irritable bowel syndrome symptoms may include abdominal spasms.
Nouns denoting man-made objects. Synonyms: antispasmodic; antispasmodic agent; spasmolytic. Hypernyms (antispasmodic is a kind of...): medicament; medication; medicinal drug; medicine ((medicine) something that treats or prevents or alleviates the symptoms of disease). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of antispasmodic): atropine (a poisonous crystalline alkaloid extracted from the nightshade family; used as an antispasmodic and to dilate the eye pupil; also administered in large amounts as an antidote for organophosphate nerve agents or organophosphate insecticides).
3. 0. 8. Antispasmodic medicines are used to treat symptoms such as pain and spasm in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The side-effects that occur most commonly are usually minor. Antispasmodics are a group (class) of medicines that can help to control some symptoms that arise from the gut (intestines) - in particular, gut spasm. There are two main types: 1  Antimuscarinics such as dicycloverine, hyoscine, atropine. 2  Smooth muscle relaxants such as alverine, mebeverine and peppermint oil.
Most of the drugs used for this purpose as anticholinergics, since they counteract the effects of the neurohormone acetylcholine. Some of these drugs are derived from the plant belladonna, also known as Deadly Nightshade. There is also a group of drugs with similar activity, but not taken from plant sources. 
One type of antispasmodics is used for smooth muscle contraction, especially in tubular organs of the gastrointestinal tract. The effect is to prevent spasms of the stomach, intestine or urinary bladder. Both dicyclomine and hyoscyamine are antispasmodic due to their anticholinergic action. Mebeverine is a muscolotropic spasmolytic with a strong and selective action on the smooth muscle spasm of the gastrointestinal tract, particularly of the colon. It does not have the acetylecholine side effect commonly seen in an anticholinergic antispasmodic.
Antispasmodic: A medication that relieves, prevents, or lowers the incidence of muscle spasms, especially those of smooth muscle such as in the bowel wall. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. An antispasmodic is a type of medication that is primarily used to treat convulsions or uncontrollable muscle movements, particularly in the intestines and stomach. The drug is also commonly referred to as phenobarbital, which belongs to the barbiturate drug group. Antispasmodics may cause dangerous allergic reactions in some people. An antispasmodic is a type of medication that may be used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. Irritable bowel syndrome symptoms may include abdominal spasms.