But the truth is this: the Bible does not forbid Christmas trees. Here’s what was being communicated in this passage from the book of Jeremiah, we have to read on to adequately understand what God was saying to these people: Their idols are like scarecrows in a cucumber field,
God and the Bible Forbid Christmas Trees. Jeremiah 10 NIV 1 Hear what the LORD says to you, O house of Israel. 2 This is what the LORD says: “Do not learn the ways of the nations or be terrified by signs in the sky, though the nations are terrified by them.
The exact dates of the pagan festival. The Christmas tree is in the Bible and God tells us to NOT do this and celebrate the way the heathens do, for a reason. There are celebrations in the Bible that God tells us to celebrate but the pagan holidays aren’t to be celebrated.
There are some Christian groups today that forbid Christmas trees due to this passage. Most Christians who are aware of this verse claim it is about idolatry and not about Christmas trees. This is an Old Testament passage, so obviously it could not be a Christmas tree.
We worship the creator of the tree not the tree itself. However there are plenty of other things wrong with Christmas. Take Santa, whose characteristics are similar to the true God - 'he knows when you've been good or bad...etc' Not to mention that lying is expressly forbidden in the Bible.
[…] God and the bible forbid christmas trees | bible verses Description: Posted by: edhensley | january 3, 2010 god and the bible forbid christmas trees.
– Jer 10:8 NLT. So, all being said, no – Christmas trees are not forbidden in the Bible. But here’s the kicker – our God is the God who speaks. And He may be speaking to your heart, saying you have a problem. Maybe, Christmas has become an idol in your life.
[…] God and the bible forbid christmas trees | bible verses Posted by: edhensley | january 3, 2010 god and the bible forbid christmas trees.
Jer 10:1 Hear ye the word which the LORD speaketh to you, O house of Israel: Jer 10:2 Thus saith the LORD, Learn not the way of the heathen, and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven; for the heathen are dismayed at them.
And the practice of decorating Christmas trees originated even later. Therefore, these Bible verses are not referring to Christmas trees, but idolatry. However, if one should have convictions about Christmas trees, it is a personal choice.