History [edit]. With the invention of the alembic, a kind of retort, the alchemist Jābir ibn Hayyān developed the process of distillation into what it is today. In the chemical industry, a retort is an airtight vessel in which substances are heated for a chemical reaction producing gaseous products to be collected in a collection vessel or for further processing. Such industrial-scale retorts are used in shale oil extraction and the production of charcoal
Used RetroTec Static Retort Stainless Steel with: Unit that is being sold is brand new and has never been put into service Comes with 12 roller carts for unit 288 Racks are being sold with unit Was... 
Let’s say it plainly from the start: There is no best retort sterilization process! You heard it right, and this from a leading retort manufacturer. In the same way that we can discount the car salesman who says that his sedan is the best, we can discount the statements of retort vendors who make these absolute claims. It is inherent in the process that all air be evacuated from the retort by flooding the vessel with steam and allowing the air to escape through vent valves. There is no overpressure during the sterilization phases of this process, since air is not permitted to enter the vessel at any time during any sterilization step.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Myren Licia. Confidence votes 5. retort is used as a verb........a transitive verb like respond sharply-to say something sharp, angry, witty and a noun like sharp answer-something sharp or insulting said quickly in response to something somebody else has said. its synonym is-reply, rejoinder, response, riposte, answer and squelch. 
In a chemistry laboratory, a retort is a glassware device used for distillation or dry distillation of substances. It consists of a spherical vessel with a long downward-pointing neck. The liquid to be distilled is placed in the vessel and heated. In the chemical industry, a retort is an airtight vessel in which substances are heated for a chemical reaction producing gaseous products to be collected in a collection vessel or for further processing. Such industrial-scale retorts are used in shale oil extraction and the production of charcoal
A retort pouch is a type of food packaging made from a laminate of flexible plastic and metal foils. It allows the sterile packaging of a wide variety of food and drink handled by aseptic processing, and is used as an alternative to traditional industrial canning methods. The food is first prepared, either raw or cooked, and then sealed into the retort pouch. The pouch is then heated to 240-250°F (116-121°C) for several minutes under high pressure inside a retort or autoclave machine. The food inside is cooked in a similar way to pressure cooking.
Retort pouches are used in field rations, space food, camping food, and brands such as Capri Sun and Tasty Bite. Some varieties have a bottom gusset and are known as Stand-Up Pouches. The food is first prepared, either raw or cooked, and then sealed into the retort pouch. The pouch is then heated to 240-250°F (116-121°C) for several minutes under high pressure inside a retort or autoclave machine. The food inside is cooked in a similar way to pressure cooking.
There is no doubt that there are advantages to packaging food products in the retort pouch. Generally processing times can be reduced by as much as 50% as compared to a comparable sized can, jar, or other cylindrical container. This style of retort is available in both rotary and non-rotary models. Both rotational and non-rotational models are available. Rotational models are typically not recommended due to the non-buoyant environment. While not a commonly used as spray processing, Steam/Air retorts are also a good choice for pouches.
[edit] How to make and use a simple retort for separating gold-mercury amalgam. Mercury is used in amalgamation to recover gold in its native or 'free' form. While mercury simplifies the process greatly, it must be remembered that it is a very dangerous substance, especially when inhaled or absorbed through the skin. 