The HPV vaccine. A vaccine called Gardasil has been developed that protects against the two high-risk HPV types (types 16 and 18), which cause 70% of cervical cancers in women and 90% of all HPV-related cancers in men. It also protects against two low-risk HPV types (types 6 and 11), which cause 90% of genital warts. Australia's Professor Ian Frazer and his team at the University of Queensland discovered how to make the vaccine particles, which form the basis of the HPV vaccine.
Human papillomavirus-HPV, discovered in 1956, is a group of viruses that affect the skin and mucous membranes of humans. 
Certain HPV types are classified as high-risk because they lead to abnormal cell changes and can cause genital cancers: cervical cancer as well as cancer of the vulva, anus, and penis. In fact, researchers say that virtually all cervical cancers -- more than 99% -- are caused by these high-risk HPV viruses. The most common of the high-risk strains of HPV are types 16 and 18, which cause about 70% of all cervical cancers. If the body clears the infection, the cervical cells return to normal. But if the body doesn't clear the infection, the cells in the cervix can continue to change abnormally
HPV types 6 and 11 are the etiological cause genital warts. Persistent infection with high-risk HPV types—different from the ones that cause skin warts—may progress to precancerous lesions and invasive cancer. High-risk HPV infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer. High-risk HPV types 16 and 18 are together responsible for over 65% of cervical cancer cases. Type 16 causes 41 to 54% of cervical cancers, and accounts for an even greater majority of HPV-induced vaginal/vulvar cancers, penile cancers, anal cancers and head and neck cancers.
The first time HPV was discovered was back in 1956 by a group of scientists. It was in 1984, when Harald zur Hausen discovered, cloned, and attributed cervical cancer to HPV 16 and 18.Throug his research, he has contributed to the production of the vaccines [6]. HPV gets its name because certain strain causes warts, also known as papillomas [4]. On the other hand, the high risk types, like HPV 16 and 18 have been linked to cancer of the vulva, vagina, cervix, anus and penis. [2] For the most part, most HPV infections do not pose any real harm, even if infected by multiple types.
Both vaccines protect against the two HPV types (HPV-16 and HPV-18) that cause 70% of cervical cancers, 80% of anal cancers, 60% of vaginal cancers, and 40% of vulvar cancers. These HPV types also cause most HPV induced oral cancers, and some other rare genital cancers. 
The HPV vaccine currently available in Australia is called Gardasil. This vaccine prevents infection with HPV types 16, 18, 6 and 11. HPV 16 and 18 are responsible for the majority (70% internationally; 80% in Australia) of cervical cancers. HPV 6 and 11 are responsible for 90% of genital warts. Having the vaccine will protect those who have never been exposed to these types of HPV.
It is estimated that 16% of cancer cases are related to infections. HPV are contributing for 30% of all infection-associated cancers [4] . HPV are present in almost all of cervical cancer cases, with HPV16 and 18 accounting for 70% of cases. The first HPV types (HPV16 and 18) were isolated from cancer biopsies of the cervix and were cloned in 1983 and 1984, respectively [1] . Further epidemiological studies have confirmed that cervical infection by high-risk (HR) HPV types is the main risk factor for cervical cancer development.
Nearly two decades ago, experts discovered a relationship between infection with HPV (human papillomavirus) and cervical cancer. Since then, these experts have learned much more about how HPV can lead to cervical cancer. Here, what every woman and girl should know about this link. The most common of the high-risk strains of HPV are types 16 and 18, which cause about 70% of all cervical cancers. If the body clears the infection, the cervical cells return to normal. But if the body doesn't clear the infection, the cells in the cervix can continue to change abnormally