If a home could be worth less in six months than it is today, a lender will be very concerned about getting an accurate value in order to ensure they will be able to recoup the loan amount. In this kind of market, lenders may want an appraisal to be no more than 90 to 120 days old. FHA guidelines once called for an appraisal to be considered valid for six months until January 2010.
As a general rule of thumb, an appraisal should be considered out of date if it is more than six months old, under most market conditions. When prices are changing quickly, as they have over the last few years, even six months is too long. The value of your home can change the next day due to outside conditions. An appraisal ordered by the US Department of Veteran Affairs (also known as a VA appraisal), is valid for 6 months. Once the appraisal is complete, the VA will assign a Certif … icate of Reasonable Value (C.R.V.) to the property. The C.R.V. assigned is good for any eligible borrower.
The appraisal is good for 1 year..... However before the disaster....lenders asked for physical re-inspect/updated comps after 120 days (basically the same shelf-life of credit docs)...Now... Lenders will be much more conservative in some views as it is prudent to append values especially witht he direction.. Write a review. The property must have been appraised (or inspected, if that is the level of property fieldwork recommended for a Desktop Underwriter-processed mortgage) within the 12 months that precede the date of the note and mortgage.
I had a FHA appraisal done on my excisting home in order to obtain. a construction loan for a addition to the home. The appraisal was done on 8-3-2012. Well the loan process took longer than 120 days, in fact is still in process. I read here that the appraisal coud be extended for 30 days, but I also read here something about the total extension can not be more than 240 days. Coud you please explain if the appraisal. FHA loan rules do not permit the re-use of an appraisal once the loan has closed. According to FHA.gov, “For example, an appraisal used for the purchase of a property cannot be used again for a subsequent refinance, even if the appraisal is within the 120 day validity period.
1 Most appraisals are good for 60-90 days. 2  Some appraisals are accepted up to 120 days as a matter of course. 3  FHA only accepts appraisals up to 120 days and allows recertification of 30 additional days. In a declining market, an appraisal’s term of validity is shorter. The maximum age of an appraisal is 6 months, the same as acceptable comparable property sales. While you may never see an expiration date on a property appraisal, many lenders will not accept an appraisal that is more than 120 days old. Some lenders will also request an appraisal dated after the contract date in any case. To recap: Most appraisals are good for 60-90 days. Some appraisals are accepted up to 120 days as a matter of course. FHA only accepts appraisals up to 120 days and allows recertification of 30 additional days.
MultiInstanceUrlPhrase: zillow 1 MultiInstanceUrlPhrase: www zillow com advice thread how long do appraisals last for 32690 1 Js-Redirect-Candidate: 1 Found-Date: 2691 Found-Time: 720 Found-Seconds: 0 Doc-Conversion-Classification: 1 Document-CRC-32: 44218615 Document-Length: 132446 Document-URL: http://www.zillow .... Write a review. The property must have been appraised (or inspected, if that is the level of property fieldwork recommended for a Desktop Underwriter-processed mortgage) within the 12 months that precede the date of the note and mortgage.
The effective period for an appraisal depends on the local market. Appraisals are a vital part of the loan approval process, because they determine whether a home is worth the purchase price. In this kind of market, lenders may want an appraisal to be no more than 90 to 120 days old. FHA guidelines once called for an appraisal to be considered valid for six months until January 2010.
Under most loan guidelines, appraisals do not have a set expiration period. However, because lenders want comps that are no more than six months past, an appraisal should be no more than six months old. Most appraisers and lenders agree six months is the maximum amount of time that an appraisal holds a valid value, referred to as the “term of validity.”. In this kind of market, lenders may want an appraisal to be no more than 90 to 120 days old. FHA guidelines once called for an appraisal to be considered valid for six months until January 2010.