15 Serous Membranes & Cavities Body Cavities The major cavities of the body are withinthe trunk. They contain visceral organs andserous membrane cavities:Thoracic cavity — is lined byendothoracic fascia.Abdominal & pelvic cavities — arelined by transversalis fascia.
pelvic cavity the space within the walls of the pelvis. pericardial cavity the potential space between the epicardium and the parietal layer of the serous pericardium. peritoneal cavity the potential space between the parietal and the visceral peritoneum.
The thorax, abdomen, and pelvis are (together with the back) parts of the trunk. The thoracic and abdominal cavities are separated from each other by the diaphragm. The abdominal cavity proper and the true pelvic cavity are continuous across the plane of the pelvic inlet, or brim (see fig. 31-3).
FIGURE 1-11 Body Cavities. (a) The dorsal body cavity is bounded by the bones of the skull and vertebral column. The muscular diaphragm divides the ventral body cavity into a superior thoracic (chest) cavity and an inferior abdominopelvic cavity.
The pelvic cavity is the space in which organs (including reproductive and urinary), muscles, vessels, nerves, and other structures are housed. 1. The pelvic cavity is created by the space between the pelvic bones. 2. Muscles form the floor and walls of the pelvic cavity.
These changes lead to the subdivision of the ventral body cavity, or coelom. The diaphragm, a flat muscular sheet, divides the ventral body cavity into a superior thoracic cavity, bounded by the chest wall, and an inferior abdominopelvic cavity, enclosed by the abdominal wall and by the bones and muscles of the pelvis.
The pelvic cavity is the portion of the ventral body cavity inferior to the abdominal cavity. The bones of the pelvis form the walls of the pelvic cavity, and a layer of muscle forms its floor. The pelvic cavity contains the last portion of the large intestine, the urinary bladder, and various reproductive organs.
Cavities in the body. From Applegate, 2000. abdominal cavity the cavity of the body between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below, containing the abdominal organs. absorption c's cavities in developing compact bone due to osteoclastic erosion, usually occurring in the areas laid down first.
1. a hollow or space, or a potential space, within the body or one of its organs; called also caverna and cavum. 2. the lesion produced by dental caries. Cavities in the body. From Applegate, 2000. abdominal cavity the cavity of the body between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below, containing the abdominal organs.