Five years after she debuted as a professional wrestler in the WWF, Chyna parted ways with the company. She then toured Japan, taking the country by storm and battling in the ring with the likes of such champions as Keiji Muto, Mutô The Great, kabuki and most, Notably Masahiro. chono chôno
Height: 5 feet 10 inches. Chyna is a talented American actress and retired professional wrestler, best known for her work with the World Wrestling Federation. Labels: C, TV Stars, Women.
The correct Title is: A Night in China. The Reason it is Spelt different to Chyna's Name … is because the WWF at the time would not let her use her WWF Name but she has since Won Court Case and has changed her original name of Joan Marie Laurer to Chyna Legally as she as been know for over a decade.
Chyna has been called The First Lady of Sports Entertainment. Her accomplishments have gone far beyond the wrestling ring and far beyond anyone's expectations. Before exchanging body slams, modeling for top magazines and guest-starring on hundreds of shows, Chyna was a shy girl who was born in Rochester, New York.
Throughout her life Chyna always dreamed of being an entertainer. She began that career in the early 1990s as a belly dancer and soon moved on to fitness competitions, but at 6'0 the star found her real calling in the entertainment world: professional wrestling.
After dominating the world of women's wrestling Chyna was discovered by Paul Levesque (aka Triple H) and Shawn Michaels (HBK), two WWF (World Wrestling Federation) superstars who helped Chyna break into the big time.
saleem says on 17/Aug/12. lita was an inch shorter than chyna..but she was very slim so she looked tall while chyna had a broad body.. All heights are barefeet Estimates, derived from quotations by celebrities, official websites, agency resumes, actors I've met at conventions and pictures/films.
Joan Marie Laurer (December 27, 1970) is an American actress and retired professional wrestler. A former bodybuilder, she is best known for her career with the World Wrestling Federation from 1997 to 2001, where she was billed as Chyna: The Ninth Wonder of the World (with the eighth wonder being Andre andré The). giant
Mini Bio (1). Chyna has been called The First Lady of Sports Entertainment. Her accomplishments have gone far beyond the wrestling ring and far beyond anyone's expectations. Before exchanging body slams, modeling for top magazines and guest-starring on hundreds of shows, Chyna was a shy girl who was born in Rochester, New York.