ARS 15-821C is the source of information for kindergarten entry age. It states that children must be five (5) years of age before September 1 to enter kindergarten. That means that a child must turn five on or before August 31, not on September 1. Kindergarten is not required in the state of Arizona. While the deadline for admission to kindergarten is 5 years old by September 1, Arizona Revised Statutes (A.R.S.) § 15-821C gives districts the right to choose to allow students into a kindergarten program if they were born no later than January 1 and if they feel that it is in the best interest of the child.
Children must be five years old by September 1 to start kindergarten in Georgia. They must be six years old by September 1 to start first grade in Georgia. Some states have later cut-off dates, allowing children to start kindergarten at age four.
Preschool is for 4 year olds and kindergarten in for 5-6 year old it depends on where your child's b-day is. Some day cares have preschool lessons so you really don't have to put them in the actuall pre-school. Best Answer: oh no. usualy start kindergarten around 5 years, some kids 6. however, many people have their kids in preschool at 2-3 years now days, i dont want mine to go till 3-4 though. but i will start kindergarten at 5 as this is standard age for it.
Florida law (Section 1003.21(1)(a)2, Florida Statutes) specifies that children who have attained the age of five years on or before September 1 of the school year are eligible for admission to public kindergarten during that school year based on rules prescribed by the school board. 
1 The child is at least five years of age. 2  The child has attended a public school kindergarten for a long enough time to enable school personnel to evaluate the child's ability. 3  The child is in the upper 5 percent of the child's age group in terms of general mental ability. Kindergarten Enrollment. Since school is mandatory for six year old students, parents and guardians of six year old students must enroll their children in school (Education Code [EC] Section 48200).
A child who was not age-eligible for kindergarten (that is, the child turned five after September 1 in the 2014-15 school year or thereafter) and who attended a California private school kindergarten for a year is viewed by the CDE as not legally enrolled in kindergarten, pursuant to EC Section 48000 requirements. Kindergarten Enrollment. Since school is mandatory for six year old students, parents and guardians of six year old students must enroll their children in school (Education Code [EC] Section 48200).
You have to be 5 years old when you start kindergarten but some happen. to start when they are 4 if there birthday is in the beginning of September. if you just turned 5 years old after the beginning of September you have to wait a whole year to start kindergarten. Most children go to some form of daycare before starting kindergarten at the age of 6. That year is to get the children used to the concept before starting real … school with longer hours and more work in year 1 (at seven years of age).
Age. In order to enroll in kindergarten in Missouri, you son or daughter should be five years old before August 1 st of the upcoming school year. What this means is that if your child turns five in September or October, you can enroll him/her in kindergarten the following school year.
I live in WA. state and a child entering kindergarten must be 5 years of age before August 31. If he turns 5 on September 3 sorry he will have to wait until next year to start. However if you feel your child is ready for kindergarten you can go before the school board and ask and than it is up to them. My older kids started kindergarten at 5, however you dont have to put them in Kindergarten if you choose not to, but they do have to enroll in the 1st grade. If you start your child in kindergarten, you cant take them out.