1 Currently, the midwifery compensation scale has 6 levels. 2  Full-time midwives earn approximately $73,000 to $95,000 a year. 3  A midwife's place on this scale depends on her number of years of experience in Ontario and on the number of clients for whom she provides care in a year. 1 Full-time midwives earn approximately $73,000 to $95,000 a year. 2
1 If you do not have OHIP, lab tests can cost up to $100, depending on the case. 2  Hospital birth-If you do not have OHIP and you choose to have your baby at a hospital, you have to pay for the hospital stay. 3  The cost depends on the hospital and if the midwifery clinic's relationship with the hospital. If you do not have OHIP, you must pay for these other services. For example: 1  Lab tests (blood tests, urine tests, ultrasound) - If you have OHIP, these tests are usually free. 2 
Starting salary. £21,692 per year. As a midwife you would care for and support pregnant women and their babies, before, during and after childbirth. If you would like taking care of the mother's welfare, and the responsibility of helping to bring babies into the world, this could be the perfect career for you.
Salary. Salary for midwives on the NHS is tightly stratified by length of service and experience. 1  Midwives on the NHS start on around £20,000 per annum depending on location. 2  An experienced midwife can earn up to £50,000 per annum. 3  Midwife consultants can earn in excess of £60,000 per annum. 1
In Ontario, a midwife is a registered health care professional who provides primary care to low-risk women throughout pregnancy, labour and birth. Midwives also provide care to both mother and baby during the six weeks following birth. They are available to clients 24 hours a day, seven days a week by pager. Midwives provide care for both mothers and babies for six weeks after the birth. Whether your baby is born at home or in the hospital, your midwife will provide care in your home within 24 hours of
The yearly salary for a direct-entry midwife is between $24,000 and $48,000, says the Citizens for Midwifery website. This translates to two to four births each month. Direct-entry midwives may make more if they assist with more births, as each birth garners $2,000 - $4,000. Even so, due to the unpredictability of the onset of labor, most midwives schedule cautiously so as to guarantee availability for delivery.
Answer     The median expected salary for a typical Certified Nurse Midwife in the United States is $81,336.     It depends on your location but the m … edian salary is $91,093. You can go to this website in the Related Link below and enter your location. It should be more specific. 
1 This is a lower cost option, because you will not have to pay hospital fees. 2  High-risk pregnancy-If you have a high risk pregnancy, a midwife cannot deliver the baby. 3  For some, this means a Caesarian-section or c-section.. 4  If you do not have OHIP, the cost of a c-section depends on the hospital and your case. If you do not have OHIP, you must pay for these other services. For example: 1  Lab tests (blood tests, urine tests, ultrasound) - If you have OHIP, these tests are usually free. 2  If you do not have OHIP, lab tests can cost up to $100, depending on the case.
1 High-risk pregnancy-If you have a high risk pregnancy, a midwife cannot deliver the baby. 2  For some, this means a Caesarian-section or c-section.. 3  If you do not have OHIP, the cost of a c-section depends on the hospital and your case. 4  It can cost $1500-4500. If you do not have OHIP, you must pay for these other services. For example: 1  Lab tests (blood tests, urine tests, ultrasound) - If you have OHIP, these tests are usually free. 2  If you do not have OHIP, lab tests can cost up to $100, depending on the case.
Salaried Nurse-Midwives. Midwives who are salaried employees of a hospital or practice earn annual incomes which vary considerably. Based on a survey taken in 2007, the American College of Nurse-Midwives reports that the median salary of a nurse-midwife who works 35 hours or more per week is between $79,093 and $89,916.