A generation, as described in the Bible, begins at conception and ends at death (Gen 17:6-9; Ps 22:30; Jer 1:4,5; Act 13:36; Josh 24:29-31). The length of a generation is not an arbitrary period of time that occurs within the life span of an individual or group of people. Joshua's age at the time of death, 110 years (including 9 months gestation), was the length of the generation he represented. Some of his generation died before him and some after him. Consequently, the average life span of a group of people living at about the same time constitutes the length of that generation. The length of a generation has not always been constant since the days of Adam and Eve. Before the Biblical flood, the average life span of man was over 900 years.
The average generation from Abraham to David (Matt. 1:17) was approximately 64 years, while the average generation for the other two groups was 38 years. The time span covered by each generation is not the emphasis, but rather the fact of the passing of the number of successive generations. The average generation is the average age of parents at the time of birth of their children. When life span increases, so does the average length of
The bible then rounds the exact span of years in a generation to be 40 and 100 years as the primary usage, but on occasion, 70 years. And 70 is the average of 40 and 100, which allow the three timeframes to work in numeric harmony to produce the numeric symmetry found throughout the bible. Nevertheless, notice that the full number (400 years) is exactly ten-times that of a regular generation of 40 years. Both 100 years and 40 years are a generation in the Bible. However, the average of these two, 70 years, is on occasion also found in the bible, (Psalm 90:10). But 70 years is a generation according to the average age of a man at his death, rather then when his first child is born (as with the example of Abraham)
In population biology and demography, the generation time is the average time between two consecutive generations in the lineages of a population. 
If the length of David's generation, Christ's generation, and the average life span of those living today in Israel is between 70 and 80 years (a 3000-year span), it would be reasonable to conclude that the generation Christ was talking about in the parable of the fig tree will also be 70 to 80 years in length. Consequently, the average life span of a group of people living at about the same time constitutes the length of that generation. The length of a generation has not always been constant since the days of Adam and Eve. Before the Biblical flood, the average life span of man was over 900 years.
Generation is the act of producing offspring. In kinship terminology, it is a structural term designating the parent-child relationship. It is also known as biogenesis, reproduction, or procreation in the biological sciences. Some analysts believe that a generation is one of the fundamental social categories in a society, while others view its importance as being overshadowed by other factors such as class, gender, race, education, and so on.
======================================... generation in dictionary.com: 1) the entire body of individuals born and living at about the same time: the postwar generation. 2) the term of years, roughly 30 among human beings, accepted as the average period between the birth of parents and the birth of their offspring. 3 a group of individuals, most of whom are the same approximate age, having similar ideas, problems, attitudes, etc.Compare Beat Generation, Lost Generation. 
(2) That the standard round number for a generation is 40 years is well attested. The forty-year period occurs about a dozen times in the Bible. It is the reason why some scholars do not accept the 480 years between the Exodus and Solomon's temple as found in 1Kings 6:1 to be a literal span of time. Nevertheless, notice that the full number (400 years) is exactly ten-times that of a regular generation of 40 years. Both 100 years and 40 years are a generation in the Bible. However, the average of these two, 70 years, is on occasion also found in the bible, (Psalm 90:10). But 70 years is a generation according to the average age of a man at his death, rather then when his first child is born (as with the example of Abraham)
If such a span is 200 years, that means that an average of 50 years time passed from birth of a person to that person giving birth to the person in line. Implausible. If the total span is 40 years, that means ten year olds were having babies (on average). Also implausible. Either way, some part of the hypothetical genealogy is messed up and it’s back to the church records, vital statistics, and Mormon database for you. This is a Familial Generation. #17 MadScientist March 3, 2011. I always thought a ‘generation’ was 25 – 20 years is a ‘score’ (as in that speech that starts with Four Score and Seven years ago …), although writing “4 generations and 7 years ago” would likely be punished by the English Squad.