Liver flukes belong to the phylum Platyhelminthes. Liver flukes are any of several parasitic trematode worms, especially Clonorchis sinensis, that infest the liver of various … animals, including humans. 1 person found this useful. A dove is any bird of the family Columbidae, of the class Aves, of the phylum Chordata.
Subphylum: Vertebrata, the taonomic ranking system has identified verebra that are not a backbone or spinal column, this category is to provide that specificity Class: Mammalia, class of animals that has a mammary gland and some other random stuff. Subclass: Theria, gives birth to live young without using a shelled egg. Best Answer: Kingdom: Animalia, characteristics include all animals and exclude all plants, fungus, single celled organisms and any of the organisms like bacteria strains and so forth.
All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 3 people found this useful. Liver flukes belong to the phylum Platyhelminthes. Liver flukes are any of several parasitic trematode worms, especially Clonorchis sinensis, that infest the liver of various … animals, including humans.
The phylum to which humans belong is Chordata.     Domain: Eukaryota   Kingdom: Animalia   Phylum: Chordata   Subphylum: Vertebrata   Class: Mammalia …   Subclass: Theria   Order: Primates   Suborder: Anthropoidea   Family: Hominidae   Genus: Homo   Species: H. sapiens   Subspecies: H. s. Liver flukes belong to the phylum Platyhelminthes. Liver flukes are any of several parasitic trematode worms, especially Clonorchis sinensis, that infest the liver of various … animals, including humans.
Answers. Best Answer: Humans belong to the order Primates and the genus Homo. Here is the full classification of Homo sapiens sapiens: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Primates Family: Hominidae Genus: Homo Species: H. sapiens Subspecies: H. s. sapiens. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human
Answers. Best Answer: Kingdom: Animalia, characteristics include all animals and exclude all plants, fungus, single celled organisms and any of the organisms like bacteria strains and so forth. Phylum: Chordata, includes animals with vertebreas and for some odd reason a few closely related ones without
All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 3 people found this useful. Edit. A dove is any bird of the family Columbidae, of the class Aves
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Arthropod Phylum: All the jointed legged animals. All of these animals have an exoskeleton, meaning the skeleton is on the outside of the body. Include: Insects, Arachnids, and Crustaceans. Mollusk Phylum: Soft-bodied animals that sometimes have a hard shell.
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7. Current research in phylogenetics is uncovering the relationships between phyla, which are contained in larger clades, like Ecdysozoa and Embryophyta.
There are at least 33 phyla (plural of phylum) of animals. Humans are members of the phylum Chordata. All of the chordates have elongated bilaterally symmetrical bodies. That is to say, the left and right sides are essentially mirror images of each other. Vertebrata is the most advanced and numerous subphylum of chordates. It includes all of the fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Collectively, there are about 43,000 living vertebrate species in comparison to just over 1500 species in the other two invertebrate subphyla