Blood tests. The diagnosis is based on symptoms and a low level of vitamin A in the blood. If people have problems seeing in the dark, eye tests, such as electroretinography (see Tests for Eye Disorders: Electroretinography), may be done to determine whether vitamin A deficiency is the cause. Disorders that impair the intestine’s absorption of fats can reduce the absorption of vitamin A and increase the risk of vitamin A deficiency. These disorders include chronic diarrhea, celiac disease, cystic fibrosis, certain pancreatic disorders, and blockage of the bile ducts.
Vitamin A Deficiency-Related Disorders (VADD). The most damaging micronutrient deficiencies in the world are the consequence of low dietary intake of iron, vitamin A, iodine and zinc. Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is prevalent among the poor whose diets are based mainly on rice or other carbohydrate-rich, micronutrient-poor calory sources. 
Symptoms. An early symptom of vitamin A deficiency is night blindness, which is caused by a disorder of the retina. Soon thereafter, the whites (conjunctiva) and corneas of the eyes may become dry and thick—a condition called xerophthalmia. Disorders that impair the intestine’s absorption of fats can reduce the absorption of vitamin A and increase the risk of vitamin A deficiency. These disorders include chronic diarrhea, celiac disease, cystic fibrosis, certain pancreatic disorders, and blockage of the bile ducts.
1 Vitamin A deficiency. 2  Taking vitamin A by mouth is effective for preventing and treating symptoms of vitamin A deficiency. 3  Vitamin A deficiency can occur in people with protein deficiency, diabetes, over-active thyroid, fever, liver disease, cystic fibrosis, or an inherited disorder called abetalipoproteinemia. It can also be made in a laboratory. Vitamin A is used for treating vitamin A deficiency. It is also used to reduce complications of diseases such as malaria, HIV, measles, and diarrhea in children with
Definitions of Vitamin A deficiency: Condition due to a deficiency of vitamin A. - (Source-Diseases Database). Vitamin A deficiency is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Vitamin A deficiency, or a subtype of Vitamin A deficiency, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. 
Causes of vitamin deficiency anemias, also known as megaloblastic anemias, include: Folate deficiency anemia. Folate, also known as vitamin B-9, is a nutrient found mainly in fruits and leafy green vegetables. A diet consistently lacking in these foods can lead to a deficiency. Vitamin B-12 deficiency anemia (pernicious anemia). Vitamin B-12 deficiency can result from a diet lacking in vitamin B-12, which is found mainly in meat, eggs and milk. Vitamin B-12 deficiency anemia can also occur if your small intestine can't absorb vitamin B-12.
Prevalence of vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is a lack of vitamin A in humans. It is common in poorer countries but rarely seen in more developed countries. Nyctalopia (night blindness) is one of the first signs of VAD. Approximately 250,000 to 500,000 malnourished children in the developing world go blind each year from a deficiency of vitamin A, approximately half of whom die within a year of becoming blind. The United Nations Special Session on Children in 2002 set a goal of the elimination of VAD by 2010.
The major cause of blindness in children worldwide is xerophthalmia caused by vitamin A deficiency. In addition it has other adverse effects, including increased mortality and the term vitamin A deficiency disorders (VADD) has been introduced to cover the whole clinical spectrum of disease. PIP: This article focuses on xerophthalmia, caused by vitamin A deficiency, which is the major cause of blindness among children worldwide. T
Vitamin D deficiency can occur for a number of reasons: You don't consume the recommended levels of the vitamin over time. This is likely if you follow a strict vegan diet, because most of the natural sources are animal-based, including fish and fish oils, egg yolks, cheese, fortified milk, and beef liver. Symptoms of bone pain and muscle weakness can mean you have a vitamin D deficiency. However, for many people, the symptoms are subtle. Yet, even without symptoms, too little vitamin D can pose health risks.
Vitamin A deficiency is the leading cause of preventable childhood blindness and is critical to achieving Millennium Development Goal 4:2 to reduce child mortality. Approximately 250,000 to 500,000 malnourished children in the developing world go blind each year from a deficiency of vitamin A, approximately half of whom die within a year of becoming blind. The United Nations Special Session on Children in 2002 set a goal of the elimination of VAD by 2010.