A bacterial infection may also cause a sore throat. This can occur from: 1  Strep throat, which usually does not occur with congestion or a cough. 2  An inflammation or infection of the tonsils (tonsillitis) and sometimes the adenoids (adenoiditis). 3  An infection of the tissues around the tonsils (peritonsillar abscess). 1 The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent
But when a sore throat persists and you can't find relief, it's something to be taken seriously. Some possible causes of a chronic sore throat include: 1  Tonsillitis (infection of the tonsils). 2  Strep throat. 3  Allergies. 4  Mononucleosis (also referred to as mono). 5  Inhaling air pollutants. 6  Smoking. 7  Influenza (the flu). 8  Inhaling through the mouth instead of the nose. 
A sore throat (or throat pain) is pain or irritation of the throat. A common physical symptom, it is usually caused by acute pharyngitis (inflammation of the throat), although it can also appear as a result of trauma, diphtheria, or other conditions. 
Irritation caused by dry heat, a chronic stuffy nose, pollutants and chemicals, and straining your voice can also irritate your throat. Reflux, or a regurgitation of stomach acids up into the back of the throat, can cause you to wake up with a sore throat. Tonsillitis is an infection of the lumpy-appearing lymphatic tissues on each side of the back of the throat. Infections in the nose and sinuses also can cause sore throats, because mucus from the nose drains down into the throat and carries the infection with it.
Tumors of the throat, tongue, and larynx (voice box) can cause a sore throat with pain radiating to the ear and/or difficulty swallowing. Other important symptoms can include hoarseness, noisy breathing, a lump in the neck, unexplained weight loss, and/or spitting up blood in the saliva or phlegm. Tonsillitis is an infection of the lumpy-appearing lymphatic tissues on each side of the back of the throat. Infections in the nose and sinuses also can cause sore throats, because mucus from the nose drains down into the throat and carries the infection with it.
Several conditions can cause a sore throat. Sore throats may be caused by a viral illness, such as: 1  The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent sore throat. 1
Bacteria: Strep throat is an infection caused by a particular strain of streptococcus bacteria. This infection can also cause damage to the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (nephritis). Streptococcal infections can also cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, pneumonia, sinusitis and ear infections. Viruses: Most viral sore throats accompany the flu or a cold:' When a stuffy-runny nose, sneezing, and generalized aches and pains accompany the sore throat, it is probably caused by one of the hundreds of known viruses. These are highly contagious and cause epidemics in a community, especially in the winter.
Infections in the nose and sinuses can also cause sore throats because mucus from the nose drains down into the throat and carries the infection with it. The most dangerous throat infection is epiglottitis, caused by bacteria that infect a portion of the larynx (voice box) and cause swelling that closes the airway. Viruses: Most viral sore throats accompany the flu or a cold:' When a stuffy-runny nose, sneezing, and generalized aches and pains accompany the sore throat, it is probably caused by one of the hundreds of known viruses. These are highly contagious and cause epidemics in a community, especially in the winter.
Bacteria: Strep throat is an infection caused by a particular strain of streptococcus bacteria. This infection can also damage the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (nephritis), cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, and ear infections. Symptoms of strep throat often include fever (greater than 101°F), white draining patches on the throat, and swollen or tender lymph glands in the neck. Tonsillitis is an infection of the lumpy-appearing lymphatic tissues on each side of the back of the throat. Infections in the nose and sinuses also can cause sore throats, because mucus from the nose drains down into the throat and carries the infection with it.