Join LinkedIn. Virtustream is the enterprise-class cloud software and service provider trusted by enterprises worldwide to migrate and run their mission-critical applications in the cloud. Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies
Global Footprint. Virtustream's comprehensive cloud software solutions and professional services help customers design, operate and use clouds to meet their unique requirements worldwide. The company is headquartered in Washington, D.C. with offices in San Francisco, Atlanta, London and Dubai. Virtustream owns data centers in the U.S. and Europe with service provider partner data centers in Latin America, the Middle East and Asia.
With the addition of Virtustream, EMC will enable customers to move their entire application portfolio into a cloud environment. Virtustream's cloud software and Infrastructure-as-a-Service portfolio will be delivered directly to customers and through partners. The value is in Virtustream's access to EMC's resources, particularly distribution. There will be instant synergy through expanded distribution, as explained in the press release:
With Virtustream, EMC moves beyond enabling the cloud on the back end to developing more of an as-a-service strategy. EMC said Tuesday it will buy Virtustream for $1.2 billon in a move that will allow the company to offer hybrid cloud managed services. Simply put, you'd be hard pressed to outline EMC-as-a-service. Virtustream changes that equation for EMC and as a result makes the company a more well rounded hybrid cloud vendor. What SoftLayer was to IBM, Virtustream can be to EMC. Virtustream was venture backed and plotting an initial public offering. The company has a $100 million annual revenue run rate and 60 percent of that is cloud infrastructure as a service. The remainder is cloud software that is licensed to other service provider
Magazine Top 5000. Virtustream is headquartered in Bethesda with offices in Atlanta, Dublin, London, New York, San Francisco and Washington D.C. , data centers in London, San Francisco and Washington D.C. and agents in Asia and the Middle East. Its partners include Intel, VMware, NetApp, EMC, Citrix, IBM, RedHat, and SAP. Virtustream was founded in 2009 by Rodney Rogers and Kevin Reid, who had previously founded Adjoined Consulting (which was acquired by Kanbay, and in turn, Capgemini).
About Virtustream. Virtustream is the enterprise-class cloud software and services provider trusted by enterprise customers worldwide to migrate and run their mission-critical applications in the cloud. The company is headquartered in Washington, D.C. with offices in San Francisco, Atlanta, London and Dubai. Virtustream owns data centers in the U.S. and Europe with service provider partner data centers in Latin America, the Middle East and Asia.
In a surprise announcement, information technology service company EMC (NYSE: EMC) said Tuesday it plans to acquire global cloud service provider Virtustream in an all-cash transaction of approximately $1.2 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2015. The value is in Virtustream's access to EMC's resources, particularly distribution. There will be instant synergy through expanded distribution, as explained in the press release: Virtustream's cloud software and Infrastructure-as-a-Service portfolio will be delivered directly to customers and through partners.
It's free! Virtustream is the enterprise-class cloud software and service provider trusted by enterprises worldwide to migrate and run their mission-critical applications in the cloud. Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies.