2185 On Sundays and other holy days of obligation, the faithful are to refrain from engaging in work or activities that hinder the worship owed to God, the joy proper to the Lord's Day, the performance of the works of mercy, and the appropriate relaxation of mind and body.
One of the six precepts of the Church is “to keep the Sundays and Holy Days of obligation holy, by hearing Mass and resting from servile work” (New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia). We had to memorize these precepts when I was a child and I remember it as “to assist at Mass on all Sundays and holy days of obligation.”.
On Sundays and other holy days of obligation, the faithful are to refrain from engaging in work or activities that hinder the worship owed to God, the joy proper to the Lord's Day, the performance of the works of mercy, and the appropriate relaxation of mind and body.
A list of holy days of obligation, or a calendar advertising that the holy days of obligation are marked, is referring to the days, aside from Sunday, when Catholics are to go to Mass and otherwise treat the day as a Sunday: On Sundays and other holy days of obligation, the faithful are obliged to assist at Mass. They are also to abstain from such work or business that would inhibit the worship to be given to God, the joy proper to the Lord's Day, or the due relaxation of mind and body.
MASS OBLIGATION. A grave obligation of Catholics to assist at Mass on all Sundays and holy days of obligation. As expressed by the Second Vatican Council, referring to Mass on Sunday, On this day the faithful are bound to come together into one place.
On Sundays and other holy days of obligation the faithful are bound to participate in the Mass; they are also to abstain from those labors and business concerns which impede the worship to be rendered to God, the joy which is proper to the Lord's Day, or the proper relaxation of mind and body. Canon 1248.
'Sunday... is to be observed as the foremost holy day of obligation in the universal Church.' [CIC, can. 1246 # 1] 'On Sundays and other holy days of obligation the faithful are bound to participate in the Mass