Government is the means by which state policy is enforced, as well as the mechanism for determining the policy of the state. A form of government, or form of state governance, refers to the set of political systems and institutions that make up the organisation of a specific government. Government of any kind currently affects every human activity in many important ways.
Factions of Mischiefs is what Madison called it when they fragmented power throughout the government when federalism was developed. Certainly it makes laws for the presumed better of all and seeks to remedy rights to those who have been ignored. example: A effectice government has the power to enforce the laws it has. example2: an effective government protects the rights of the people/states. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
example: A effectice government has the power to enforce the laws it has example2: an effective government protects the rights of the people/states. example: A effectice government has the power to enforce the laws it has. example2: an effective government protects the rights of the people/states. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
In the Commonwealth of Nations, the word government is also used more narrowly to refer to the collective group of people that exercises executive authority in a state. This usage is analogous to what is called an  administration  in American English. A form of government, or form of state governance, refers to the set of political systems and institutions that make up the organisation of a specific government. Government of any kind currently affects every human activity in many important ways.
Description. This indicator measures the quality of public services, the quality of the civil service and its independence from political pressures, the quality of policy formulation and implementation, and the credibility of the government’s commitment to its stated policies. 
One answer is for the government to take a multiagency enterprise approach to the way it handles, not just natural disasters, but major public policy goals like reducing joblessness, improving education or securing cyberspace. Working with 50 current and former civil servants, PPS and Booz Allen identified the following nine enterprise strategies to help make government more efficient and effective. “Strategy 1 – Develop an enterprise performance plan with senior-level commitment to drive cross-agency goals and mission.”.
One of the challenges the federal government faces in times of crisis, such as Hurricane Sandy, is coordinating the efforts of multiple agencies, some with shared or overlapping responsibilities, to respond to the problem in the most efficient, appropriate and economic manner. Working with 50 current and former civil servants, PPS and Booz Allen identified the following nine enterprise strategies to help make government more efficient and effective. “Strategy 1 – Develop an enterprise performance plan with senior-level commitment to drive cross-agency goals and mission.”.
To ensure a separation of powers, the U.S. Federal Government is made up of three branches: legislative, executive and judicial. To ensure the government is effective and citizens’ rights are protected, each branch has its own powers and responsibilities, including working with the other branches. 
hmmmm. We look at our government and judge it's inability to be effective, however, it's job is to try and please the masses. (to a lesser or greater extent) But, I submit what makes a government effective is the inability to have a central formation of power. example: A effectice government has the power to enforce the laws it has. example2: an effective government protects the rights of the people/states. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
Ruy Texeira argues for something near and dear to my heart, more effective government: Make no mistake: a more effective government is the public’s priority, not a smaller government. Effectiveness isn’t a function of size or even what is done. It resides in how well matched what is done is in terms of what is needed. By that yardstick our government isn’t very effective at all. Unfortunately, a smaller government is no guarantee of effectiveness.