OECD Statistics. Definition: Wage or salary rates are the rates paid for nominal time of work, comprising basic wages and salaries, cost-of-living allowances and other guaranteed and regularly paid allowances. Context:
Definition. The term “hourly wage” describes a rate an employer agrees to pay a worker per hour worked, such as $12 per hour or $17.50 per hour. The “average” or “mean” is an estimated hourly rate calculated using the varying hourly rates of a group of workers in a specific occupation. Calculate Average. Average hourly waged earned is calculated by adding the hourly wages of the group and dividing by the number of people in it. For example, you might want to determine the average hourly wage earned by secretaries in a company. The first secretary earned $35 per hour, the second $10 per hour, the third $12 per hour, the fourth $9 per hour and the fifth $11 per hour
The U.S. Department of Labor requires that certain employers pay workers a minimum wage of $7.25 an hour and to pay time-and-a-half for hours worked in excess of 40 during a week. Minimum wage and overtime laws can result in higher average weekly wages for some workers. Workers' Compensation Insurance provides workers that become injured or ill on the job with income while disabled. The average weekly wage is a number used to determine the amount of workers' compensation benefits.
For example, in a profession in which 10 people are employed, and nine make $10,000 per year and the last makes $100,000 per year, the average salary for the profession would be said to $19,000. Yet, given the current distribution of salaries, a person entering the profession would be likely to make only half that. Found This Helpful. The term average salary refers to the amount of money that person in a particular profession makes. This is meant to provide a general idea of the amount of money that a person entering that profession is likely to make. A similar term used for the same purpose is median salary.
Definition of WAGE RATE. : the amount of base wage paid to a worker per unit of time (as per hour or day) or per unit of output if on piecework. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
DEFINITION of 'National Average Wage Index-NAWI'. An index calculated annually by the Social Security Administration (SSA) based on wages subject to federal income taxes and contributions to deferred compensation plans. The National Average Wage Index (NAWI) is used by the SSA in the indexation of retirement and insurance benefits in the United States. Next Up. The national average wage is calculated by taking the previous year's amount and increasing it by the percentage increase in wages over the last year. This data provides investors with valuable information to let them know what the workers in the nation are making.
DEFINITION of 'Average Industrial Wage'. The mean hourly rate of pay for workforce members of a given geographical area, such as a country or province, excluding farm employees. This measurement serves as a reasonable proxy for the wage rate of the average worker in a given country, and is used by labor organizations and employers as a benchmark. Next Up. This measurement serves as a reasonable proxy for the wage rate of the average worker in a given country, and is used by labor organizations and employers as a benchmark