1 Patches of chronically itchy, dry, thickened skin, usually on the hands, neck, face, and legs (but it can occur anywhere). 2  In children, the inner creases of the knees and elbows are often involved. 3  If scratched, dry patches of skin and open sores with crusts may develop and may get infected.
Prevention. 1  Patches of chronically itchy, dry, thickened skin, usually on the hands, neck, face, and legs (but it can occur anywhere). 2  If scratched, dry patches of skin and open sores with crusts may develop and may get infected.
Atopic eczema is an inflammation of the skin causing dry and itchy skin. It can affect any part of the skin, including the face, but the areas most commonly affected are the skin creases of the elbows, knees, wrists and neck.
It can be mild, moderate, or severe. Generally, people with eczema symptoms suffer from dry, sensitive skin. Eczema is also known for its intense itch. The itch may be so bad that you scratch your skin until it bleeds, which can make your rash even worse, leading to even more inflammation and itching.
Symptoms. Diagnosis and Treatment. Prevention. 1  Patches of chronically itchy, dry, thickened skin, usually on the hands, neck, face, and legs (but it can occur anywhere). 2  In children, the inner creases of the knees and elbows are often involved.
Eczema in pregnancy: Eczema in pregnancy is inflammation of the skin, which can occur anywhere on the body. The distribution of the rash and presence or absence of a rash can provide a clue as to the diagnosis.
Common symptoms of eczema include areas of thickened, red, itchy skin. The term 'eczema' is used in two different ways. It can be used widely to describe any rash-like skin conditions. It is usually used specifically to refer to the most common type of these skin conditions: atopic dermatitis.
Typically, eczema shows itself as: 1  Patches of chronically itchy, dry, thickened skin, usually on the hands, arms, neck, face and legs. 2  In children, the inner creases of the knees and elbows are often involved. 3  Sores with crusts, caused by scratching.