Best Answer: First name is your given name. Let's say your name is Huckleberry Finn. Huckleberry will be your first name. It's the name your parents gave you. Last name is your family name. It's a name that everyone in your section of the family will have (unless they married someone with a different last name (this only applies to women marrying men outside the family)). Finn would be your last name, or family
firstname: A given name or the name that occurs first in a given name. lastname: A name shared in common to identify the members of a family, as distinguished from each member's given name. Also called family name, last name. 1. Sir Used as an honorific before the given name or the full name of baronets and knights. 2. First Name is the name given to you. Last name is the Family name or sometimes Father s name. It s not Sir Name but Surname, which is same as the Last Name. Vijay Kumar Chenna · 3 months ago.
Best Answer: First name (two words, not one): it is also called given name or Christian name. It is the name your parents give you at birth (Paul, Brenda, etc). Last name (also two separate words): this is your family name, also called surname. Examples are Smith, Flintstone, Churchill. First Name is the name given to you. Last name is the Family name or sometimes Father s name. It s not Sir Name but Surname, which is same as the Last Name. Vijay Kumar Chenna · 3 months ago.
In most Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking countries, two or more last names (or surnames) may be used. In China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam, Madagascar, Hungary, Nepal, parts of India and in many other East Asian countries, the family name is placed before a person's given name. The style of having both a family name (surname) and a given name (forename) is far from universal. In some cultures, including those of most Western countries, the surname or family name (last name) is placed after the personal or given name (first name). In other cultures the surname is placed first, followed by the given name or names.
Report Abuse. Your first name is your given name, the one chosen for you by your parents. Your last name is your family name or your clan/tribe name, this is given to you based on the family name of your parents. For example, George Bush: George is the first (given) name and Bush is the last (Family) name. It's the name your parents gave you. Last name is your family name. It's a name that everyone in your section of the family will have (unless they married someone with a different last name (this only applies to women marrying men outside the family)).
A given name (also known as a personal name, first name, forename, or Christian name) is a part of a person's full nomenclature. It identifies a specific person, and differentiates that person from other members of a group, such as a family or clan, with whom that person shares a common surname. The term given name refers to the fact that the name is bestowed upon, or given to a child, usually by its parents, at or near the time of birth.
Ethnonym/Demonym-a name given to an ethnic group. Example: The Greeks. Family Name-the hereditary surname of a family. First Name-The first or given name given to you by your parents. Formal Name-The formal name is the full name -- prefix, first, middle, last and suffix as used on official documents. Gamer Name-a pseudonym chosen to represent a persona or character in a video game.
First/given, middle, and last/family/surname diagram with J.S. Bach as example. J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members and many extended family members. He shared his family name with most family members. It identifies a specific person, and differentiates that person from other members of a group, such as a family or clan, with whom that person shares a common surname. The term given name refers to the fact that the name is bestowed upon, or given to a child, usually by its parents, at or near the time of birth.
A surname or family name is a name added to a given name. In many cases, a surname is a family name and many dictionaries define surname as a synonym of family name.. In the western hemisphere, it is commonly synonymous with last name because it is usually placed at the end of a person's given name. In some cultures, including those of most Western countries, the surname or family name (last name) is placed after the personal or given name (first name). In other cultures the surname is placed first, followed by the given name or names.
First/given, middle, and last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as example. J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members and many extended family members. He shared his family name with most family members. In some cultures, including those of most Western countries, the surname or family name (last name) is placed after the personal or given name (first name). In other cultures the surname is placed first, followed by the given name or names.