hap·loid. adj. Having a single set of unpaired chromosomes, as in a germ cell, such as an egg or sperm, or in a moss plant or a drone bee. n. An organism having haploid cells. Noun. 1. haploid - (genetics) an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms.
haploid - (genetics) an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms. Adj. 1. haploid-of a cell or organism having a single set of chromosomes. haploidic, monoploid
having half the number of chromosomes characteristically found in the somatic (diploid) cells of an organism; typical of the gametes of a species whose union restores the diploid number. haploid karyotype. see haplotype. haploid. 1. having half the number of chromosomes characteristically found in the somatic (diploid) cells of an organism; typical of the gametes of a species whose union restores the diploid number. 2. an individual or cell having only one member of each pair of homologous chromosomes. (hăp′loid′)
Definition of HAPLOID. : having the gametic number of chromosomes typically including one of each pair of homologous chromosomes — compare diploid. — haploid noun. — hap·loi·dy \-ˌplȯi-dē\ noun. ADVERTISEMENT. 
hap·loid. adj. Having a single set of unpaired chromosomes, as in a germ cell, such as an egg or sperm, or in a moss plant or a drone bee. n. An organism having haploid cells. Adj. 1. haploid-of a cell or organism having a single set of chromosomes. haploidic, monoploid. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms.
Diploid human cells have 2 sets of 23 chromosomes for a total of 46 chromosomes: By Regina Bailey. Definition: A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes. Gametes are haploid cells that are produced by meiosis. Examples: The haploid number is the number of chromosomes within the nucleus of a cell that constitutes one complete chromosomal set. This number is commonly abbreviated as n, where n stands for the number of chromosomes.
Four haploid cells are produced from one parent cell. © John C. Glase. A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes. Our sex cells (sperm and eggs) are haploid cells that are produced by meiosis. 
haploid - (genetics) an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. Noun. 1. haploid - (genetics) an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms.
Haploid. Haploid is one-half of the total number of chromosomes in a gamete. A full set of chromosomes is called Diploid. In humans, the egg and sperm each have a set of 23 chromosomes. Therefore each is haploid. When they come together to form a fertilized egg, the total set of chromosomes is then 46 and is diploid. 