Dementia is caused by damage to or changes in the brain. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause. Stroke is the second most common cause of dementia. Dementia caused by stroke is called vascular dementia. Some causes of dementia can be reversed with treatment, but most cannot. Causes that may be reversible. When dementia is caused by certain treatable problems, the treatment may also help the dementia. These treatable problems include: 1  Underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism). 2  Vitamin B12 deficiency. 3  Heavy-metal poisoning, such as from lead. 4  Side effects of medicines or drug interactions
Dementia: Irreversible Causes. Dementia has many different causes, some of which are difficult to tell apart. Many medical conditions can cause dementia symptoms, especially in older people. 1  The causes of dementia include various diseases and infections, strokes, head injuries, drugs, and nutritional deficiencies. 1 Like Alzheimer's disease, Lewy body dementia is not reversible and has no known cure. 2  The drugs used to treat Alzheimer's disease also benefit some people with Lewy body disease. 3  Huntington's disease: This inherited disease causes wasting of certain types of brain cells that control movement as well as thinking.
That's why memory loss is often one of the earliest symptoms of Alzheimer's. While most changes in the brain that cause dementia are permanent and worsen over time, thinking and memory problems caused by the following conditions may improve when the condition is treated or addressed: 1  Depression. 2  Medication side effects. 3  Excess use of alcohol. 4  Thyroid problems.
Reversible Dementia Causes vs Irreversible Dementia Causes. Dementia stems from a variety of causes, some of which are treatable and others that are not. Treatments for reversible dementia causes are intended to slow the progress of the dementia, and in some cases, may be able to reverse some symptoms. If the underlying cause of dementia is irreversible, doctors will treat the symptoms of the condition with the hopes of making life as easy as possible for the individual. Here are a few examples of different causes of dementia: This happens when an outside force hits the skull and causes damage to the brain. head injuries are often the result of an auto accident or a fall, and any subsequent decline in cognition is categorized as dementia.
Dementia is usually caused by degeneration in the cerebral cortex, the part of the brain responsible for thoughts, memories, actions, and personality. Death of brain cells in this region leads to the cognitive impairments that characterise dementia. Some causes of dementia are treatable. Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common irreversible cause of dementia, accounting for 50% to 70% of all dementia cases 2. AD is caused by abnormal deposits of protein in the brain that destroy cells in the areas of the brain that control memory and mental functions.
Dementia is an overall term for a set of symptoms that are caused by disorders affecting the brain. Symptoms may include memory loss and difficulties with thinking, problem-solving or language, severe enough to reduce a person's ability to perform everyday activities. 
Dementia develops when the parts of the brain that are involved with learning, memory, decision-making, and language are affected by any of various infections or diseases. The most common cause of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, but there are numerous other known causes. Most of these causes are very rare. Dementia is irreversible when caused by degenerative disease or trauma, but might be reversible in some cases when caused by drugs, alcohol, hormone or vitamin imbalances, or depression. Therefore, it is very important to evaluate dementia symptoms comprehensively, so as not to miss potentially treatable conditions. What are some of the other causes of dementia? There are many causes of dementia, including neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, blood flow-related (vascular) disorders such as multi-infarct cognitive impairment, inherited disorders such as Huntington's disease, and infections such as HIV.
Alzheimer's disease accounts for 60 to 80 percent of cases. Vascular dementia, which occurs after a stroke, is the second most common dementia type. But there are many other conditions that can cause symptoms of dementia, including some that are reversible, such as thyroid problems and vitamin deficiencies. While most changes in the brain that cause dementia are permanent and worsen over time, thinking and memory problems caused by the following conditions may improve when the condition is treated or addressed: 1  Depression. 2  Medication side effects. 3  Excess use of alcohol. 4  Thyroid problems.