osmolal gap. The difference between the measured osmolality of the plasma, and the calculated osmolality of the plasma (plasma glucose/18 + blood urea nitrogen/2.8 + sodium*2).
DETERMINANTS AND MEASUREMENT OF SERUM OSMOLALITY. The serum (or plasma) osmolality is determined by the concentrations of the different solutes in the plasma. In normal subjects, sodium salts (chloride and bicarbonate), glucose, and urea are the primary circulating solutes. 
The serum or plasma osmolality is a measure of the different solutes in plasma. Among other applications, serum osmolality is indicated to evaluate the etiology of hyponatremia and may be used to screen for alcohol intoxication by means of the osmolal gap. 
The osmolar gap (OSMOL GAP in Epic) uses formula (2) above. The unexplained osmolar gap (UOSMOL GAP in Epic) uses formula (4) above. High unexplained osmolar gaps indicate the possible presence of a toxic compound other than ethanol (ethylene glycol, methanol, acetone, isopropanol, or propylene glycol). Non-toxic examples of an elevated osmolar gap include hyperlipidemia (less plasma water), chronic renal failure, and myeloma (increased plasma proteins). Because ethanol ingestion is a common cause of elevated osmolar gap, ethanol can be included in calculated osmolar formulas.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from Serum osmolal gap). Osmol gap (or osmolal gap, or osmolality gap, or osmole gap) in medical science is the difference between measured serum osmolality and calculated serum osmolality. 1  1 Theory. 
Osmolar Gap. The Osmolar Gap is another important diagnostic tool that can be used in differentiating the causes of elevated anion gap metabolic acidosis. The major osmotic particles in plasma are Na+ , Cl- , HCO3-, urea and glucose and as such, plasma osmolarity can be estimated as follows:
Guide. A serum osmolality test measures the amount of chemicals dissolved in the liquid part (serum) of the blood. Chemicals that affect serum osmolality include sodium, chloride, bicarbonate, proteins, and sugar (glucose). This test is done on a blood sample taken from a vein. 
The osmolar gap is the difference between the 2 values: the osmolality (which is measured) and the osmolarity (which is calculated from measured solute concentrations). In healthy persons, the osmolar gap is small as the osmolarity (calculated using the formula above) is a fairly good estimate of the osmolality. 3.5 - Osmolar Gap. NB: 'Osmolar gap' has several alternative names: ' osmol gap ', ' osmole gap ', ' osmolarity gap ' & ' osmolal gap '; these all refer to the same thing. For consistency, the term osmolar gap is used exclusively through this book.