If refrigerated right after cooking, how long does cooked chicken last in the fridge? All the US government sites suggest 3 to 4 days, but I can’t find any reference points for Australia. 
NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
If you had asked what to do about raw chicken, I would have also used the 3 day rule. once defrosted. If you had stored it in a corningware bowl or similar bowl and the Fat/oil from the chicken(like juices from a rotiss chicken) collected at the bottom, I would also have said 3 days. But Cooked Chicken from the grill will last 7 days wrapped as you have it. I assume its not loaded with BBQ sauce. I keep Deli Sliced chicken for 10 days (sandwich meat sliced). Your grilled chicken will actually keep longer.. but the safe time is 7
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Report Abuse. If the chicken breast still hot when u put it in your fridge,then better don't eat because it already spoilage. If you put it in your fridge after it cold, you still can eat it but the taste not too nice already and if you always eat the food which already keep 2-3 days also not good for your health. But Cooked Chicken from the grill will last 7 days wrapped as you have it. I assume its not loaded with BBQ sauce. I keep Deli Sliced chicken for 10 days (sandwich meat sliced). Your grilled chicken will actually keep longer.. but the safe time is 7days
Pull it out of the freezer and let it thaw in the fridge overnight or so. I usually only do this with meat or stuff that has meat in it (like spaghetti sauce). I would strongly disagree with the person who said they keep a chicken for a week and a half to two weeks!! Don't do it! Even a simple google search would tell you that it's around 4 days for freshness. Report Abuse. Generally 'dry' dishes like roast chicken would keep longer compared to 'wet' dishes like a casserole, i.e. most spoilage bacteria need water to grow. So it also depends on how you prepared it. I generally cook most of my food every 4 days, then if there is any leftover I chuck it out on the 5th day.
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked chicken last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate chicken within two hours of cooking. 1 To further extend the shelf life of cooked chicken, freeze it; freeze in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags, or wrap tightly with heavy-duty aluminum foil or freezer wrap.
If I have breaded chicken cutlet I’m never sure how long (it can last in the refrigerator) and I tend to cook it all at once. (Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 