If AA and aa individuals (homozygotes) show different forms of some trait (phenotypes), and Aa individuals (heterozygotes) show the same phenotype as AA individuals, then allele A is said to dominate or be dominant to or show dominance to allele a, and a is said to be recessive to A. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. Often the dominant allele codes for a functional protein whereas the recessive allele does not. A classic example of dominance is the inheritance of seed shape, for example a pea shape in peas.
For example, if a person has one gene for blue eyes and one for brown, that person will always have brown eyes because they are the dominant trait. For a person to have blue eyes, both their genes must be blue (recessive). When a person has two dominant alleles, they are referred to as homozygous dominant. If they have one dominant allele and one recessive allele, they are referred to as heterozygous. A dominant trait when written in a genotype is always written before the recessive gene in a heterozygous pair. A heterozygous genotype is written Aa, not aA. Best Answer: Dominant trait refers to a genetic feature that hides the recessive trait in the phenotype of an individual. A dominant trait causes the phenotype that is seen in a heterozygous (Aa) genotype. Many traits are determined by pairs of complementary genes, each inherited from a single parent.
As Mendel stated in his Law of Segregation, each organism has two genes for each trait. The different forms of a gene are called alleles. If both alleles are are identical, the organism is said to be homozygous for that trait. For instance, Mendel's purebred tall plants possessed two tall alleles and are said to be homozygous tall. If the two alleles are different, the plant is said to be a hybrid or heterozygous for that trait. As Mendel noted, when both alleles are present, one allele masks or hides the other.
Recessive and dominant alleles. You will recall that genes have different forms called alleles. An allele can be recessive or dominant. A recessive allele only shows if the individual has two copies of the recessive allele. For example, the allele for blue eyes is recessive. You need two copies of the allele to have blue eyes. A dominant allele always shows, even if the individual only has one copy of the allele. For example, the allele for brown eyes is dominant. You only need one copy of the allele to have brown eyes (and two copies will still give you brown eyes)
When expressing dominant and recessive alleles, the dominant allele is always written as a capitalized letter, and the recessive allele as the same letter, but lower case. If the two alleles are different, the plant is said to be a hybrid or heterozygous for that trait. As Mendel noted, when both alleles are present, one allele masks or hides the other.
(In genetic terms, a dominant trait is one that is phenotypically expressed in heterozygotes). A dominant trait is opposed to a recessive trait which is expressed only when two copies of the gene are present. (In genetic terms, a recessive trait is one that is phenotypically expressed only in homozygotes). Examples of dominant disorders include: 1  Achondroplasia (a common form of dwarfism with short arms and legs), 
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. Often the dominant allele codes for a functional protein whereas the recessive allele does not. A classic example of dominance is the inheritance of seed shape, for example a pea shape in peas.
The gene for eye colour has an allele for blue eye colour and an allele for brown eye colour. Alleles are dominant or recessive, meaning: 1  the characteristic controlled by a dominant allele develops if the allele is present on one or both chromosomes in a pair. 2  the characteristic controlled by a recessive allele develops only if the allele is present on both chromosomes in a pair. For example, the allele for brown eyes is dominant, while the allele for blue eyes is recessive. An individual who inherits one or two alleles for brown eyes will have brown eyes. An individual will only have blue eyes if they inherit two copies of the allele for blue eyes.
recessive. allele, allelomorph - (genetics) either of a pair (or series) of alternative forms of a gene that can occupy the same locus on a particular chromosome and that control the same character; some alleles are dominant over others. 