'Rubella' is another male clone, bearing 3 long panicles of red buds that persist through the winter. The flowers in spring are very fragrant, 4 petaled, white with yellow anthers. The leaves are dark green 3-4 long with dark red petioles. Known for its lovely evergreen foliage, fragrant flowers and attractive fruits. 
If you plant a skimmia rubella, it is important to protect it from pests. Aphids in particular love to eat this plant, especially the leaves. To keep it protected from the ravaging effects of a swarm of aphids, consider introducing ladybugs into your garden. They will eat the aphids but will not eat the plant itself. The ‘rubella’ portion represents a cultivar, or a variant of a species of plant or flower. In the case of this plant, rubella represents a compact, male version of the skimmia japonica.
Plant details. Botanical name: Skimmia japonica 'Rubella'. Other names: Skimmia 'Rubella'. Genus: Skimmia Skimmia. Variety or Cultivar: 'Rubella' _ 'Rubella' is a small, male variety with dark-green leaves edged in red and attractive flower buds, which appear in autumn and winter, opening into scented flowers in spring. It is suitable for containers and provides good all year round colour. 
Most are dioecious, meaning they have male and female flowers on different plants, and both sexes must be planted to ensure a crop of fruits. 'Rubella' is a compact male variety with attractive red-margined, dark green leaves. The flower buds, which appear in autumn and winter, are a prominent feature of the plant, as are the scented flowers which open in spring. It is perfect for growing in containers and provides good all year round colour. 
The skimmia rubella is actually known to botanists by its full name: Skimmia japonica rubella. The ‘rubella’ portion represents a cultivar, or a variant of a species of plant or flower. In the case of this plant, rubella represents a compact, male version of the skimmia japonica.
Ruellia is a genus of flowering plants commonly known as ruellias or wild petunias. They are not closely related to petunias (Petunia) although both genera belong to the same euasterid clade. Nymphalinae using Ruellia as host plants include the Common Buckeye (Junonia coenia), recorded on R. nodiflora, the Lemon Pansy (Junonia lemonias), recorded on R. tuberosa, and th Malachite Butterfly (Siproeta stelenes) and Australian Lurcher (Yoma sabina), which are recorded on several species.
This compact, evergreen shrub is a popular choice for borders and patio containers, where plants will provide colour and interest all year round. Skimmia japonica ‘Rubella' is a male clone bearing rosettes of glossy, aromatic leaves. The evergreen foliage is punctuated by red buds through the winter, with an explosion of potent, fragrant white blossoms appearing by spring.
One of the best plants to have in your garden is one called the skimmia rubella. This plant is great for providing a splash of color to your garden during the entire year, as well as a sweet fragrance in the spring. The ‘rubella’ portion represents a cultivar, or a variant of a species of plant or flower. In the case of this plant, rubella represents a compact, male version of the skimmia japonica.
Rubella, also known as German measles or three-day measles, is an infection caused by the rubella virus. This disease is often mild with half of people not realizing that they are sick. A rash may start around two weeks after exposure and last for three days. 
These plants like to be a little pot bound. Outdoors, grow in well-drained soil in partial shade. Peperomia rubella is upright and branching, becoming untidy with age, with whorls of 4 to 5 pale-veined, light to dark green leaves, red below, creating a copper tint to the foliage. To 8 inches tall, 10 inches wide. 