The word yogurt comes from Turkish. It is derived from Turkish. 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Apple Cranberry Yogurt Coffee Cake with Yogurt When it comes to delicious yet effective weight-loss recipes, this one is a prime choice. Yogurt comes from a Turkish word meaning to knead (as one does to bread to prepare it for baking). It's from Turkish yogurt, from the verb yog, to condense or yogush, to liquify.
Da-hi is a yogurt of the Indian subcontinent, known for its characteristic taste and consistency. The word da-hi seems to be derived from the Sanskrit word dadhi, one of the five elixirs, or panchamrita, often used in Hindu ritual. Worldwide, cow 's milk, the protein of which is mainly casein, is most commonly used to make yogurt. Milk from water buffalo, goats, ewes, mares, camels, and yaks, however, is also used to produce yogurt in various parts of the world.
Yogurt, yoghurt, or yoghourt (/ˈjoʊɡərt/ or /ˈjɒɡət/ ; from Turkish: yoğurt; other spellings listed below) is a food produced by bacterial fermentation of milk. The bacteria used to make yogurt are known as yogurt cultures. Fermentation of lactose by these bacteria produces lactic acid, which acts on milk protein to give yogurt its texture and characteristic tang. Worldwide, cow 's milk, the protein of which is mainly casein, is most commonly used to make yogurt. Milk from water buffalo, goats, ewes, mares, camels, and yaks, however, is also used to produce yogurt in various parts of the world.
Yogurt comes from a Turkish word meaning to knead (as one does to bread to prepare it for baking) It's from Turkish yogurt, from the verb yog, to condense or yogush, to … liquify. Yogurt is made from milk. When we add some yogurt to milk and allow it to curdle, you get yogurt. You can make it from skimmed milk through whole milk, milk with more fat give … a more creamy consistency. also you can add fruits in the yogurt or chocolate and occasionally nuts. 3 people found this useful.
Fermented and cultured milks may actually predate recorded history however. A type of yogurt is thought to have originated by nomadic tribes of Eastern Europe and western Asia. The word yogurt is Turkish in origin. The ancient Assyrian word for yogurt, lebeny meant life. It's interesting to note that the modern word 'probiotic' can literally be translated to For Life. 
To understand how yogurt works, you first have to understand how the bacteria in yogurt work. The good bacteria in yogurt are often called probiotics. They come in the form of culture concentrates in certain foods, dietary supplements and fermented dairy products, like yogurt or cheese [source: WHO ]. Probiotics are usually bacteria, but yeast can act as a probiotic, too. 
Since the domestication of cows, humans have developed many ways to preserve milk, including yogurt making. Yogurt is made by adding helpful bacteria to milk and allowing it to ferment. The bacteria in yogurt is helpful to your digestive system, and its creamy taste makes getting your daily calcium a palatable treat. By inoculating warm milk with yogurt culture or a small cup of yogurt, milk that is kept around 110 degrees Fahrenheit will thicken into yogurt in eight to 10 hours.
History of Yogurt. The Oxford Companion to Food notes that yogurt was most likely discovered by accident. Prehistoric herders who carried pouches of milk with them found that the milk soured in the heat into yogurt. By inoculating warm milk with yogurt culture or a small cup of yogurt, milk that is kept around 110 degrees Fahrenheit will thicken into yogurt in eight to 10 hours.