All future Minecraft videos from me will be on my new channel: http://www.youtube.com/channel/UCismh... 1  Gaming. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Cake is a food that was added into Minecraft PE in Update 0.7.0. It can be eaten six times (taking 1 piece off of it each time) to restore 6 hunger in total, or 2 hit points per slice. 
Vampire Mod Villager Fix Credits: Lalol9 The real deal. This mod makes you catch fire when you go out in the sun like a zombie or a skeleton. It also adds blood to the game.(blood can be obtained by killing mobs). Features: 1  1. Burn in Daylight(like zombie or skeleton). 2  2. (Opt.) Make the villagers look like steve. Installation: 1  Download and install Modloader. 2  Download Vampire Mod. 3  Drag and drop files from “Vampire Mod” into “Minecraft.jar”. 4  Delete META-INF file. 5  Close “Minecraft.jar” and run minecraft!
There is no way to make maps on Minecraft Pocket Edition, they have simply not been implemented yet. You can see a full list of items and blocks available on pocket edition here: http://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Pocket_Edition. 
For the Pocket Edition version history, see Pocket Edition version history. Minecraft: Pocket Edition is the mobile version of Minecraft developed by Mojang AB. It was initially launched exclusively for the Xperia PLAY on Google Play for US$6.99 on August 16, 2011. It was later released for other Android devices on the 7th of October 2011. 
577 pages on this wiki. Maps are items that might be added to MCPE in a future update. If the player is holding a map, it will display the parts of the world they have explored. 8 Paper + 1 compass = 1 Map.
Your first night (Minecraft PE survival) [edit | edit source]. 1  Before you start playing, pause your game. 2  This guide will explain how to survive your first night in Minecraft PE. 3  The key difference between Minecraft PC and PE is the crafting. 1 Although there is already several tutorials on how to do so, none are on the pe version. 2  The key difference between Minecraft PC and PE is the crafting. 3  The PC editions crafting system is based on shaped crafting, while this edition is based solely on the users knowledge of the tools, materials and crafting recipes.
Turn into Vampire Steve with an incredible vampire mod packed with new dark features. Features: 1  A magic system which include IQ (intelligence) advancement and wand attainment. 2  Sleeping system to better suit vampires. 3  Hidden crafting recipes. 
This plugin adds the horror of vampirism to your minecraft server. This plugin depends on the MCore plugin. Make sure you install that as well. Official URL: http://dev.bukkit.org/server-mods/vampire/. 