Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion
This page follows on from the more general page about the structure of muscle. Skeletal muscles consist of 100,000s of muscle cells (also known as muscle fibers) that perform the functions of the specific muscle of which they are a part. More about the contents of cells generally, is available on the page about animal cells. The components of skeletal muscle cells that are specific to muscle tissue are myofibrils. 1  Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma.
Sarcoplasm. Striations. Above: Diagram of a Muscle Cell. The diagram above shows some detail of the structure of a muscle cell. This illustrates the distinctive structure of muscle cells, including striated myofibrils (components of muscle cells only). . More about the contents of cells generally, is available on the page about animal cells. The components of skeletal muscle cells that are specific to muscle tissue are myofibrils. 1  Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma.
Since muscle cells are elongated and cylindrical, each muscle cell is usually called a muscle fiber. In skeletal muscle, the muscle fibers are very large, multinucleated, and up to several millimeters in length. 
Some skeletal muscles are broad in shape and some narrow. In some muscles the fibers are parallel to the long axis of the muscle; in some they converge to a narrow attachment; and in some they are oblique. Each skeletal muscle fiber is a single cylindrical muscle cell. An individual skeletal muscle may be made up of hundreds, or even thousands, of muscle fibers bundled together and wrapped in a connective tissue covering. Each muscle is surrounded by a connective tissue sheath called the epimysium. Fascia, connective tissue outside the epimysium, surrounds and separates the muscles. Portions of the epimysium project inward to divide the muscle into compartments
1 Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma. 2  Tunnel-like extensions from the sarcolemma pass through the muscle fibre from one side of it to the other in transverse sections through the diameter of the fibre. More about the contents of cells generally, is available on the page about animal cells. The components of skeletal muscle cells that are specific to muscle tissue are myofibrils. 1  Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma.
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. Muscle cells, ensheathed by endomysium, consist of many fibrils (or myofibrils), and these myofibrils are made up of long protein molecules called myofilaments. There are two types of myofilaments in myofibrils: thick myofilaments and thin myofilaments. Source: Wikipedia Muscle contraction Source: Hopkins (2005).
A sarcomere (Greek sarx flesh, meros part) is the basic unit of striated muscle tissue. Skeletal muscles are composed of tubular muscle cells (myocytes called muscle fibers) which are formed in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibers are composed of tubular myofibrils. 
Structure of muscle and its associated tissues is an important topic in courses about human biology, human anatomy and physiology, nursing, and many other health science subjects. Skeletal muscles consist of 100,000s of muscle cells that are also known as muscle fibres. Above: Diagram of the Structure of Muscle (and associated connective tissue). Periosteum. Periosteum is the outer layer of bone (as illustrated below). It is to this layer that ligaments and tendons are attached. Tendon. Tendons attach muscle to bone.