In everyday non-scientific usage the word excludes humans – that is, animal is often used to refer only to non-human members of the kingdom Animalia; often, only closer relatives of humans such as mammals, or mammals and other vertebrates, are meant. 
Kingdom Plantae. In contrast, animals do not produce their own food but must eat other organisms to obtain it. Animals are generally more complex structurally. Unlike plants, they have nerves and muscles that aid in rapid, controlled movement around their environment. There are at least 33 phyla (plural of phylum) of animals. Humans are members of the phylum Chordata. All of the chordates have elongated bilaterally symmetrical bodies. That is to say, the left and right sides are essentially mirror images of each other.
human classification systems. When a new life form is found, it is assigned a formal scientific name, which describes how closely it is related to other creatures. Each name has seven components: Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus and Species. Kingdom is the broadest category; species is the most specific. Animals within each of these categories share characteristics. All domestic cats are members of the same species. Lions and tigers each belong to different species, but share enough similarities that they belong to the same genus: Panthera. 
Humans may be called naked apes, but most of us wear clothing, a fact that makes us unique in the animal kingdom, save for the clothing we make for other animals. The development of clothing has even influenced the evolution of other species — the body louse, unlike all other kinds, clings to clothing, not hair. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: there are 5 kingdoms Bacteria, Protists, Fungi Plants and Animals. Humans are in the animal kingdom. the Kingdom Animalia (animals) is further split up into sub groups, phylum Class order family genus species. Humans are primates, but primate is not a kingdom it is a order which is a smaller group within the group kingdoms. Source(s): windzilla · 10 years ago
Humans belong in the Animalia (or animal) kingdom. Animals are complex multicellular organisms which rely on other organic materials, digested in an internal chamber, to susta … in life. All animals are motile, which means they can move around spontaneously, using energy in the process. Yes. The human's phylum is Chordata (vertebrate). The human's class is mammalia. It's order is primate (the same as apes). It's family is Hominidae (apes that have no tail and … can gather food with their hands.) The Human's sub-family is Homininae. It's tribe is Hominini.
The human's phylum is Chordata (vertebrate). The human's class is mammalia. It's order is primate (the same as apes). It's family is Hominidae (apes that have no tail and … can gather food with their hands.) The Human's sub-family is Homininae. Yes. The human's phylum is Chordata (vertebrate). The human's class is mammalia. It's order is primate (the same as apes). It's family is Hominidae (apes that have no tail and … can gather food with their hands.) The Human's sub-family is Homininae. It's tribe is Hominini.
Humans belong in the Animalia (or animal) kingdom. Animals are complex multicellular organisms which rely on other organic materials, digested in an internal chamber, to susta … in life. All animals are motile, which means they can move around spontaneously, using energy in the process. Yes. The human's phylum is Chordata (vertebrate). The human's class is mammalia. It's order is primate (the same as apes). It's family is Hominidae (apes that have no tail and … can gather food with their hands.) The Human's sub-family is Homininae. It's tribe is Hominini.
There are more than one million species of animals (Kingdom Animalia), more than all the other kingdoms combined. More than half of all animal species are insects (800,000 species), and beetles (300,000 species) comprise the largest order of insects (one fifth of all species--using a total of 1.5 million). 
because they are classified as mammals and mammals are in the animalia (animal) kingdom Like it or not we humans are animals. We are not single celled organisms, our cells ca … nnot produce our own food, and we do not produce spores and feed off the nutrients we get out of decaying matter. 7 people found this useful. Yes. The human's phylum is Chordata (vertebrate). The human's class is mammalia. It's order is primate (the same as apes). It's family is Hominidae (apes that have no tail and … can gather food with their hands.) The Human's sub-family is Homininae. It's tribe is Hominini.