Pet cow name generator. This name generator will generate 10 random names fit for cows and other similar creatures, like buffaloes and bison. Many names will work for other large, generally docile creatures as well. This name generator will generate 10 random names fit for cows and other similar creatures, like buffaloes and bison
Cattle were originally identified as three separate species: Bos taurus, the European or taurine cattle (including similar types from Africa and Asia); Bos indicus, the zebu; and the extinct Bos primigenius, the aurochs. Cattle raised for human consumption are called  beef cattle . Within the beef cattle industry in parts of the United States, the term beef (plural beeves) is still used in its archaic sense to refer to an animal of either sex.
In A Nutshell. Even the short answer is a bit complicated: Oxen and cows are both cattle, but not all cattle are cows and oxen. The umbrella term for the animal is “cattle” (or bovines), while cows and oxen have specific roles beneath that umbrella
Cattle are raised as livestock for meat (beef and veal), as dairy animals for milk and other dairy products, and as draft animals (oxen or bullocks that pull carts, plows and other implements). Other products include leather and dung for manure or fuel. Cattle raised for human consumption are called  beef cattle . Within the beef cattle industry in parts of the United States, the term beef (plural beeves) is still used in its archaic sense to refer to an animal of either sex.
Cow Names. FunPetNames.com offers many Cow pet names to choose from when naming your own pet. You can sort these Cow pet names by gender and you can view their full meanings by clicking on the name. You may also rate the pet names that you like dislike most. Feel free to browse all our Cow pet names and add the ones you want to save for later to your own favorites list. Show: All Male Femal
Cattle —colloquially cows —are the most common type of large domesticated ungulates. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae, are the most widespread species of the genus Bos, and are most commonly classified collectively as Bos taurus. Cattle raised for human consumption are called  beef cattle . Within the beef cattle industry in parts of the United States, the term beef (plural beeves) is still used in its archaic sense to refer to an animal of either sex.
There are 6 main types for dairy: Holstein, Jersey, Guernsey, Brown Swiss, Milking Shorthorn, and Ayrshire. But there are other uncommon breeds of milk cows like Dutch Belted, … Canadienne, Randall, Lineback, Milking Devon, etc. There are many different organizations world wide that recognize and register pedigrees of different breeds of purebred dogs, like the American Kennel Club (AKC), The Kennel C … lub (KC) in the United Kingdom, Canadian Kennel Club (CKC), Continental Kennel Club (CKC), and United Kennel Club (UKC).