While diamonds are famous for their incredible beauty, they are also incredibly useful. From mining for oil and gas to crafting precision surgical instruments, these precious gems are essential for a variety of practical applications. According to the World Diamond Council, about 30% of the diamonds mined from the earth are gem-grade. The remaining 70% are used for other purposes. Aside from jewelry, diamonds also have a wide variety of industrial uses. According to the US Geological Survey (USGS), diamonds are the hardest material on the planet.
Today, the gem-grade diamonds are used to make fine jewelry and engagement rings. The industrial-grade diamonds are used mainly for cutting and polishing. A diamond is the hardest substance known to humankind, and is made of a crystallized carbon that has unique powers of light reflection. 
Most people are familiar with diamonds in jewelry. The spectacular sparkle of these gems makes them a popular centerpiece for many designs, and they represent a major economic force. According to Bain & Company, diamond sales in the jewelry market accounted for more than $72 billion in revenue in 2012. According to the World Diamond Council, about 30% of the diamonds mined from the earth are gem-grade. The remaining 70% are used for other purposes. Aside from jewelry, diamonds also have a wide variety of industrial uses. According to the US Geological Survey (USGS), diamonds are the hardest material on the planet.
Uses of Diamonds. 1  One of the most common uses of diamonds is in jewelery. 2  Synthetic diamonds (man-made) are mainly used for industrial applications. 3  Other gemstones can be cut and polished by diamonds. 4  Precision cutting can be achieved by using diamonds. 5  Windows that cover the openings of lasers, x-rays and vacuum chambers have diamonds in them. 6  Di Diamond is the hardest natural material found on earth. Here are some of the common uses of diamonds in the current world. Uses of Diamonds. 1  One of the most common uses of diamonds is in jewelery. 2  Many rings and necklaces have diamonds. 3  Well cut diamonds are very expensive because they make excellent jewelery.
1 One of the most common uses of diamonds is in jewelery. 2  Many rings and necklaces have diamonds. 3  Well cut diamonds are very expensive because they make excellent jewelery. 4  Diamonds are very beautiful and sparkle in the light. 5  Synthetic diamonds (man-made) are mainly used for industrial applications. Diamond is the hardest natural material found on earth. Here are some of the common uses of diamonds in the current world. Uses of Diamonds. 1 
Because diamonds are very hard (ten on the Mohs scale) they are often used as an abrasive. Most industrial diamonds are used for these purposes. Small particles of diamond are embedded in a saw blade, a drill bit or a grinding wheel for the purpose of cutting, drilling or grinding. They might also be ground into a powder and made into a diamond paste that is used for polishing or for very fine grinding. There is a very large market for industrial diamonds.
Save. Beyond exquisite jewelry, diamonds have many industrial uses. Diamonds are the hardest natural substance known that resists scratching. They are used for their durability to cut through many solid materials, including other diamonds. The beauty of how light passes through and shines upon a diamond has made it the favorite choice for jewelry and most popular gem around the world. 
A diamond, without doubt, is the most coveted precious stone. High-grade diamonds are rare. Therefore, to own and to don a diamond-studded jewelry means that the one wearing it is a person of high stature in society. Socialites and celebrities flaunt their pieces of jewelry during important gatherings or events. Each piece of diamond has a compelling story behind it.
The carbon atoms in diamonds are arranged in a strong, tetrahedral structure. Diamond is the hardest natural material known and is often used for industrial cutting and polishing tools. Diamond has a hardness of 10 on Mohs scale of mineral hardness, with 1 being the softest (talc) and 10 being the hardest.
1 Diamonds are very beautiful and sparkle in the light. 2  Synthetic diamonds (man-made) are mainly used for industrial applications. 3  They are put in drill bits and saws to cut different materials. 4  Other gemstones can be cut and polished by diamonds. Diamond is the hardest natural material found on earth. Here are some of the common uses of diamonds in the current world. Uses of Diamonds. 1  One of the most common uses of diamonds is in jewelery. 2  Many rings and necklaces have diamonds. 3  Well cut diamonds are very expensive because they make excellent jewelery.