dis·cre·tion. n. 1. The quality of being discreet; circumspection: the almost unknown young man who lived in the upper room ... coming and going with discretion (Doris Lessing). discretion. n. 1. the quality of behaving or speaking in such a way as to avoid social embarrassment or distress. 2. freedom or authority to make judgments and to act as one sees fit (esp in the phrases at one's own discretion, at the discretion of).
Translations for 'discretion'. 1  British English: discretion Discretion is the quality of behaving in a quiet and controlled way without attracting attention or giving away private information. He sometimes joined in the fun, but with more discretion.dɪˈskrɛʃən NOUN.
English Collins Dictionary-English synonyms & Thesaurus. See also: age or years of discretion, discretional, discretionary, direction. Add your entry in the Collaborative Dictionary. Suggest or Ask for translation/definition.
Discretion. The ability to make decisions on one's own without the need to consult others. For example, a discretionary account gives a broker the right to make significant investment decisions without permission from or even consultation with the account's owner. discretion is the better part of valor. 2  discretion is the better part of valor. 3  discretion is the better part of valor. 4  Discretion is the better part of valour. 5  Discretion of the Court. 6  Discretion of the Court. 7
Synonyms and Antonyms of DISCRETION. 1. Synonyms discreetness, discretion, gumption [ chiefly dialect ] , horse sense, levelheadedness, nous [ chiefly British ] , policy, prudence, sense, sensibleness, wisdom, wit.
discretion noun [U]. › ​choice, or the ​right to make a ​choice, ​based on ​judgment: Troopers have discretion in ​deciding whom to ​stop for ​speeding. Whether or not to ​hold the ​meeting is at the discretion of the ​president (= a ​decision to be made by the ​president).
Mentioned in these terms. 1  limited discretion. 2  discretionary account. 3  discretionary ARM. 4  discretionary beneficiary. 5  limited discretionary account. 6  consumer discretionary. 7  non-discretionary accrual. 8  discretionary. 9  discretionary order. 10  fractional discretion order.
Full Definition of DISCRETION. 1. : the quality of having or showing discernment or good judgment: the quality of being discreet: circumspection; especially: cautious reserve in speech.2. : ability to make responsible decisions. 3. 4.xamples of DISCRETION. 1  Each artist in the gallery has discretion over the price that will be charged for his or her work. 2  The coach used his own discretion to let the injured quarterback play.
Examples of DISCRETION. 1  Each artist in the gallery has discretion over the price that will be charged for his or her work. 2  The coach used his own discretion to let the injured quarterback play. 3  He always uses care and discretion when dealing with others. 