(August 2011). An inquisitorial system is a legal system where the court or a part of the court is actively involved in investigating the facts of the case, as opposed to an adversarial system where the role of the court is primarily that of an impartial referee between the prosecution and the defense. In an adversarial system, judges focus on the issue of the law and procedure and act as a referee in the contest between the defense and the prosecutor. Juries decide on the matter of fact, and sometimes on the matter of the law.
However, this is mainly because it is not the prosecutor but the judges who question the defendant. The concept of cross-examination is entirely due to adversarial structure of the common law. Judges in an adversarial system are impartial in ensuring the fair play of due process, or fundamental justice. Proponents of the adversarial system often argue that the system is more fair and less prone to abuse than the inquisitional approach, because it allows less room for the state to be biased against
Inquisitorial systems are used in some countries with civil legal systems as opposed to common law systems. Countries using common law, including the United States, may use an inquisitorial system for summary hearings in the case of misdemeanors such as minor traffic violations. In an adversarial system, judges focus on the issue of the law and procedure and act as a referee in the contest between the defense and the prosecutor. Juries decide on the matter of fact, and sometimes on the matter of the law.
(August 2009). The adversarial system or adversary system is a legal system used in the common law countries where two advocates represent their parties' positions before an impartial person or group of people, usually a jury or judge, who attempt to determine the truth of the case. Proponents of the adversarial system often argue that the system is more fair and less prone to abuse than the inquisitional approach, because it allows less room for the state to be biased against the defendant.
The legal system in the United States is known as an adversary system. In this system, the parties to a controversy develop and present their arguments, gather and submit evidence, call and question witnesses, and, within the confines of certain rules, control the process. The adversary system by which legal disputes are settled in the United States promotes the idea that legal controversies are battles or contests to be fought and won using all available resources. The contemporary Anglo-American adversary system has gradually evolved, over several hundred years.
In an adversary system, the judge or jury is a neutral and passive fact finder, dispassionately examining the evidence presented by the parties with the objective of resolving the dispute between them. The adversary system by which legal disputes are settled in the United States promotes the idea that legal controversies are battles or contests to be fought and won using all available resources. The contemporary Anglo-American adversary system has gradually evolved, over several hundred years.
Adversarial and Inquisitorial Legal Systems. Canada and most countries that derive their legal systems from the English model use what is called the adversarial legal system. The two great systems of law, the common law and the civil law systems, both have differing procedures when a case goes to trial. 
1 The American legal system is considered to be both adversarial and litigious in nature. 2  The adversarial nature of our system implies that two opposing sides advocate their position with lawyers in the most prominent roles, while the judge has a relatively minor role in comparison. 
In the Anglo-American adversary system, the parties to a dispute, or their advocates, square off against each other and assume roles that are strictly separate and distinct from that of the decision maker, usually a judge or jury. The decision maker is expected to be objective and free from bias. The adversary system by which legal disputes are settled in the United States promotes the idea that legal controversies are battles or contests to be fought and won using all available resources. The contemporary Anglo-American adversary system has gradually evolved, over several hundred years.
The basic parameters of the United States' modern legal system had been established. In the Anglo-American adversary system, the parties to a dispute, or their advocates, square off against each other and assume roles that are strictly separate and distinct from that of the decision maker, usually a judge or jury. The decision maker is expected to be objective and free from bias. 