Types of Tea. All tea comes from the Camellia sinensis plant. What makes each tea different is the way it has been processed. Tea can be placed into 6 groups based on the amount of processing that goes into the final product. Black Tea This tea goes through the most processing. Once the leaves are picked they are left out in the sun to become slightly wilted. Nine Bend Black Dragon Rose Congou. Green Tea Green tea is from the same plant as (Camellia sinensis.) as all other teas. After the tea leaves are plucked and sorted, they are either steamed or pan fired.
All types of pure tea — white, green, oolong and black — come from the same plant, called Camellia sinensis. A single bud and two leaves, or a “flush,” is plucked by hand from each stem, usually twice a year. TYPES OF TEA. Rule of thumb: The more tea leaves are processed, the stronger the flavor. The level of oxidation, or exposure to the elements, is what determines whether a tea is white, green, oolong or black. white. The lightest and most delicate variety.
Types of tea. There are three basic types of tea: black, green/white and oolong. Contrary to popular assumption, all three teas come from the same plant, the Camellia sinensis. The difference between the teas' flavors and health benefits are based on the way the plant's leaves are cultivated and processed. You may be thinking, Wait a minute, my favorite tea is Earl Grey. I know there are more types of tea than just those three.. Well, not really.
(Source). Black tea is a type of tea that is more oxidized than oolong, green and white teas. All four types are made from leaves of the shrub (or small tree) Camellia sinensis. Black tea is generally stronger in flavor than the less oxidized teas. (Source). White tea comes from the buds and leaves of the Camellia sinensis plant. The leaves and buds are allowed to wither in natural sunlight before they are lightly processed to prevent oxidation or further tea processing.
White, green, oolong, and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds, the only difference is how they are processed. You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties. White tea comes from the buds and leaves of the Camellia sinensis plant. The leaves and buds are allowed to wither in natural sunlight before they are lightly processed to prevent oxidation or further tea processing.
Black Tea. Black tea is the most common type of tea in the Western world. It is noted for its full, bold flavor and its ability to pair well with many Western foods, particularly sweets and creamy foods. For this reason many popular teas for afternoon tea are black teas. 
The Different Types of Green Tea. There are literally countless versions of green tea available. Although these are all different types of green tea, all of these different types share one common characteristic-they all come from the tea plant Camellia sinensis. The different types of green tea emerge due to differing locations on where the tea is grown, slight changes in how the tea is cultivated, the differing climate in locations and a whole host of other factors. So, let's begin by exploring the different types of green tea that is
All true tea comes from the same plant, called the Camellia sinensis. Whether the tea becomes white, green, oolong or black, depends on how the leaves are processed and oxidized. Next is a summary of the 4 types of “true” tea: white, green, oolong and black.... To make sense of all the variations, “true teas” (those made from the tea plant, or Camellia sinensis, versus herbal teas which come from other plants) can be categorized into 4 major categories