The head of the bird is white, the body of the bird is black, and the tail is white. The feet are a dull orange and its beak is yellow. The Bald Eagle is a large fierce looking bird. It's name in Latin means the sea eagle with a white head. It is the national symbol of the United States of America. The name Bald Eagle doesn't mean the bird is really bald. From a distance, it appears bald because of the contrast of the light and dark feathers. To the early settlers in the United States, the word bald meant white, not hairless.
Click on the images for a larger view. The bald eagle is 30-31 inches in length with a wingspan of 6-7 feet. It has a dark brown body, a white tail and a white head and shoulders. It has bright yellow eyes, a large hooked yellow bill, and powerful yellow legs and talons
Bald eagles are large birds of prey native to North America. Since 1782, the bald eagle has been the United States' national emblem and mascot. The bald eagle isn't actually bald; it gets its name because its white head against its dark brown body makes it seem bald from a distance. Bald eagles make large nests from sticks, grass, feathers, moss and cornstalks to accommodate their eggs. The largest bald eagle nest on record was found in St. Petersburg, Florida. It was 9.5 feet (2.9 meters) in diameter and 20 feet (6.1 m) deep, according to the Guinness Book of World Records.
Examples: patches of white feathers and pale feathers. The bald eagle is the only eagle confined to North America. There are no other large blackish-brown birds with a white head and tail in North American. Skeleton-It weighs about half a pound (250 to 300 grams), and is only 5 or 6 percent of its total weight. Eagles are a member of the Accipitridae family; which also includes hawks, kites, and old-world vultures. Scientists loosely divide eagles into four groups based on their physical characteristics and behavior. The bald eagle is a sea or fish eagle. Color-Both male and female adult bald eagles have a blackish-brown back and breast; a white head, neck, and tail; yellow feet, legs and beak; and pale yellow eyes
Q. What is the exact wing span of an adult bald eagle? A. Northern eagles range 200-235 centimeters (6-7 feet); your southern eagles are quite a bit smaller in all sizes (weight, wingspan, etc). One of the largest wing-spans on record is of a bird with a 243 cm wing span - 7.9 feet! Q: How much can a Bald Eagle lift? A: Bald eagles generally weigh between 4 - 6 kilograms, although some have been found both below and above this range, with some Alaskan eagles recorded with weights of well over 7 kg. Female eagles are the larger and heavier of the sexes.
1 The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) is a member of the sea and fish eagle group. 2  Color-Both male and female adult bald eagles have a blackish-brown back and breast; a white head, neck, and tail; and yellow feet and bill. 3  Juvenile bald eagles are a mixture of brown and white. 1 Several eagles soaring in a thermal together is described as a kettle of eagles. 2  Bald eagles weigh from ten to fourteen pounds. 3  Eagle bones are light, because they are hollow. 4  The beak, talons, and feathers are made of keratin. 5  Bald eagles have 7,000 feathers. 6  Longevity-Wild bald eagles may live as long as thirty years.
The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) , our national bird,is the only eagle unique to North America. The bald eagle's scientific name signifies a sea (halo) eagle (aeetos) with a white (leukos) head. At one time, the word bald meant white, not hairless. Eagles are a member of the Accipitridae family; which also includes hawks, kites, and old-world vultures. Scientists loosely divide eagles into four groups based on their physical characteristics and behavior. The bald eagle is a sea or fish eagle. Color-Both male and female adult bald eagles have a blackish-brown back and breast; a white head, neck, and tail; yellow feet, legs and beak; and pale yellow eye
1 Color-Both male and female adult bald eagles have a blackish-brown back and breast; a white head, neck, and tail; and yellow feet and bill. 2  Juvenile bald eagles are a mixture of brown and white. 3  They reach full maturity in four to five years. 4  Size-The female bald eagle is 35 to 37 inches, slightly larger than the male. 1 Several eagles soaring in a thermal together is described as a kettle of eagles. 2  Bald eagles weigh from ten to fourteen pounds. 3  Eagle bones are light, because they are hollow. 4  The beak, talons, and feathers are made of keratin. 5  Bald eagles have 7,000 feathers. 6  Longevity-Wild bald eagles may live as long as thirty years.