Dermatitis, also known as eczema, is inflammation of the skin. It is characterized by itchy, erythematous, vesicular, weeping, and crusting patches. The term eczema is also commonly used to describe atopic dermatitis also known as atopic eczema. In some languages, dermatitis and eczema are synonyms, while in other languages dermatitis implies an acute condition and eczema a chronic one. The cause of dermatitis is unclear.
Since most autoimmune diseases and chronic conditions, including eczema, are caused by delayed autoimmune responses to foods in the digestive track, the logical step, then, is to test for and identify the foods that cause these reactions. If you suffer from eczema then you need to be tested for delayed food allergies. If this is all too technical, just remember eczema is not just a skin disease-it is a disease of the immune system that attacks the skin. Over the years, many treatments have been used, from topical creams and ointments to systemics drugs, to treat eczema.
Eczema is not directly caused by an autoimmune disorder, but some forms have been associated with such disorders. Atopic dermatitis, the most common type of eczema, stems from an immune system imbalance. Researchers have determined that people with atopic dermatitis have low levels of a protein needed to promote healthy immune system function. This makes your skin more susceptible to infection and unable to prevent inflammation.
Autoimmunity. The immune system is a complex set of organs, cells, proteins and other substances that function to prevent infection. Primary immunodeficiency diseases are characterized by abnormalities in specific components of the immune system that lead to an increased susceptibility to infection. Common skin conditions like eczema or psoriasis are seen in people with normal immune systems as well. Sometimes, skin disease is one of the earliest symptoms of a primary immunodeficiency disease and can lead to further clinical or laboratory evaluation to identify immune deficiency.
Eczema is one of many skin ailments triggered by the autoimmune condition. The autoimmune attack is the result of a troubled immune system, which in turn triggers different skin disorders and ailments. DigestaCure is an all-natural solution for autoimmune disorders of all types including eczema. DigestaCure addresses the root-cause of eczema, “Autoimmunity”, which is the misfiring, attacking mode of a struggling immune system.
Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever. 
Eczema. Eczema, also known as atopic dermatitis, is generally a mild skin disease and is the most common skin disease in primary immunodeficiency diseases. Often referred to as “the itch that rashes,” eczema typically begins as patches of dry, itchy skin which worsen and erupt into rash as they are scratched. Common skin conditions like eczema or psoriasis are seen in people with normal immune systems as well. Sometimes, skin disease is one of the earliest symptoms of a primary immunodeficiency disease and can lead to further clinical or laboratory evaluation to identify immune deficiency.
Eczema. Eczema is a condition that causes an overstimulation of the immune system near the upper layers of the skin. This can result in dry, itchy, red and scaly skin on the arms, cheeks, back, hands and other parts of the body. Heike Kampe/iStock/Getty Images. Autoimmune Disease. When an autoimmune disease strikes, the body's tissues are attacked by the immune system that is supposed to be protecting them.
An experimental drug that works by blocking the immune response that causes unsightly, itchy skin patches looks promising for treating atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as eczema. Atopic dermatitis (AD), or eczema, affects 10 percent of adults in the United States and about 25 percent of children worldwide. AD is an inflammatory disorder in which the skin becomes covered in itchy, scaly lesions. AD is always accompanied by activation of the immune system. Learn the Difference Between Psoriasis and Eczema ». A new study shows that dupilumab, a type of drug called a monoclonal antibody (mAb), can reverse the immune response that causes AD skin lesions.
Eczema. Eczema, also know as atopic dermatitis, is a chronic disease of the skin affecting more than 15 million Americans and growing in numbers. Often, it affects people suffering from other conditions, such as asthma or hay fever. Skin that is affected by eczema usually looks red, dry and scaly, and is extremely itchy. If this is all too technical, just remember eczema is not just a skin disease-it is a disease of the immune system that attacks the skin. Over the years, many treatments have been used, from topical creams and ointments to systemics drugs, to treat eczema.