From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aedes aegypti, also called yellow fever mosquito, is a mosquito that can spread the dengue fever, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses, and other diseases. The mosquito can be recognized by white markings on legs and a marking in the form of a lyre on the thorax. 
The yellow fever mosquito (Aedes aegypti) genome was sequenced by the Broad Institute and The Institute for Genomic Research. The initial assembly was released in August 2005; a draft sequence of the genome and preliminary analysis was published in June 2007. The annotated genome is available at VectorBase. Aedes is a genus of mosquitoes originally found in tropical and subtropical zones, but now found on all continents excluding Antarctica. Some species have been spread by human activity. Aedes albopictus, a most invasive species, was recently spread to the New World, including the US, by the used-tire trade.
1. Aedes aegypti-mosquito that transmits yellow fever and dengue. yellow-fever mosquito. mosquito-two-winged insect whose female has a long proboscis to pierce the skin and suck the blood of humans and animals. Aedes, genus Aedes-yellow-fever mosquitos.
Dengue and the Aedes aegypti mosquito The Aedes aegypti mosquito can transmit the viruses that cause dengue fever. The female mosquito lays eggs in containers with water and plants near the home. General information  Aedes aegypti is a small, dark mosquito with white lyre shaped markings and banded legs.  They prefer to bite indoors and primarily bite humans.  These mosquitoes can use natural locations or habitats (for example treeholes and plant axils) and artificial containers with water to lay their eggs.
1. Aedes aegypti is the primary vector of the dengue virus or more rarely Aedes albopictus. The dengue mosquito looks like many other mosquitoes and is difficult to identify without the use of a microscope. As a rule, if they are found indoors and feed during the day it is likely that they are Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The yellow fever mosquito (Aedes aegypti) is a mosquito that can spread dengue fever, chikungunya, and yellow fever viruses, and other diseases. The mosquito can be recognized by white markings on its legs and a marking in the form of a lyre on the thorax. Aedes aegypti is a vector for transmitting several tropical fevers. Only the female bites for blood, which she needs to mature her eggs. To find a host, these mosquitoes are attracted to chemical compounds emitted by mammals.
Entomology & Ecology. Aedes aegypti, the principal mosquito vector of dengue viruses is an insect closely associated with humans and their dwellings. People not only provide the mosquitoes with blood meals but also water-holding containers in and around the home needed to complete their development. Dengue viruses are mainly transmitted by the bite of infected Aedes aegypti mosquitoes; an invasive, domestic species with tropical and subtropical worldwide distribution that originated in Africa.