Food bolus obstruction is most commonly caused by Schatzki rings, which are mucosal rings of unknown cause in the lower esophagus. Foodstuff jams into the esophagus due to the narrowing caused by the ring. While some esophageal food boluses can pass by themselves or with the assistance of medications, some require the use of endoscopy to push the obstructing food into the stomach, or remove it from the
The forcing of food into the interproximal spaces of teeth by chewing (vertical impaction) or by tongue and cheek pressure (horizontal impaction). 
Overview. When you eat, food is broken down in your stomach and passed through your intestines in a process called digestion. Nutrients from the food are absorbed through the wall of your intestines, and what remains as waste is passed through to your colon and rectum. At times, things may go wrong in this process and cause the waste to become stuck in the colon. This is called fecal impaction of the col
GG Patients with a food bolus impaction that persists to the extent that they present in the emergency department should receive a chest radiograph to rule out evidence of perforation or a radiopaque object in the esophagus. Once a foreign object is ruled out, endoscopy should be considered. Sedation for endoscopy in this setting should be individualized and dependent on the patient's airway risk. Initial endoscopic inspection is performed to identify the discrete location and characteristics of the food bolus and the extent of food or liquid that is stacked on top of the impaction.
Thus, one of the appropriate concerns in the evaluation and management of food bolus impaction, particularly in a meat impaction, is whether or not there may be unrecognized bones in the food bolus. Again, radiographic imaging can be helpful in this regard. Sedation for endoscopy in this setting should be individualized and dependent on the patient's airway risk. Initial endoscopic inspection is performed to identify the discrete location and characteristics of the food bolus and the extent of food or liquid that is stacked on top of the impaction.
1 Do not try to force the food bolus down with the Ewald tube or an other catheter or dilator. 2  This may cause an esophageal tear or perforation. 3  Do not use oral enzymes such as papain, trypsin or chymotrypsin. 4  This treatment is slow, ineffective, and may possibly carry a risk of enzyme-induced esophageal perforation. 1 They are usually right. 2  Do not try to force the food bolus down with the Ewald tube or an other catheter or dilator. 3  This may cause an esophageal tear or perforation. 4
The standard treatment of food bolus obstruction is the use of endoscopy or fibre-optic cameras inserted by mouth into the esophagus. Endoscopes can be used to diagnose the cause of the food bolus obstruction, as well as to remove the obstruction. While some esophageal food boluses can pass by themselves or with the assistance of medications, some require the use of endoscopy to push the obstructing food into the stomach, or remove it from
In an emergency room setting, someone with food bolus obstruction may be observed for a period to see if the food bolus passes spontaneously. This may be encouraged by administering fizzy drinks that release gas, which may dislodge the food. While some esophageal food boluses can pass by themselves or with the assistance of medications, some require the use of endoscopy to push the obstructing food into the stomach, or remove it from the esophagus.
It is important to differentiate impaction from choking. Patients with food bolus impaction do not have any interruption of breathing. They can talk and they can cough, whereas a person who is truly choking is unable to do any of these things. Sedation for endoscopy in this setting should be individualized and dependent on the patient's airway risk. Initial endoscopic inspection is performed to identify the discrete location and characteristics of the food bolus and the extent of food or liquid that is stacked on top of the impaction.