Best Answer: Well fennel seeds and caraway seeds do look a bit alike, but taste quite different. Fennel seeds taste a bit like licorice, where caraway tastes more like ... well like hard to explain, but not like licorice.. When you go to the store and buy rye bread the seeds in that bread is caraway you can sniff it and tell what it smells like. Fennel has a more licorice scent and also Anise seed has a similar taste and scent.
Caraway has been called by many names in different regions, with names deriving from the Latin cuminum (cumin), the Greek karon (again, cumin), which was adapted into Latin as carum (now meaning caraway), and the Sanskrit karavi, sometimes translated as caraway but other times understood to mean  fennel . S-(+)-carvone is primarily responsible for caraway's distinct odor. Bread buns with caraway fruits and salt. The fruits, usually used whole, have a pungent, anise-like flavor and aroma that comes from essential oils, mostly carvone and limonene.
The plant is similar in appearance to other members of the carrot family, with finely divided, feathery leaves with thread-like divisions, growing on 20–30 cm stems. The main flower stem is 40–60 cm tall, with small white or pink flowers in umbels. S-(+)-carvone is primarily responsible for caraway's distinct odor. Bread buns with caraway fruits and salt. The fruits, usually used whole, have a pungent, anise-like flavor and aroma that comes from essential oils, mostly carvone and limonene.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Well fennel seeds and caraway seeds do look a bit alike, but taste quite different. Fennel seeds taste a bit like licorice, where caraway tastes more like ... well like hard to explain, but not like licorice.. you may have tasted it before on rye bread. When you go to the store and buy rye bread the seeds in that bread is caraway you can sniff it and tell what it smells like. Fennel has a more licorice scent and also Anise seed has a similar taste and scent.
Caraway or Persian cumin (Carum carvi) is a biennial plant in the family Apiaceae, native to Europe and western Asia. What we commonly call as caraway seeds are actually fruits of the plant, but they are addressed colloquially as seeds by people around the world! • They are dark brown, and can be bought whole or ground. • Look for whole seeds that are dark brown with light brown ridges. • Ground caraway seeds are also very dark brown in colour. Culinary uses. • Caraway is widely used as a spice for flavouring bread, biscuits, cakes and cheese.
Caraway is a flavorful and aromatic herb. The caraway seed is the most used part of the plant and can be used in baking, soups, stews and other foods but all parts of the plant are edible. Growing caraway seeds requires some patience, as the caraway plant is a biennial and doesn’t do more than grow vegetatively in the first season. The caraway plant resembles a carrot and sets seed in its second year.
They are used as a spice in breads, especially rye bread. Caraway is also used in liquors, casseroles, and other foods like sauerkraut, for example. It is also used to add flavour to cheeses. • They are dark brown, and can be bought whole or ground. • Look for whole seeds that are dark brown with light brown ridges. • Ground caraway seeds are also very dark brown in colour. Culinary uses. • Caraway is widely used as a spice for flavouring bread, biscuits, cakes and cheese.
Caraway needs to be grow in rich soil and in full sun. To sow, do so outside in either late spring or early in the autumn. Caraway does not like to be transplanted, so plant the seeds in their permanent home. Once germinated, thin plants to at least 8 inches apart, for the strongest plants. Caraway is an herb that has been found in ancient foods, all the way to present times. The name comes from the Arabic word for the seed: karawya. Caraway has a sweet flavorful taste, making it a lovely addition to rich dishes. It is said to soothe indigestion and help with gas and cramping relief.
Description. Like the other members of its family, caraway is a tall plant, with feathery green leaflets. It grows to a height of 1½ to 4 feet (.46 to 1.22 meters). The flowers are white, and the fruit, which looks like ribbed seeds and is often incorrectly referred to as seed, is grey-green or greenish-brown when ripe.