Probably the best-known region of the brain associated with motor control (movement) is the primary motor cortex. The primary motor cortex is located in the precentral gyrus, … just anterior to the central sulcus. Many parts of the brain contribute to emotion, but the Amygdala is usually considered to be the correct answer to this question. The Amygdala stores and classifies emotional m … emories and is responsible for producing emotional responses, especially fear.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance.
Distributed over that portion of the cortex called the sensory area (Fig. 2) are the centers of sense-perception, which receive, respectively, the impressions of sight, sound, touch, taste, and smell. Another portion is called the motor area (Fig. 2). All form part of a complex system. The stimulation of one part brings into action many other parts. Should I touch a hot iron, the nerves of the skin receive a shock which produces a wave or current, carried along nerve-fibres to the spinal cord, thence to the brain.
The frontal and temporal lobes are the main ares of speech and language.   The part of the brain that controls speech is your Broca's area. It is located behind your … left temple. 27 people found this useful. Many parts of the brain contribute to emotion, but the Amygdala is usually considered to be the correct answer to this question. The Amygdala stores and classifies emotional m … emories and is responsible for producing emotional responses, especially fear.
The olfactory bulb is one of the structures of the limbic system and a very ancient part of the brain. As mentioned in the previous description of the olfactory process, the information captured by the sense of smell goes from the olfactory bulb to other structures of the limbic system. The sense of smell, just like the sense of taste, is a chemical sense. They are called chemical senses because they detect chemicals in the environment, with the difference being that smell works at dramatically larger distances than that of taste. The process of smelling goes more or less like this:
His specialty is to produce and understand speech sounds. This part of the brain is related to the verbal, there are two structures associated with the development of language ability: Broca’s area. This area deals with the speech, its analysis and understanding of language. Wernicke’s area. Functions of the left hemisphere. While the right hemisphere of the brain is related to non-verbal expression, is more emotional, sensitive, intuitive and coordinates the left side of the body, the left uses the analysis, mathematics, logic, reasoning, and controls the coordination of right side of the human body.
The brain is the most complex organ in the body. It is the organ that allows us to think, have emotions, move, and even dream. Given this complexity, it should not be surprising that there are many ways to separate the parts of the brain. Having evolved hundreds of millions of years ago, the Hindbrain or the Reptillian Brain is the oldest part of the human brain. As you might guess from it's name, it's a piece of brain anatomy that we share with reptiles and is the most primitive.
Finally, if the brain is the engine which runs the body, it must be in communication with all parts; which is true. The brain-centers govern all parts of the body; every cell of the body has its ultimate representation in a brain-cell, which is its governor or prime mover. All form part of a complex system. The stimulation of one part brings into action many other parts. Should I touch a hot iron, the nerves of the skin receive a shock which produces a wave or current, carried along nerve-fibres to the spinal cord, thence to the brain.
The brain, physiologically a mass of nervous tissue, delicate and sensitive, is divided into two main parts: the cerebrum, the larger and upper, the cerebellum, the smaller, situated below and behind (Fig. 1). The cerebrum consists of an outer zone, the cortex, or gray matter, wherein lie the nerve. Click to enlarge. All form part of a complex system. The stimulation of one part brings into action many other parts. Should I touch a hot iron, the nerves of the skin receive a shock which produces a wave or current, carried along nerve-fibres to the spinal cord, thence to the brain.