1,808 pages on this wiki. Theodore Hardeen (or just Hardeen) is a supporting character in the Season 1 episode  Paris Green , played by Remy Auberjonois. Hardeen is a magician and escape artist and also a younger brother to the much more famous Harry Houdini. It's not until September when Margaret and Nucky finally get to see Hardeen perform, this time accompanied by Harry Prince and Annabelle.
Bio. Theodore Hardeen was born as Ferencz Dezso Weisz, March 4, 1876 in Budapest, Hungary, and went by the name of Theodore Weiss when the family was living in Appleton, Wisconsin. He was known as Deshi and later Dash by his parents. The handcuffs but a simple thing compared with those with which he is used to toy. Hardeen, like his more famous brother Harry Houdini is a great favourite in the magical world. He is a man of considerable culture and one of the best raconteurs I have ever met.
His grandfather was Houdini's brother, Theo Hardeen, also an escape artist. At one point, the brothers performed together. Houdini and his wife, Bess, had no children, and when he died — on Halloween, 85 years ago — he willed all of his props to Theo. Theo Hardeen even named one of his sons Harry Houdini Hardeen. That was George Hardeen's father. But George was unaware of his father's middle name when he was young — it wasn't something his father talked about. George Hardeen, great-nephew of Harry Houdini, is seen in his corral in Tuba City, Ariz. He was a journalist, a horse trainer, and a spokesman for the former president of the Navajo Nation.
Theodore (Dash) Hardeen (born Ferencz Dezso Weisz, March 4, 1876 – June 12, 1945), known simply as Hardeen, was a Hungarian magician and escape artist who was the younger brother of Harry Houdini. Hardeen, like his more famous brother Harry Houdini is a great favourite in the magical world. He is a man of considerable culture and one of the best raconteurs I have ever met. Like Houdini, he is willing to expend both time and money freely to further the cause of magic.
Hardeen, who usually billed himself as the brother of Houdini, was the founder of the Magician's Guild. Hardeen was the first magician to conceive escaping from a submerged straitjacket in full view of the audience, rather than behind a curtain. Hardeen, like his more famous brother Harry Houdini is a great favourite in the magical world. He is a man of considerable culture and one of the best raconteurs I have ever met. Like Houdini, he is willing to expend both time and money freely to further the cause of magic.
Hardeen learned his business from Houdini, and he learned it well, as no man could have failed to do with such a master. But the natural ability was always there. Even if Houdini had not existed to point the way, it is quite likely that Hardeen would have become an escape artiste. Hardeen, like his more famous brother Harry Houdini is a great favourite in the magical world. He is a man of considerable culture and one of the best raconteurs I have ever met. Like Houdini, he is willing to expend both time and money freely to further the cause of magic.
Background Edit. Theodore Hardeen was born Ferenc Dezso Weisz in a Jewish family of Budapest, Hungary on March 4, 1876, and grew up in Appleton, Wisconsin, where he went by the name Theodore Weiss before changing to Hardeen. He conceived several new performances including the act of scaping from a straightjacked in front of an audience. Hardeen is a magician and escape artist and also a younger brother to the much more famous Harry Houdini. It's not until September when Margaret and Nucky finally get to see Hardeen perform, this time accompanied by Harry Prince and Annabelle.
Theodore Hardeen (right) poses with brother Harry Houdini around 1901. Although Hardeen was the less famous brother, he was also an escape artist who continued to perform many of Houdini's routines after his brother's death. George Hardeen, great-nephew of Harry Houdini, is seen in his corral in Tuba City, Ariz. He was a journalist, a horse trainer, and a spokesman for the former president of the Navajo Nation.