For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Facilities Manager in the United States is $82,492, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Facilities Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $82,492. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Facilities Manager in the United States.
Average facilities manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 20% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Facilities, Maintenance, and Repair jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. 
Facilities Manager Salary in Dublin, Dublin. (Ireland). The average pay for a Facilities Manager in Dublin, Dublin is €44,730 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Facilities Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Facilities Manager in the United States.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). 
Facilities Manager average salary is $62,709, median salary is $58,000 with a salary range from $22,360 to $305,567. Facilities Manager salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Facilities Manager salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. Facilities Manager salary is full-time annual starting salary.