Corelle's structure and composition are unique amongst Corning's range of household products. Vitrelle is not just a thin version of opal Pyrex or Corning Ware, and it is not a glass-ceramic at all. The opal glass used in the core of Vitrelle is not related to opal Pyrex either. The sheet's core layer is white opal glass sandwiched between a transparent top and bottom skin. The layers provide superior strength while allowing it to be very thin, like plywood is quite strong without being very thick. The brand name of this glass-laminate is Vitrelle.
description This Corelle 16-piece dinnerware set is a great choice for everyday use as well as special occasions. It has 4 each of the dinner plates, salad plates, soup bowls and mugs. This Corelle dinner set is made from vitrelle and has laminated glass finish for durability. This break-resistant dinnerware has 4 sets of dinner plates, salad plates, cereal bowls and mugs. The pieces are made of Vitrelle and sport a laminated glass finish for an elegant look. This green and gray ...
Corelle dishes are made of Vitrelle, a glass laminate of three thermally-bonded glass layers. According to the Corelle Corner, a website dedicated to enthusiasm in all things Corelle, “the two kinds of glass possess different coefficients of thermal expansion. 
It is made of Vitrelle, a tempered glass product consisting of two types of glass laminated into three layers. It was introduced by Corning Glass Works in 1970, but is now manufactured and sold by World Kitchen. A typical Corelle dinner plate measures 26 centimetres in diameter and weighs 355 grams. Corelle serving bowl, in the Butterfly Gold pattern, first introduced when Corelle was launched in 1970.
description The Corelle Garden Sketch Bands 16-piece dinnerware set is perfect for everyday use. This break-resistant dinnerware has 4 sets of dinner plates, salad plates, cereal bowls and mugs. The pieces are made of Vitrelle and sport a laminated glass finish for an elegant look. This green and gray ...
Although Corelle® dinnerware is made of Vitrelle® glass, known for its strength and durability, metal utensils, silverware, metal dishwasher racks, metal cleaning pads, and stainless steel sinks may cause gray markings. I dropped my Corelle® dinnerware, and it shattered. Although Corelle® dinnerware is made of Vitrelle® glass, known for its strength and durability, all glass is breakable. We offer a three-year warranty against breakage, chipping, and staining under normal household use. This warranty does not cover accidental breakage.
Corelle plates, bowls and open handle cups are products of a glass lamination process, formed from a three-layered sheet comprising two different types of glass. The sheet's core layer is white opal glass sandwiched between a transparent top and bottom skin. The layers provide superior strength while allowing it to be very thin, like plywood is quite strong without being very thick. The brand name of this glass-laminate is Vitrelle.
I know bone china is the strongest dinnerware that doesn't chip easily, and Corelle is made of Vitrelle glass that is also chip resistant. 
description The Corelle Square 16-piece dinnerware set has everything you need to set the table for the grand dinner. This set includes porcelain mugs, dinner plates, salad plates and soup bowls. Each piece is made from vitrelle to ensure break and chip resistance. All the pieces in the Corelle glass ... This break-resistant dinnerware has 4 sets of dinner plates, salad plates, cereal bowls and mugs. The pieces are made of Vitrelle and sport a laminated glass finish for an elegant look. This green and gray ...
The owner of a porcelain factory near Essex, England added bone ash to the white powder to create bone china. Corelle dinnerware is made of Vitrelle, a glass composition developed by Corning, and it mimics the appearance of fine china. Created through a unique process that thermally bonds clear layers of glass to a white or beige glass core, each piece is thin, lightweight and stackable. An Investment that Lasts. Fine or bone china may retain its beauty for many years, but it does not match the durability of a Corelle Livingware Dinnerware Set. Advantages of Vitrelle include tempered glass that is resistant to chipping, cracking or breaking.