press·ing. adj. 1. Demanding immediate attention; urgent: a pressing need. See Synonyms at urgent. 2. Very earnest or insistent: a pressing invitation. n. 1. The process or an instance of applying pressure. 2. often pressings The material, such as juice or grape skins, produced by or left over after pressing. 3.
1 The process of improving the appearance of clothing by improving creases and removing wrinkles with a press or an iron. 2  A memento preserved by pressing, folding, or drying between the leaves of a flat container, book, or folio. 3  Usually done with a flower, ribbon, letter, or other soft, small keepsake.
1 A metal or plastic part made with a press. 2  The process of improving the appearance of clothing by improving creases and removing wrinkles with a press or an iron. 3  A memento preserved by pressing, folding, or drying between the leaves of a flat container, book, or folio.
present participle of press. Origin of pressing. 1  the process or an instance of stamping, squeezing, etc. with a press. 2  the result of this, often a series or one of a series of identical articles: a pressing of phonograph records.
Hot Isostatic Pressing (HIP) is the simultaneous application of high temperature and pressure to metals and other materials for a specified amount of time in order to improve their mechanical properties.
A charge to the jury is the process whereby a judge addresses the jury before the verdict. During the charge, the judge summarizes the case and gives instructions to the jury concerning such matters as the rules of law that are applicable to various issues in the case.
1 The application of pressure by a press or other means. 2  A metal or plastic part made with a press. 3  The process of improving the appearance of clothing by improving creases and removing wrinkles with a press or an iron.
Noun. (plural pressings). 1  The application of pressure by a press or other means. 2  A metal or plastic part made with a press. 3  The process of improving the appearance of clothing by improving creases and removing wrinkles with a press or an iron.