Drama therapy is the intentional use of drama and/or theater processes to achieve therapeutic goals. Drama therapy is active and experiential. This approach can provide the context for participants to tell their stories, set goals and solve problems, express feelings, or achieve catharsis. Through drama, the depth and breadth of inner experience can be actively explored and interpersonal relationship skills can be enhanced.
Drama therapy (written dramatherapy in the UK) is the use of theatre techniques to facilitate personal growth and promote mental health. A In his book, Drama as Therapy: Theory, practice and research, Phil Jones describes the emergence of the intentional use of drama as therapy as three-fold. First a long history of drama as a healing force with ancient roots in the healing rituals and dramas of various societies.
Psychodrama is an action method, often used as a psychotherapy, in which clients use spontaneous dramatization, role playing and dramatic self-presentation to investigate and gain insight into their lives. 
When drama therapy is done in groups, essentially these are “group experiences that emphasize creativity and release, humor and playfulness, imagination and joy,” Fedder explains. “Rather than discussing and analyzing personal problems with a therapist, you’re guided through the embodiment of them. 
Many drama therapists make use of text, performance, or ritual to enrich the therapeutic and creative process. The theoretical foundation of drama therapy lies in drama, theater, psychology, psychotherapy, anthropology, play, and interactive and creative processes. If you are doing research for a school paper, your school library should be able to assist you with a database search for journal articles that relate to the topic of your paper. Click here for current bibliographies of books, and journal articles on drama therapy.
The first job of the drama therapist is to get to know you and what you are hoping to achieve through therapy. Once the therapist has a better understanding of your expectations and needs, the session can begin. A typical group drama therapy session may work like this: 1. Drama therapy is often used within a group environment, however it can be used in one to one sessions too. A drama therapist will use different techniques and may help you create a fictional story to portray.
Your clients could also be experiencing mental health conditions such as depression or anxiety, or who have problems with an addiction or eating disorder. You will help clients to use their imagination and the creative side of their personality to increase their confidence and self-esteem. 
A Registered Drama Therapist (RDT) is a Master’s level credential requiring coursework in psychology and drama therapy, experience in theater, and supervised internship and work experience. RDTs are board certified in the practice of drama therapy and follow the NADTA Code of Ethics. If you are doing research for a school paper, your school library should be able to assist you with a database search for journal articles that relate to the topic of your paper. Click here for current bibliographies of books, and journal articles on drama therapy.
Drama therapy facilitates change through drama processes. It uses the potential of drama to reflect and transform life experiences to enable clients to express and work through problems they are encountering or to maintain a client’s well-being and health.”. Important to keep in mind: drama therapy is often confused with psychodrama, a different form of therapy entailing the literal placement of characters from one’s own life history into imagined scenarios (say: putting your late mother on a chair and confronting her about all your childhood insecurities — no small task!).
A drama therapist combines techniques from the dramatic arts with psychotherapy to help clients achieve therapeutic goals. Drama therapy dates to the mid 20th century and several professional organizations which advance the cause of drama therapy were founded in the 1970s. Drama therapy may be used in conjunction with more traditional psychotherapy. Some drama therapists use clowning and pantomime during sessions. A drama therapist may help a person cope with the stress related to a traumatic experience. Drama therapist may work with groups of all sizes, including couples.