Lakers' Henry (Achilles) to miss rest of year. Los Angeles Lakers reserve swingman Xavier Henry will miss the rest of the season with a ruptured left Achilles, a league source told ESPN.com on Monday. Lakers guard Xavier Henry will miss the rest of the preseason as he seeks further treatment on his balky right knee.
Content URL. EL SEGUNDO-Lakers guard Xavier Henry underwent an MRI exam today which revealed a ruptured left Achilles tendon. Henry suffered the injury at this morning’s practice. He is scheduled to have surgery tomorrow morning with Dr. Neal ElAttrache and Dr. Steve Lombardo of the Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic. Henry is expected to be out the remainder of the season.
The Lakers' Xavier Henry suffered an injury to his left Achilles tendon. Lakers guard/forward Xavier Henry suffered a torn left Achilles' tendon in practice Monday and he will miss the rest of the season. An MRI exam confirmed Henry's injury.
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- When Los Angeles Lakers reserve swingman Xavier Henry ruptured his left Achilles tendon on Monday, Kobe Bryant had flashbacks.It took me right back to that place again, Bryant said after practice Tuesday.
Xavier Henry has suffered a torn left Achilles and will miss the rest of the season. He just can't catch a break and it's become really easy to root for him. Henry had a knee injury keep him out for much of last season and also tore ligaments in his wrist at the end
EL SEGUNDO-Lakers guard Xavier Henry underwent an MRI exam today which revealed a ruptured left Achilles tendon. Henry suffered the injury at this morning’s practice. He is scheduled to have surgery tomorrow morning with Dr. Neal ElAttrache and Dr. Steve Lombardo of the Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic. Henry is expected to be out the remainder of the season.
Free-agent guard Xavier Henry has reached agreement on a one-year, $1 million contract to return to the Los Angeles Lakers, league sources told Yahoo Sports. Henry, 23, played well for the Lakers before surgery for a torn ligament in his left wrist cut his season short in April.