Beginner (12). The term big wig dates back to 17th century France. The fashion for wigs began with the Bourbon kings of France. King Louis XIII started wearing a wig to cover his premature baldness. By the 1650s, wigs were essentially obligatory for all European nobility or persons of quality.
Wigs were expensive to buy and to preserve. This means that if you were seen wearing a wig, you were automatically assumed to be rich and powerful. Boastfulness in this nature eventually lead to bigger and bigger wigs. So referring to someone as a big wig originated from people who literally wore big wigs.
Shanks' (or shanks's) mare (or nag or pony) derives from the name of the lower part of the leg between the knee … and ankle-the shank, nowadays more often known as the shin-bone or tibia. This was alluded to in the early form of this term-shank's nag. This originated in Scotland in the 18th century.
Ostentation was the order of the day in Bourbon France and over time the wigs became bigger, often to the point of absurdity and requiring of scaffolding. It isn't difficult to imagine how the term 'big-wig' emerged to refer to the rich and powerful.
Origin. The fashion for wigs began with the Bourbon kings of France. Louis XIII (1601 - 1643) went prematurely bald and took to wearing a wig. By the middle of the century, and especially during the reign of Louis XIV, The Sun King, wigs were virtually obligatory for all European nobility and 'persons of quality'.
The first record of this in print that I've found is G. Selwyn's 1781 Letters in 15th Rep. Hist. MSS. Commission : A new point of discussion for the lawyers, for our big wigs, for their Lordships.. This makes explicit the use of the term in relation to the British judiciary, who wore wigs in court-then and now.
The word big wigs refers to the time when British officials (such as magistrates) wore big white wigs. Now we use the term to define people with authority (like bosses of companies). along time ago, i forgot what time period, rich people used to wear those huge white wigs. these people are big wigs, or big shots because as rich people, they were better than the common-folk.