Welcome to Drawbridge, CA. Population: 0. Elevation: 7 ft and sinking. Over a hundred years ago it was a bustling town and weekend getaway destination. Today Drawbridge is a peaceful wetland sanctuary with strewn remains of the the old town’s structures slowly collapsing and sinking into the bay. It is the only ghost town in the San Francisco Bay Area. It all started in 1876. A tiny cabin was built on Station Island 2 1/2 miles north of Alviso for a drawbridge operator for the South Coast Pacific Railroad’s line connecting Newark and San Jose
An historic building in Drawbridge Calif., an abandoned fishing and hunting community located on the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge near San Jose, is being naturally reclaimed by the south bay salt flats on Tuesday March 23, 2010. On the edged of historic Drawbridge, an abandoned fishing and hunting community located on the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge near San Jose, an egret flies through the salt flats on ...
Drawbridge (formerly Saline City) is a ghost town with an abandoned railroad station located at the southern end of the San Francisco Bay on Station Island, now a part of the city of Fremont, California, United States. Drawbridge is now part of the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge and is no longer open to the public due to restoration efforts, though it can still briefly be viewed from Altamont Commuter Express, Capitol Corridor, and Coast Starlight trains.
A specific length of thread or yarn according to the type of fiber is called a hank. For linen, a hank is 274 metres (300 yards); for cotton, it is 768 metres (840 yards). The white part of your fingernail is called the lunula. The thin line of cloud that forms behind an aircraft at high altitudes is called a contrail. 
The surface where they slip is called the fault or fault plane. The location below the earth’s surface where the earthquake starts is called the hypocenter, and the location directly above it on the surface of the earth is called the epicenter. Sometimes an earthquake has foreshocks. These are smaller earthquakes that happen in the same place as the larger earthquake that follows. 
An inner courtyard of a castle, sometimes called a Bailey. Basilica. A section at the base of a castle wall that is angled in such a manner to make dropped stones bounced away from the curtain wall and into the enemy. The batters also add strength to the base of the wall walk. Batters. Fighting position on the top of the castle wall or tower. Top of a wall or tower that has lower sections (crenels) for the purpose of giving a castle defender a position to fight or fire through. This protective stonework is the classic outline of the top of a castle wall. Crenelations. (Also called embrasures) Low sections of the c
The Bay Area's only ghost town-a once-thriving party destination known as Drawbridge-is slowly sinking into the South Bay mud. On the edged of historic Drawbridge, an abandoned fishing and hunting community located on the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge near San Jose, an egret flies through the salt flats on ...
The drawbridge itself is heavily guarded, arc pylons installed in both bridge stations and the open area in front of the bridge on its south side. At the top of each station is a lever that can be used to raise and lower the drawbridge. Both levers are locked, requiring a key to be used. Kaldwin's Bridge is a location in Dunwall. Originally commissioned by Emperor Kaldwin, father of the late Empress Jessamine Kaldwin, it spans the Wrenhaven River and is home to various figures of commerce and art, such as Pratchett, the distributor of Pratchett Jellied Eels.