It is there that the electrical impulses are interpreted into sight. Damage to the optic nerve interrupts this flow of visual information. In glaucoma, researchers believe that the ganglion cells of the retina, as well as the support cells within the optic nerve, can die for various reasons.
From there, the nerve fibers become the optic tract, passing through the thalamus and turning into the optic radiation until they reach the visual cortex in the occipital lobe at the back of the brain. This is where the visual center of the brain is located. blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each eye
Its diameter increases from about 1.6 mm within the eye to 3.5 mm in the orbit to 4.5 mm within the cranial space. The optic nerve component lengths are 1 mm in the globe, 24 mm in the orbit, 9 mm in the optic canal, and 16 mm in the cranial space before joining the optic chiasm. There, partial decussation occurs, and about 53% of the fibers cross to form the optic tracts. As a consequence, the fibers of the optic nerve are covered with myelin produced by oligodendrocytes, rather than Schwann cells of the peripheral nervous system, and are encased within the meninges. Peripheral neuropathies like Guillain-Barre barré syndrome do not affect the optic. nerve
Optic tract. The optic tract is an extension of the optic nerve located in the brain. It begins at the area where information from the left eye and right eye cross (or “decussate”) to create a complete visual picture. The optic tract is actually comprised of two separate tracts: the left optic tract and the right optic tract. The left optic tract transfers information from temporal retinal fibers from the left eye and nasal retinal fiber from the right eye. The right optic tract transfers information from the temporal retinal fibers from the right eye and nasal retinal fibers from the left eye. Damage to the optic tract can lead to homonymous hemianopsia, a condition that causes a partial loss of sight involving either the right or left visual field
1 Damage to the optic tract, which is behind (posterior) to the chiasm, causes loss of the entire visual field from the side opposite the damage (so if the left optic track is cut, there is a loss of vision from the entire right visual field). As a consequence, the fibers of the optic nerve are covered with myelin produced by oligodendrocytes, rather than Schwann cells of the peripheral nervous system, and are encased within the meninges. Peripheral neuropathies like Guillain-Barre barré syndrome do not affect the optic. nerve
The optic tract (from the Latin tractus opticus) is a part of the visual system in the brain. It is a continuation of the optic nerve that relays information from the optic chiasm to the ipsilateral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) , pretectal nuclei, and superior colliculus. Each of these tracts is derived from a combination of temporal and nasal retinal fibers from each eye that corresponds to one half of the visual field. In more specific terms, the optic tract contains fibers from the ipsilateral temporal hemiretina and contralateral nasal hemiretina.
The optic nerve, cranial nerve II, transmits visual information to occipital cortex. The nerve is easily found by locating a large X-shaped structure just caudal to the olfactory bulbs. The fibers anterior to the intersection of the X, are optic nerve fibers. 