Refer the treatments for thickening of toenail that can be caused due to diverse reasons like nail fungus, nail trauma, wear and tear, and wearing ill-fitting footwear. Toenail Thickening is often found because of toenail fungus. Toenail Thickening gives a ragged form to the nail. Ill-fitting Footwear: One reason of Toenail Thickening is wearing tight footwear that does not depart adequate space for the toes and result in thick toenails. Fungal infection : It is the common infection that cause Toenail Thickening and make your nails chunky.
In many cases, this assumption is correct, however there are other things that will make a toenail look thick and distorted-injury to the root of the nail can do it temporarily, while severe or repeated injury can permanently distort a nail. 
Onychomycosis (tinea unguium) is another name for a fungal infection of the toe nails (toenail fungus). This infection is contagious and will often travel from the skin to the nail especial after a trauma has occurred to the nail bed. It can result in discoloration, thickening, chalkiness or crumbling of the nails. Onychia is an infection of the matrix (the base of the nail) which often results in pus and lifting of the nail, as well as pain, redness and swelling. Onychodystrophy is a deformity of the toenails that occurs with chemotherapy (bleomycin, hydroxyurea, or 5-fluorouracil).
When toenail thickening occurs in younger people it is most commonly due to infection or injury. If the thickening is caused by toenail fungus, the nail may turn a yellow or brown color before it begins to thicken. Fungal infections often have a foul odor, and may cause fluid to collect under the nail. 1 Trauma, whether caused by he dropping of a hammer on the toe or by the imperceptible pressure of a shoe, can result in permanent thickening of the nail. 2  Systemic diseases such as psoriasis, eczema, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular disease, and cancer, to name a few, may affect the toenails.
Thickened Toenails. The most common cause of abnormally thick or crumbling nails is toenail fungus. Thickened toenails can also be caused by toe injuries, pressure from shoes, and conditions such as diabetes, psoriasis, or vascular disease. Black-and-blue toenails are caused by an injury to the skin beneath the toenail. As blood and fluid collect beneath the nail plate the nail itself, which is somewhat translucent, begins to appear black.
Toenail bruise: Introduction. Toenail bruise: Injury to underlying tissues or bone in which the skin is not broken, often characterized by ruptured blood vessels and discolorations. See detailed information below for a list of 8 causes of Toenail bruise, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes
Black-and-Blue Toenails (Hematoma). Unlike with yellow toenails, black-and-blue toenails are not actually caused by a change in the color of the nail enamel itself. Black-and-blue toenails are caused by an injury to the skin beneath the toenail. As blood and fluid collect beneath the nail plate the nail itself, which is somewhat translucent, begins to appear black.
First, prevent thick yellow toenails and nail fungi by: 1  Avoiding injury to your toenails. 2  Since a crack in your toenail is one of the most common ways that a nail fungus begins to take root, lessen any activities that risk toenail damage (or at least make sure your feet are well-protected). 3  Wearing well-fitting shoes. While thick yellow toenails look awful, you shouldn’t just view this condition by how your toenails look. That’s because another culprit behind this condition is often fungi—and the laws of how fungi normally grow can also appl
Black-and-Blue Toenail Symptoms. The big toe is most often affected. Bruised, broken blood vessels cause the black, blue, and deep purple colors under the nail. Particularly with a blood blister, the fluid buildup can irritate the toe itself causing it to redden, swell, and throb. Black-and-blue toenails are caused by an injury to the skin beneath the toenail. As blood and fluid collect beneath the nail plate the nail itself, which is somewhat translucent, begins to appear black.