Instead, textbooks often describe a hypothetical mollusk that exhibits the features common to many species. This hypothetical mollusk has a mantle, shell, foot and visceral mass. The mantle is a layer of tissue that covers the visceral mass and in many mollusks it contains glands which secrete a hard shell. The foot is muscular structure located on the underside of the body.
Mollusks (Mollusca) are a group of invertebrates that includes squid, octopuses, cuttlefish, nudibranchs, snails, slugs, limpets, sea hares, mussels, clams, oysters, scallops, as well as many less well-known animals. This hypothetical mollusk has a mantle, shell, foot and visceral mass. The mantle is a layer of tissue that covers the visceral mass and in many mollusks it contains glands which secrete a hard shell. The foot is muscular structure located on the underside of the body.
The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/ compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. Numerous molluscs also live in freshwater and terrestrial habitats. They are highly diverse, not just in size and in anatomical structure, but also in behaviour and in habitat. The phylum is typically divided into 9 or 10 taxonomic classes, of which two are entirely extinct.
1 Gastropods (Gastropoda) - There are between 60,000 and 80,000 species of gastropods alive today. 2  Gastropods are the most diverse of the mollusk groups. 3  Members of this group include limpets, top shells, periwinkles, sundial shells, sea hares, nudibranchs, snails and slugs. This hypothetical mollusk has a mantle, shell, foot and visceral mass. The mantle is a layer of tissue that covers the visceral mass and in many mollusks it contains glands which secrete a hard shell. The foot is muscular structure located on the underside of the body.
Mollusks comprise a group of soft-bodied animals that includes snails, clams, and sea slugs. The most common characteristic of most mollusks is their shell. One of the largest groups, the snails, is renowned for their shells. Snails are univalves, which means they have one shell. And it is this shell that for many people is the epitome of the ocean.
Scientists estimate that there are more than 100,000 species of mollusks alive today. This makes them the second largest phylum of animals, having fewer species than only the arthropods. Mollusks have soft bodies that consist of three basic parts: a foot, a visceral mass and a mantle. This hypothetical mollusk has a mantle, shell, foot and visceral mass. The mantle is a layer of tissue that covers the visceral mass and in many mollusks it contains glands which secrete a hard shell. The foot is muscular structure located on the underside of the body.
© Jonathan Bird/ORG. For educational use only. There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods. The bivalves (meaning two-shells) are perhaps the most well known mollusks simply because of their history as a source of food. Clams, mussels, oysters and scallops are all bivalves. There are about 15,000 known species of bivalve, with about 80% of them being marine (the rest are found in fresh water).
snails, clams, squids and octopodes. Mollusca. Mollusks are a large group of invertebrate animals. Mollusks have soft bodies, and their bodies are not divided into rings like the segmented worms called annelids. Mollusks don't have legs, though some have flexible tentacles for sensing their environment or grabbing things. There are three main groups of mollusks. Snails (Gastropoda) are the most diverse group, there are tens of thousands of species. Nearly all snails grow a spiral shell that is all one piece. A few snail groups have stopped growing shells; they're called slugs.
An introduction. Mollusca is one of the most diverse groups of animals on the planet, with at least 50,000 living species (and more likely around 200,000). It includes such familiar organisms as snails, octopuses, squid, clams, scallops, oysters, and chitons. 