Planetary geology, sometimes referred to as Exogeology or Astrogeology, is the study of the physical characteristics of planetary bodies in the solar systems. Specifically, planetary geologists focus on how planets and their satellites formed and have developed. Geology of Mars Two small moons: Phobos and Diemos Geology is unique in the solar system but most similar to Earth.
The geology of Pluto consists of the characteristics of the surface, crust, and interior of Pluto. Because of Pluto's distance from Earth, in-depth study from Earth is difficult. Because of this, many details about Pluto remained unknown until 14 July 2015 and onwards, when New Horizons flew through the Pluto system.
Neptune is composed of a helium, hydrogen and methane atmosphere. It has an exposed core of m … olten rock and molten ammonia. Neptune is also very windy, with storm winds reaching up to around 2,000mph. There are also dust and ice particles that move around the planets atmosphere, trapped in the winds. Geology is the study of the earth in all its aspect, the  relation between land and sky, the various land forms, the  mountains, the hills, the valley, the plane, the various bodies of  waters, the oceans, the rivers, the lakes.
Because of its great distance from the Sun, Neptune's outer atmosphere is one of the coldest places in the Solar System, with temperatures at its cloud tops approaching 55 K (−218 °C). Temperatures at the planet's centre are approximately 5,400 K (5,100 °C). Neptune is 17 times the mass of Earth and is slightly more massive than its near-twin Uranus, which is 15 times the mass of Earth, and not as dense as Neptune. Neptune orbits the Sun at an average distance of 30.1 astronomical units (4.50 × 10 9 km).
The Structure of Neptune's Interior. There is no surface to the giant planets, only a gradual change from the atmosphere, as pictured in this drawing. Therefore the giant planets do not have strict layers, as the earth-like planets do. Ice begins forming in the atmosphere of Neptune and keeps increasing until there is slush, and then solid ice.
Neptune. Neptune is one of the planets that are considered a gas giant. The surface temperature of Neptune is -344.47°F. The gravitational pull of Neptune is 17% stronger than Earth's gravitational pull. Neptune has a giant storm called the great dark spot. It has never ended and it hase been raging on for four hunderd years
Neptune is the 8th planet from the Sun and the outermost major planet in our solar system. Neptune is slightly smaller but more massive (dense) than Uranus. Neptune is nickn … amed the Ocean Planet because of its blue color, and no actual liquid water exists as there is on Earth. It is a gas and ice giant with a surface covered by crushingly dense clouds of hydrogen and helium. Geology is the study of the earth in all its aspect, the  relation between land and sky, the various land forms, the  mountains, the hills, the valley, the plane, the various bodies of  waters, the oceans, the rivers, the lakes.
What is the geological traits of the planet Uranus, if u dont no what geological traits means it is the landscape of something for example the geological traits for the rainforst in is humid, rainy, wet, and stuff like that and how the land is like if its rocky or sandy, so i need the geological traits of Uranus. 
Neptune is the eighth and farthest planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is the fourth-largest planet by diameter and the third-largest by mass. Among the giant planets in the Solar System, Neptune is the most dense. Neptune is 17 times the mass of Earth and is slightly more massive than its near-twin Uranus, which is 15 times the mass of Earth, and not as dense as Neptune. Neptune orbits the Sun at an average distance of 30.1 astronomical units (4.50 × 10 9 km).