He describes two scenarios where homeowners might pay off or pay down a mortgage early. One is a borrower whose loan balance is between the cutoff amount for a jumbo mortgage and conforming mortgage (generally, mortgages of less than $417,000 are conforming). In that case, it would make sense to pay down the loan in order to qualify for the lower-rate mortgage. Read the stories of three homeowners who paid off their mortgages early, and use this calculator to determine if you can do it. If you've paid off your mortgage or paid it down, tell us how and why you did it. Keep up with your wealth and mortgages, and follow me on Twitter.
Whether to pay off your mortgage early is a difficult decision that should be based on various factors. Depending on your situation, some debt—especially mortgage debt--is probably not as bad as the alternatives. • Your cash reserves. You should have enough cash to pay living expenses for six months squirreled away in the event of emergency – such as losing your job. If you don't have this, you shouldn't be thinking about paying off your mortgage. • The interest rate on your mortgage loan
Before you decide to pay off a loan early, make sure you at least have some sort of emergency fund first. Some people recommend two months worth of living expenses, but six months is a lot safer. In today’s economy, if you lose your job it could take a half year or even longer to find another one. For example, if you owe $1000 per month on your mortgage, you’d pay $500 every two weeks. This causes you to make 26 payments per year (or 13 full payments rather than 12). That’s one full extra payment per year! The extra payment goes directly to your principal and can significantly cut down the life of your loan.
You will reduce your mortgage payments by 6 years. So, instead of paying for 30 years, you’ll pay it off early in 24 years. Your lender should be able to give you amortization on how many months your mortgage loan will be shorten if you continue this kind of payments for the duration of the loan. If you have a $200,000 mortgage, you could pay it off completely in 10.33 years with the same numbers. If you have a $150k mortgage @ 5% paying $1037 total a month will have your house paid off in 18.5 years. The calculator I use is http://www.hughchou.org/calc/prepay.cgi. I fill out A (B makes no sense to me).
Here are some options for paying extra and examples of how extra payments will affect the average $220,000, 30-year mortgage with a 4% interest rate: 1  Make an extra house payment each quarter, and you’ll save $65,000 in interest and pay off your loan 11 years early. 1 Make an extra house payment each quarter, and you’ll save $65,000 in interest and pay off your loan 11 years early. 2  Divide your payment by 12 and add that amount to each monthly payment, or pay half of your payment every two weeks, also known as bi-weekly payments.
4 ways to pay off your mortgage earlier. Paying off the mortgage early is in. Refinancing to take money out of our homes is out. Living through the foreclosure crisis, more people want the security and the psychological benefit of owning their home free and clear. 
Four ways to pay off your mortgage faster – and save money. Buying a home is a major expense – and a major debt. It’s said it’s the biggest purchase you’ll make in your life. A traditional mortgage loan is repaid over the course of 30 years, but today, some terms call for up to 40 years of repayment. If you have a $200,000 mortgage, you could pay it off completely in 10.33 years with the same numbers. If you have a $150k mortgage @ 5% paying $1037 total a month will have your house paid off in 18.5 years. The calculator I use is http://www.hughchou.org/calc/prepay.cgi. I fill out A (B makes no sense to me).
One way to wind down your mortgage before retirement is to refinance to a 15-year loan. Your monthly payments will probably be higher than those for a 30-year mortgage, but the increase will be mitigated by a lower interest rate and, over the life of the loan, you will save thousands of dollars in interest. Paying off your mortgage before you stop working could help provide you with something every retiree seeks: peace of mind. But there may be better uses for your money, at least in the short term. If you have credit card or other high-interest debt, pay it off first.
So they paid off their mortgage early by cashing in their six-figure 401(k) accounts. Because they were under age 59 1/2, they had to pay a 10 percent penalty, along with ordinary income tax, on this large withdrawal. • Your cash reserves. You should have enough cash to pay living expenses for six months squirreled away in the event of emergency – such as losing your job. If you don't have this, you shouldn't be thinking about paying off your mortgage. • The interest rate on your mortgage loan