Leave a comment Go to comments. Layers of the Heart Wall. The heart can be broken up into three major tissue layers: the endocardium, myocardium, and pericardium. Endocardium. The endocarium is the innermost, thin and smooth layer of epithelial tissue that lines the inner surface of all the heart chambers and valves. There are two layers of the pericardial sac: 1  Fibrous Pericardium: The fibrous pericardium is a strong layer which covers the heart. 2  It is made up mostly of connective tissue. 3  Its job is to protect the heart from overstretching and also anchor it in place.
Pericardium. The pericardium is the double walled sac that contains the heart and the roots of the great vessels that leave from or enter the heart. There are two layers of the pericardial sac: 1  Fibrous Pericardium: The fibrous pericardium is a strong layer which covers the heart. 2  It is made up mostly of connective tissue. 3  Its job is to protect the heart from overstretching and also anchor it in place.
The muscle tissues make up the heart. The muscle tissues have to pump the blood, and fibrous tissue that are made up of the valves. The three tissues that are in the heart are the epicardium, myocardium, and endocardium. The epicardium is the top layer of the heart. It is really made up of two layers. Best Answer: I believe that the heart is made up of muscle tissue, epithelial tissue, and nervous tissue, but I'm not sure.. You are correct, but missing one: The heart is made up of CARDIAC MUSCLE (there are three distinct tyes of muscle tissue: skeletal, smooth and cardiac).
In a healthy heart blood flows one way through the heart due to heart valves, which prevent backflow. The heart is enclosed in a protective sac, the pericardium, which also contains a small amount of fluid. The wall of the heart is made up of three layers: epicardium, myocardium, and endocardium. The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes.
The middle layer of the heart wall is the myocardium, which is the cardiac muscle – a layer of involuntary striated muscle tissue surrounded by a framework of collagen. The myocardium is also supplied with blood vessels, and nerve fibers by way of the epicardium that help to regulate the heart rate. The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes.
Confidence votes 128. There's a hierarchy to this; in the largest form, the heart is made from muscle tissue; muscle tissue is made from cells, and cells are composed of elements. The heart is hollow and shaped like a cone. It is made of specialized muscle tissue which allows it to beat your entire lifetime. The heart is comprised of the left and right atria and the left and right ventricles. The atria pump blood to the lungs, where it is oxygenated. The oxygenated blood then retu … rns to the heart, where the ventricles pump it to the rest of the body.
The right side of the heart is the pulmonary circuit pump. Pumps blood through the lungs, where CO 2 is unloaded and O 2 is picked up. The left side of the heart is the systemic circuit pump. Pumps blood to the tissues, delivering O 2 and nutrients and picking up CO 2 and wastes.
Three layers of tissue form the heart wall. The outer layer of the heart wall is the epicardium, the middle layer is the myocardium, and the inner layer is the endocardi … um. 24 people found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The walls of the heart are made from an epithelial tissue.