Load more... Chromium is an open-source browser project that aims to build a safer, faster, and more stable way for all Internet users to experience the web. or learn more
Chromium OS. Chromium OS is an open-source project that aims to build an operating system that provides a fast, simple, and more secure computing experience for people who spend most of their time on the web. 
By building a Chrome App, as opposed to going with a traditional web app or a native mobile app, you expand your potential audience and extend your development capability. This includes Windows, Linux, and OS X. Using Chrome Apps for Mobile (MCA), you can deploy your applications to mobile and target hardware features only available on Android and IOS platforms. Writing a Chrome App is the ONLY way to have your app installed on a Chromebook. Chromebooks are appealing, inexpensive, low maintenance devices that provide a full web experience
Chromium is the open source web browser project from which Google Chrome draws its source code. The browsers share the majority of code and features, though there are some minor differences. The Chromium Project takes its name from the element chromium, the metal from which Chrome plating is made. Google's intention, as expressed in the developer documentation, was that Chromium would be the name of the open source project and that the final product name would be Chrome
Chromium is the open-source web browser project from which Google Chrome draws its source code. The browsers share the majority of code and features, though there are some minor differences in features and they have different licensing. 1 Opera began to base its web browser on Chromium with version 15. 2  Sleipnir is a Chromium derivative browser for Windows and OS X. 3  One of its main features is linking to Web apps (Facebook, Twitter, Dropbox, etc.) and smartphone apps (Google Map, etc.).
Chromium is an open-source browser project that aims to build a safer, faster, and more stable way for all users to experience the web. Chromium OS. Chromium OS is an open-source project that aims to provide a fast, simple, and more secure computing experience for people who spend most of their time on the web. Learn more about the project goals, obtain the latest build, and learn how you can get involved, submit code, and file bugs.
If you've ever used Google's free Chrome browser, you may be aware that it's closely related to another, similarly named Google project called Chromium.. Chrome and Chromium share a heavy portion of their core browser code, but Chrome is a proprietary Google product, while Chromium is open source. Both serve Linux, Windows and Mac OS X platforms, however, and both continue to vie for user share with Mozilla's open source Firefox, their distant cousin. Chrome adds a small number of features to Chromium such as a built-in PDF viewer and Flash plug-in, and the official Google Chrome branding, Shah added.
Plus, keep all your apps updated. Download Nowor learn more Chromium is an open-source browser project that aims to build a safer, faster, and more stable way for all Internet users to experience the web. or learn more.