Definition of TANGELO. : the fruit of a tree (Citrus × tangelo) that is a hybrid between a tangerine or mandarin orange and a grapefruit; also: the tree. See tangelo defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
The Minneola tangelo (sometimes misspelled Mineola) is a cross between a Duncan grapefruit and a Dancy tangerine, and was released in 1931 by the USDA Horticultural Research Station in Orlando. It is named after Minneola, Florida. Orlando tangelos are available from mid-November to the beginning of February. It originated as a cross between a Duncan grapefruit and a Dancy tangerine. W. T. Swingle of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is credited with creating the hybrid in 1911.
Minneolas. Nicknamed “The Honeybell” because of its bell shape, the Minneola tangelo is a cross between a tangerine and a grapefruit. Its large size and slightly elongated “neck” make it easy to recognize. The most popular of the tangelos, seedless Minneolas are brimming with sweetly tart juice. 1  UNIQUE FACTORS. Minneolas are hybrids of a tangerine and a grapefruit. They are so distinctive that they earned their own classification in scientific terms, called tangelo, derived from tangerine x pomelo hybrid. (Aside Pomelo = Grapefruit; Pummelo = Shaddock or pample mousse).
A tangelo is a hybrid citrus fruit made by crossing a tangerine with a grapefruit or pomello. Most of the tangelos sold in modern marketplaces are created by farmers who intentionally crossbreed the fruits in order to highlight certain characteristics like sweetness, juiciness, or color. When the Minneola is crossed with a Clementine tangerine, the result is usually what is known as the “Nova” tangelo. This variety is normally a bit sweeter, and the fruit a bit darker — sometimes almost red in color.
There are several popular varieties of tangelo, including the Honeybell, Orlando, and Minneola. The Minneola tangelo specifically is a cross between a Dancy tangerine and a Duncan grapefruit, making their grapefruit characteristics stronger than other varieties. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. The Minneola tangelo is a specific hybrid citrus fruit that is made by crossing the Duncan or Bowen grapefruit and the “Darcy” variety of tangerine, also called a mandarin orange. The Minneola tangelo combines the sweet and sour flavors of a mandarin orange and a grapefruit. The peel of a Minneola is thin and very easy to remove. In the US, the Minneola tangelo tends to prosper best in mild climates like Florida. Mineola tangeloes can be added to fruit salad
Delicious Cross between a Tangerine and a Grapefruit. The Minneola Tangelo, Citrus x 'Minneola', is a delightful cross between white grapefruit and sweet tangerine. Also called a Honeybell, this beautiful orange-red fruit is a perfect balance of sweet and tangy flavor. This winter ripening fruit tree is an evergreen that can be grown anywhere. 