Norco ® is a narcotic pain reliever used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Norco ® is the combination of Hydrocodone and acetaminophen. Norco ® contains the highest dose of Hydrocodone and the lowest dose of acetaminophen. Norco ® is a narcotic and is classified as a controlled substance. Hydrocodone, the narcotic compound found in Norco ®, has a high potential for dependency.
Hydrocodone, the narcotic component of Norco, is a commonly abused drug. Norco is readily available and relatively inexpensive, especially in generic form, and may be especially desirable as a drug of abuse (due to its low acetaminophen content). Norco ® (hydrocodone/APAP) is a prescription pain medication. It is a narcotic and is classified as a controlled substance, which means that special laws and regulations control its sale and use. It is approved to treat moderate to moderately severe pain
Yes. It is similar to Vicodin and contains the same drugs (hydrocodone and acetaminophen). Vicodin is a brand name and is most often associated with the dosage of 5mg hydrocodone/500mg acetaminophen but comes in different strengths. Norco contains the same ingredients but at a different ratio. Norco contains more hydrcodone to acetaminophen and comes in strengths such as 7.5/325 and 10/325
Norco (trade name for a combination of hydrocodone and acetaminophen) is a narcotic pain reliever that has a high potential for abuse and addiction. It is comprised of 5, 7.5 or 10 mg. of hydrocodone and 325 mg of acetaminophen. Norco ® is the combination of Hydrocodone and acetaminophen. Norco ® contains the highest dose of Hydrocodone and the lowest dose of acetaminophen. Norco ® is a narcotic and is classified as a controlled substance. Hydrocodone, the narcotic compound found in Norco ®, has a high potential for dependency.
As a narcotic, Norco is a highly desired drug of abuse, and Norco addiction can be a significant problem for many people. Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic, opioid pain reliever that is chemically related to codeine. In the United States, it is only available in combination medications; it is not available alone. Acetaminophen, the other component of Norco, is a nonopioid analgesic and fever reducer. 
Norco Uses. Hydrocodone is a narcotic pain reliever and acetaminophen is a non-narcotic, less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of hydrocodone. Norco comes in capsule, tablet and liquid form, and doctors recommend taking it every 4-6 hours as needed. Norco ® is the combination of Hydrocodone and acetaminophen. Norco ® contains the highest dose of Hydrocodone and the lowest dose of acetaminophen. Norco ® is a narcotic and is classified as a controlled substance. Hydrocodone, the narcotic compound found in Norco ®, has a high potential for dependency.
(generic for Norco). Norco is a powerful narcotic painkiller. It is similar to Vicodin but is stronger. Vicodin contains 5 milligrams of narcotic (hydrocodone) and 500 milligrams of Tylenol. Norco contains 10 milligrams of narcotic (hydrocodone) and 325 milligrams of Tylenol. You cannot drink or drive within six hours of using this drug. It is very addictive but is a very good pain pill
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hydrocodone/paracetamol, hydrocodone/acetaminophen, or hydrocodone/APAP (or under brand names such as Lortab, Norco and Vicodin) is a combination opioid narcotic analgesic drug consisting of hydrocodone and paracetamol (acetaminophen) used to relieve moderate to severe pain. 