Adj. 1. nociceptive-caused by or in response to pain; a nociceptive spinal reflex. sensitive-responsive to physical stimuli; a mimosa's leaves are sensitive to touch; a sensitive voltmeter; sensitive skin; sensitive to light. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
Chronic pain usually falls into one of two categories: Nociceptive pain is caused by damage to body tissue and usually described as a sharp, aching, or throbbing pain. Chronic pain is generally associated with one of the following areas: Chronic back or leg pain. Chronic back or leg pain may be the result of spinal diseases such as arachnoiditis, degenerative disc disease, epidural fibrosis, failed back surgery syndrome, lumbar disc herniation, osteoporosis and spinal stenosis.
Medical Definition of NOCICEPTIVE. 1. of a stimulus: painful, injurious. 2. : of, induced by, or responding to a nociceptive stimulus—used especially of receptors or protective reflexes. 
Nociceptive pain is caused by an injury that stimulates pain receptors which recognize and react to a stimulus (pressure, extreme temperatures, irritating substances released by other cells) and send pain signals through the nervous system for recognition and response to an injury or the possibility for injury. 
Nociceptive pain is usually time limited, meaning when the tissue damage heals, the pain typically resolves. (Arthritis is a notable exception in that it is not time limited.) Another characteristic of nociceptive pain is that it tends to respond well to treatment with opioids. When activated, they transmit pain signals (via the peripheral nerves as well as the spinal cord) to the brain. The pain is typically well localized, constant, and often with an aching or throbbing quality. Visceral pain is the subtype of nociceptive pain that involves the internal organs.
Pain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli, such as stubbing a toe, burning a finger, putting alcohol on a cut, and bumping the  funny bone . Because it is a complex, subjective phenomenon, defining pain has been a challenge. The term 'psychogenic' assumes that medical diagnosis is so perfect that all organic causes of pain can be detected; regrettably, we are far from such infallibility... All too often, the diagnosis of neurosis as the cause of pain hides our ignorance of many aspects of pain medicine.
1. NOCICEPTIVE PAIN-Examples include sprains, bone fractures, burns, bumps, bruises, inflammation (from an infection or arthritic disorder), obstructions, and myofascial pain (which may indicate abnormal muscle stresses). When activated, they transmit pain signals (via the peripheral nerves as well as the spinal cord) to the brain. The pain is typically well localized, constant, and often with an aching or throbbing quality. Visceral pain is the subtype of nociceptive pain that involves the internal organs.
UNDERSTANDING NOCICEPTIVE & NEUROPATHIC PAIN. For the last 300 years, our understanding of pain has been dominated by the idea that the human body is a complex machine which is separate from the process of perception. When activated, they transmit pain signals (via the peripheral nerves as well as the spinal cord) to the brain. The pain is typically well localized, constant, and often with an aching or throbbing quality. Visceral pain is the subtype of nociceptive pain that involves the internal organs.
Pain experts have divided the physical causes of pain into two types: nociceptive and neuropathic pain. The differences are important for understanding the nature of the pain problem and especially for determining how to treat the pain. When activated, they transmit pain signals (via the peripheral nerves as well as the spinal cord) to the brain. The pain is typically well localized, constant, and often with an aching or throbbing quality. Visceral pain is the subtype of nociceptive pain that involves the internal organs.
Nociceptive pain may also be divided into visceral, deep somatic and superficial somatic pain. Visceral structures are highly sensitive to stretch, ischemia and inflammation, but relatively insensitive to other stimuli that normally evoke pain in other structures, such as burning and cutting. The term 'psychogenic' assumes that medical diagnosis is so perfect that all organic causes of pain can be detected; regrettably, we are far from such infallibility... All too often, the diagnosis of neurosis as the cause of pain hides our ignorance of many aspects of pain medicine.