Orchiopexy is done to place an undescended testicle in its normal position in the scrotum. 1  Placing undescended testicles in the scrotum may help prevent infertility and may reduce the risk of testicular cancer. 1 Infection. 2  Bleeding or blood clots in the scrotum. 3  Damage to the vas deferens and the blood supply to the testicle. 4  Without an adequate blood supply, the testicle may shrink (atrophy). 5  The testicle(s) moving out of the scrotum again (reascend) after surgery and requiring further treatment. 6  This is rare.
Definition. Orchiopexy is a procedure in which a surgeon fastens an undescended testicle inside the scrotum, usually with absorbable sutures. It is done most often in male infants or very young children to correct cryptorchidism, which is the medical term for undescended testicles. Orchiopexy is also occasionally performed in adolescents or adults, and may involve one or both testicles.
Orchiopexy (or orchidopexy) is a surgery to move an undescended (cryptorchid) testicle into the scrotum and permanently fix it there. Orchiopexy typically also describes the surgery used to resolve testicular torsion. Orchiopexy can also be performed to resolve a testicular torsion. If caught early enough and the blood supply can be restored to the testicle, this operation can be performed to prevent further occurrence of torsion. If the blood supply has been interrupted for too long, an orchiectomy must be performed
To make clear the reasons for performing a bilateral orchidopexy in children, it is helpful to have an outline of the normal pattern of improvement of the tests in a male infant. Orchidopexy is the process to place testicle, which is undescended into the perfect area in scrotum. The bilateral orchidopexy is also occasionally performed in adolescents or adults, and it may involve one or both testicles. It is most often done to treat testicular torsion, which is an urgent situation crisis resulting from the testicle’s twisting around the spermatic cord and losing is blood supply.
Undescended testicle repair is also known as orchiopexy. It’s an operation that corrects the placement of a testicle that has not dropped from the groin (inside the body) to the scrotum. Some undescended testicles move into the correct position within the child’s first year. However, surgery is usually needed.
Guide. Surgery to move an undescended testicle into the scrotum is called orchiopexy or orchidopexy. It is usually performed on babies who are 9 to 15 months old. In most cases, a pediatric surgeon or a specialist who treats urinary problems in children (pediatric urologist) performs the surgery. 1 Infection. 2  Bleeding or blood clots in the scrotum. 3  Damage to the vas deferens and the blood supply to the testicle. 4  Without an adequate blood supply, the testicle may shrink (atrophy). 5  The testicle(s) moving out of the scrotum again (reascend) after surgery and requiring further treatment. 6  This is rare.
Orchidopexy is an operation in which the Paediatric Surgeon moves an undescended testicle down into the base of the scrotum. Orchidopexy is performed to maximise fertility, to minimise the chance of trauma or torsion (twist), to ensure cosmetic symmetry in the scrotum and to make it easier for the boy, when he is older, to check himself thoroughly for cancers of the testicle.
A bilateral orchidopexy is a process in which a surgeon fastens an undescended testicle interior the scrotum, generally with absorbable sutures. This procedure is done most often in male infants or very young children to right cryptorchidism. The bilateral orchidopexy is also occasionally performed in adolescents or adults, and it may involve one or both testicles. It is most often done to treat testicular torsion, which is an urgent situation crisis resulting from the testicle’s twisting around the spermatic cord and losing is blood supply.
An undescended testicle is unlikely to spontaneously resolve after 6 months and, thus, orchiopexy is usually performed before the age of one year. The undescended testicle may be located within the normal line of descent (for example, in the inguinal canal) or high in the scrotum or ectopically (i.e. the abdomen). Orchiopexy can also be performed to resolve a testicular torsion. If caught early enough and the blood supply can be restored to the testicle, this operation can be performed to prevent further occurrence of torsion. If the blood supply has been interrupted for too long, an orchiectomy must be performed