Find a lip liner of the same shade as your lipstick and line your lips with it, filling them in. This way you are creating a base for your matte lipstick to glide on; the color will look a lot richer and more intense. Lip liner will also help your lipstick last longer. 5) No rubbing.
Go for a bright or dark shade; they tend to last longer than soft ones because they have more pigment. • Prep your lips. Lipstick holds up best on a smooth surface, so gently buff your lips with a damp washcloth. Pat on a clear lip balm and give it a few minutes to sink in, then blot with a tissue.
There are ways to make your lipstick last longer with just using your makeup at hand or some baby powder. Use the baby powder on lips to make the lipstick last longer, put the lipstick on and then put a gentle, thin layer of powder on the lips. This dries the lipstick and locks in the color of the lipstick. Then if a more vibrant color is wanted apply a second coat of lipstick over the powder and first layer of lipstick.
6) Another coat. If you want your lip color to last even longer, then, after applying a lipstick, blot your lips with a tissue and reapply the lipstick again. This tip will help add intensity to your lip color and you will be astonished how much longer your lipstick will last.
Please try again later. Hello Everyone! I wanted to share with you guys a quick tip on how to make your lipstick last all day with a natural look OR (any color you desire will do) and how to make any lipstick a Matte finish for that Natural look.
The more pigment a product contains, the longer it is likely to last. Lipsticks contain more color than sheer lip glosses and tints, so choose a lipstick instead of a gloss for maximum wear. Shimmering colors also have a shorter lifespan than matte or creamy lipsticks.
How to Make Lipstick Last today's video is about How to make your lipstick last longer. the video will focus on a few makeup tips and tricks on how to make your lipstick to last all day long.
There are other ways to help make your lipstick last longer, such as to apply a layer of lipstick and then blot it with a tissue and then go ahead and apply another layer of lipstick. This is like putting on two coats of paint. It looks better and has more coverage to stay on longer and look fresh longer.