Dysteria is a condition when muscles contract uncontrollably in repetitive movements. Some symptoms of this are involuntary muscle contractions that occur during specific actions, begin in one area, worsen with stress, fatigue, or anxiety, and become more noticeable over time. For instance, a fever, runny nose, and sore throat may be a symptom of the flu. A loud knock may be a symptom that your en … gine has problems. Growling and snarling may be a symptom that your dog has aggression issues.
In this article. Dystonia is a movement disorder in which a person's muscles contract uncontrollably. The contraction causes the affected body part to twist involuntarily, resulting in repetitive movements or abnormal postures. Dystonia can affect one muscle, a muscle group, or the entire body. 1 Oromandibular dystonia causes spasms of the jaw, lips, and tongue muscles. 2  This dystonia can cause problems with speech and swallowing. 3  Spasmodic dystonia affects the throat muscles that are responsible for speech. 4  Tardive dystonia is caused by a reaction to a drug.
Dysteria spp. is generally ovoid in shape with a flattened ventral surface from which the cilia extend. The dorsal surface is dome-shaped, ribbed longitudinally, and unciliated. A large podite is placed posteriorly. Typically, the right lateral edge of each cell has a cleft. 
*Dystonia facts medically edited by: Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD. 1  Dystonia is a disorder of muscle control; it can cause slow repetitive movements, abnormal postures and/or tremors of the musculature that are uncontrollable by the patient. The movements may be painful, and some individuals with dystonia may have a tremor or other neurologic features. There are several different forms of dystonia that may affect only one muscle, groups of muscles, or muscles throughout the body.
Dystonia is a neurological movement disorder in which sustained muscle contractions cause twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The movements may resemble a tremor. Dystonia is often initiated or worsened by voluntary movements, and symptoms may “overflow” into adjacent muscles.
Dystonia is a disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions that cause slow repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The movements may be painful, and some individuals with dystonia may have a tremor or other neurologic features. There are several different forms of dystonia that may affect only one muscle, groups of muscles, or muscles throughout the body.
Dystonia is a disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions that cause slow repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The movements may be painful, and some individuals with dystonia may have a tremor or other neurologic features. 
Dystonia is a movement disorder. Dystonia is characterized by persistent or intermittent muscle contractions causing abnormal, often repetitive, movements, postures, or both.
Dystonia is classified by: 1. Clinical characteristics such as age of onset, body distribution, nature of the symptoms, and associated features such as additional movement disorders or neurological symptoms, and 2. Cause (which includes changes or damage to the nervous system and inheritance). Dystonia is often initiated or worsened by voluntary movements, and symptoms may “overflow” into adjacent muscles.
Dystonia is a general term which describes involuntary movements and extended muscle contractions-a range of movement disorders. The patient has twisting body movements, tremor and unusual or awkward postures. 1 Secondary dystonia-when dystonia signs and symptoms occur as a consequence of an underlying condition-usually genetic, neurological or an injury which affects the nervous system. 2  Focal dystonia-only one part of the body is affected.