Meaning of Indian name: Naina. Meaning of the name Naina is 'Eyes'. Naina is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Naina is '3'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Naina'. 
Name Naina generally means Eyes, is of Indian origin, Name Naina is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Naina are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Naina belongs to rashi Vrushik (Scorpio) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Uttara Phalguni, Uttara Bhadra, Anuradha. 
Nina is a very popular first name for women (#268 out of 4276, Top 6%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#34503 out of 150436, Top 23%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Nina for girls. Nina /ni-na/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced NEE-nah, NYNE-ah. It is of Spanish and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Nina is little girl; great-granddaughter. Also diminutive of Ann (Hebrew) He (God) has favored me. In Slavic, a short form of names ending with-nina, such as Antonina. Neena is also a Hindi name meaning pretty eyes. Nina was the name of one of Christopher Columbus's three ships. Ballerina Dame Ninette de Valoi
Naina. You can found out the perfect meaning of Naina in English and Urdu and more detail about this name. Naina is a Muslim name for baby girl and meaning is Eyes. Meaning in English, Eyes. Meaning in Urdu, Gender, Girl. Below some other suggestion of related baby names, that similar sound, which you will help to keep suitable name for your cute baby. 
Meaning of Naina. Muslim name. In Muslim, the name Naina means-Eyes..The name Naina originated as an Muslim name. The name Naina is most often used as a girl name or female name. Muslim Name Meaning-Eyes. Origin-Arabic. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Naina is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Nai-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4710 in baby name popularity for girls with 30 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name