In Italy, Pinot grigio grapes are often harvested early to retain the refreshing acidity and minimize some of the overt-fruitiness of the variety, creating a more neutral flavor profile. This style is often imitated in other Old World wine regions, such as Germany where the grape is known as Rulaender. ruländer In Italy, where the grape is known as Pinot grigio, plantings can be found in the Lombardy region around Oltrepo Pavese and in Alto Adige, Italy's northernmost wine region. The grape is also prominent in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region.
Perhaps you already know that Pinot Gris and Pinot Grigio are the same wine. What’s surprising is that the gray-red grape that makes these wines is a mutation of Pinot, the mysterious mother grape to all ‘Pinot’ wines (e.g. Pinot Noir, Pinot Blanc, Pinot Gris etc). Pinot Gris is famous for its refreshing citrus flavor and zesty acidity. One example is cheap supermarket Pinot Grigio designed to woo mid-week wine drinkers. The second (and considerably more rare) are the slightly sweet Pinot Gris from Alsace. Alsace Pinot Gris wines must be made with 100% Pinot Gris grapes and they taste very complex.
Pinot gris or Grauburgunder is a white wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. Thought to be a mutant clone of the Pinot noir variety, it normally has a grayish-blue fruit, accounting for its name (gris meaning gray in French) but the grapes can have a brownish pink to black and even white appearance. In Italy, where the grape is known as Pinot grigio, plantings can be found in the Lombardy region around Oltrepo Pavese and in Alto Adige, Italy's northernmost wine region. The grape is also prominent in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region.
Pinot Noir. Pinot noir is a black wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. The name is derived from the French words for pine and black alluding to the grape variety's tightly clustered dark purple pine-cone shaped bunches of fruit.
[pino nwaʁ]) is a red wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. The name may also refer to wines created predominantly from Pinot noir grapes. The name is derived from the French words for pine and black; the pine alluding to the grape variety having tightly clustered, pine cone-shaped bunches of fruit. 
It’s Dry: Pinot Grigio often tastes less sweet than Chardonnay because of high acidity. Exceptions to the rule: There are two examples where Pinot Grigio is sweet. One example is cheap supermarket Pinot Grigio designed to woo mid-week wine drinkers. The second (and considerably more rare) are the slightly sweet Pinot Gris from Alsace. Alsace Pinot Gris wines must be made with 100% Pinot Gris grapes and they taste very complex.
Grown throughout the country, new Zealand Pinot Gris is more akin to Alsace in style than the drier Pinot Grigio, with notes of apple, pear, honeysuckle, spice and bread. the warmer north island climate tends to create ripe, fat, oily styles whilst the cooler south island produces tighter wines with great structure. 
Pinot Gris Wine. Pinot Gris is a white-wine grape originally from the vineyards of Burgundy, but now found in wine regions all over the world. When produced in the pale, light style popularized in late 20th-Century Italy, the variety and its wines are typically referred to by the Italian name Pinot Grigio. One of the more famous members of the extended Pinot family of grape varieties, Pinot Gris is a pink-skinned mutation of Pinot Noir.
While Italy’s Pinot Grigio wine is now one of the world’s most asked-for wines, the grape originated as a mutation of Pinot Noir in Alsace, France, where it’s called Pinot Gris. So let’s break down Pinot Gris vs. Pinot Grigio. Pinot Grigio/ Pinot Gris. Pinot Grigio is seemingly everybody’s default for a glass of dry white wine – “Oh, I’ll have a Pinot Grigio.” A simple request, for a complex grape with a variety of styles and more than one name.
The wines produced from this grape also vary in color from a deep golden yellow to copper and even a light shade of pink, and it is one of the more popular grapes for orange wine. The clone of Pinot gris grown in Italy is known as Pinot grigio. In Italy, where the grape is known as Pinot grigio, plantings can be found in the Lombardy region around Oltrepo Pavese and in Alto Adige, Italy's northernmost wine region. The grape is also prominent in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region.