USA Network has ordered eight episodes of the new half-hour original reality series “Chrisley Knows Best” about fussy Atlanta self-made multimillionaire Todd Chrisley, who tries to provide his family a perfect Southern life. Chrisley runs his family like his business — “with an iron fist,” says USA. 
Tweet. Share. Share. 2 comments. Chrisley Knows Best is a new reality show from the USA Network. The show is a real-life family comedy following Atlanta’s “First Family of Fabulous,” the Chrisleys, as they embark on an ambitious business venture together. The Chrisley’s are a combination of the most talked about reality families, with the wealth of The Kardashian’s and the quirkiness of the Robertson family from Duck Dynasty. The patriarch of the Chrisley Family is Todd, who as a parent is very relateable.
• originally published. Todd Chrisley has never shied away from talking about his money. In his new reality show, Chrisley Knows Best, cameras follow the businessman, who lives in a lavish 30,000-sq.-ft. Atlanta mansion with his wife and five children. (Think the Kardashians with Southern drawls.). 
Todd Chrisley is known to keep his children in line. On his hit reality show, Chrisley Knows Best, the proud dad is not afraid to speak his mind in regards to his kids' fashion, social outings and even their dating lives. But when it comes to his eldest son, Kyle Chrisley, Todd admits he's found himself in a hard spot. 
Share. Todd Chrisley stars in the USA Network new reality series CHRISLEY KNOWS BEST. The patriarch of the Chrisley family, Todd is a self-made millionaire and successful entrepreneur. Born in Georgia and raised in Westminster, SC – Todd and his wife, Julie, raise their five children in the suburbs of Atlanta
Todd Chrisley is the patriarch of the new USA Network reality show Chrisley Knows Best, which premiered this week, and it’s all about the eccentric real estate giant and his brood of five’s lavish southern lifestyle — that includes dropping $300,000 on designer clothes. 
About the show. CHRISLEY KNOWS BEST follows outrageous Patriarch of Perfection Todd Chrisley's attempts to micro-manage his colorful Southern family with his homespun wisdom and acerbic wit. With five kids, Todd has his hands full, but at the end of the day, this family is all about the love. 
USA Network is getting into the reality game with a new show, Chrisley Knows Best, set to debut in March 2014. A trailer clip went viral online Wednesday, introducing viewers to the eccentric Atlanta millionaire Michael Todd Chrisley and his picture-perfect family. Now, according to Chrisley’s reality TV clip, he has decided to pursue a career in fashion. He shows off his designer clothes and brags about being neighbors with Usher and Sharon Stone.