Measles (Khasra): Measles is viral infection and has a high morbidity and mortality specifically in children in underdeveloped countries due to vitamin deficiencies and malnutrition, Vitamin A plays an important role in its prevention as recent studies suggest, which is deficient in diets of these children. Mareez bachey ki tabiyat main becheni bhi rahati hai, iss kay sath sath bukhar or nazla bhi shoro ho jata hai, in zahri alamat sey pata chalta hai keh bachey ko khasra hai, iss zahri aalaamat kay ilawa agar zarori ho to virus ki culture or tashkheesi muainah (Seralogical Test) bhi karney chaiyeh.
Not to be confused with the Hindustani word for measles. A khasra (Hindustani: ख़सरा or خسره) is a legal agricultural document used in India and Pakistan that specifies land and crop details. 
Measles & Smallpox Treatment in Urdu | Khasra aur Cheechak ka Ilaj | Health Care Tips, 10.0 out of 10 based on 1 rating. Measles is also called rubeola or morbilli. It is an infection of the respiratory system caused by a virus. It is usually known as causing rash in childhood but it can also affect other parts of the body. Measles can also occur in adults. Its symptoms occur within 12 days from the initial infection. Causes. Measles is caused by the measles virus. 
Measles is a highly infectious disease caused by a virus. Before measles immunization was widely available, it used to be a significant cause of childhood illness and death. Measles is often confused with other viral fevers accompanied with rash by the elders in the household. In North India it is generally referred to as “khasra”. Measles is characterised by sudden onset of high grade fever accompanied by cough, runny nose, watering of eyes and the appearance of a typical rash on the 3rd, 4th or 5th day of the fever, which typically gradually progresses from the upper body and face down to the feet.
Measles is transmitted from one infected person to another as a droplet infection. This means that when an infected person sneezes or coughs, the liquid droplets carry the virus which when inhaled by another person spreads infection. It takes 7 to 14 days from the time of contact with an infected person for the disease to appear. Measles is characterised by sudden onset of high grade fever accompanied by cough, runny nose, watering of eyes and the appearance of a typical rash on the 3rd, 4th or 5th day of the fever, which typically gradually progresses from the upper body and face down to the feet.
1 Measles is a potentially serious disease that is caused by a virus that is easily spread. 2  Measles symptoms and signs include. 3  dry cough, 4  conjunctivitis, 5  runny nose, 6  high fever. 7  Measles can be complicated by ear infections, pneumonia, or encephalitis. Measles Symptoms and Signs. Measles, also known as rubeola, is a respiratory disease characterized by a rash all over the body in addition to fever, runny nose, and cough.
Measles, also known as morbilli, rubeola, or red measles, is a highly contagious infection caused by the measles virus. Initial signs and symptoms typically include fever, often greater than 40 °C (104.0 °F), cough, runny nose, and red eyes. 
Measles is a highly contagious viral disease that can be fatal. In most people, the disease produces fever rash that lasts greater than three days, cough, runny nose (coryza), and red eyes (conjunctivitis). Measles Symptoms and Signs. Measles, also known as rubeola, is a respiratory disease characterized by a rash all over the body in addition to fever, runny nose, and cough.
Measles (Khasra). Measles (Khasra) is a highly infectious disease cause by virus. Measles immunization was widely available; it used to be significant cause of childhood illness and death. Measles is confused with other viral fever accompanied with rash by the elders in the household. The virus of measles is dangerous then other viruses because it spreads in air but beside this there is a vaccine that can cure measles 100%. The vaccine of measles had been founded in 1963. Paramyxovirus is the virus that can cause measles.
Description. Measles is a disease of the Whole Body. The skin infection caused by Rubeola Virus is Measles. It is an infectious disease. It causes fever and rashes on the Skin. This Virus is used to stay in the mucus membrane of the Nose and the Mouth of the infected pers