Sage tea also protected lipids in the liver against damage from a liver toxin. A tissue culture study published in the April 2007 issue of the journal Chemico-Biological Interactions found that sage extract prevented depletion of glutathione, an important liver antioxidant, by 62 percent.
Sage, or Salvia officinalis, is a member of the mint family. It is commonly used as an ingredient in stuffing, but it can also make tea. Sage tea may be used as a gargle and mouthwash for sore throat and to relieve canker sores.
Overview. Sage, or salvia officinalis, as it is scientifically called is a plant native to Southern Europe and the Mediterranean region. Sage has been used in traditional medicine for centuries. The leaves of this small ever green, perennial plant are used as a popular culinary herb.
Sage may help reduce menopausal hot flashes. Sage, Salvia officinalis, is a desert herb native to the Mediterranean. It prefers shallow, rocky soils and large amounts of sun. Cooks rely on sage for its distinct flavor and aroma, and the herb also offers a number of potential health and medicinal benefits.
Antioxidant effects of sage tea may improve liver function, according to an animal study published in the February 2005 issue of the Journal of Ethnopharmacology.. In the study, sage tea was administered in place of water for 14 days.
The fragrant, silver-green leaves of the sage shrub have many culinary and medicinal uses. The plant, which is native to the Mediterranean and North America, is often used to season soups, stews and meat dishes. Steeping dried sage leaves in hot water makes an herbal tea with a subtle pine flavor.
Sage tea may help reduce anxiety and improve your mood, according to a study published in the April 2006 issue of the journal Neuropsychopharmacology.. In the study, healthy young adult volunteers took 300 or 600 milligrams of dried sage leaf before and after performing a stress-simulation test involving multitasking.
Both indigestion and heart burn may be relieved by drinking sage tea. Sage is a carminative herb, meaning it relieves gas and other intestinal distress by soothing and easing spasms in the digestive tract.