VOB Player-Play VOB video files. Get Final Media Player if you are tired of messing with codecs or tired of seeing the dreaded Windows can't open this file error message. VOB files are video files in DVD format. The VOB standard is based on the widely used MPEG compression to keep the file sizes down. Final Media Player will allow you to play them on your Windows PC.
A VOB (DVD Video Object) file is a file container format that DVDs use. A VOB file contains the actual movie from a DVD and its audio and streaming data that allows a user to scroll through the video. VOB files are essential to DVDs and can be taken from a disk in order to place a copy of a movie on a user’s computer. A VOB file can be opened on a computer by playing it with most modern media players. For example, VLC Media Player and Windows Media Player 12 or higher play VOB files, even though they may claim that the file is not supported. If the user experiences problems playing a VOB file, a VOB player may be necessary.
1 Go to File and then Open File. 2  Click the Browse button and browse to the folder that contains the contents of the DVD movie. 3  Select the file named Video_TS.ifo.. 4  This is the information file for the full DVD movie that will allow you to play a VOB file as well as other files associated with the movie. 1. Use Media Player Classic for playing VOB files that are stored on your hard drive or on an external device. This is probably the easiest way to play VOB files since Windows Media Classic is a simpler software compared to other programs that can play DVD movies. Here are the steps that you need to follow.
The easiest way to play the video is to use VLC Player-open the VIDEO_TS folder. You can play a VOB file at a basic level using Media Player Classic but to experience finer qualities of a DVD movie such as high-definition (HD) and 3-dimensional (3D) video you may want to consider using a virtual DVD player. Ad. 1. Use Media Player Classic for playing VOB files that are stored on your hard drive or on an external device. This is probably the easiest way to play VOB files since Windows Media Classic is a simpler software compared to other programs that can play DVD movies. Here are the steps that you need to follow.
Subtitle, video and audio etting. Click the upper-left buttons of this free VOB player software to set subtitles, video and audio for better movie enjoying. Click the T icon to set subtitles, click video icon to set video effect and click audio icon to set audio effect. This Free VOB player supports to play back DTS-5.1 audio. To know the detailed guide on using Leawo Blu-ray Player, check how to play Blu-ray/DVD/Video with Leawo Blu-ray Player on Windows. Related Articles. 1  How to play MOV files on Windows with Free MOV Player software. 2  How to play FLV files on Windows with Free FLV Player software.
Hello, Welcome to Windows Movie Maker support forum. I understand that you are unable to open .vob files in Windows 8.1 Pro using Windows Movie Maker 2012. Make sure that you are using Windows 8.1 Pro with Windows Media Center to fix the issue. If it still persists, install a third-party MPEG-2 video decoder solution. 
Restart your computer. When your computer boots up the codec will be installed and you will be able to view VOB files while using this software. Search your hard drive for the VOB file you want to play in Windows Media Player 11. Right-click the file and select Open With from the context menu. Select Window Media Player 11 and click Apply.. This will open the file directly into Window Media Player 11 every time your click on it
A VOB file allows a DVD to store and access all of the data necessary to play a movie on a DVD player. VOB files allow a DVD player to locate the video file, audio files, and streaming data required to play a movie and provide the user with the same control he/she would have in a movie that is played on a computer. A VOB file can be opened on a computer by playing it with most modern media players. For example, VLC Media Player and Windows Media Player 12 or higher play VOB files, even though they may claim that the file is not supported. If the user experiences problems playing a VOB file, a VOB player may be necessary.
Good ways to play back VOB files (from DVDs, etc.) while waiting for Windows Media Center to come to Windows 8 RTM (explained here and here). Neither are full substitutes for the rich Windows Media Center experience, but at least you'll have a stop-gap solution. 
Method 2 of 3: Media Player Classic. 1. Use Media Player Classic for playing VOB files that are stored on your hard drive or on an external device. This is probably the easiest way to play VOB files since Windows Media Classic is a simpler software compared to other programs that can play DVD movies. Here are the steps that you need to follow.