In the 20th century, ferrets were bred for their fur and used in medical laboratories. Promotion of ferrets as a pet animal began in the 1970s. The ferret is a predator that is closely related to weasels. Another related species is the now-endangered black-footed ferret of the North America Great Plains. Eight states legalized ferrets as pets since then: Alaska in 1985, Pennsylvania in 1987, Vermont in 1989, Georgia in 1991, New Hampshire and Utah in 1993, Michigan in 1994, and Massachusetts in 1996. Only California and Hawaii prohibit importation and possession of ferrets as pets.
Ferrets are nocturnal, sleeping up to 21 hours per day and hunting prairie dogs primarily during the night. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The black-footed ferret could also be called the black-eyed ferret because of the distinctive stick-em up mask that adorns its face. The tan ferrets also have black markings on their feet, legs, and tail tip. Though black-footed ferrets sometimes eat squirrels, mice, and other rodents, prairie dogs are essential to their survival, making up the majority of the ferret diet. These voracious predators hunt them in their own burrows, and take shelter in abandoned prairie dog dwellings.
Diet. Prairie dogs make up more than 90% of the black-footed ferret's diet. A ferret may eat more than 100 prairie dogs in one year. Black-footed ferrets are also known to eat ground squirrels, small rodents, rabbits and birds. A healthy population of black-footed ferrets requires very large prairie dog colonies. Scientists estimate that more than 10,000 acres of prairie dog colonies are required.
The black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes), also known as the American polecat or prairie dog hunter, is a species of mustelid native to central North America. It is listed as endangered by the IUCN, because of its very small and restricted populations. Black-footed ferrets may travel up to 11 miles (18 km) to seek prey, suggesting that they will interchange freely among white-tailed prairie dog colonies that are less than 11 miles (18 km) apart. In areas of high prey density, black-footed ferret movements were nonlinear in character, probably to avoid predators.
The black-footed ferret is roughly the size of a mink, and differs from the European polecat by the greater contrast between its dark limbs and pale body and the shorter length of its black tail-tip. Black-footed ferrets may travel up to 11 miles (18 km) to seek prey, suggesting that they will interchange freely among white-tailed prairie dog colonies that are less than 11 miles (18 km) apart. In areas of high prey density, black-footed ferret movements were nonlinear in character, probably to avoid predators.
29,169 pages onthis wiki. See also: Ferret (Dungeoneering). A ferret is an animal that can be hunted with a box trap in the Piscatoris Hunter area, which can in turn be used to hunt white rabbits in the same area. The Eagles' Peak quest and a Hunter level of 27 is required to hunt ferrets. They also appear in the Ardougne Zoo after completion of Eagles' Peak. Ferrets can be used to catch white rabbits.
1 Females are called jills, and males are hobs. 2  Baby ferrets are called kits. 3  In North America, spayed females are sometimes called sprites and neutered males called gibs. 4  A group of ferrets is a business of ferrets.. 5  Males tend to be larger than females in length and weight. 1 A group of ferrets is a business of ferrets.. 2  Males tend to be larger than females in length and weight. 3  Females are 13-14 inches long and weigh anywhere from 0.75 to 2.5 lbs, whereas males are on average 15-16 inches long and weigh 2-3.5 lbs if neutered and are even larger (4 or more lbs) if not neutered.
The average density of black-footed ferrets near Meeteetse, Wyoming, is estimated at 1 black-footed ferret /99 to 148 acres (60 ha). As of 1985, 40 to 60 black-footed ferrets occupied a total of 6,178 to 7,413 acres (2,500 to 3,000 ha) of white-tailed prairie dog habitat. Black-footed ferrets may travel up to 11 miles (18 km) to seek prey, suggesting that they will interchange freely among white-tailed prairie dog colonies that are less than 11 miles (18 km) apart. In areas of high prey density, black-footed ferret movements were nonlinear in character, probably to avoid predators.
The diet of the black-footed ferret varies depending on geographic location. In western Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, and Montana, black-footed ferrets historically associated with white-tailed prairie dogs and were forced to find alternate prey when white-tailed prairie dogs entered their four-month hibernation cycle. Black-footed ferrets may travel up to 11 miles (18 km) to seek prey, suggesting that they will interchange freely among white-tailed prairie dog colonies that are less than 11 miles (18 km) apart. In areas of high prey density, black-footed ferret movements were nonlinear in character, probably to avoid predators.
They typically have brown, black, white, or mixed fur. They have an average length of 51 cm (20 in) including a 13 cm (5.1 in) tail, weigh about 1.5–4 pounds (0.7–2 kg) , and have a natural lifespan of 7 to 10 years. Ferrets are sexually dimorphic predators with males being substantially larger than females. 1 Ferrets have been used in many broad areas of research, such as the study of pathogenesis and treatment in a variety of human disease, these including studies into cardiovascular disease, nutrition, respiratory diseases such as SARS and human influenza, airway physiology, cystic fibrosis and gastrointestinal disease.