Infectious diseases are the invasion of a host organism by a foreign replicator, generally microorganisms, often called microbes, that are invisible to the naked eye. Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens. An organism that a microbe infects is known as the host for that microbe. In the human host, a microorganism causes disease by either disrupting a vital body process or stimulating the immune system to mount a defensive reaction.
Protozoa can be responsible for infectious diseases. Contaminated water can easily spread microoganisms that cause infection disease. Infectious diseases are considered communicable, and can be transmitted from one person to another. Properly washing hands can help prevent the spread of infectious diseases. Many of these diseases make the body vulnerable to secondary infections, in which other organisms move in to take advantage of a weakened immune system, and this can be very problematic. Ad. The study of infectious disease is known as epidemiology.
Jorge R. Rey. Infectious diseases are illnesses caused by the presence and activity of one or more pathogenic agents including viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular parasites and abnormal proteins called prions. 
Infectious disease requires an agent and a mode of transmission (or vector). A good example is malaria, which is caused by Plasmodial parasites, chiefly Plasmodium falciparum but does not affect humans unless the vector, the Anopheles mosquito, is around to introduce the parasite into the human bloodstream. An organism that a microbe infects is known as the host for that microbe. In the human host, a microorganism causes disease by either disrupting a vital body process or stimulating the immune system to mount a defensive reaction.
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. Infections are caused by infectious agents including viruses, viroids, prions, bacteria, nematodes such as parasitic roundworms and pinworms, arthropods such as ticks, mites, fleas, and lice, fungi such as ringworm, and other macroparasites such as tapeworms and other helminths.
NIAID Emerging Infectious Diseases/Pathogens. Emerging infectious diseases can be defined as infectious diseases that have newly appeared in a population or have existed but are rapidly increasing in incidence or geographic range, or that are caused by one of the NIAID Category A, B, or C priority pathogens.
An infectious disease is a disease that is caused by the invasion of a host by agents whose activities harm the host's tissues (that is, they cause disease) and can be transmitted to other individuals (that is, they are infectious). Nature of Infectious Diseases. Microorganisms that are capable of causing disease are called pathogens. Although microorganisms that cause disease often receive the most attention, it is important to note that most microorganisms do not cause disease.
Influenza (Flu). The flu is an infectious disease that causes symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, headache, muscle aches, and chills. The annual flu vaccine can prevent most of the circulating influenza strains. Read about flu symptoms, and learn more about the flu shot».
An infectious disease or communicable disease is caused by a biological agent such as by a virus, bacterium or parasite. The vector does not have to be biological. Many infectious diseases are transmitted by droplets which enter the airway (e.g. common cold and tuberculosis). An organism that a microbe infects is known as the host for that microbe. In the human host, a microorganism causes disease by either disrupting a vital body process or stimulating the immune system to mount a defensive reaction.
Infectious disease is disease caused by a pathogen which enters the body and triggers the development of an infection. These diseases have a range of causes, and they can be found all over the world. Many of these diseases make the body vulnerable to secondary infections, in which other organisms move in to take advantage of a weakened immune system, and this can be very problematic. Ad. The study of infectious disease is known as epidemiology.