If your physician diagnoses you with a spine condition at or around the T10 vertebra that is causing uncomfortable neural compression, the best course of action will be to work with your physician to create a schedule of non-invasive, conservative therapies to relieve your vertebrae nerve pain. Pain that originates above or below the T10 vertebra will most likely cause discomfort around the rib cage, up and down the back and around the area of the kidneys.
T10 (10th Thoracic Vertebra). The T10 vertebra is near to the bottom of the twelve (12) thoracic vertebrae (T1-T12) within the torso and making up the central portion of the spinal column. Its articular facets with the ribs make a transition from the ventral body, as in the T1-9 vertebrae, to the pedicle so that the head of the rib articulates more closely with the vertebral arch than with the ventral body.
T10 syncro rings have 36 teeth, this transmission has two shifter cam located in the side cover The reverse gear is Spur cut and located in the extension housing. Need a stronger T10, need more performance? We provide a cryo treating process to specific gears and shafts to add an additional 30% in strength to your unit. Take Advantage of Our T10 4 Speed manual transmission Expertise. The T10 transmissions were used by both AMC Jeep, General Motors and Ford in their muscle cars starting in the late 1950 up until the late 1980's.
T10. The tenth thoracic vertebra (T10) is one of twelve vertebrae that make up the central section of the vertebral column. The spine consists of three vertebral columns, including the cervical vertebrae, lumbar vertebrae, and thoracic vertebrae. The cervical vertebrae are located in the neck. It (in conjunction with the other vertebrae) surrounds the spinal cord and protects it from damage. T10 innervates the muscles of the lower abdomen. It is part of the section of the spinal cord that is most vulnerable to injury due to the area's high level of flexibility.
1 The ribs attached to T1-T10 curve around to meet at the front of the body and attach to the chest wall, or sternum. 2  Combined, the thoracic spine and rib cage anchoring each level of the spine from T1-T10 provide both stability and a protected space for the heart, lungs, liver and other vital organs. 
In human anatomy, the esophageal hiatus is a hole in the diaphragm through which the esophagus and the vagus nerve pass. It is located in the right crus, one of the two tendinous structures that connect the diaphragm to the spine. Fibres of the right crus cross one another below the hiatus. It is located approximately at level of the tenth thoracic vertebra (T10). The esophageal hiatus is situated in the muscular part of the diaphragm at the level of the tenth thoracic vertebra, and is elliptical in shape. 
In humans, there are twelve thoracic vertebrae and they are intermediate in size between the cervical and lumbar vertebrae; they increase in size going towards the lumbar vertebrae, with the lower ones being a lot larger than the upper. At the ends of the thoracic region they resemble respectively those of the cervical and lumbar vertebrae. They are slightly thicker behind than in front, flat above and below, convex from side to side in front, deeply concave behind, and slightly constricted laterally and in front.
Sections. The T10 vertebra can be found toward the bottom of the thoracic (middle) region of the spine, in the lower region of the rib cage. Pain that originates above or below the T10 vertebra will most likely cause discomfort around the rib cage, up and down the back and around the area of the kidneys.