Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Pablo and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Pablo and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Pablo is fascinating, learn more about it. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Pablo displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Pablo. Pablo is the Spanish equivalent of Paul. The name Paul was once an old Roman family name which was derived from a nickname during the classical era. 
The name Pablo is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Pablo is: Little; small. American Meaning: The name Pablo is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Pablo is: Little; small. Spanish Meaning: The name Pablo is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Pablo is: Small
[ 2 syll. pa-blo, pab-lo ] The baby boy name Pablo is pronounced P AE-BLow †. Pablo's language of origin is Latin and it is predominantly used in Spanish. Pablo is a variant form of the Dutch, English, French, and German Paul. Pablo is a fairly popular baby name for boys. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1910s. At the modest height of its usage in 2005, 0.055% of baby boys were named Pablo
Pablo Name Meaning. The meaning of Pablo is “Borrowed; small”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Pablo displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Given names are simple such as Juan or composite such as Juan Pablo. Composite names are considered single unit first names and not first and second names. Parents give names that just appeal to them, honor relatives or saints, or are of traditional Spanish origin. Many Spanish given names honor the Virgin Mary. Pablo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Pab-lo. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 396 in baby name popularity for boys with 780 occurrences.
Pablo is a form of the name Paul. The name Paul is a form of Paulus, a Latin family name that was originally a nickname meaning small. Some famous bearers of this name include: Pablo Picasso. Pablo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Pab-lo. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 396 in baby name popularity for boys with 780 occurrences.
Pablo /pa-blo/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Spanish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Pablo is little. Variant of Paul. Artist Pablo Picasso; cellist Pablo Casals; poet Pablo Neruda. Kreatif forms: Padblo, Patblo, Poblo. Pablo is a very popular first name for males (#338 out of 1220, Top 28%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#7845 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Pablo for boys.
Spanish form of Paulus (see PAUL). Spanish painter and sculptor Pablo Picasso (1881-1973) was a famous bearer of this name.