Private prison companies are striking deals with states that contain clauses to guarantee high prison occupancy rates. Here are six of the most shocking facts about prison privatization and corporatization, from the report. 1  65 percent of the private prison contracts ITPI received and analyzed included occupancy guarantees in the form of quotas or required payments for empty prison cells (a “low-crime tax”).
Some of these contracts require 90 to 100 percent prison occupancy. In a letter to 48 state governors in 2012, the largest for-profit private prison company in the US, Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), offered to buy up and operate public state prisons. Here are six of the most shocking facts about prison privatization and corporatization, from the report. 1  65 percent of the private prison contracts ITPI received and analyzed included occupancy guarantees in the form of quotas or required payments for empty prison cells (a “low-crime tax”).
Imagine living in a country where prisons are private corporations that profit from keeping their beds stocked at, or near, capacity and the governing officials scramble to meet contractual “lockup quotas.” Imagine that taxpayers would have to pay for any empty beds should crime rates fall below that quota. Here are six of the most shocking facts about prison privatization and corporatization, from the report. 1  65 percent of the private prison contracts ITPI received and analyzed included occupancy guarantees in the form of quotas or required payments for empty prison cells (a “low-crime tax”).
Imagine living in a country where prisons are private corporations that profit from keeping their beds stocked at, or near, capacity and the governing officials scramble to meet contractual “lockup quotas.” Imagine that taxpayers would have to pay for any empty beds should crime rates fall below that quota. Surprise! While no state accepted CCA’s offer, a number of private prison companies have been inserting similar occupancy guarantee provisions into prison privatization contracts and requiring states to maintain high occupancy rates within their privately owned prisons.
C ompanies make money by running prisons as cheaply as possible and squeezing the prisoners and their families for money for basic necessities and fees. As a result, private prisons are a $70 billion industry. Even crazier, 65 percent of private prison contracts require an occupancy guarantee. That means states must have a certain amount of prisoners -- typically between 80 and 90 percent of occupancy -- or pay companies for empty beds.
In a letter to 48 state governors in 2012, the largest for-profit private prison company in the US, Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), offered to buy up and operate public state prisons. In exchange, states would have to sign a 20-year contract guaranteeing a 90 percent occupancy rate throughout the term. While no state accepted CCA’s offer, a number of private prison companies have been inserting similar occupancy guarantee provisions into prison privatization contracts and requiring states to maintain high occupancy rates within their privately owned prisons.
Occupancy requirements, as it turns out, are common practice within the private prison industry. A new report by In the Public Interest, an anti-privatization group, reviewed 62 contracts for private prisons operating around the country at the local and state level. The Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), the nation's largest owner of private prisons, has seen its revenue climb by more than 500 percent in the last two decades. And CCA wants to get much, much bigger: Last year, the company made an offer to 48 governors to buy and operate their state-funded prisons.
I agree but disagree with Kim. Private prisons do make money by providing services at a lower cost or a lower level, but it's not necessarily cheaper. The money saved goes to the owners/stockholders of the prison instead of into wages, benefits, and pensions for employees, or programs and services for inmates. Best Answer: Private prisons get paid by the government for each prisoner they take. Think of it like a hotel; for every prisoner that's spending time there, the prison makes money.
Best Answer: Many of the prisons in my state (NC) and also the Federal Bureau of Prisons run prison industries. They make and supply various goods to other government entities (they cannot compete with private industry since their labor costs are so low!). Just wondering how prisons make their money. I know they must get some sort of cutbacks and grants just wanting to know how and how much. I am currently in a debate with a friend on a forum I frequent about this topic.