1 Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. 2  Take care of your cough if it is making it hard for you to rest. 3  A cough is one way your body gets rid of the infection. 4  And you should not try to stop your coughing unless it is severe enough to make breathing difficult, cause vomiting, or prevent rest. 1 Get plenty of rest. 2  Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. 3  Take care of your cough if it is making it hard for you to rest. 4  A cough is one way your body gets rid of the infection. 5
Home treatment is important for recovery from pneumonia. The following measures can help you recover and avoid complications: 1  Get plenty of rest. 2  Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. 3  Take care of your cough if it is making it hard for you to rest. 1 Get plenty of rest. 2  Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. 3  Take care of your cough if it is making it hard for you to rest. 4  A cough is one way your body gets rid of the infection. 5  And you should not try to stop your coughing unless it is severe enough to make breathing difficult, cause vomiting, or prevent
Most people see some improvement in symptoms in 2 to 3 days. Unless you get worse during this time, your doctor usually will not change your treatment for at least 3 days. Getting started on antibiotics soon after getting pneumonia may help recovery. Bacterial pneumonia. Doctors use antibiotics to treat pneumonia caused by bacteria, the most common cause of the condition. Antibiotics have a high cure rate for pneumonia
Medicines and treatments for adults with pneumonia. The treatment for your pneumonia will depend on what is causing it (i.e. a viral or bacterial infection). Pneumonia in adults is usually caused by bacteria. If bacteria are causing the infection, your doctor will prescribe antibiotics. The antibiotic that is most appropriate for you depends on what type of bacteria is causing the infection, and how severe your symptoms are. Less severe pneumonia infections can be treated with antibiotics at home. If you haven’t improved at all 2 days after you start antibiotic treatment, or your symptoms get worse, see your doctor. Find out how to relieve the symptoms of pneumonia.
Germs called bacteria, viruses, and fungi may cause pneumonia. In adults, bacteria are the most common cause of pneumonia. Ways you can get pneumonia include: 1  Bacteria and viruses living in your nose, sinuses, or mouth may spread to your lungs. 2  You may breathe some of these germs directly into your lungs. 3  You breathe in (inhale) food, liquids, vomit, or fluids from the mouth into your lungs (aspiration pneumonia).
Other antibiotics. If you need hospital treatment for your pneumonia, the antibiotics you will be given will depend on the severity of your symptoms and the type of bacteria causing your infection. Less severe pneumonia may be treated with benzylpenicillin together with doxycyline or clarithromycin. Less severe pneumonia infections can be treated with antibiotics at home. If you haven’t improved at all 2 days after you start antibiotic treatment, or your symptoms get worse, see your doctor. Find out how to relieve the symptoms of pneumonia.
Treatment for pneumonia depends on the type of pneumonia you have and how severe it is. Most people who have community-acquired pneumonia—the most common type of pneumonia—are treated at home. The goals of treatment are to cure the infection and prevent complications. Viral Pneumonia. Antibiotics don't work when the cause of pneumonia is a virus. If you have viral pneumonia, your doctor may prescribe an antiviral medicine to treat it. Viral pneumonia usually improves in 1 to 3 weeks.