The universal recycling symbol (U+2672 ♲ universal recycling symbol or U+267B ♻ black universal recycling symbol in Unicode) is an internationally recognized symbol used to designate recyclable materials. It is composed of three mutually chasing arrows that form a Moebius möbius (strip an unending-single sided looped). surface The recycling symbol is in the public domain, and is not a trademark. The Container Corporation of America originally applied for a trademark on the design, but the application was challenged, and the corporation decided to abandon the claim. As such, anyone may use or modify the recycling symbol, royalty-free.
In gambling, the number 7 is considered lucky, but when it comes to recycling, the number stands for something completely different. It is a resin identification code. Plastics are split up into seven categories, based on the resin -- or man-made, polymer-based material -- from which they're molded. The Number 7. In plastics recycling, the number 7 is a catch-all for polycarbonate and other miscellaneous plastic products. Items traditionally lumped into the 7 category include sunglasses, DVDs, electronic cases, baby bottles, water cooler bottles and car parts.
Sometimes it seems like modern America is one colossal plastic palace. The versatile material is in our cars, toys, packaging, clothing, home goods, food utensils, medical devices and so much more. It is also littering our streets, clogging our waterways and choking marine life. Found in: Milk jugs, juice bottles; bleach, detergent and household cleaner bottles; shampoo bottles; some trash and shopping bags; motor oil bottles; butter and yogurt tubs; cereal box liners. Recycling: Picked up through most curbside recycling programs, although some allow only those containers with necks.
Plastics. The recycling symbols for plastics are divided into seven categories. Generally, the higher the number, the more difficult it is for the material to be recycled. However, just because the product has a number on it doesn’t necessarily mean it can be recycled, nor that it’s eco-friendly. 
1 'Recyclable' symbols marking products made from specific materials that are suitable for recycling depending on whether there is a collection mechanism in place within the local community for those particular materials. ' 2 Recycled' symbols designating products containing recycled materials. Although presence of the symbol implies that the plastic item is recyclable, the symbol is actually only intended to identify the plastic resin from which the item was made. Recyclability is ultimately determined by the local governing ordnances concerning what materials are collected for recycling.
While householders are encouraged to recycle as many items as possible, it's important to remember that not all plastics which show the plastic symbol (see the table below) mean that the item is automatically recyclable in a kerbside collection system. 
1. Recycling Symbol. This is the most common form of the symbol and is found on products like plastics, paper, metals and other material that can be recycled. It's also seen, in many different styles, on recycling containers, at recycling centers, and anywhere there's an accent on smart use of materials and products. In a 1970 contest to design a symbol for recycling products, college student Gary Anderson created a simple triangular logo. His design is now a universally recognized symbol of products that are recyclable or made of recycled content.
1 Avoid recycling symbols 3, 6, and 7. 2  While Number 1 is considered safe, it is also best to avoid this plastic. 3  Look for symbols 2, 4, and 5, as these plastics are considered to be safest. 4  These are the plastics to look for in terms of human and animal consumption. It’s time to learn a little bit about the various plastics you use and drink/eat from every single day, and what impact they have not only on you, but also the environment. Every plastic container or bottle has a recycling symbol.