Samaira. You can found out the perfect meaning of Samaira in English and Urdu and more detail about this name. Samaira is a Muslim name for baby girl and meaning is Night companion in conversation. Meaning in English, Night companion in conversation. Meaning in Urdu, ایک ملکہ کا نام - بات چیت میں رات کے ساتھی. Gender, Girl. Below some other suggestion of related baby names, that similar sound, which you will help to keep suitable name for your cute baby
Aaira. You can found out the perfect meaning of Aaira in English and Urdu and more detail about this name. Aaira is a Muslim name for baby girl and meaning is Noble, honorable, respectful. Meaning in English, Noble, honorable, respectful. Meaning in Urdu, قابل احترم - قابل عزت - معزز. Aaira Noble, honorable, respectful. Humaira From the arabic name meaning reddish! Title name of Aisha RA one who strives to achieve her utmost best! Humairaa Red colored girl, Name of Ummulmoominin Hazrat Aaishah (RA).
Options. There are 60 names matching your criteria. ABDUL عبد ال m Arabic, Pakistani, Urdu, Pashto. First part of compound Arabic names beginning with عبد ال ('Abd al) meaning servant of the (such as عبد العزيز ('Abd al-'Aziz) servant of the powerful). AHMAD احمد m Arabic, Persian, Pakistani, Urdu, Pashto. Means more commendable in Arabic.
You have searched for Aiza meaning in urdu or عایزہ meaning in english in muslim baby name databasae, remember names selection is very important in the life of every muslim family with new born babies, so choose the best names according to meaning, history and characteristics associated with each name. 
Please tell me the meaning of me Muslim Islami name unaiza in Urdu. and also share latest Arabic names. Urdu wire helps muslim users to get acquainted with the meanings of their names as well as pick up new names for new born Muslim child. Check the list of names on Urduwire in alphabetical order and choose the name which you think suits your child the most.
Girl Muslim Names. Muslim Names – Finding a unique muslim name often seems quite a task for many of us. Urdu Wire brings an assorted collection of Muslim names for both boys and girls with their literal meaning placed in front. Urdu wire helps muslim users to get acquainted with the meanings of their names as well as pick up new names for new born Muslim child. Check the list of names on Urduwire in alphabetical order and choose the name which you think suits your child the most.
Find Aaira meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Aaira name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Aaira. Enter City. Enter City. I have named my daughter as nuzhat aaira .is this name correct or else kindly email some names with nuzhat with suitable name .. hmmm nice name name Aaira sounds unique and stylish also and its short name too. good name Aaira.
Find Saira meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Saira name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Saira. I also like saira name. Saira name is pretty but the girls of this name are proudy and also sensitive. i love my name Saira ,,,,, Saira is very nice name and she is very loving and caring.