Blood means human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood. Bloodborne Pathogens means pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Contact transmission of a pathogen is possible by contact with almost any infected body fluid, e.g., blood, mucous, semen: Sweat and tears are not generally considered to be a high-risk body fluids and contact transmission of a pathogen from these fluids would be very unlikely.
1 The average risk for HIV infection after a needlestick or cut exposure to HlV-infected blood is 0.3% (about 1 in 300). 2  Stated another way, 99.7% of needlestick/cut exposures to HIV-contaminated blood do not lead to infection.
bloodborne pathogens: Microorganisms that are present in human blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, HBV and HIV. engineering controls: Controls that isolate or remove bloodborne pathogens from the workplace.
For a bloodborne pathogen to be spread, the bodily fluids of an infected person must enter into the bloodstream of another person. The most common cause of transmission in the workplace is when an infected person’s blood enters another person’s bloodstream through an open w ound.
Chlamydia pneumoniae is not the STD form of chlamydia most commonly known, that is Chlamydia trachomatis. Chlamydia pneumoniae was first linked to heart disease in 1988, when C. pneumoniae antibodies where identified in people with artherosclerosis.
Bloodborne Pathogens Bloodborne pathogens are microorganisms that are transmitted through the bloodstream. The viruses that cause Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) and Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) are two examples of bloodborne pathogens.
Chlamydia is a common STD that can infect both men and women. It can cause serious, permanent damage to a woman's reproductive system, making it difficult or impossible for her to get pregnant later on. Chlamydia can also cause a potentially fatal ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy that occurs outside the womb).
Contact transmission is one of the ways that the cold and the influenza viruses are transmitted. These viruses are expelled when an infected person breathes, coughs, or sneezes and the virus settles on objects in the environment, objects such as a computer keyboard, a doorknob, or a telephone receiver.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). 1  The average risk for HIV infection after a needlestick or cut exposure to HlV-infected blood is 0.3% (about 1 in 300). 2  Stated another way, 99.7% of needlestick/cut exposures to HIV-contaminated blood do not lead to infection.