An overgrowth of the Candida fungus in the mouth or throat is what causes thrush. Thrush in infants is relatively common and is only a concern if it causes poor feeding or is associated with weight loss or other symptoms of systemic illness. 
Cause. Candida, the yeast that causes thrush, is normally present in small amounts in the mouth and on other mucous membranes. It usually causes no harm. But when conditions are present that let the yeast grow uncontrolled, the yeast invades surrounding tissues and becomes an infection
Knowledge center. Oral thrush, also known as oral candidiasis is a yeast fungi infection of the genus Candida that develops on the mucous membranes of the mouth. It is most commonly caused by Candida albicans, but may also be caused by Candida glabrata or Candida tropicalis. 
A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 
Oral candidiasis (also known as oral candidosis, oral thrush, oropharyngeal candidiasis, moniliasis, candidal stomatitis, muguet) is candidiasis that occurs in the mouth. That is, oral candidiasis is a mycosis (yeast/fungal infection) of Candida species on the mucous membranes of the mouth. 
Candida, the yeast that causes thrush, is normally present in small amounts in the mouth and on other mucous membranes. It usually causes no harm. But when conditions are present that let the yeast grow uncontrolled, the yeast invades surrounding tissues and becomes an infection. 
Oral thrush occurs when a yeast infection develops on the inside of your mouth and on your tongue. This condition is also known as oropharyngeal candidiasis. Oral thrush is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. A small amount of this fungus normally lives in your mouth, but is kept in check by your immune system. An infection develops when the fungus overwhelms your body’s ability to control it. Oral thrush occurs most often in infants and toddlers
Oral Thrush Causes. Thrush is caused by an overgrowth of the yeast Candida albicans, which is commonly found on skin surfaces, the oral cavity, and throughout the intestinal tract of healthy individuals. Newborn infants often are exposed during vaginal delivery and may develop oral evidence of thrush within 10 days post-delivery. 
Oral thrush. Oral thrush is a yeast infection in the mouth caused by the Candida albicans fungus. Symptoms of oral thrush include sore, white patches in the mouth, an unpleasant taste in the mouth, a burning sensation affecting the tongue and problems swallowing.