Your gums are part of your body and they need the same vitamins that your whole body needs to remain healthy. Certain vitamins like vitamin D and K and C, and a vitamin helper called Coenzyme Q10 are essential for the health of all body tissues and organs, including your gums.
Yes, supplements such as Vitamin B and iron can help keep your gums healthy. Vitamin B is essential for growth and iron for healthy blood, which in turn contributes to healthy gum tissue. Vitamin C keeps gums healthy by producing healthy connective tissue that holds teeth in their sockets.
Save. If you want to take good care of your gums there are certain vitamins you need to take. Some of the vitamins will help prevent certain conditions and other vitamins can help cure certain conditions.
Vitamin E is a powerful antioxidant that can be taken in capsule form or opened and rubbed onto the gums for tissue healing. It has also been used to relieve soreness of the gums during infant teething. Foods that are high in vitamin E include sunflower seeds, turnip greens, tomato paste and peanut butter.
Vitamin C helps keep your gums healthy. A vitamin C deficiency can lead to gum disease because this vitamin helps produce collagen in the skin, and the gums are considered skin tissue. When there is not enough vitamin C in your system your body has a difficult time trying to replenish gum tissue.
Vitamin B. Vitamin B deficiencies can cause toothaches, receding gums and overall sensitivity of the mucous membranes in the mouth. Vitamin B complex supplements are best taken in the sublingual form--under the tongue--for optimal absorption. Food sources of the B vitamins include mushrooms, meat and fish.
Some of the best foods to eat for healthy gums and teeth include a diet high in fiber such as whole grain breads and cereals and beans. Fruits high in vitamin C are especially good for your gums, including pears, oranges and kiwi.
Vitamin D. Adequate amounts of vitamin D can prevent inflammation of the gums. It is also beneficial to the absorption of calcium, which is necessary for both the development and maintenance of healthy teeth. The best source of vitamin D is sun exposure, but you can also get this nutrient in cheese, milk and fatty fish.