It infects the host by sticking to the cells of the host using trimeric autotransporter adhesins (TAAs). The genus Yersinia includes 11 species: Y. pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis, Y. enterocolitica, Y. frederiksenii, Y. intermedia, Y. kristensenii, Y. bercovieri, Y. mollaretii, Y. rohdei, Y. aldovae and Y. ruckeri. Because Yersinia species are siderophilic (iron-loving) bacteria, people with hereditary hemochromatosis (a disease resulting in high body iron levels) are more susceptible to infection with Yersinia (and other siderophilic bacteria). In fact, the most common contaminant of stored blood is Y. enterocolitica.
Yersiniosis (Yersinia species). Yersiniosis is an infectious disease caused by enteric bacteria of the genus Yersinia. In the United States, most human illness is caused by one species, Y. enterocolitica. Y. enterocolitica is a relatively infrequent cause of diarrhea and abdominal pain. 1  Causes and Symptoms of Yersiniosis Yersinia enterocolitica facts, including common symptoms and how the disease is spread. 
Y. enterocolitica infections are sometimes followed by chronic inflammatory diseases such as arthritis, erythema nodosum, and reactive arthritis. This is most likely because of some immune-mediated mechanism. Y. enterocolitica seems to be associated with autoimmune Graves-Basedow thyroiditis. Because Yersinia species are siderophilic (iron-loving) bacteria, people with hereditary hemochromatosis (a disease resulting in high body iron levels) are more susceptible to infection with Yersinia (and other siderophilic bacteria). In fact, the most common contaminant of stored blood is Y. enterocolitica.
Yersinia is a gram negative bacterium that causes an acute bacterial enteric disease characterized by a febrile diarrhea, enterocolitis and acute mesenteric lymphadenitis that mimic's appendicitis. Fever and abdominal pain are also classic symptoms and the disease may mimic appendicitis. In up to of the cases, bloody diarrhea is reported. The bacteria may also cause infections of other sites such as wounds, joints and the urinary tract.
Y. enterocolitica infection causes the disease yersiniosis, which is a zoonotic disease occurring in humans, as well as a wide array of animals such as cattle, deer, pigs, and birds. Many of these animals recover from the disease and become asymptomatic carriers. Because Yersinia species are siderophilic (iron-loving) bacteria, people with hereditary hemochromatosis (a disease resulting in high body iron levels) are more susceptible to infection with Yersinia (and other siderophilic bacteria). In fact, the most common contaminant of stored blood is Y. enterocolitica.
Yersiniosis (yer-sin-ee-o-sis) is a disease caused by bacteria called Yersinia. Although many species of Yersinia are found worldwide, most human illnesses are caused by Yersinia enterocolitica. Other species of Yersinia affecting humans are Y. pseudotuberculosis, which causes an illness similar to Y. enterocolitica, and Y. pestis which causes plague. Yersinia are hardy bacteria that can survive in adverse conditions like refrigeration and environments low in oxygen.
Yersinia enterocolitica: DBMD (Excerpt). Yersiniosis is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium of the genus Yersinia. In the United States, most human illness is caused by one species, Y. enterocolitica. Infection with Y. enterocolitica can cause a variety of symptoms depending on the age of the person infected.
Yersinia causes an acute bacterial disease that causes diarrhea and/ or vomiting. Fever and abdominal pain are also classic symptoms and the disease may mimic appendicitis. In up to of the cases, bloody diarrhea is reported. The bacteria may also cause infections of other sites such as wounds, joints and the urinary tract.
Y ERSINIA E NTEROCOLITICA Yersinia Enterocolitica causes the third most commonly reported gastrointestinal disease in New Zealand (Yersiniosis). Notified illness rates in New Zealand are high compared with Australia, the US and UK. Even so, it is considered an under-recognised disease in New Zealand. 