Answer: Red, yellow, and blue are primary colors. They are the three pigment colors that cannot be made by mixing any other colors. These three colors are mixed to create all other colors and can be combined with white or black to create tints (lighter tones) and shades (darker hues) of these colors. 
Transparent  yellow and transparent magenta mix into the secondary pigment color  red. The 3rd transparent primary pigment color is cyan, made from  the copper element, PB15. Transparent yellow and transparent cyan  make the secondary color green. Light uses the  opposite colors, the secondary pigment colors become the primary  light colors. Red, yellow and blue are not the primary colors in  pigment or in light. Those colors came from Newton in 1600 and they  are just the most obvious colors in the prism and rainbow. RCW. 4 people found this useful.
For other uses, see Primary Colors. The emission spectra of the three phosphors that define the additive primary colors of a CRT color video display. Unlike subtractive systems that use magenta, yellow, and cyan inks, additive systems such as computer displays mix red, green, and blue light to make all colors. For human applications, three primary colors are typically used, since human color vision is usually trichromatic. For additive combination of colors, as in overlapping projected lights or in electronic visual displays, the primary colors normally used are red, green, and blue. For a subtractive combination of colors, as in mixing of pigments or dyes for printing, the colors magenta, yellow, and cyan are normally used
1 yellow. 2  cyan. 3  magenta. 4  The actual secondary colors of pigment (subtractive color) are, again, interestingly, the same as the primary colors of light: 5  red. 6  green. 7  blue. 8  These actual primary colors of pigments are used in the CMYK color model that is often used in Photoshop and elsewhere. Most people are not aware that the primary colors of light are different than those of pigments (for example, paint). This is because they provide color to us in different ways. 1  Pigment is subtractive, meaning that the color we see is actually the color that is not absorbed by the surface.
Interactive Java Tutorials Primary Subtractive Colors The complementary colors (cyan, yellow, and magenta) are also commonly referred to as the primary subtractive colors because each can be formed by subtracting one of the primary additives (red, green, and blue) from white light. 
Colors of pigment are produced by reflecting and absorbing certain wavelengths of light. Primary colors of pigment. A primary color of pigment is a color that reflects equal parts of any two of the (primary) colors of light (red, green and blue). Diagram A illustrates the result of projecting red, green and blue lights onto a white surface in overlapping fashion. (See Diagram A) These three resulting colors, cyan, magenta and yellow, are the three primary colors of pigment. These are the purest colors, and cannot be produced by mixing other pigment colors. Using these three colors, you can produce a vast number of other colors.
Yellow, magenta and cyan are the primary pigment colors, red,  green and blue are the secondary pigment colors. Light uses the  opposite colors, the secondary pigment colors become the primary  light colors. Red, yellow and blue are not the primary colors in  pigment or in light. Those colors came from Newton in 1600 and they  are just the most obvious colors in the prism and rainbow. RCW. 4 people found this useful.
If the three colors of light can be mixed to produce white, they are called primary colors and the standard additive primary colors are red, green and blue. Two colors that produce white when added together are called complementary. The color complementary to a primary color is called a secondary color. The complementary or secondary colors for red, green and blue are cyan, magenta and yellow respectively. These three colors are often referred to as the subtractive primary colors. When the three are combined in subtractive color mixing, they produce black. 