I was on 50 mg of Sertraline for 6 weeks. I reduced my dose to 25 mg for a week and came off. After day 4 I started getting brain zaps, ringing in ears, swoosh when I moved my head and insomnia. I went back to 50 mg for a couple of days to relieve the symptoms. Then I went back down to 25 mg for 2 weeks. I’ve been on Zoloft for 26 months, with 22 of those months at 200mg daily and have never gone off…until about 8 days ago. Back in 2012 I had a heart attack at the age of 33, caused by high cholesterol and a LOT of anxiety (self induced).
Sertraline (Zoloft) withdrawal – I was on between 100 mg to 125 mg for 15 years and I have found a system that has worked for me to get off – Tapering, physical activity, meditation, praying, journaling and healthy eating work best for getting off this drug. I’ve been on Zoloft for 26 months, with 22 of those months at 200mg daily and have never gone off…until about 8 days ago. Back in 2012 I had a heart attack at the age of 33, caused by high cholesterol and a LOT of anxiety (self induced).
I was on sertraline for a total of about 3.5 months and have been off 3.5 weeks. I've heard the average for withdrawal symptoms is around 6 weeks but can be much longer. Given my extreme sensitivity to medication, I'm afraid that I may be one if the unlucky ones. I was much better before I took any meds. I took my last sertraline 3 weeks ago. My top dose was 100mg and I was going nuts. I dropped down to 50mg for about 5 weeks, 25mg for 2 weeks and 25mg every other day for a week. Since then (and during titration) I have been having brain zaps all day every day and every time I move my eyes.
Guest. I have been on Zoloft 100 mg for 4 years, due to pregnancy my doctor and I have decided it is best to stop taking Zoloft. I began weaning of Zploft starting with 50 mg for two weeks then 25 mg for two weeks and it has been 5 days since I have taken any. I feel horrible. Guest. I was on Zoloft (Sertraline) for eight years, peaking at a 200mg dose for 3 years. Over the last few months I weaned myself off the stuff and as of now I haven't taken it for about a month and a half.
So I have been dealing with the alcohol withdrawal symptoms for 3 months and now after 100 days (On Thursday) and I am moving on to the next thing. So I have several 100 day plans, as I call them. 1) Effexor. 2) Lose my belly 3) Stop smoking 4) Become RULER OF THE WORLD ... Withdrawls can last quite a long time from Zoloft, every time I cut the dosage I could tell that I was going to through withdrawls for atleast a week. I hope this helps you identify what may be going on. Read More. I am convinced that these are the symptoms of codeine/hydrocodone withdrawal.
I dont think it necessarily matters how long you were on subs, but how long youve been abusing substance. I was only on subs for 4 months, but abused pills for about 3 1/2 years. I am 34 days clean and not back to what I would call normal.. But, here's the thing. You can't focus on 30 days or 70 days. Withdrawls can last quite a long time from Zoloft, every time I cut the dosage I could tell that I was going to through withdrawls for atleast a week. I hope this helps you identify what may be going on. Read More. I am convinced that these are the symptoms of codeine/hydrocodone withdrawal.
Among the symptoms that may be experienced are nausea, tremors, lightheadedness, muscle pains, weakness, insomnia, and anxiety. The withdrawal symptoms usually last 1-2 weeks but in some instances they may gradually decrease over a period as long as a month. It is generally recommended that one taper off this medication gradually under a doctor's supervision. Withdrawls can last quite a long time from Zoloft, every time I cut the dosage I could tell that I was going to through withdrawls for atleast a week. I hope this helps you identify what may be going on. Read More. I am convinced that these are the symptoms of codeine/hydrocodone withdrawal.
Common withdrawal symptoms of Sertraline typically last for 1 or 2 weeks, but in some cases these could slowly decrease over an interval of 4 weeks. It’s normally advised that you taper off the antidepressant progressively and always under professional supervision. So, in just 1-2 week you can eliminate the drug from your body, and for this reason it is not considered an addictive antidepressant, but beware because if you stop taking this SSRI drug too quickly severe withdrawal symptoms from Zoloft will appear.