Review your contract. When you sign up for a gym membership, you need to sign a contract. The terms of this contract will vary from gym to gym and plan to plan, so make sure you thoroughly understand your personal contract. If you no longer have your contract, the gym should be able to provide you with a copy. 1 Most gym membership contracts have a cancellation clause written into them. 2  This clause will explain how the member can cancel the contract. 3  Often, the contract will have a cancellation fee written into it, sometimes called an early termination fee, that the member must pay in order to
But it provides a clean break. Golds takes the position that you have a contract and that is more for leasing of the facility than membership. So as with all such contracts. a 30 day notice puts you in a stronger position, should you have to go to small claims court to enforce your position. 
Best Answer: Each gym has procedures for membership cancellations, no cancellations will be accepted on this website or by email. You will want to contact your gym for information on how to cancel, or refer to your membership agreement for additional instructions. To find the phone number or address of your gym, please visit goldsgym.com's online Gym Locator. I have a Golds contract for 2 years I cant afford to pay since I dont have a job anymore and I would like to cancel problem is the only way I can cancel is if I move 25 miles away from any Golds Gym location or if i transfer my membership to someone else, both transferring to someone else and...
How To Cancel A Gym Membership. If you have entered into a gym membership contract, please be prepared to cover yourself once the contract is nearing its end! 1  Send your contract termination letter to the correct address stated in your contract by certified mail. 
Step 1: Go to the Gold’s Gym where you signed up for the membership and ask for a cancellation form. Fill out the form and hand it to a Gold’s Gym employee. You may also wish to send a certified letter of your desired cancellation to the gym. Step 2: Pay the requested 30-day fee. There is a 30-day notice required when cancelling your Gold’s Gym membership. During this time, you may be charged one last month’s dues. There is mention of a 30-day notice payment, but we are unsure if that payment means the final month’s dues or an additional payment on top of the final month’s dues.
Gold’s Rules. Gold’s Gym documents their cancellation policy on their official website; the terms should also be included in your membership agreement. All members must sign a cancellation form in person at a physical Gold’s Gym location or mail a certified letter to the membership department requesting cancellation. Contact the location where your membership was originally started to obtain the proper mailing address for the certified letter. Like many gyms, having regular access to the fitness equipment and services at Gold’s requires obtaining a membership and signing a membership contract. To cancel your membership, follow the steps outlined in the terms of agreement, which should be detailed on your contract.
1 State that you are writing to cancel your gym membership. 2  Either state that you have paid the cancellation fee or that you are enclosing the fee, or that you came to an agreement with management to reduce or eliminate the fee. 3  Be sure to include the name of the manager with whom you spoke. 1 Most gym membership contracts have a cancellation clause written into them. 2  This clause will explain how the member can cancel the contract. 3  Often, the contract will have a cancellation fee written into it, sometimes called an early termination fee, that the member must pay in order to
A: You may cancel your membership at the gym or you may mail a certified letter to Gold's Gym, 4001 Maple Ave, Suite 200, Dallas, TX 75219 Q: Why did I get billed 2 weeks after I submitted my request to cancel? A: You may fill out a Membership Change Form at the gym to freeze your membership. Q: The Gold's Gym equipment I bought at a retailer has broken or I need a replacement part. A: Unfortunately, Gold's Gym does not produce these products. Icon Fitness licenses the Gold's Gym name.
You can cancel your membership to Gold’s Gym early if you move to a location where no Gold’s Gym is within 30 miles of your home, if you are fully disabled as defined by a doctor or if you die. No other cancellations are accepted. There is a 30-day notice required when cancelling your Gold’s Gym membership. During this time, you may be charged one last month’s dues. There is mention of a 30-day notice payment, but we are unsure if that payment means the final month’s dues or an additional payment on top of the final