Sulfur dioxide (also sulphur dioxide) is the chemical compound with the formula SO 2. At standard atmosphere, it is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating, and rotten smell. The triple point is 197.69 K and 1.67 kPa. It is released naturally by volcanic activity. Sulfur dioxide is primarily produced for sulfuric acid manufacture (see contact process). In the United States in 1979, 23.6 million tonnes of sulfur dioxide were used in this way, compared with 150 thousand tonnes used for other purposes.
-----------. Why SO2 is so crucial in the WHITE white winemaking process. While adding SO 2 in either red or white wine making is important, the step of adding it in white winemaking is crucial as white juice oxidises more easily than red juice. The addition of sulphur dioxide early in the winemaking process, at the grape processing stage, is done to suppress bacteria and wild yeast on the grape skins, prior to adding a pure cultured strain of yeast to take over the fermentation.
Sulphur is an inorganic micronutrient and is an essential dietary  constituent for humans.   Sulphur is important because:    1) Sulphur bonds are required for you … r proteins to maintain their  shape, as well as determine how well these proteins function. For  example, keratin (a protein found in nails and hair, among others)  is high in sulphur. 
Sulfur dioxide is an intermediate in the production of sulfuric acid, being converted to sulfur trioxide, and then to oleum, which is made into sulfuric acid. Sulfur dioxide for this purpose is made when sulfur combines with oxygen. Sulfur dioxide is primarily produced for sulfuric acid manufacture (see contact process). In the United States in 1979, 23.6 million tonnes of sulfur dioxide were used in this way, compared with 150 thousand tonnes used for other purposes.
Another important source of sulfur is as sulfur dioxide from metal refining. Many metal ores occur as sulfides and are roasted to form an oxide and sulfur dioxide, for example, in the manufacture of lead : Other metals manufactured from their sulfide ores include copper, nickel and zinc. By far the largest amount of sulfuric acid is used to make phosphoric acid, used, in turn, to make the phosphate fertilizers, calcium dihydrogenphosphate and the ammonium phosphates. It is also used to make ammonium sulfate, which is a particularly important fertilizer in sulfur-deficient.
Sulphur is one of the components that make up proteins and vitamins. Proteins consist of amino acids that contain sulphur atoms. Sulphur is important for the functioning of proteins and enzymes in plants, and in animals that depend upon plants for sulphur. Plants absorb sulphur when it is dissolved in water. Animals consume these plants, so that they take up enough sulphur to maintain their health. 2) and hydrogen sulphide (H 2 S) gases are emitted on a wide scale. When sulphur dioxide enters the atmosphere it will react with oxygen to produce sulphur trioxide gas (SO 3), or with other chemicals in the atmosphere, to produce sulphur salts. Sulphur dioxide may also react with water to produce sulphuric acid (H 2 SO 4). Sulphuric acid may also be produced from demethylsulphide, which is emitted to the atmosphere by plankton species. All these particles will settle back onto earth, or react with rain and fall back onto earth as acid deposition
Chemical reference number (CAS). Sulfur dioxide, SO 2, is a colorless gas or liquid with a strong, choking odor. It is produced from the burning of fossil fuels (coal and oil) and the smelting of mineral ores (aluminum, copper, zinc, lead and iron) that contain sulfur. Sulfur dioxide dissolves easily in water to form sulfuric acid. Sulfuric acid is a major component of acid rain
Elemental sulphur is not toxic, but many simple sulphur derivates are, such as sulphur dioxide (SO 2) and hydrogen sulfide. Sulfur can be found commonly in nature as sulphides. During several processes sulfur bonds are added to the environment that are damaging to animals, as well as humans. Applications. The major derivative of sulphur is sulphuric acid (H2SO4), one of the most important elements used as an industrial raw material. Sulphur is also used in batteries, detergents, fungicides, manufacture of fertilizers, gun power, matches and fireworks.