Yes, a stepchild is eligible to be a dependent on your health plan up to the age of 26. If your coverage is an employer group plan that provides benefits to children, you will be given at least 30 days to enroll the new dependent. An eligible child can be a biological child, adopted child, stepchild or foster child.
How to Add a Step Child to a Health Insurance Plan. Given the costs of medical care, you should be timely in enrolling your stepchild for health insurance. Photo Credit altrendo images/Stockbyte/Getty Images. The addition of a stepchild to your family brings a variety of rewards and challenges. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, you can have step children on your health insurance. Both of my daughters are on their step fathers policy (as he has much better health coverage than I do) but I would check with the insurance company in question as rules vary from company to company. 
Since a step-child is not legally a child of the step parent, that step-parent’s health insurance family coverage does not, absent some specific contractual clause or state law, have to cover the step-child, any more than an employee’s health insurance has to cover the children of boyfriends, girlfriends, or affianced. After adoption, the children would be eligible for health insurance under the adoptive parent's plan. Conclusion. 1. It’s always worth pursuing whether the step-parent and children could be covered under the other spouse’s insurance.
Shares & Saves. Save. To add a stepchild or stepchildren to a new or existing health insurance plan, you must follow the specific requirements outlined in each plan’s policy statement. Review the eligibility requirements as a first step because stepchildren do not always qualify as eligible dependents
When someone pays for “family coverage,” that coverage was once based almost exclusively on a definition of “family” that only takes in legal relationships, such as those of blood, marriage, or adoption. Insurance is a contract, and that includes employer-provided health insurance. After adoption, the children would be eligible for health insurance under the adoptive parent's plan. Conclusion. 1. It’s always worth pursuing whether the step-parent and children could be covered under the other spouse’s
However, how we provide health insurance has not caught up with that complexity, since it is based on older definitions of “family.” As a result, employer-provided health insurance does not always have to cover step children, even though it will cover biological and adopted children. After adoption, the children would be eligible for health insurance under the adoptive parent's plan. Conclusion. 1. It’s always worth pursuing whether the step-parent and children could be covered under the other spouse’s insurance.
Whether a stepchild is eligible for employer-provided health insurance depends on whom the plan includes in family coverage. Employer group health insurance plans do not have to cover stepchildren. To add a stepchild or stepchildren to a new or existing health insurance plan, you must follow the specific requirements outlined in each plan’s policy statement. Review the eligibility requirements as a first step because stepchildren do not always qualify as eligible dependents
Children of Recipients. If your stepson is covered under your insurance policy, the coverage does not automatically extend to his children. Your insurance company is required by law to cover your stepson, but it is not required to provide health care to his offspring. Under health insurance plans you, your spouse, and your children can be covered. This includes your stepchildren and adoptive children.