You get the point. The Vikings are my nerd obsession. So when the History Channel announced its first ever scripted docudrama  Vikings  I was more than a little too excited for my own good: Not least because I see it as a catalyst to engage the wider public in a conversation about archaeology and history. Well, to start with, we should acknowledge what it is. Michael Hirst, who wrote the film Elizabeth and brought you HBO's soapy bodice ripper The Tudors, created Vikings. So we know Hirst is going to go for the sensational elements of Viking culture.
What It Gets Right. April's season three finale of Vikings on the History Channel left a giant Vikings-size hole in our collective television hearts. What's a fan to do waiting for our favorite Scandinavian heroes and heroines to come back to us? For starters, she calls the characters Danes instead of Vikings, because, she explains, Viking actually means 'pirate' in Old English, which is to say that it is an action or a profession.
Vikings is not historically accurate. “In 845, a Viking warlord named Ragnar Lodbrok attacked Paris and had to be bought off with 7,000 French livres (pounds) (2,570 kilograms (5,670 lb)) of gold and silver. King Horik seems to have disapproved of these raids, for successful raiders constituted possible rivals. One the best books I know on the Vikings is actually exclusively about Iceland but deals brilliantly with their culture – that’s Jesse Byock’s Viking Age Iceland. A wonderful read. Graham-Campbell’s Cultural Atlas of the Viking World and Campbell’s Anglo-Saxons provide great introductions to the period.
For the 2012 BBC Documentary series, see Vikings (TV documentary series) . Vikings is an Irish-Canadian historical drama television series written and created by Michael Hirst for the television channel History. Filmed in Ireland, it premiered on 3 March 2013 in the United States and Canada. Further inspiration is taken from historical sources of the period, such as records of the Viking raid on Lindisfarne depicted in the second episode, or Ahmad ibn Fadlan 's 10th-century account of the Volga Vikings.
Similar to The Bible, Vikings has incredible ratings but huge gaps in terms of historical accuracy. History aside, the show is entertaining. Tune in this Sunday at 9/8c for Vikings episode 6, Burial of the Dead on History Channel. There's a lot that can be said about the historical inaccuracies of History Channel's Vikings miniseries. The Vikings had never heard of the British Isles or the 'starboard' side of a ship
If you made a show about everyday life during the vikings time most would be dull and not exciting it is not like they went to battle everyday. The show has a lot of historical basis with some liberties taken to liven the show up. It is well produced and has great cinematography. 
In Conclusion. Despite some of the historical inaccuracies, Vikings is a great television series. It is super fun to watch and if you are an amateur historian it is great to discuss and debate the facts and foibles from each episode. Regardless of where Vikings may go astray, the general feel and mood representing Dark Ages Scandinavia seems to ring true — more or less! This week’s post is going to look at fun facts, accuracies, flaws and historical debates surrounding the show Vikings.
Share This Tweet This. By now, we are all familiar with Vikings, either thanks to the hit show on the History Channel, or through various bits of history that we have learned in school. Vikings, like many other ancient societies, have a lot of myths and misconceptions attached to their facts. Here are the top 10 myths about Vikings, and what the show Vikings shows about real Viking life. 10. One Nation. As those of us who watch The History Channel show Vikings has figured out, Vikings aren't united by geography. There are Vikings from modern-day Scandinavia, which includes the nations of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark