Full Definition of OBSIDIAN. : a dark natural glass formed by the cooling of molten lava. See obsidian defined for English-language learners. See obsidian defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin obsidianus, from Latin obsidianus lapis, false manuscript reading for obsianus lapis, literally, stone of Obsius, from Obsius, its supposed discoverer. First Known Use: 1796.
Obsidian color. Follow Obsidian color to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow Obsidian color to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following Obsidian color in your eBay Feed. Tell us what you think. Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
It is sometimes classified as a mineraloid. Though obsidian is usually dark in color similar to mafic rocks such as basalt, obsidian's composition is extremely felsic. Obsidian consists mainly of SiO 2 (silicon dioxide), usually 70% or more. Crystalline rocks with obsidian's composition include granite and rhyolite. It is produced when felsic lava extruded from a volcano cools rapidly with minimum crystal growth. Obsidian is commonly found within the margins of rhyolitic lava flows known as obsidian flows, where the chemical composition (high silica content) induces a high viscosity and polymerization degree of the lava.
Obsidian is a naturally occurring volcanic glass formed as an extrusive igneous rock. It is produced when felsic lava extruded from a volcano cools rapidly with minimum crystal growth. Obsidian is commonly found within the margins of rhyolitic lava flows known as obsidian flows, where the chemical composition (high silica content) induces a high viscosity and polymerization degree of the lava.
Trust me, Nike's obsidian is navy (and whoever said it had gray in it is right -- it's a dark grayish blue). I have at least a half dozen pieces of Nike's dark obsidian tennis clothing. I am wearing some obsidian shorts right now. It isn't black. Well my shoes arrived and as I expected, the posters mentioning the stone and looking it up on Google, all of which I did along with looking at Dictionary .com before posting were completely wrong. Nike's color is very different from the literal description of the color. It is more of a dark gray/blue color. Not black at all, if someone thinks the NIKE version of the color is black then they would think my silver Audi is blue!
Search. Dark Obsidian. Dark Obsidian is a dark navy blue Nike color. Dark Obsidian can be traced back as far as 1991 on an original Nike Air Tech Challenge 4 colorway.
Obsidian can be found in locations which have experienced rhyolitic eruptions. It can be found in Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Australia, Canada, Chile, Georgia, Greece, El Salvador, Guatemala, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Scotland, Turkey and the United States. It is produced when felsic lava extruded from a volcano cools rapidly with minimum crystal growth. Obsidian is commonly found within the margins of rhyolitic lava flows known as obsidian flows, where the chemical composition (high silica content) induces a high viscosity and polymerization degree of the lava.
Is the Nike color Dark Obsidian black or dark blue? I'm looking to buy some cleats from the NikeID thing and I'm wondering if they're navy because they kind of look like it. 1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 5  You can only upload a photo or a video.