Once you launch an app in Windows 8, Runtime Broker automatically starts itself and can be found in your Task Manager Processes or Services tabs. Runtime Broker was introduced by Microsoft to help identify issues where RAM is set aside for use with a Metro app but then that memory never gets released back into the pool. Windows 8 introduced a process called Runtime Broker that is utilized whenever you use Metro apps. This helps monitor the RAM associated with running those apps. If the RAM use is high, it’s possible you have an app causing issues. This can be a tool to narrow down memory leaks in Windows 8
Runtime Broker is a service called Time Broker, which can be disabled through editing the registry. Right-click on the Start Menu Icon. Go to RUN and type regedit.exe and select OK. 
Runtime Broker process was created by Microsoft and is a core process in Windows 8. RuntimeBroker.exe is a safe Microsoft process included in Windows 8 to assist with Metro app permissions. With a light system footprint of more or less 5,000 K of RAM being used, it does not affect performance. RuntimeBroker.exe is triggered by Metro apps. If there are no Metro apps open, this process won't run.
RECOMMENDED: Click here to fix Windows errors and optimize system performance. RuntimeBroker.exe is a small 32KB system file in Windows 8 that is located in the System32 folder. If you open your Task Manager, you will see Runtime Broker running.
RuntimeBroker.exe process in Windows Task Manager. The process known as Runtime Broker belongs to software Microsoft Windows Operating System by Microsoft (www.microsoft.com). Description: The original RuntimeBroker.exe is an important part of Windows and rarely causes problems.
Runtime broker is part of the security subsystem of Universal Apps (then called Metro apps). Essentially, all access to files and other resources goes through the Runtime broker.. so what this means is that it's only accessing files on the behalf of another Universal app. Runtime Broker is a service called Time Broker, which can be disabled through editing the registry. Right-click on the Start Menu Icon. Go to RUN and type regedit.exe and select OK. Find the following entry: [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\TimeBroker] Start=dword:00000003. Change the 3 to a 4.
MA. in task manager there is process called Runtime Broker. and it uses over 600 MB of my ram. putting my average usage at 60% on my 4 gig laptop. not noticed any performance issues yet. just a lot memory being used. MR. MR. I also have this problem but much worse-runtime broker was using 2.97 GB of memory when I checked so I killed the process (And yes, that amount of memory usage is definitely a problem!). According to articles I have read, it is supposed to have a very small memory footprint..
and noticed that the top offender was a process called “Runtime Broker”. I started a thread about this on the forums and soon learned that the Runtime Broker process is responsible for ensuring that the new Windows Store Apps behave. But there was no explanation as to why its memory consumption grows over time. Apparently, one of the early-released clock apps has a bug which causes Runtime Broker to grow in size like that, and it does not only affect Surface, it affects any Windows 8 PC running the rogue clock app. So uninstalling the app worked.