Print. While many people identify Swiss chard as a kind of spinach, it is in fact known and officially catalogued as spinach beet and silver beet, and is not the same family as spinach at all. Silver beet (or chard) is related to the beetroot family. It has a delicate taste and may be eaten raw or blanched, either in salad or as a vegetable. Unlike Swiss chard, true spinach has a relatively short picking season, and is therefore less productive. But it is just as easy to grow in the right conditions.
1 It can be used pretty much anywhere you would use cooked spinach or other thick leafy greens – including casseroles, stir-fries, stuffings, soups, and pastas. 2  The leaves can be seasoned and baked in the oven, just like kale chips. 3  Check out my recipes using swiss chard (silverbeet). I don’t normally wash my vegetables until right before I plan on using them but I decided to carefully clean the swiss chard and check for any other critters that may have found their way home with us.
Silverbeet/chard is also related to beetroot! Spinach is sometimes called English Spinach, & doesn't have the same, thick white stem that silverbeet does. The baby spinach you see at the supermarket is what spinach looks like, & the leaves don't get to be as big as silverbeet leaves. Silverbeet is almost the same as spinach in terms of nutrients, and it's super easy to grow, it's practically a weed! it also keeps fresher for longer and freezes a bit better too. Not as nice in salads though.
1 Swiss chard is also known as chard, silverbeet, perpetual spinach, spinach beet, crab beet, and mangold. 2  It is in the same species as beetroot (beets). I don’t normally wash my vegetables until right before I plan on using them but I decided to carefully clean the swiss chard and check for any other critters that may have found their way home with us.
Chard is in the same subspecies as beetroot (garden beet) and all other beet cultivars. They are cultivated descendants of the sea beet, Beta vulgaris subsp. maritima. Chard belongs to the chenopods, which are now mostly included in the family Amaranthaceae (sensu lato). Chard is also known by its many common names such as Swiss chard, silverbeet, perpetual spinach, spinach beet, crab beet, bright lights, seakale beet, and mangold. In South Africa, it is simply called spinach. Chard is a biennial. Clusters of chard seeds are usually sown, in the Northern Hemisphere, between April and August, depending on the desired harvesting period. Chard can be harvested while the leaves are young and tender, or after maturity when they are larger and have slightly tougher stems.
They are both members of the same plant Family though… Amaranthaceae. Silverbeet or Swiss chard, as it is also known, is actually a close relative of beetroot (in fact it’s a variety of the same species), but it’s grown for its leaves and stems. 
Succulent swiss chard, also known as spinach-chard or silverbeet, is one of the popular green leafy vegetables of European origin. Botanically, it belongs to the beet family (Chenopodiaceae) of vegetables, which also includes table-beets, sugar-beets, garden-beets, etc. 
JaimieCS said: Silverbeet is almost the same as spinach in terms of nutrients, and it's super easy to grow, it's practically a weed! it also keeps fresher for longer and freezes a bit better too. Not as nice in salads though.
Swiss chard frittata. If you have not been experimenting with Swiss chard in the kitchen, now is the time to start. Like it's wildly popular green cousin kale, Swiss chard packs a powerful nutritional punch, providing over 700% of your daily needs for vitamin K and over 200% of daily vitamin A needs in just one cup. Swiss chard is also commonly known as silverbeet, spinach beet, perpetual spinach, crab beet and mangold. 
The plant: This plant was grown from seeds which called it perpetual spinach, which is a type of silver beet and is also known as Chard or even Swiss Chard. Spinach (as opposed to ‘perpetual spinach’) is a completely different plant and does taste different as well as having a much more velvety texture when cooked. Regardless though in recipes where the spinach is cooked you can often substitute silver beet/chard. There are some fantastic Chard varieties – I love the rainbow ones in particular as they look fantastic in the garden (unfortunately I ran out of seed and this year and only planted green stemmed plants).