see all DVI-A cables. DVI-A are used to carry a DVI signal to an analog display, such as a CRT monitor or budget LCD. The most common use of DVI-A is connecting to a VGA device, since DVI-A and VGA carry the same signal. There are three types of DVI connections: DVI-Digital, DVI-Analog, and DVI-Integrated DVI-D - True Digital Video If you are connecting a DVI computer to a DVI monitor, this is the cable you want. DVI-D cables are used for direct digital connections between source video (namely, video cards) and LCD monitors.
DVI cables are available in dual and single link configurations, multiple jacket types for in-wall installations and in lengths up to 100ft. In-wall, CL2-rated DVI-D Single Link cables up to 100 feet for digital flat panel monitor and projectors. C2G offers FREE technical support tools for all of our products, period.
Our Helproom Editor explains the differences between various DVI connectors and ports. Here's how to tell DVI-I, DVI-D and DVI-A cables apart. DVI-I cables can carry either digital or analogue signals, but DVI-D cables carry only digital information. DVI-I cables have four extra pins and will not fit into a DVI-D socket. You can tell DVI-I and DVI-D cables apart by looking at the pins inside the connector.
The Digital Signal: DVI-D. The digital signal type that runs through a DVI cable is sometimes referred to as DVI-D. This format is completely incompatible with any analog signal format, and therefore cannot be connected to anything that doesn't also handle DVI-D or HDMI. DVI Digital Connection Options: If your signal will be digital, you should use a digital-only cable. If both devices use DVI connections, then you will want a regular DVI-D cable. If one end is DVI and the other HDMI, you'll want a DVI-D to HDMI cable.
Upgrade to DVI while still getting the most from your analog devices with high-quality DVI-A cables. Using the popular DVI connector but compliant with analog signals like VGA, these DVI cables are the first step in upgrading for the DVI age. Please don't try to use these on a DVI-D device, though. They are analog only, and will not work with a digital signal.
Keep your analog hardware in service while making the move to the DVI standard with DataPro's analog-compatible DVI cables. Made from the same high-quality coax wire as our VGA and digital DVI cables, our 1146 DVI-A cables guarantee a premium signal with minimal loss and interference. Using the popular DVI connector but compliant with analog signals like VGA, these DVI cables are the first step in upgrading for the DVI age. Please don't try to use these on a DVI-D device, though. They are analog only, and will not work with a digital signal.
What is the difference between DVI-I and DVI-D on NVIDIA based graphics cards? Most current NVIDIA based graphics cards feature a Digital Video Interface (DVI) connector for connecting a digital flat panel LCD monitor or projector to the card. 
What is DVI. The Digital Visual Interface (DVI) is a video interface standard designed to maximize the visual quality of digital display devices such as flat panel LCD computer displays and digital projectors. It was developed by an industry consortium, the Digital Display Working Group (DDWG). 