MOLARITY and OSMOLARITY. The concentration of a solute in a solution is expressed as its “Molarity”. It tells you how much of a solute is present. The units of molarity are “moles” (mols). Osmolarity is a concept that allows you to determine if water will move from one side of a membrane to the other side.
Osmolarity is dependent on the number of particles in solution but independent of the nature of the particles. For example, 1 mole of glucose dissolved in 1 litre of water has an osmolarity of 1 osmole (osm) /l. If 1 mole of another sugar, such as sucrose were added to the same litre of water, the osmolarity would be 2 osm/l. It doesn't matter that the solution contains 1 mole of glucose and 1 mole of sucrose. 
Answers. Best Answer: the osmolarity of a simple solution is equal to the molarity times the number of particles per molecule. For substances that maintain their molecular structure when they dissolve (e.g. glucose), the osmolarity and the molarity are essentially the same. Thus for a pure NaCl solution, a 1 Molar solution would be 2 Osmolar (1 for Na, and 1 for Cl). glucose has one particle/molecule NaCl has 2 CaCl2 has 3 50mM glucose x 1 = 50m osmoles 50mM NaCl x 2 = 100 m osmoles 50 mM CaCl2 x 3 = 150 m osmoles. Source(s): http://physioweb.med.uvm.edu/bodyfluids/...
Osmotic concentration, formerly known as osmolarity, is the measure of solute concentration, defined as the number of osmoles (Osm) of solute per litre (L) of solution (osmol/L or Osm/L). Thus, for every 1 mole of NaCl in solution, there are 2 osmoles of solute particles (i.e., a 1 mol/L NaCl solution is a 2 osmol/L NaCl solution). Both sodium and chloride ions affect the osmotic pressure of the solution. Nonionic compounds do not dissociate, and form only 1 osmole of solute per 1 mole of solute.
Osmolarity. Osmolarity is dependent upon the number of impermeant molecules in a solution, not on the identity of the molecules. For example, a 1M solution of a nonionizing substance such as glucose is a 1 Osmolar solution; a 1M solution of NaCl = 2 Osm; and a 1M solution of Na2SO4 =3 Osm. So in our example, the osmolarity of the 0.9% NaCl solution is 0.15M * 2 = 0.3 Osm.
Glucose is a sugar that is commonly found in the blood. The osmolarity of a glucose solution is a measurement of the concentration of glucose in a liquid. Glucose solutions are sometimes given to help bring blood glucose levels up in the event that a patient's blood glucose levels get too low. Weigh the amount of glucose that will go into the solution. This is needed to calculate the number of moles of glucose, which is part of the equation for calculating the osmolarity of glucose, the University of Mississippi Medical Center explains.
Osmolarity is distinct from molarity because it measures osmoles of solute particles rather than moles of solute. The distinction arises because some compounds can dissociate in solution, whereas others cannot. Thus, for every 1 mole of NaCl in solution, there are 2 osmoles of solute particles (i.e., a 1 mol/L NaCl solution is a 2 osmol/L NaCl solution). Both sodium and chloride ions affect the osmotic pressure of the solution. Nonionic compounds do not dissociate, and form only 1 osmole of solute per 1 mole
Osmolarity. Osmolarity is an estimation of the osmolar concentration of plasma and is proportional to the number of particles per litre of solution; it is expressed as mmol/l. This is what is used when a calculated value is derived. It is derived from the measured Na+, K+, urea and glucose concentrations. Osmolality and osmolarity are measurements of the solute concentration of a solution. In practice, there is negligible difference between the absolute values of the different measurements. For this reason, both terms are often used interchangeably, even though they refer to different units of measurement.