Broil the Steak. Once the broiler is fully heated, transfer the seasoned steak to the broiler pan. Cook the steak for five-to-10 minutes, depending on its thickness (five minutes for a one-inch steak, 10 minutes for a two-inch steak), then flip and cook for another five-to-10 minutes, on the second side.
Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F).
1 When the butter and oil is melted and shimmering, add the steaks. 2  You should hear a loud sizzle. 3  Let sear on each side for about 3-4 minutes, until a dark crust forms on each side. 4  Top each steak with about a tablespoon of butter and transfer the whole skillet to the oven.5  Let cook in the oven for at least 6 minutes. About 15 minutes before cooking, liberally season with salt and pepper, but especially with salt--about 1/2 a teaspoon of salt on each side of each steak. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 3  In a large, heavy, cast iron skillet, melt the butter and olive oil over high heat.
Instructions. 1  PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. Remove from oven. HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min.
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet.
1 PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. 4  Remove from oven.HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min.nstructions. 1
1 Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 2  In a large, heavy, cast iron skillet, melt the butter and olive oil over high heat. 3  When the butter and oil is melted and shimmering, add the steaks. 4  You should hear a loud sizzle. 5  Let sear on each side for about 3-4 minutes, until a dark crust forms on each side. About 15 minutes before cooking, liberally season with salt and pepper, but especially with salt--about 1/2 a teaspoon of salt on each side of each steak. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 3
3. Immediately place steaks in the middle of the hot, dry pan. Cook 1 to 2 minutes without moving; turn steaks with tongs, and cook another 1 to 2 minutes. 4. Transfer the pan with the seared steaks to the hot oven. Roast in the center of the oven until the steaks are cooked to your liking, about 3 to 5 minutes. Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness:
1 Return the steak flat in the pan. 2  Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook until an instant-read thermometer reads to desired doneness (oven cooking time will be anywhere from 5-15 minutes depending on the desired doneness of your steak --- for medium-rare 140-145 degrees and for medium 155-160 degrees. Season the steak/s with black pepper, then allow the meat to sit at room temperature for 1 to 1-1/2 hours. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 3  Heat the oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat or just until the oil begins to lightly smoke.
Turn the broiler on and heat the pan you will be cooking the steaks on. Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes.