The name Jude is the same as Judas, and that is the Hellenized version of the Hebrew name Judah. The name Judah in turn comes from the Hebrew root-verb ידה, meaning to praise: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: הוד. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Jude is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Jude is: The praised one. American Meaning: The name Jude is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jude is: The praised one. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jude is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jude is: Praise. The praised on
Etymology & Historical Origin-Jude. The name Jude is a shortened version of the Hebrew name Yhuda (Judah) which means ‘praised.’ Judah was borne by the fourth son of Jacob in the Bible (Genesis 29:35) who gave his name to one of the twelve tribes of Israel and one of its two kingdoms (and from which the word Jew arose). 
Jude may refer to: 1  Jude, a unisex given name. 2  Jude the Apostle, an apostle also called Judas Thaddaeus or Lebbaeus, the patron saint of lost causes in the Catholic Church. 1 Jude, a unisex given name. 2  Jude the Apostle, an apostle also called Judas Thaddaeus or Lebbaeus, the patron saint of lost causes in the Catholic Church. 3  Epistle of Jude, a book of the New Testament of the Bible.
Meanings and history of the name Jude: | Edit. Shortened version of Hebrew name Judah which means praise.. Jude was one of the 12 apostles in the Bible (also called Judas, but not the Judas Iscariot who betrayed Christ); presumed to have written the book of the Bible called Jude. 
Jude Name Meaning. The meaning of Jude is “Praise; thanks”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. The name Jude is in the following categories: American Names, Biblical Names, British Names, Celebrity Names, Classic Names, Cool Names, English Names, Nicknames or Pet Names, Unisex Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).
Jude /jude/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Jude is praised. short form of Judas, a Greek form of Judah. Jude, a brother of James, wrote one of the shortest books in the Bible, the Book of Jude. Thomas Hardy wrote a novel named Jude the Obscure (1895). There is a Lennon and McCartney song Hey Jude (1968). Actor Jude Law. Jude is a somewhat popular first name for males (#1114 out of 1220, Top 91%) and an even more popular surname for all people (#11595 out of 150436, Top 8%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Jude for boys.
Variant of JUDAS. It is used in many English versions of the New Testament to denote the second apostle named Judas, in order to distinguish him from Judas Iscariot. He was supposedly the author of the Epistle of Jude. 
Meaning of Jude. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Jude means-Variant of Judah: Praise. The praised one.. Other origins for the name Jude include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Jude is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Variant of Judah: Praise. The praised one.