The two most common ways to erase a hard drive is by formatting or wiping the drive. In this article we'll look at both approaches and discuss security issues and methods to clean the hard drive using format and disk wipe techniques. Formatting a disk does not erase the data on the disk, only the address tables. It makes it much more difficult to recover the files. However a computer specialist would be able to recover most or all the data that was on the disk before the reformat.
If you're installing a new hard drive, or need to wipe your drive clean for that fresh feeling, you'll end up formatting your drive. Formatting will check the drive for errors, and prepare it for use. If a drive has data on it, formatting the drive will remove all of the pointers to your files. 
December 27, 2010 5:27:40 AM. Yes, formatting the drive will erase your data. Since it is a drive you have been using, it should not tell you to format the drive though. It seems your hard drive has developed some type of issue / error. Try sticking into a different USB port. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In the simplest terms, formating a drive will erase all of the data on the drive. A quick format will simply erase the part of the drive that shows where all of the files are located on the drive. The data is still on the rest of the drive though. One can use programs such as R-Studio that recognize different file systems and can detect files and directory structures on the disk. This means that you, or others, can still recover the data.
FORMAT drive: [/parameters]. where drive: specifies the volume to format (the hard disk letter followed by a colon) — example format c: — where [parameters] formats the disk with different options — example format c: /s will copy system files to the formatted disk or format c: /q performs a quick format. 
Report Abuse. Formatting erases the index of the files on the hard drive. The files would be easily recoverable using easy to get products like GetDataBack. Formatting erase the FAT for a drive (file allocation table). The FAT is an index that stores the name of a file and where it's located at on the hard drive. When your format a drive, you erase the FAT but the file itself is still on the hard drive. Files may be difficult to recover, especially if the file is broken up into pieces and stored in several places on the hard drive. If the file isn't too fragmented, it would be easily recoverable.
© Dieter Spears / Photodisc / Getty Images. To wipe a hard drive means to completely erase the drive of all information. Deleting everything does not wipe a hard drive and formatting does not [always] wipe a hard drive. You'll need to take an extra step to wipe the hard drive completely. When you format a hard drive or delete a partition, you're usually only deleting the file system, making the data invisible but not gone. A file recovery program or special hardware can easily recover the information. 1 If you have more than one partition on a physical hard drive, you'll need to format those additional drives as well if you want to consider the entire physical disk as wiped. 2  If what you really want to do is just make sure that files you delete are really gone, a data wiping tool is more than you need.
The two most common ways to erase a hard drive is by formatting or wiping the hard drive. In this article we'll look at both approaches and discuss methods to clean the hard drive using format and disk wipe techniques. Section 1: Learn about erasing and formatting a hard drive. Section2: Learn about drive wiping. Formatting a disk does not erase the data on the disk, only the address tables. It makes it much more difficult to recover the files. However a computer specialist would be able to recover most or all the data that was on the disk before the reformat.
1 Follow the on-screen instructions to select a hard drive partition to format and install Windows XP on. 2  After formatting the hard drive, which will erase all data, click on one of the links below for steps on how to install Windows XP or Windows 2000. 3  How do I install Microsoft Windows XP. The formatting process will erase the hard drive before installing Windows. Windows XP and 2000. 1  Insert the Windows XP/2000 installation CD in the CD-ROM drive and restart the computer. 2  When you see the message Press any key to boot from CD, press a key on the keyboard.