1 If you change your mind, vasectomy reversal, which often is not covered by health insurance, can cost $6,000 to $15,000. 2  The success rate -- the percentage of couples who achieve a pregnancy within two years after a vasectomy reversal is only about 52 percent. 1 It takes at least three months for semen to become free of sperm, and this must be confirmed with a post-vasectomy analysis at the doctor's office, which usually is included in the vasectomy price. 2  Vasectomies are more than 99 percent effective.
Vasectomy is a form of birth control for men that is meant to be permanent. During vasectomy, a health care provider closes or blocks the tubes that carry sperm. When the tubes are closed, sperm cannot leave a man's body and cause pregnancy. Contact your local Planned Parenthood health center, your family doctor, a local hospital, a local public health department, or a urologist. A vasectomy can be performed in a medical office, hospital, or clinic. Nationwide, the cost of a vasectomy ranges from $0 – $1,000, including the follow-up sperm count. (Sterilization for women can cost up to six times as much.) Some clinics and doctors use a sliding scale according to income
Shopping for a vasectomy: 1  If you change your mind, vasectomy reversal, which often is not covered by health insurance, can cost $6,000 to $15,000. 2  The success rate -- the percentage of couples who achieve a pregnancy within two years after a vasectomy reversal is only about 52 percent. 1 It takes at least three months for semen to become free of sperm, and this must be confirmed with a post-vasectomy analysis at the doctor's office, which usually is included in the vasectomy price. 2  Vasectomies are more than 99 percent effective.
A vasectomy is a simple sterilization procedure that can be performed right your doctor's office, so it tends to cost less than other surgeries. Over the long term, a vasectomy may even be less expensive than other birth-control options such as the Pill or IUDs. [ Click here to see our cost-comparison chart ]. Without insurance, the cost of a vasectomy typically ranges anywhere from $350 to $4,000, depending on location, surgical technique used, and other variables such as your method of payment and whether a doctor uses income-based sliding scales. 1 Co-payment-a flat fee paid at each doctor's visit (such as $25). 2  Deductible-a fixed amount that you have to pay before your health insurance policy covers the costs of a visit or procedure. 3  Coinsurance-the percentage of the doctor's costs that you are required to pay (such as 20 percent).
Fancy American urologists charge up to $1,200 for the in-patient vasectomy procedure, which takes all of 10 minutes, including local anesthetic. Planned Parenthood charges about $100. Under Canada’s nationalized healthcare system, the procedure is free and the state pays the doctor $55. That may explain why one-third of Canadian men are sterilized. (The highest rate of vasectomy is in New Zealand, where half of men go under the knife). 
One thing we can tell you for sure: a vasectomy will cost less than another child. But the price does vary. The average cost of vasectomy can range from anywhere from $600 all the way up to $2,000. 
1 For patients not covered by insurance, a vasectomy typically costs $250 to $1,000. 2  For patients covered by insurance, out-of-pocket costs typically consist of a $10 to $30 copay for the initial consultation and another copay of $10 to $100 for the procedure, or a percentage of the total -- usually 20 percent. 1 It takes at least three months for semen to become free of sperm, and this must be confirmed with a post-vasectomy analysis at the doctor's office, which usually is included in the vasectomy price. 2  Vasectomies are more than 99 percent effective.
The cost of vasectomy reversal varies depending on the physician's office, your geographic location, and the type of procedure performed. It is not inexpensive, but there are a few options that may help you fit it into your family budget. Research indicates that of all of the ART procedures performed in 2009, 30 percent resulted in a live birth, compared to 40 to 75 percent with vasectomy reversals. Plus, overall costs for ARTs are higher than for vasectomy reversals. (The average cost for in vitro fertilization is $12,500 per attempt. With a 30 percent success rate, more than one course of IVF may be necessary for successful conception)