The endometrium is the innermost glandular layer and functions as a lining for the uterus, preventing adhesions between the opposed walls of the myometrium, thereby maintaining the patency of the uterine cavity. These two layers occur only in endometrium lining the cavity of the uterus, not in the lining of the uterine (Fallopian) tubes: 1  The functional layer is adjacent to the uterine cavity. 2  This layer is built up after the end of menstruation during the first part of the previous menstrual cycle.
Definition. Endometriosis is a condition in which bits of the tissue similar to the lining of the uterus (endometrium) grow in other parts of the body. Like the uterine lining, this tissue builds up and sheds in response to monthly hormonal cycles. However, there is no natural outlet for the blood discarded from these implants.
Instructor: John Williams. The uterus is a key structure in reproduction and fetal development. The uterine cavity, found in the uterus, is a major player in these processes. Let's discuss the structure and functions of the uterine cavity in the female reproductive system
The lining of the uterine cavity is called the endometrium. It consists of the functional endometrium and the basal endometrium from which the former arises. Damage to the basal endometrium results in adhesion formation and/or fibrosis (Asherman's syndrome). The uterus is essential in sexual response by directing blood flow to the pelvis and to the external genitalia, including the ovaries, vagina, labia, and clitoris. The reproductive function of the uterus is to accept a fertilized ovum which passes through the utero-tubal junction from the fallopian tube.
Noun. 1. uterine cavity-the space inside the uterus between the cervical canal and the Fallopian tubes. bodily cavity, cavum, cavity - (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body. uterus, womb-a hollow muscular organ in the pelvic cavity of females; contains the developing fetus. uterine cavity-the space inside the uterus between the cervical canal and the Fallopian tubes. bodily cavity, cavum, cavity - (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body
The uterus, also known as the womb, is an interesting and complex organ that's part of the reproductive structure of the female anatomy. This complex organ is quite small in size, actually comparable to the size of a pear. 
Structure. The uterine cavity is formed by the lateral walls of the uterus and the superior wall, which is a part of the fundus. These walls contain muscle tissue known as the myometrium and a layer of cells that line the outside edges known as the endometrium. The uterus is a key structure in reproduction and fetal development. The uterine cavity, found in the uterus, is a major player in these processes. Let's discuss the structure and functions of the uterine cavity in the female reproductive syste
in the uterus is a mere slit, flattened antero-posteriorly. It's triangular in shape, the base being formed by the internal surface of the fundus between the orifices of the uterine tubes, the apex by the internal orifice of the uterus through which... en​.wikipedia​.org​/wiki​/Uterine cavity.