The General Secretary heads a staff of around 200 in the two head offices, in London and Tyneside, and in the many local offices around the country. The Scottish and Welsh Labour Parties are headed by their own general secretaries, in practice subordinate to the national general secretary. The post of Party Secretary was created in 1900 at the birth of the Labour Party. The first holder of that position was Ramsay MacDonald, later Prime Minister. In these early years, the post was a very important one, effectively leading the Party outside Parliament
The General Secretary is the most senior employee of the British Labour Party, and acts as the non-voting secretary to the National Executive Committee. When there is a vacancy the National Executive Committee selects a provisional replacement, subject to approval at the subsequent party conference. The post of Party Secretary was created in 1900 at the birth of the Labour Party. The first holder of that position was Ramsay MacDonald, later Prime Minister. In these early years, the post was a very important one, effectively leading the Party outside Parliament
SECRETARY GENERAL ON COMPONENT STRUCTURES. 1  Political background. 2  Constitutional definition of Component Structures. 3  The role of Component Structures in the politics of the APC. 4  Power relations – APC and its Component Structures. 5  Component Structures and Party Discipline. 6  POLITICAL BACKGROUND. 1 Constitutional definition of Component Structures. 2  The role of Component Structures in the politics of the APC. 3  Power relations – APC and its Component Structures. 4  Component Structures and Party Discipline. 5
Upon receipt of the above notice, the Secretary of State will notify county elections officials of the name of the political body, its intent to qualify as a political party, and whether it intends to qualify for the next primary election or for the next presidential general election. (Elections Code § 5002.). A political body is entitled, upon request to the Secretary of State, to have counted toward its qualification as a political party, affidavits of registration in which voters disclosed a preference with the political body prior to the date the political body filed the above notice. 1 That the political body elected temporary officers, 2  That the political body intends to qualify a political party pursuant to Elections Code section 5100 or 5151, but not both, and. 3  The names and addresses of the temporary officers of the political body.
The City Chairman is a part of the State Central Committee, along with the County Chairman and County Vice-Chairman, who elect the State Party Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer. The Vice Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer work under the direction of the State Party Leaders and State Chairman. The State Party Officers cannot file for any of the seven State Elective Government Offices.
City Chairman and Vice-Chairman City Chairman and Vice-Chairman are elected by the voters of their political party from both precincts in their City. They cannot run for any other Political Party Office. The Vice Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer work under the direction of the State Party Leaders and State Chairman. The State Party Officers cannot file for any of the seven State Elective Government Offices.
Duties of the Political Party Officers Precinct Committeemen and Vice-Committeemen Precinct Committeemen and Vice-Committeemen are elected by the voters of their political party in each precinct and serve as the voting delegates to the County and State Conventions. They cannot run for any other political party office. The Vice Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer work under the direction of the State Party Leaders and State Chairman. The State Party Officers cannot file for any of the seven State Elective Government Offices.
a named individual is required to fill the role of party secretary in accordance with the electoral act 1993 although they may have a different title and broader role within the party the application for registration must detail the name and postal address of the party secretary and ideally include contact telephone numbers as well as an email address for communications section 63 2 c iv