Bacillus. A genus of aerobic or facultatively anaerobic, spore-forming, ordinarily motile bacteria (family Bacillaceae) containing gram-positive rods. Motile cells are peritrichous; spores are thick walled and take Gram stain poorly; these organisms are chemoheterotrophic and are found primarily in soil. Any of various rod-shaped, usually gram-positive aerobic bacteria of the genus Bacillus that often occur in chains and include Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax. 2. Any of various bacteria, especially a rod-shaped bacterium.
Bacillus. A genus of aerobic or facultatively anaerobic, spore-forming, ordinarily motile bacteria (family Bacillaceae) containing gram-positive rods. Motile cells are peritrichous; spores are thick walled and take Gram stain poorly; these organisms are chemoheterotrophic and are found primarily in soil. Any of various rod-shaped, usually gram-positive aerobic bacteria of the genus Bacillus that often occur in chains and include Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax. 2. Any of various bacteria, especially a rod-shaped bacterium.
Jvo Siegrist, Product Manager Microbiology. Bacillus species are Gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria; they can be either obligate or facultative aerobes and show positive reaction in the catalase test. Members of the genus Bacillus are known to form spores under stressful conditions. Some Bacillus species play a critical role in helping us understand more about bacteria, while others are dangerous spoiling organisms or even pathogens.
Bacillus licheniformis is an interesting type of bacteria because it affects humans in many different ways. B. licheniformis is Gram-positive and rod-shaped. It is a motile bacterium, a facultative anaerobe (unlike other bacilli that are typically aerobic), and closely related to Bacillus subtilis. B. licheniformis produces endospores, and is usually found in the soil as spores. It is an apathogenic microorganism that is usually associated with plants and plant materials.
A genus of aerobic or facultatively anaerobic, spore-forming, ordinarily motile bacteria (family Bacillaceae) containing gram-positive rods. Motile cells are peritrichous; spores are thick-walled and stain poorly with Gram stain; these organisms are chemoheterotrophic and are found primarily in soil. Any of various rod-shaped, usually gram-positive aerobic bacteria of the genus Bacillus that often occur in chains and include Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax. 2. Any of various bacteria, especially a rod-shaped bacterium.
The genus Vibrio is comprised of many species of motile, aerobic Gram-negative rods that are found in aquatic environments. Three species are commonly pathogenic for humans, the most important being V. cholerae – the etiologic agent of epidemic cholera. The family Enterobacteriaceae is the largest and most heterogeneous collection of medically important gram-negative bacilli and are commonly isolated from clinical specimens. There are over fourteen genera that been described to cause human infection but by far the most important single species is Escherichia coli.
A genus of aerobic or facultatively anaerobic, spore-forming, ordinarily motile bacteria; these organisms are chemoheterotrophic and are found primarily in soil. A few species are animal pathogens; some species evoke antibody production. [L. dim. of baculus, rod, staff]. Any of various rod-shaped, usually gram-positive aerobic bacteria of the genus Bacillus that often occur in chains and include Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax. 2. Any of various bacteria, especially a rod-shaped bacterium.