Jojoba is LIKELY SAFE for most people when applied to the skin. It can cause some side effects such as rash and allergic reactions. Jojoba is LIKELY UNSAFE for anyone when taken by mouth. Jojoba contains a chemical called erucic acid, which can cause serious side effects such as heart damage. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Applying jojoba to the skin during pregnancy and breast-feeding is LIKELY SAFE. But it is LIKELY UNSAFE to take jojoba by mouth.
Jojoba /həˈhoʊbə/ , with the botanical name Simmondsia chinensis, and also known as goat nut, deer nut, pignut, wild hazel, quinine nut, coffeeberry, and gray box bush, is native to Southwestern North America. Simmondsia chinensis is the sole species of the family Simmondsiaceae, placed in the order Caryophyllales. Plantations of jojoba have been established in a number of desert and semi-desert areas, predominantly in Argentina, Australia, Israel, Mexico, Peru and the United States.
Jojoba (pronounced ho-HO-ba) oil is a botanical extract of the seed of the jojoba tree (Simmondsia chinenis). Technically it is not actually an oil, but rather what is called a wax ester. Because out of all of the compounds in nature, this wax ester is the most similar to human skin oil (sebum). It is theorized that applying jojoba to the skin can trick the skin into thinking it is producing enough oil, thus balancing oil production.
Jojoba oil is interesting for the industry because it is odorless and it has a viscosity which is temperature-independent. Applications vary from engine lubricating oil to cooking oil. Jojoba wax is used predominantly for pharmaceutical compounds, specially for skin products. Plantations of jojoba have been established in a number of desert and semi-desert areas, predominantly in Argentina, Australia, Israel, Mexico, Peru and the United States.
Glass vial containing jojoba oil. Jojoba oil /həˈhoʊbə/ is the liquid produced in the seed of the Simmondsia chinensis (Jojoba) plant, a shrub, which is native to southern Arizona, southern California, and northwestern Mexico. The oil makes up approximately 50% of the jojoba seed by weight. Jojoba oil is used as a replacement for whale oil and its derivatives, such as cetyl alcohol. The ban on importing whale oil to the US in 1971 led to the discovery that jojoba oil is in many regards superior to sperm oil for applications in the cosmetics and other industries..
JOJOBA Overview Information. Jojoba is a shrub that is grows in dry regions of northern Mexico and the southwestern US. Jojoba oil and wax are produced from the seeds and used for medicine. Jojoba is applied directly to the skin for acne, psoriasis, sunburn, and chapped skin. It is also used topically to encourage the regrowth of hair in people who are balding. Jojoba is LIKELY UNSAFE for anyone when taken by mouth. Jojoba contains a chemical called erucic acid, which can cause serious side effects such as heart damage. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Applying jojoba to the skin during pregnancy and breast-feeding is LIKELY SAFE. But it is LIKELY UNSAFE to take jojoba by mouth.
Jojoba does not shed its leaves with the changes in seasons. The jojoba plant is dioecious. The gender of jojoba plants can only be discerned from their flowers. When planted from seeds, jojoba plants can take up to three years to produce flowers. The female plants produce seed from flowers the male plants pollinate. The differences between jojoba and coffee are more than skin deep. Of more than 350,000 identified plant species, jojoba is the only one which produces significant quantities of liquid wax esters akin to the natural restorative esters human sebaceous glands produce.
The word jojoba (pronounced ho-HO-ba) refers both to the desert plant and to the extract obtained from its seed. Regrettably, many people and companies continue to refer to jojoba as jojoba oil. In fact, jojoba is NOT oil, and you'll understand why as you continue to read. The differences between jojoba and coffee are more than skin deep. Of more than 350,000 identified plant species, jojoba is the only one which produces significant quantities of liquid wax esters akin to the natural restorative esters human sebaceous glands produce.