Average Temperatures for New Orleans. New Orleans's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 43.4°F. In July, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 91.1°F. 5.07in. The driest month in New Orleans is October with 3.05 inches of precipitation, and with 6.83 inches June is the wettest month.
Average temperature is the most popular factor that people take into consideration when looking for the best city to live in. CityRating.com offers the average New Orleans temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for New Orleans and dozens of other cities. Average temperature of New Orleans including average monthly and annual data.
Climate for New Orleans, Louisiana. New Orleans's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 43.4°F. In July, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 91.1°F. 5.07in. The driest month in New Orleans is October with 3.05 inches of precipitation, and with 6.83 inches June is the wettest month.
New Orleans: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in New Orleans with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 13°C (55°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in June. The wettest month is July with an average of 168mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 30°C (86°F).
July is the hottest month in New Orleans with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 13°C (55°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in June. The wettest month is July with an average of 168mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 30°C (86°F).
New Orleans Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in New Orleans, Louisiana during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below, monthly and annually for New Orleans, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature. To find out how often it rises over 70, 80 or 90 °F each month in New Orleans, scroll down farther. There are also monthly and yearly counts of nights with warm temperatures days and details on how often it gets cold in New Orleans. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered from 1981 to 2010
Averages for New Orleans in March. Temperatures in March begin to climb higher and the month is jam packed with things to do. T he average temperature reaches a high of 22 C (that's about 72°F) during the day and reach down to around 13°C (about 55°F) . You can expect rain on an ..
n/a. The highest average temperature in New Orleans is July at 83.5 degrees. The coldest average temperature in New Orleans is January at 54.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in New Orleans occurs in January with 0 inches. The New Orleans weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading..