You should then do all you can to help Social Security or your Social Security disability lawyer get the information that SSA does not have yet, and that could help you win your claim at the first decision. If you are at the hearing stage it can take one or two years to get an SSDI or SSI hearing. What you need to know now is that if you're going to send Social Security a dire need letter to get a quicker SSDI or SSI decision you should include as much supporting evidence as possible to help your chances of speeding up your Social Security disability claim.
Application date. Retroactive benefits generally may not be collected for more than 12 months. If you add this year of retroactive benefits to the five-month wait period, the farthest back that Social Security will recognize a disability onset date is 17 months before the application date (12 + 5 = 17). If you are approved for SSI, or SSI and SSDI, the rules are different. Social Security generally pays the past-due benefits for SSI or SSI/SSDI in three installment payments that are separated by six months each.
If you take the maximum sixty-five days that are allowed each time you appeal a disability denial (the deadline at all levels is sixty days and social security also gives you an extra 5 days for mailing your paperwork), you will have added an additional four months to the processing time of your SSD or SSI case. However, a dire need request has nothing to do with the actual outcome of a claim. At the hearing level, a claimant and their disability attorney may have a couple of other tactics at their disposal as well. The first is a request for an on-the-record review.
How long will it take to get approved for disability and what determines this? If you win your claim and receive an approval at the disability application level, this will usually occur between 30 and 120 days. Sometimes cases take longer to process based on how long it takes to gather medical records or receive reports from independent examinations scheduled by Social Security. Some individuals will not receive payment for a couple of months after they are approved for disability benefits. Social Security Disability Back pay and How Long it Takes to Qualify for it Social Security disability recipients may have to wait longer to receive their back pay if there are any SSI benefits involved.
This is a huge caseload for the Social Security Administration (SSA) to process, so most disability applicants should expect it to take about three to four months from the time they apply to receive an initial decision on their claim. Sometimes claims are approved as soon as they are processed. If your SSD claim is airtight and you have a condition that meets all of the Social Security Disability eligibility requirements it might take you only three to four months to be approved. Great! 
You will get a medical decision letter from the judge. If it is an approval, it can take another approximate sixty days to be paid if your claim is for Social Security and thirty to sixty days if it was for Supplemental Security Income (SSI). If you filed claims for both, the SSI will be paid first. Dear Edith, It can take another month or more after the decision to get the letter. How long it takes to get benefits after that depends on whether you have applied for Social Security Disability (SSDI), Supplemental Security Income (SSI) or both. It can be a month to three months after you receive the judge’s letter.
If you have a dire need for Social Security Disability benefits, contact the Social Security Disability advocates at Myler Disability. We will bring your situation to the attention of the proper authorities by assisting with a Social Security dire need letter, or memorandum. The Social Security Administration (SSA) does have a provision for dire need cases. At Myler Disability, our Social Security Disability advocates can draft a Social Security dire need memorandum that will describe your circumstances and press for an early review of your case.
An attorney cannot make the SSA decide your claim faster, but an attorney can sometimes file a request for an off-the-record decision or an attorney adviser opinion. If the request is successful, you may be able to get a positive decision before having to go to a disability hearing. Decision times also depend on the following factors: 1  whether you are at the initial application stage or have appealed. 2  what state you live in. 3  how quickly you or your doctors provide the necessary medical records. 4  whether your case is pulled for a quality review, and. 5  whether your case can be expedited.
Talk to a Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. It is hard to predict exactly how long it will take the Social Security Administration (SSA) to decide your disability case. This is, in part, because there is no deadline the SSA is required to follow. Decision times also depend on the following factors: 1  whether you are at the initial application stage or have appealed. 2  what state you live in. 3  how quickly you or your doctors provide the necessary medical records. 4  whether your case is pulled for a quality review, and. 5  whether your case can be expedited.