Binomial or binominal nomenclature is the naming of an organism. It consists of the generic name (genus) and the specific name (species). This system was first used by linnaeu … s. It is important because it help scientists to recognize an organism by that name. For example, let us talk about a common house rat. The person naming the plant may not always have correct sources of information. As a result, sometimes two different plants can have the same common name. The scientific name relates to the taxonomy and classification of the plant.
Many common names of plants have developed as a result of cultural traditions. The person naming the plant may not always have correct sources of information. As a result, sometimes two different plants can have the same common name. The scientific name relates to the taxonomy and classification of the plant.
Every recognized species on earth (at least in theory) is given a two-part scientific name. This system is called binomial nomenclature.. These names are important because they allow people throughout the world to communicate unambiguously about animal species. The scientific name of each species is made up of a generic name (generic epithet) and a specific name (specific epithet). In our bluegill sunfish example the generic epithet is Lepomis and the specific epithet is macrochirus.
Answers. Best Answer: Binomial nomenclature is the scientific naming of species whereby each species receives a Latin or Latinized name of two parts, the first indicating the genus and the second being the specific epithet. For example, Juglans regia is the English walnut; Juglans nigra, the black walnut. this is important because it is internationally used and is a quick way to identify a certain type of animal or species. Source(s): http://www.answers.com/topic/binomial-no...
Binomial Nomenclature is how species are named. What makes it important is that it is internationally used and is a quick way to identify a certain type of animals or species. The person naming the plant may not always have correct sources of information. As a result, sometimes two different plants can have the same common name. The scientific name relates to the taxonomy and classification of the plant.
Scientific classification, also called biological classification or taxonomy, is the system of organization and nomenclature used to define all life. [www.mahalo.com/Scientific_Classification]. www.mahalo.com/Scientific_Classification. 
Prior to the adoption of the modern binomial system of naming species, a scientific name consisted of a generic name combined with a specific name that was from one to several words long. Together they formed a system of polynomial nomenclature. These names had two separate functions. The application of binomial nomenclature is now governed by various internationally agreed codes of rules, of which the two most important are the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN) for animals and the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN) for plants.
Binomial nomenclature (also called binominal nomenclature or binary nomenclature) is a formal system of naming species of living things by giving each a name composed of two parts, both of which use Latin grammatical forms, although they can be based on words from other languages. The application of binomial nomenclature is now governed by various internationally agreed codes of rules, of which the two most important are the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN) for animals and the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN) for plants.
Biological nomenclature is a language that we use to communicate ideas and information about the diversity of life. It is an information retrieval system conveying information about diversity and relationships. Common names for species are words in the language of the layperson. Nomenclature is not an end to systematics and taxonomy but is a necessity in organizing information about biodiversity. Nomenclature functions to provide labels (names) for all taxa at all levels in the hierarchy of life.
Answers. Best Answer: Binomial or binominal nomenclature is the naming of an organism. It consists of the generic name (genus) and the specific name (species). This system was first used by linnaeus. It is important because it help scientists to recognize an organism by that name. For example, let us talk about a common house rat. In my language it is called mazu. 