Absinthe is a high-proof, anise-flavored liquor made by distilling herbs, including anise, fennel and grand wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). It should be noted that absinthe is not a liqueur but a spirit, as it does not contain sugar. Bartending/Alcohol/Anise liqueur. From Wikibooks, open books for an open world. Anise liqueurs have a predominately anise, also known as licorice, taste. It is commonly derived from aniseed, although it can also come from star anise, fennel, or licorice, all of which have a similar taste, though none are related. Many anise-flavored liqueurs will turn a milky white when cold water is added
But don’t confuse fennel with anise; though they look and taste similar, they are not the same. Fennel’s dried ripe seeds and oil are used to make medicine. Fennel is used for various digestive problems including heartburn, intestinal gas, bloating, loss of appetite, and colic in infants. Children: For the most part, there is not enough evidence to know whether it is safe for children when used in medicinal amounts. However, researchers have studied a combination product (ColiMil) for colic that contains fennel, lemon balm, and German chamomile.
1. Decide what kind of absinthe you want to make. Absinthe is always made with what is referred to as The Holy Trinity which consists of wormwood, anise, and fennel, but authentic wormwood can be chosen that does not contain thujone. This way, you can even make an anise alcohol, fennel alcohol, and mint alcohol, and mix them independently to personal preference. This way, you can alter the recipe in 'real time' as you taste it.
Dried fennel seed is an aromatic, anise-flavored spice, brown or green in color when fresh, slowly turning a dull grey as the seed ages. For cooking, green seeds are optimal. The leaves are delicately flavored and similar in shape to those of dill. Its aniseed flavor comes from anethole, an aromatic compound also found in anise and star anise, and its taste and aroma are similar to theirs, though usually not as strong. Florence fennel (Foeniculum vulgare Azoricum Group; syn.
Fennel seeds are sometimes confused with those of anise, which are similar in taste and appearance, though smaller. Fennel is also used as a flavoring in some natural toothpastes. The seeds are used in cookery and sweet desserts. Its aniseed flavor comes from anethole, an aromatic compound also found in anise and star anise, and its taste and aroma are similar to theirs, though usually not as strong. Florence fennel (Foeniculum vulgare Azoricum Group; syn.
Fennel's aromatic taste is unique, strikingly reminiscent of licorice and anise, so much so that fennel is often mistakenly referred to as anise in the marketplace. Fennel's texture is similar to that of celery, having a crunchy and striated texture. The stalks are topped with feathery green leaves near which flowers grow and produce fennel seeds. The bulb, stalk, leaves and seeds are all edible. Fennel belongs to the Umbellifereae family and is therefore closely related to parsley, carrots, dill and coriander.
It is also one of the main components of the alcohol absinthe, although the plant does not have hallucinogenic properties. Apart from the uses of fennel already mentioned, there are numerous medicinal uses and health benefits, mainly due to the components of its essential oils, which are summarized below. 
Florence fennel or finocchio is a selection with a swollen, bulb-like stem base that is used as a vegetable. Fennel is used as a food plant by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including the mouse moth and the anise swallowtail. Its aniseed flavor comes from anethole, an aromatic compound also found in anise and star anise, and its taste and aroma are similar to theirs, though usually not as strong. Florence fennel (Foeniculum vulgare Azoricum Group; syn.
Fennel contains a complex of estrogen-affecting compounds. An evaluation published in the Journal of Enthnopharmacology found that fennel's primary estrogen-like compounds include anethole, photoanethole and dianethole, which it shares with similar-tasting plants, such as licorice root, anise and star-anise. 