The origin of the word “barbecue” comes from the Caribbean, where the Spanish word “barbacoa” was used to describe a special wooden frame that was used for drying, smoking, or grilling meat ! 
Q From Frances Beith: What is the origin of the word barbecue? A We have to go back to the West Indian island of Hispaniola in the seventeenth century to begin the search for this word. 
The word barbecue comes from American Spanish, barbacoa, from the mid-seventeenth century. The American word is thought to be of Carib origin, from Arawakan, now Haiti. The … word in English, in its current form, was first recorded in the early 1930s. 
Etymology of the word barbecue. Whether you spell it Barbecue, Barbeque, Barbaque, Barbicue, BBQ, B-B-Que, Bar-B-Q, Bar-B-Que, Bar-B-Cue, 'Cue, 'Que, Barbie, and just plain Q, the origins of the word barbecue, and that's how most dictionaries spell it, are pretty clear. 
Whatever the origin of the term, barbeque, barbecue, or BBQ in the United States has come to mean anything from slow cooking with heat and smoke (the traditional way), to grilling over an open fire, to the gathering itself where grilled or smoked meat is served. The Oxford English Dictionary states that the word barbeque was derived from the Spanish word barbacoa which itself was taken from a Haitian word barbacoa, meaning a framework of sticks set upon posts..
Subject: Re: where did the word barbeque come from From: mudshark-ga on 01 Nov 2002 06:47 PST. Subject: Re: where did the word barbeque come from From: sgtcory-ga on 01 Nov 2002 08:05 PST. Subject: Re: where did the word barbeque come from From: mudshark-ga on 01 Nov 2002 08:56 PST. Subject: Re: where did the word barbeque come from From: sgtcory-ga on 01 Nov 2002 10:25 PST. Subject: Re: where did the word barbeque come from From: carnegie-ga on 01 Nov 2002 17:02 PST. Subject: Re: where did the word barbeque come from From: sgtcory-ga on 01 Nov 2002 17:12 PST. 
In the United States, barbecue (also spelled barbeque or abbreviated BBQ) refers to a technique of cooking that involves cooking meat for long periods of time at low temperatures with smoke from a wood fire; often this is called pit barbecue, and the facility for cooking it is the barbecue pit. 
Again, back to the OED. It lists the first mention of the term “BBQ” in 1939 in a classified ad where letters are at a premium. Using the new Google Ngram tool, I charted the use of the term over the past two centuries. To power the Ngram tool, Google searches their library of online books for a specific term and charts its usage from 1800-2000. BBQ is barely a blip in the late thirties, but it starts making a steady ascent in the seventies. B. H. “Barbecue” Campbell was most famous for running the enormous XIT Ranch near Dalhart from 1885 to 1887. The ranch he had prior to his work in Texas was in Kansas. It was named the Bar-BQ ranch which is where he got his nickname.
Just where did the term barbeque originate? The Oxford English Dictionary states that the word barbeque was derived from the Spanish word barbacoa which itself was taken from a Haitian word barbacoa, meaning a framework of sticks set upon posts.. Meats and fish were placed on these posts and slowly cooked.
From Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbecue   The origins of both the activity of barbecue cooking and the word itself are somewhat obscure. Most etymologists bel … ieve that barbecue derives ultimately from the word barbacoa found in the language of the Taino taíno people of The. caribbean Some say barbeque is derived from barbacoa, the Spanish version of an Amerindian word having to do with roasting. Since the French had more influence in colonical America prior ot the 1700's, I would have to say the word derives from them.