Online test booking service. This service allows you to book for your Driver Knowledge Test (DKT), Driving Test, Hazard Perception Test (HPT), Driver Qualification Test (DQT) or Rider Training and Testing. 
Yet it depends when you're having your test. I had to re-book mine 'cause I failed and I have to wait just over a month for mine, but I guess it depends where you live. But I'd say a month AT LEAST. (Original post by Jacke02). practical. Last edited by Emmargh; 28-10-2010 at 15:08. I failed my theory (hazard perception) and can't book it for another 2 weeks. I know it may differ between centres, but how long on average does it take? Im quite ready to do it, although another 4/6 weeks i could probably pass.
You don’t need your driving instructor’s personal reference number but, if you have it, you can use it to check their availability. You must book by phone if you need an ‘upgrade’ test, eg automatic to manual transmission, or medium-sized lorry to a large lorry. You don’t need a theory test to book a: 1  taxi test. 2  tractor test. 3  test to upgrade from automatic to manual. 4  test to progress through the bike categories (progressive access).
If you are between 16½ and 18 years old, you may schedule a Class D (passenger) or M (motorcycle) road test only if you have a Driver's Education Certificate. If you do not have a Driver's Education Certificate, you must be 18 years of age or older to schedule a road test. Book a Class D Road Test. You may schedule an appointment for a Class D road test online or by calling the RMV Telephone Center. Click here for the Class D and M Road Test Information Sheet.
Book your practical driving test, riding test or approved driving instructor (. ) part 2 and 3 tests online. The service is available from 6am to 11:40pm. You don’t need a theory test to book a: 1  taxi test. 2  tractor test. 3  test to upgrade from automatic to manual. 4  test to progress through the bike categories (progressive access).
Book your driving test. Book your practical driving test, riding test or approved driving instructor (. ) part 2 and 3 tests online. The service is available from 6am to 11:40pm. This page is also available in Welsh (Cymraeg) . You don’t need a theory test to book a: 1  taxi test. 2  tractor test. 3  test to upgrade from automatic to manual. 4  test to progress through the bike categories (progressive access).
To get an earlier driving test date, you will initially need to book the soonest driving test appointment that is available. Once this is booked, you can check for test cancellations and take that slot. This can reduce the driving test waiting time by several weeks. 
The road test generally takes 15 to 20 minutes. Failing the Road Test: If you fail the road test you must wait a minimum of two weeks (14 days) before taking the road test again and must pay another $40 testing fee. Test results are valid for 2 years. You can make an appointment to take the road test by calling the DMV Phone Center. Road testing is only offered at DMV Hub Offices. The road test must be taken no more than 2 years after passing the knowledge test.
The road test generally takes 15 to 20 minutes. 1  If you fail the road test you must wait a minimum of two weeks (14 days) before taking the road test again and must pay another $40 testing fee. 2  Test results are valid for 2 years. You can make an appointment to take the road test by calling the DMV Phone Center. Road testing is only offered at DMV Hub Offices. The road test must be taken no more than 2 years after passing the knowledge test.
How long do I have to wait. The good news is that waiting lists are getting shorter. We aim to have a national average waiting time for a driving test of 10 weeks. Our ability to meet this target depends on the number of applications received. Accordingly, the average waiting time in driving test centres may vary above or below this 10-week target. 