Pica is more commonly seen in women and children, and in areas of low socioeconomic status. Particularly it is seen in pregnant women, small children, and those with developmental disabilities such as autism. The scant research that has been done on the causes of pica suggests that the disorder is a specific appetite caused by mineral deficiency in many cases, such as iron deficiency, which sometimes is a result of celiac disease or hookworm infection.
Pica is the practice of craving substances with little or no nutritional value. Most pregnancy and pica related cravings involve non-food substances such as dirt or chalk. The word pica is Latin for magpie which is a bird notorious for eating almost anything. It is true that the majority of women will experience cravings during pregnancy; however, most of these cravings are for things like pickles and ice cream. The reason that some women develop pica cravings during pregnancy is not known for certain. There is currently no identified cause; however, according to the Journal of American Dietetic Association there may be a connection to an iron deficiency.
Pica in humans has many different subgroups, defined by the substance that is ingested. Some of the most commonly described types of pica are eating earth, soil or clay (geophagia), ice (pagophagia) and starch (amylophagia). However, pica involving dozens of other substances, including cigarette butts and ashes, hair, paint chips, and paper have also been reported. In other cases, an individual may not report the pica to a physician simply because of a lack of knowledge of pica's potential medical significance. Because the eating behaviors of pica are not usually detected or reported, it is the complications of the behavior that bring it to attention.
Medical Definition of PICA. : an abnormal craving for and eating of substances (as chalk, ashes, or bones) not normally eaten that occurs in nutritional deficiency states (as aphosphorosis) in humans or animals or in some forms of mental illness—compare geophagy. : an abnormal desire to eat substances (as chalk or ashes) not normally eaten.
Pica is more commonly seen in women and children, where it affects people of all ages in these subgroups. Particularly it is seen in pregnant women, small children, and those with developmental disabilities such as autism. Children eating painted plaster containing lead may suffer brain damage from lead poisoning. 
Pica (/ˈpaɪkə/ PY-kə) is characterized by an appetite for substances that are largely non-nutritive, such as paper, clay, metal, chalk, soil, glass, or sand. The scant research that has been done on the causes of pica suggests that the disorder is a specific appetite caused by mineral deficiency in many cases, such as iron deficiency, which sometimes is a result of celiac disease or hookworm infection.
Definition. Pica is the persistent craving and compulsive eating of nonfood substances. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, classifies it as a feeding and eating disorder of childhood. In other cases, an individual may not report the pica to a physician simply because of a lack of knowledge of pica's potential medical significance. Because the eating behaviors of pica are not usually detected or reported, it is the complications of the behavior that bring it to attention.
Add Comment. 0 Vote. 0066c384. Pica is also the term for an eating disorder that occurs rarely in children. It is an appetite for eating substances that are not food. Years ago, when lead paint was used commonly in housing and furniture, it could cause lead poisoning. Here's a link. 
In this article. Pica is the persistent eating of substances such as dirt or paint that have no nutritional value. The Handbook of Clinical Child Psychology currently estimates that prevalence rates of pica range from 4%-26% among institutionalized populations. Before making a diagnosis of pica, the doctor will evaluate the presence of other disorders -- such as mental retardation, developmental disabilities, or obsessive-compulsive disorder -- as the cause of the odd eating behavior.