BREAKING DOWN 'Lemming'. In the animal kingdom, a lemming is a rodent known for periodic mass migrations that occasionally end in drowning. To contradict the herd mentality, many proactive investors react in an opposite fashion than what the majority of investors are doing.
A lemming refers to a purchase/wished-for-item which results from reading an enthusiastic post about a new fabulous product. Overcome by compulsion, readers follow like lemmings diving off a cliff. Originally coined in the alt.fashion newsgroup in the late 90s, the term has permeated numerous beauty boards/forums/sites. 
Full Definition of LEMMING. : any of various small short-tailed furry-footed rodents (as genera Lemmus and Dicrostonyx) of circumpolar distribution that are notable for population fluctuations and recurrent mass migrations. — lem·ming·like \-ˌlīk\ adjective. See lemming defined for English-language learners. 
Description and habitat [edit]. Lemmings weigh from 30 to 110 g (1 to 4 oz) and are about 7 to 15 cm (3 to 6 in) long. They generally have long, soft fur, and very short tails. They are herbivorous, feeding mostly on leaves and shoots, grasses, and sedges in particular, but also on roots and bulbs. At times, they will eat grubs and larvae. This same myth was also used in the Apple Computer 1985 Super Bowl commercial  Lemmings  and the popular 1991 video game Lemmings, in which the player must stop the lemmings from mindlessly marching over cliffs or into traps.
Lemming Synaptomys spp. Lemmings are small mouse-like animals that live in the tundra. In summer they are brown, but in winter they are all white. Their white coats help them to hide from the snowy owl and other predators who depend upon them for food in winter. 
The misconception of lemming mass suicide is long-standing and has been popularized by a number of factors. It was well enough known to be mentioned in . The Marching Morons , a 1951 short story by Cyril M. Kornbluth. This same myth was also used in the Apple Computer 1985 Super Bowl commercial  Lemmings  and the popular 1991 video game Lemmings, in which the player must stop the lemmings from mindlessly marching over cliffs or into traps.
The lemming is a tiny rodent that is found in or near the Arctic Circle and are thought to be related to voles and muskrats. The smallest species of lemming is the wood lemming measuring around 8 cm. The Norwegian lemming is roughly three times the size of a wood lemming and is one of the largest species of lemming. Lemmings do not hibernate and instead endure the tough Arctic winters, with the lemming having special protection from the cold from its thick fur. The mother lemming gives birth to around 7 baby lemmings and feeds the baby lemmings on her milk until they are big enough and strong enough to start looking for food by themselves. The food that lemmings eat is not very nutritious, so lemmings must eat lots of it.
DEFINITION of 'Lemming'. The act of an investor following the crowd into an investment, without doing research themselves; this usually results in losses. These investors are emotional and easily swayed by the current ongoings of how well or bad the market is doing. In the animal kingdom, a lemming is a rodent known for periodic mass migrations that occasionally end in drowning. To contradict the herd mentality, many proactive investors react in an opposite fashion than what the majority of investors are doing.
One myth deeply entrenched in our language is that of the Lemming Suicide Plunge - where lemmings, apparently overcome by deep-rooted impulses, deliberately run over a cliff in their millions, to be dashed to their deaths on the rocks below, or to drown in the raging ocean. There are four genera of lemmings-Collared Lemmings, True Lemmings, Wood or Red-Backed Lemmings and Bog Lemmings. They are found in the cooler northern parts of Eurasia and North America. The True Lemming is about 10 cm long, with short legs and tail.
lemming. n. 1. (Animals) any of various volelike rodents of the genus Lemmus and related genera, of northern and arctic regions of Europe, Asia, and North America: family Cricetidae. 