Kazakhstan is by far the largest of the Central Asian states of the former Soviet Union. It has borders with Russia, China, and the Central Asian countries of Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan. Kazakhstan is the world's ninth biggest country by size, and it is more than twice the size of the other Central Asian states combined.
Print this map. Print this map. Sandwiched at the crossroads of Asia and Europe, Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in the world, and (at one time) was the second largest republic in the former Soviet Union (U.S.S.R.). 
It is world s largest landlocked country. Kazakhstan shares its international boundaries with Russia in the north, China in the east, and Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan in the south east, south and south west respectively. Kazakhstan is a Central Asian country; it has very large area and hence it is ranked only ninth in the world.
Kazakhstan, also known as Republic of Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in terms of land area. It is situated in Central Asia and Europe and borders Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. Kazakhstan Map-Kazakhstan Located to the north western part of China besides the River Ural of Central Asia, Kazakhstan covers total land area of 2,717,300 sq. km and holds a population of 15,284,929 according to the population estimate of the year 2007.
Kazakhstan is the world's largest landlocked country by land area and the ninth largest country in the world; its territory of 2,724,900 square kilometres (1,052,100 sq mi) is larger than Western Europe. It has borders with (clockwise from the north) Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan, and also adjoins a large part of the Caspian Sea. The terrain of Kazakhstan includes flatlands, steppe, taiga, rock canyons, hills, deltas, snow-capped mountains, and deserts.
Kazakhstan lies in the north of the central Asian republics and is bounded by Russia in the north, China in the east, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan in the south, and the Caspian Sea and part of Turkmenistan in the west. Geography. Kazakhstan lies in the north of the central Asian republics and is bounded by Russia in the north, China in the east, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan in the south, and the Caspian Sea and part of Turkmenistan in the west. It has almost 1,177 mi (1,894 km) of coastline on the Caspian Sea.
Kazakhstan (/ˌkaːzəkˈstaːn/ ; Kazakh: қазақстан, Qazaqstan), officially the Republic of Kazakhstan, is a country in Central Asia, with a minor part west of the Ural River and thus in Europe. It has borders with (clockwise from the north) Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan, and also adjoins a large part of the Caspian Sea. The terrain of Kazakhstan includes flatlands, steppe, taiga, rock canyons, hills, deltas, snow-capped mountains, and deserts.
) is the capital of Kazakhstan. It is located on the Ishim River in the north portion of Kazakhstan, within Akmola Region, though administrated separately from the region as the city with special status. The 2014 census reported a population of 835,153 within the city, making it the second-largest city in Kazakhstan. Astana is located in central Kazakhstan on the Ishim River in a very flat, semi-arid steppe region which covers most of the country's territory. It is at is at 51° 10′ north latitude and 71° 26′ east longitude, and the 50th parallel north passes through the southern parts of the city.