The period of pruning, in which the brain actually loses gray matter, is as important for brain development as is the period of growth. For instance, even though the brain of a teenager between 13 and 18 is maturing, they are losing 1 percent of their gray matter every year. 
Brain Development. The brain grows at an amazing rate during development. At times during brain development, 250,000 neurons are added every minute! At birth, almost all the neurons that the brain will ever have are present. However, the brain continues to grow for a few years after birth. By the age of 2 years old, the brain is about 80% of the adult size. The Brain During Development. The nervous system develops from embryonic tissue called the ectoderm. The first sign of the developing nervous system is the neural plate that can be seen at about the 16th day of development. Over the next few days, a trench is formed in the neural plate-this creates a neural groove.
The development of the brain begins in the first few weeks after conception. Most of the structural features of the brain appear during the embryonic period (about the first 8 weeks after fertilization); these structures then continue to grow and develop during the fetal period (the remainder of gestation). Even more importantly, synapses are formed at a faster rate during these years than at any other time. In fact, the brain creates many more of them than it needs: at age two or three, the brain has up to twice as many synapses as it will have in adulthood (Figure 3).
The early stages of development are strongly affected by genetic factors; for example, genes direct newly formed neurons to their correct locations in the brain and play a role in how they interact. 12,13 However, although they arrange the basic wiring of the brain, genes do not design the brain completely. Even more importantly, synapses are formed at a faster rate during these years than at any other time. In fact, the brain creates many more of them than it needs: at age two or three, the brain has up to twice as many synapses as it will have in adulthood (Figure 3).
Asphyxia can have negative effects on all of the organs, including the brain. Asphyxia can occur in the womb, during delivery, or immediately after birth. Lack of oxygen, depending on how severe it is and how long it lasts, can have profound consequences to the brain and the rest of the body. 
The good news for them is that there is no benefit from a longer gestation time. Given the human brain’s incredible complexity, it is impossible for all or most of its wiring and organisation to occur inside the womb, and nine months is long enough for the initial, pre-birth stage of brain development. And 90 percent of this growth occurs by the age of 10. Think about animals not known for their intelligence, and how long they spend in development. A lamb is usually on its feet and walking within an hour of birth, and by this time it has already achieved one of its most significant neurological milestones.
The human brain is different. Even though humans spend a lot longer in the womb than sheep (average pregnancy of 270 days compared to 147 days for a sheep), it still takes the average human eight to nine months to become mobile on hands and knees, and twelve to fourteen months to walk. And 90 percent of this growth occurs by the age of 10. Think about animals not known for their intelligence, and how long they spend in development. A lamb is usually on its feet and walking within an hour of birth, and by this time it has already achieved one of its most significant neurological milestones.
In the first three years, a child’s brain has up to twice as many synapses as it will have in adulthood. Now that we’re a little more familiar with the fundamentals of the brain, let’s take a look at brain development in children. Between conception and age three, a child’s brain undergoes an impressive amount of change. At birth, it already has about all of the neurons it will ever have. Even more importantly, synapses are formed at a faster rate during these years than at any other time. In fact, the brain creates many more of them than it needs: at age two or three, the brain has up to twice as many synapses as it will have in adulthood (Figure 3).
Development of the brain. A great deal of brain development occurs before birth. During the second month after conception, for example, three major divisions of the brain become visible, including one division that will grow into the cortex. 1. At birth, the brain typically weighs about 350 grams, about a quarter of the weight of the adult brain, which is roughly 1400 grams, or 3 lbs. Overall brain weight increases rapidly in childhood and reaches adult levels fairly early.
The human brain is not a finished organ at birth -- in fact, another 10 or 12 years are needed before even a general development is completed. Structural maturation of individual brain regions and their connecting pathways is required for the successful development of cognitive, motor, and sensory functions. 