The carbon cycle is the biogeochemical cycle by which carbon is exchanged among the biosphere, pedosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere of the Earth. This diagram of the fast carbon cycle shows the movement of carbon between land, atmosphere, and oceans in billions of tons of carbon per year.
The Carbon Cycle. All living things are made of carbon. Carbon is also a part of the ocean, air, and even rocks. Because the Earth is a dynamic place, carbon does not stay still. It is on the move! In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to some oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide. Plants use carbon dioxide and sunlight to make their own food and grow. The carbon becomes part of the plant. Plants that die and are buried may turn into fossil fuels made of carbon like coal and oil over millions of years
Along with the nitrogen cycle and the water cycle, the carbon cycle comprises a sequence of events that are key to making the Earth capable of sustaining life; it describes the movement of carbon as it is recycled and reused throughout the biosphere. The global carbon budget. This diagram of the fast carbon cycle shows the movement of carbon between land, atmosphere, and oceans in billions of tons of carbon per year.
The carbon cycle is the process in which carbon travels from the atmosphere into organisms and the Earth and then back into the atmosphere. Plants take carbon dioxide from the air and use it to make food. Animals then eat the food and carbon is stored in their bodies or released as CO2 through respiration. Carbon is also found abundantly in our atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide, or CO2. Additionally, carbon is also trapped within the Earth in the form of fossil fuels. The carbon cycle is essentially nature's way of reusing carbon atoms in different ways and in varying places.
Research Combustion. Combustion is the process by which a liquid or gaseous fuel is oxidized (burned), creating carbon dioxide (in the case of hydrocarbons), water, other chemicals, and heat. Combustion of fossil fuels is currently the chief source of energy for humanity. 
A box-diffusion carbon cycle model with upwelling 295This is a linear combination of the concentration and the concentration gradient atthe lower boundary of the model, and is readily incorporated in fmite-differencenumerical solutions of equation (4). A box-diffusion carbon cycle model with upwelling 293 the polar waters are assumed to have a vanishingly small area, the local downwellingvelocity is consistently infmite and the flux leaving the mixed layer at the sides w A Ccmust appear in the lower boundary condition on the deep ocean.
Definition of CARBON CYCLE. 1. : the cycle of carbon in the earth's ecosystems in which carbon dioxide is fixed by photosynthetic organisms to form organic nutrients and is ultimately restored to the inorganic state (as by respiration, protoplasmic decay, or combustion). 2. Medical Definition of CARBON CYCLE. : the cycle of carbon in living beings in which carbon dioxide is fixed by photosynthesis to form organic nutrients and is ultimately restored to the inorganic state by respiration and protoplasmic decay.
The carbon cycle is the process by which carbon moves from the atmosphere into the Earth and its organisms and then back again. Gain a deeper understanding of how the carbon cycle works in this lesson. Carbon is also found abundantly in our atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide, or CO2. Additionally, carbon is also trapped within the Earth in the form of fossil fuels. The carbon cycle is essentially nature's way of reusing carbon atoms in different ways and in varying places.