1 divided each genera into smaller groups called species. 2  designed a system of naming organisms called binomial (two names) nomenclature (system of naming) which gave each organism 2 names-genus (plural = genera) and species (plural = species) names. Based on Carolus Linnaeus binomial nomenclature system, each organism is given a 2-part scientific name. An organism may have more than one common name, but will only have one scientific name. For example-mountain lion, cougar and puma are all common names for the same animal.
The system of naming organisms devised by Carl von Linne (linné-1707), 1778 better known As Carl, linnaeus was revolutionary for its time and is still in widespread use. Today trained as a physician but a lifelong devotee of, Botany linnaeus radically simplified the naming process of, plants animals and other life. forms Overview. The system of naming organisms devised by Carl von Linne (linné-1707), 1778 better known As Carl, linnaeus was revolutionary for its time and is still in widespread use. today
Such a name is called a binomial name (which may be shortened to just binomial), a binomen or a scientific name; more informally it is also called a Latin name. The first part of the name identifies the genus to which the species belongs; the second part identifies the species within the genus. Taxonomy includes both nomenclature and classification. Its first stages (sometimes called  alpha taxonomy ) are concerned with finding, describing and naming species of living or fossil organisms. Binomial nomenclature is thus an important part of taxonomy as it is the system by which species are named.
* TAXONOMY--the branch of science that classifies and names living things. * NOMENCLATURE--a system for naming things. In biology there is a two-word system that is used to name organisms. It is called BINOMIAL NOMENCLATURE (a two named--naming system). 
The origin of the word binomial is thus: 'bi' means two and 'nom' in 'nomial' refers to name, thus a species with a binomial name has a two-part name. The binomial system was formed by Carolus Linnaeus. He gave many species a binomial name and the system is still used today. An example of a scientific/binomial name is Pan troglodytes (chimpanzee). The first part of the name is the genus and MUST be capitalised. The second part (here, troglodytes) is the species and MUST NOT be capitalised
His system of binomial nomenclature--that is, denoting an organism by a genus name for a common relationship and a species name as a specific descriptor--vastly streamlined the naming process. Overview. The system of naming organisms devised by Carl von Linne (linné-1707), 1778 better known As Carl, linnaeus was revolutionary for its time and is still in widespread use. today
In modern usage, the first letter of the first part of the name, the genus, is always capitalized in writing, while that of the second part is not, even when derived from a proper noun such as the name of a person or place. Similarly, both parts are italicized when a binomial name occurs in normal text. Taxonomy includes both nomenclature and classification. Its first stages (sometimes called  alpha taxonomy ) are concerned with finding, describing and naming species of living or fossil organisms. Binomial nomenclature is thus an important part of taxonomy as it is the system by which species are named.
Linnaeus's most important contribution was the naming system he devised to accompany his classification system. In contrast to the complex and at times chaotic rules used by other botanists, Linnaeus proposed that each type of organism be called by a simple, two-part (binomial) name. 
Prior to the adoption of the modern binomial system of naming species, a scientific name consisted of a generic name combined with a specific name that was from one to several words long. Together they formed a system of polynomial nomenclature. Taxonomy includes both nomenclature and classification. Its first stages (sometimes called  alpha taxonomy ) are concerned with finding, describing and naming species of living or fossil organisms. Binomial nomenclature is thus an important part of taxonomy as it is the system by which species are named.