Coral are medusoid marine animals that are in the phylum cnidaria. Most of the coral population is in large groups at the sea floor. A coral head is a colony of myriad genetically similar polyps. Each polyp is a spineless animal typically very small. Jellyfish are polypoid, free-swimming members of the phylum Cnidaria. Jellyfish are invertebrates. that means they have no bones, exoskeleton, or shell to protect them. the majority of their body is made up of water.
Cnidarians are incredibly diverse in form, as evidenced by colonial siphonophores, massive medusae and corals, feathery hydroids, and box jellies with complex eyes. Yet, these diverse animals are all armed with stinging cells called nematocysts. Cnidarians are united based on the presumption that their nematocysts have been inherited from a single common ancestor. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, which means stinging nettle.
Cnidaria is a phylum or scientific classification involving about 9000 species of animals that mostly can be found on water. Animals that belong to this scientific phylum or class are called “cnidarians”. Cnidarians have distinct cells called “cnidocytes” which are mainly used for catching prey. Most members of the Cnidaria phylum have jelly-like bodies like the common jellyfish known to people. Other animals belonging to this group include corals, sea pens, hydras, and sea anemones. For some people, some members of the Cnidaria phylum may seem to look more like plants but are actually animals that have similar structures to other “common” animals like fishes, birds, reptiles, and mammals. The last group of Cnidarians is called Hydrozoa and this group includes a very diverse collection of sea creatures and forms. Most members of the Cnidaria group eat plankton and other animals to survive.
Share. By Laura Klappenbach. Cnidarians (Cnidaria) are a group of aquatic animals that includes jellyfish, corals, sea anemones, and hydras. The basic form of the cnidarian body is quite simple and consists of a gastrovascular cavity with a single opening through which food is ingested and waste is released
Learn more about this article. Cnidarians are a diverse group of aquatic animals. More than 9,000 species are part of the Phylum Cnidaria, and all species are aquatic. Cnidarians are widespread in marine habitats and less common in fresh water. This interesting group of invertebrates includes many charismatic organisms such as hydras, sea fans, jellyfishes, sea anemones, corals, and the Portuguese man-of-war.
Cnidaria is a phylum containing over 9,000 species found only in aquatic and mostly marine environments. All cnidarians have radial symmetrical. There are two major body forms among the Cnidaria-the polyp and the medusa. Sea anemones and corals have the polyp form, while jellyfish are typical medusae. When you look at them, you can see that these body forms are the same except that one is upside down.
Hydrozoa, the most diverse group with siphonophores, hydroids, fire corals, and many medusae; and. Scyphozoa, the true jellyfish. Click on the buttons below to learn more about Cnidaria. Visit the Cnidaria WWW Server for information and links dealing with all manner of cnidarians. Yet, these diverse animals are all armed with stinging cells called nematocysts. Cnidarians are united based on the presumption that their nematocysts have been inherited from a single common ancestor. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, which means stinging nettle.
The exclusively aquatic phylum Cnidaria is represented by polyps such as sea anemones and corals, and by medusae such as jellyfish. A polypoid or a medusoid cnidarian is a radially or biradially symmetrical, uncephalized animal with a single body opening, the mouth. Two body forms are characteristic of cnidarians -- the polyp and the medusa. With a few exceptions, a columnar polyp is sedentary, being attached to or burrowed into the substratum by the end opposite the mouth. Thus its tentacles are typically considered to point upward and outward.