Add-ins for Microsoft Excel. Free downloads for Excel 2016 (32- and 64-bit), 2013, 2010, 2007, 2003; desktop version of Office 365. The add-ins that you will find on this page are, in fact, an accumulation of our more than 11 years of experience with Microsoft Excel development.
How to remove COM Add-ins. COM add-ins are compiled add-ins. They are created outside of Excel by special programs and designed to work within Excel. Excel frequently runs into memory problems if COM add-ins are installed. They can cause regular add-ins not to work correctly, as Excel runs out of memory.
To install an Excel add-in. To install an add-in that is typically installed with Excel, such as Solver or the Analysis ToolPak, run the setup program for Excel or Microsoft Office and choose the Change option to install the add-in. After you restart Excel, the add-in should appear in the Add-Ins available box. Some Excel add-ins are located on your computer and can be installed or activated by clicking Browse (in the Add-Ins dialog box) to locate the add-in, and then clicking OK. Some Excel add-ins require running an installation package.
To activate an Excel add-in. Click the File tab, click Options, and then click the Add-Ins category. In the Manage box, click Excel Add-ins, and then click Go. The Add-Ins dialog box appears. In the Add-Ins available box, select the check box next to the add-in that you want to activate, and then click OK.
A lot of useful add-ins for Excel 2013-2003: find and remove duplicates, merge workbooks, combine duplicate rows, join cells, and more. Click on the category to see all related add-ins, or see the list of all add-ins for Excel on the All add-ins tab.
To inactivate an Excel add-in. Click the File tab, click Options, and then click the Add-Ins category. In the Manage box, click Excel Add-ins, and then click Go. In the Add-Ins available box, clear the check box next to the add-in that you want to inactivate, and then click OK.
In Control Panel, click Programs and Features (Windows 7 and Windows Vista) or Add/Remove Programs (Windows XP). Do one of the following: If you installed Excel as part of Microsoft Office, click Microsoft Office in the list of installed programs, and then click the Change button.