The Cost to Install Egress Window Wells estimator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Simply enter your zip code and the number of units needed, next click update and you will see a breakdown on how much it should Cost to Install Egress Window Wells at your home.
If you’re looking for 2014 breakdown Cost to Install Egress Window Wells with materials, and how much a contractor might be, you’ve come to the right place. As an experienced licensed home improvement contractor, I know first hand what it should cost for various levels — from Basic, Better, and of course the best.
Window Well Exchanges are needed for the following reasons: 1  The old well may be rusted, and unattractive. 2  Replacing the window well will instantly enhance the look of your landscape with a cleaner, finished look. 3  Rusty window wells can be a harmful to your family and pets.
1 Rusty window wells can be a harmful to your family and pets. 2  Homeowners with smaller wells may choose to replace them to instantly allow more light into their dark basement. 3  Replacing the well with a larger one, depending on your current window, may bring the window up to egress code; which provides value and safety.
1 Replacing the window well will instantly enhance the look of your landscape with a cleaner, finished look. 2  Rusty window wells can be a harmful to your family and pets. 3  Homeowners with smaller wells may choose to replace them to instantly allow more light into their dark basement.
Remove fill from the area to accommodate the new or cleaned gravel and window well. To allow for proper drainage, a layer of gravel should extend about 4 inches below the bottom of the steel window well, which should itself extend at least 8 inches below the window frame and at least 4 to 6 inches above ground level.
Price Range. The average price of a window well cover is $734. Most people spend in the range of about $625 to $840, but the price can vary considerably. While the simplest and cheapest covers may cost just several hundred dollars, the most complex or unusual ones could cost as much as $1,300.
1. Take your prefabricated window well and place it against your ground-level window to get an idea of the area you need to dig out. Mark a perimeter of about 6 inches (or 15 cm) around the well with your shovel as a guide for digging.