The sea-floor spreading begins at the mid-ocean ridge, which forms along a crack in the oceanic crust. Along the ridge, molten material that forms several kilometers beneath t … he surface, rises and erupts. At the same time, older rock moves outward on both sides of the ridge. Rockhound. Spreading of seafloor occurs at the mid-ocean rifts, where there is a continuous flow of material rising from the mantle. There is not a unanimously accepted theory as to the cause of the rifting that is taking place.
The idea that the seafloor itself moves (and carries the continents with it) as it expands from a central axis was proposed by Harry Hess from Princeton University in the 1960s. At the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (and in other areas), material from the upper mantle rises through the faults between oceanic plates to form new crust as the plates move away from each other, a phenomenon first observed as continental drift.
The sea-floor spreading begins at the mid-ocean ridge, which forms along a crack in the oceanic crust. Along the ridge, molten material that forms several kilometers beneath t … he surface, rises and erupts. What are the steps in the process of sea-floor spreading? In sea-floor spreading,the sea floor spreads apart along both sides of the mid-ocean ridge as a new crust is added.As a result,the ocean floors move like conveyor belts,carryi … ng the continents along with them. 39 people found this useful. Jeff Acklin. 351,349 Contribution
In the general case, sea floor spreading starts as a rift in a continental land mass, similar to the Red Sea-East Africa Rift System today. The process starts with heating at the base of the continental crust which causes it to become more plastic and less dense. At the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (and in other areas), material from the upper mantle rises through the faults between oceanic plates to form new crust as the plates move away from each other, a phenomenon first observed as continental drift.
Sea floor spreading is actually the creation of new oceanic  basaltic crust at divergent plate boundaries called mid-ocean  ridges. Material from the asthenosphere becomes m … olten as  convection currents cause it to rise toward the thin upraised  boundary between plates there. Rockhound. Spreading of seafloor occurs at the mid-ocean rifts, where there is a continuous flow of material rising from the mantle. There is not a unanimously accepted theory as to the cause of the rifting that is taking place.
In sea-floor spreading,the sea floor spreads apart along both sides of the mid-ocean ridge as a new crust is added.As a result,the ocean floors move like conveyor belts,carryi … ng the continents along with them. Rockhound. Spreading of seafloor occurs at the mid-ocean rifts, where there is a continuous flow of material rising from the mantle. There is not a unanimously accepted theory as to the cause of the rifting that is taking place.
Age of oceanic crust; youngest (red) is along spreading centers. Seafloor spreading is a process that occurs at mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust is formed through volcanic activity and then gradually moves away from the ridge. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. At the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (and in other areas), material from the upper mantle rises through the faults between oceanic plates to form new crust as the plates move away from each other, a phenomenon first observed as continental drift.
They named the process sea-floor spreading. Moreover, they proposed that the topographic contrast between the ridges and the oceanic abyssal plains was as a consequence of the thermal contraction of the crust as it cooled and spread away from either side of the ridge axis. 