Licenses. You will need a commercial pilot's license to fly for an airline or private company. To obtain your commercial pilot's license, you must have accumulated 250 documented flying hours and pass a written test. You will also have to pass a flight test administered by an FAA-certified flight examiner. Commercial pilot candidates must be instrument-rated, which requires 40 hours of documented flying time on instruments rather than flying by visual methods.
You can gain ratings with either a CPL or PPL. A Instrument Rating is the primary rating that you need to add to your qualifications to become an airline pilot. This allows you to fly in cloud and navigate with reference to the aircraft instruments. Some airlines operate aircraft powered by gas turbines
To become a professional airline pilot you will need to obtain an Airline Transport Pilot’s Licence (ATPL). You would usually start your career as a first officer after gaining at least ‘frozen ATPL’. When you have completed enough flying hours you can apply for a full ATPL and qualify as an airline captain. 
You will not be qualified to apply to the airlines for a piloting job. The airlines require a 4-year college degree, a first class medical certification, an Air Transport Pilot Certificate, and typically 2,000 hours or so of flight time. A lot of that can be paid time, but you should expect to spend a total of $50,000 to $80,000 before you sit in the flight deck of an airliner. If you want to fly for money, you can become a general commercial pilot. The basic requirement for the Commercial Airman Certificate is 250 hours total flight time. Virtually all commercial certificate holders also secure the instrument and multi-engine ratings, and most secure the instructor ratings
Secondly, to become an airline pilot, you must hold a Commercial Pilots License (CPL) or Commercial Pilot Certificate in some countries. This allows you to make money as a pilot, and usually requires about 200 flight hours to gain, and cannot be gained until you are 18 years old. A Instrument Rating is the primary rating that you need to add to your qualifications to become an airline pilot. This allows you to fly in cloud and navigate with reference to the aircraft instruments.
Decide what you want to fly. FAA's rules for getting a pilot's license (certificate) differ depending on the type of aircraft you fly. You can choose among airplanes, gyroplanes, helicopters, gliders, balloons, or airships. If you are interested in flying ultralight vehicles, you don't need a pilot's license. 
It is not necessary to have a college degree to get a small plane pilot’s license. However, college is instrumental to landing a job as a commercial pilot. Although no specific type of degree is necessary to meet airline pilot qualifications, courses in math, English, physics, and aeronautics will help land the job. There are rather strict airline pilot qualifications for becoming an airline pilot and it will take some time, but it will be well worth the effort once you sit in the pilot’s seat.
Airline Pilot Qualifications. If you enjoy taking to the skies, becoming an airline pilot is one of the best ways to do it. They are frequently in the air, have control of the aircraft, and are traveling all the time. There are rather strict airline pilot qualifications for becoming an airline pilot and it will take some time, but it will be well worth the effort once you sit in the pilot’s seat.
To obtain a commercial pilot's license, 250 hours of flight time, in addition to 1,500 hours of flight time for an airline transport pilot certificate is required. Flight training can be completed through degree programs or through flying schools approved by the FAA. Learn how to become an airline pilot. Research the education and career requirements, training and licensure information, and experience required for starting a career in aviation.