Confidence votes 27.8K. The study of plants is called botany, the person who studies plants is called a botanist. Botany is a field of Life Sciences which looks at the classification and physical characteristics of plants. A person who studies the interaction of plants and animals in an environment is called an ecologist or environmentalist. A person who grows plants is called a horticultur
Botany is the scientific study of plants. Plants, to most people, means a wide range of living organisms from the smallest bacteria to the largest living things-the giant sequoia trees. 
Botany is the scientific study of plantlife. As a branch of biology, it is also sometimes referred to as plant science(s) or plant biology. Botany covers a wide range of scientific disciplines that study the structure, growth, reproduction, metabolism, development and diseases of plants.
Biology is the study of life. Plant biology (a. k. a. botany) is the study of plants, which includes among other things, how plants evolved on earth, their structure, how they grow and develop, and how they interact with the environment. 
What is Botany-Definition. Botany is the study of plants. In botany scientists find answers to questions about plants and what they can be used for. A plant is something that is alive and grows by using something called photosynthesis. Plants usually need water and sunlight to live and grow. Botany is kind of like zoology, but for plants! Zoology is the study of animals. The genetics of plants, the way they breed and grow, and the way humans impact plants are all studied in botany. Flowers, leaves, stems, tree trunks, and a lot more are also studied.
Most commonly, the study of plants is called Botany, but it can also be referred to as Plant Biology, Phytology, or Plant Science. A person who studies the interaction of plants and animals in an environment is called an ecologist or environmentalist. A person who grows plants is called a horticulturist. + 70 others found this useful.
The study of plants is called botany, the person who studies plants is called a botanist. Botany is a field of Life Sciences which looks at the classification and physical cha … racteristics of plants. A person who studies the interaction of plants and animals in an environment is called an ecologist or environmentalist. A person who grows plants is called a horticulturist. + 70 others found this useful.
Botany, also called plant science (s) or plant biology, is the science of plant life and a branch of biology. A botanist or plant scientist is a scientist who specializes in this field of study. The term botany comes from the Ancient Greek word βοτάνη (botanē) meaning  pasture , grass, or  fodder ; βοτάνη is in turn derived from βόσκειν (boskein), to feed or to graze. In the 19th and 20th centuries, new techniques were developed for the study of plants, including methods of optical microscopy and live cell imaging, electron microscopy, analysis of chromosome number, plant chemistry and the structure and function of enzymes and other proteins.