Scoliosis is an unnatural curvature of the spine. The normal shape of the spine includes a top-of-the-shoulder curve and a lower back curve. If your spine is curved from side to side or in an “S” or “C” shape, you probably have scoliosis. According to the Scoliosis Research Society, more than 80 percent of scoliosis cases have no identifiable cause (SRS).
1 Lordosis. 2  Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 3  Kyphosis. 4  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature). 5  Scoliosis. 6  A person with scoliosis has a sideways curve to their spine. 1 Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 2  Kyphosis. 3
1 The thoracic (rib cage) portion of the spine has a normal forward curvature, called kyphosis, which has a normal range (20 to 50 degrees). 2  This forward curvature is matched by reverse curvatures (called lordosis or sway) in the cervical spine (the neck) and the lumbar spine (the low back). Normal spine curvature. The normal spine, when viewed from the side, is not a straight line as it is when viewed from the front or back. 1 
There are three main types of spine curvature disorders, including: 1  Lordosis. 2  Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 3  Kyphosis. 4  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature). 5  Scoliosis. 1 Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 2  Kyphosis. 3
Many people have some curve in their spine. In fact, spinal curves that are less than 10 degrees are considered a normal variation of the spine. Curves that are greater than 10 degrees may be monitored (to see whether the curve is getting worse) or may need treatment.
An abnormal curve of the lumbar spine is lordosis, also called sway back. An abnormal curve of the thoracic spine is kyphosis, also called hunchback. An abnormal curve from side-to-side is called scoliosis. 
Spinal curvature is not abnormal. In fact, it is very natural for the spine to curve from front to back in some areas. However, when a patient’s spine curves abnormally it can become a detriment to their quality of life. 1 Lordosis – Abnormal lordosis is an abnormal curvature of the normal curvature of the spine. 2  This can occur when the lumbar and cervical curvatures are over-pronounced, and can cause extreme pain or discomfort.
Scoliosis is an unnatural curvature of the spine. The normal shape of the spine includes a top-of-the-shoulder curve and a lower back curve. Scoliosis causes the spine to curve from side to side or in an S or C... Read more ». The normal shape of the spine includes a top-of-the-shoulder curve and a lower back curve. If your spine is curved from side to side or in an “S” or “C” shape, you probably have scoliosis. According to the Scoliosis Research Society, more than 80 percent of scoliosis cases have no identifiable cause (SRS).
1 Scoliosis is an abnormal curve in the spine. 2  There are several types of scoliosis based on the cause and age when the curve develops; the majority of patients have no known cause. 3  The most common symptom of scoliosis is curvature of the spine. There is a normal lordosis in the upper (cervical) spine and the lower (lumbar) spine. People with scoliosis develop additional curves to either side of the body, and the bones of the spine twist on each other, forming a C or an S shap
Scoliosis is a disorder that causes an abnormal curve of the spine, or backbone. The spine has normal curves when looking from the side, but it should appear straight when looking from the front. Kyphosis is a curve in the spine seen from the side in which the spine is bent forward. There is a normal kyphosis in the middle (thoracic) spine. Lordosis is a curve seen from the side in which the spine is bent backward. There is a normal lordosis in the upper (cervical) spine and the lower (lumbar) spine. People with scoliosis develop additional curves to either side of the body, and the bones of the spine twist on each other, forming a C or an S shape in the spine.