Neither. Elephants are placental mammals, which form a different group of mammals from either the marsupials (pouched mammals) or the monotremes (egg-laying mammals). 1 Marsupials of the World Marsupials are a type of mammal that differs from all others in that they have a marsupium (or pouch), which is what gives them their name. 2  In this pouch, which is formed by ….
Female marsupials and placental mammals have nipples, from which the babies suckle. 3 people found this useful. 1  Marsupials of the World Marsupials are a type of mammal that differs from all others in that they have a marsupium (or pouch), which is what gives them their name. 1 Marsupials of the World Marsupials are a type of mammal that differs from all others in that they have a marsupium (or pouch), which is what gives them their name. 2  In this pouch, which is formed by ….
Marsupials (such as kangaroos) are pouched mammals which  give birth to live young. The young (called joeys) are very  undeveloped, with the embryo resembling a bean. The jo … eys are then  carried in a pouch, where they latch on to a teat which swells in  their mouth, to continue their development. Most male marsupials, with the exception of the largest  species, the Red Kangaroo, Eastern Grey and Western Grey Kangaroos,  have a bifurcated or two-pronged penis to accommodate the  females' two vaginas.    Monotremes are egg-laying mammals. The young are not born,  but hatched.
The class Mammalia (mammals) is divided into two subclasses based on reproductive techniques: egg-laying mammals (see List of monotremes and marsupials) and mammals which give live birth (therians), which itself has two infraclasses: pouched mammals (marsupials) and placental mammals (eutherians). 
Placental mammals are mammals that give birth to fully developed live young, such as like humans, for instance. They are classed within the group of animals known as eutherian … s. Dogs, cats, livestock, rodents, giraffes, rhinoceroses, etc, are all placental mammals. Most male marsupials, with the exception of the largest  species, the Red Kangaroo, Eastern Grey and Western Grey Kangaroos,  have a bifurcated or two-pronged penis to accommodate the  females' two vaginas.    Monotremes are egg-laying mammals. The young are not born,  but hatched.
1 Marsupials have very short gestation periods (the time the young spend in the mother's tummy). 2  The Virginia opossum (the only marsupial in Michigan) has a gestation period of only 13 days, and the young are only the size of a question mark when they are born. 1 The Virginia opossum (the only marsupial in Michigan) has a gestation period of only 13 days, and the young are only the size of a question mark when they are born. 2  The Red Kangaroo, native to Australia, has a 30 day gestation period and the single baby weighs only 1 gram (.035 ounces) when it is born.
Marsupial Mammals. Marsupials are the group of mammals commonly thought of as pouched mammals (like the wallaby and kangaroo at left). They give live birth, but they do not have long gestation times like placental mammals.
Marsupials have very different reproductive systems to that of placental mammals. Female marsupials have two vaginas, or what are called paired lateral vaginae. These are for the purpose of transporting the sperm to the womb, but there is a midline pseudovaginal canal for actually giving birth. Most male marsupials, with the exception of the largest  species, the Red Kangaroo, Eastern Grey and Western Grey Kangaroos,  have a bifurcated or two-pronged penis to accommodate the  females' two vaginas.    Monotremes are egg-laying mammals. The young are not born,  but hatched.
Marsupials are an infraclass of mammals living primarily in Australasia and the Americas. A distinctive characteristic, common to most species, is that the young are carried in a pouch. Well-known marsupials include kangaroos, wallabies, the koala, possums, opossums, wombats and the Tasmanian devil.