GROWING NOTES. Amaranth is responsive to nitrogen and phosphorous. Plants grown in average garden soil will be four-feet to six-feet tall, while those grown in rich soil or compost may reach over eight feet. Optimum soil is a well-drained loam but both plants will do well in all but poorly aerated clay soils.
How to Grow Amaranth Plants: Growing Amaranth is very easy. The plants prefer a warm climate, full sun, and a well drained soil. Water them during dry periods, once or twice per week. Add a general purpose fertilizer once or twice a season. Originating in warmer climates, Amaranth is heat and drought resistant.
Amaranth is a family that includes weeds, herbs and flowers. Some varieties of this plant are harvested for food. In ancient times the Inca and Aztecs harvested grain Amaranth. In South America and Asia this plant is harvested as a grain crop. You can find it in health food stores in the United States of America.
Here are some more good reasons to grow amaranth plants: Photo by Dysviz. 1  It's a very nutritious leaf and grain. 2  It makes yummy spinach. 3  Amaranth leaves make nice salad greens. 4  They are not as slimy as the other tropical leafy greens that are supposed to serve as lettuce substitutes in hot climates.
Overview. Amaranth is an annual plant with some varieties grown for blooms and other varieties grown for food. When you choose a sunny spot for amaranth plants, some varieties will grow up to 2 feet tall and others may grow as tall as 6 feet.
Introduction. Amaranth that is grown as a grain crop is related to but not the same as the smaller plant grown for its flowers. Taller grain amaranth does still have the same brilliant colors and flowers though. It’s not a kind of grass as most grains are, but amaranth is grouped together with the other grains anyway.
How to Plant Amaranth. Amaranth plants grow well in average to rich, well-draining soil with equal amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus. Like many vegetable crops, it needs at least 5 hours of sunlight a day to do well.
Amaranth plants can easily top 5 feet in height and they are fairly bushy. Make sure you plant it where there is lots of space. You will want to sow your seeds several weeks after the last frost, when the soil has warmed up to at least 65F.