The disease is caused by the yellow fever virus and is spread by the bite of the female mosquito. It infects only humans, other primates, and several species of mosquitoes. In cities, it is spread primarily by mosquitoes of the Aedes aegypti species. In most cases, symptoms include fever, chills, loss of appetite, nausea, muscle pains particularly in the back, and headaches. Symptoms typically improve within five days. In some people within a day of improving, the fever comes back, abdominal pain occurs, and liver damage begins causing yellow skin.
Yellow fever is a disease caused by yellow fever virus, a member of the flavivirus (FLAY-vih-vy-rus) group of viruses. The disease gets its name because it often causes jaundice * , which tints the skin yellow, and a high fever. Yellow fever also can cause kidney failure and uncontrolled bleeding, or hemorrhaging (HEM-rij-ing). 
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Yellow fever is caused by infection with a flavivirus. This virus replicates in the blood and tissues, potentially damaging the body's vital organs. The liver is often affected. When liver function declines, the skin and eyes become yellow, a condition known as jaundice, and the body's ability to form blood clots is compromised. Difficult-to-control bleeding may occur from areas such as the intestinesr.
1 The yellow in the name refers to the jaundice that affects some patients. 2  Up to 50% of severely affected persons without treatment will die from yellow fever. 3  There are an estimated 200 000 cases of yellow fever, causing 30 000 deaths, worldwide each year, with 90% occurring in Africa. 1 The number of yellow fever cases has increased over the past two decades due to declining population immunity to infection, deforestation, urbanization, population movements and climate change. 2  There is no specific treatment for
1 Yellow fever is an acute viral haemorrhagic disease transmitted by infected mosquitoes. 2  The yellow in the name refers to the jaundice that affects some patients. 3  Up to 50% of severely affected persons without treatment will die from yellow fever. 1 The number of yellow fever cases has increased over the past two decades due to declining population immunity to infection, deforestation, urbanization, population movements and climate change. 2  There is no specific treatment for
Mosquitoes spread yellow fever. Yellow fever can cause headaches, chills and fever. In severe cases of yellow fever the liver can fail. It is advisable to wear insect repellent when traveling to areas where yellow fever is endemic. Yellow fever can cause headaches, chills and fever. Yellow fever is a disease spread to humans by mosquitoes. The effects of yellow fever on the human body usually include fever, chills, and vomiting. Some people also experience backache and headache.
Yellow fever, known historically as yellow jack, yellow plague, or bronze john, is an acute viral disease. In most cases, symptoms include fever, chills, loss of appetite, nausea, muscle pains particularly in the back, and headaches. Symptoms typically improve within five days. In some people within a day of improving, the fever comes back, abdominal pain occurs, and liver damage begins causing yellow skin.
Initial symptoms of yellow fever include sudden onset of fever, chills, severe headache, back pain, general body aches, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, and weakness. Most people improve after these initial symptoms. Yellow fever virus is found in tropical and subtropical areas in South America and Africa. Yellow fever virus is a very rare cause of illness in U.S. travelers to these areas.
A few different species of mosquitoes transmit the yellow fever virus; some breed in urban areas, others in jungles. Mosquitoes that breed in the jungle also transmit yelllow fever to monkeys, who, in addition to humans, are a host for the disease. When transmitted to humans, the yellow fever virus can damage the liver and other internal organs and be potentially fatal. The World Health Organization estimates there are 200,000 cases of yellow fever worldwide each year, resulting in 30,000 deaths.
In severe cases, a person may develop high fever, jaundice (a condition that involves yellow discoloration of the skin and the whites of the eyes), bleeding (especially from the gastrointestinal tract), and eventually shock and failure of many organs. Roughly 20-50% of people who develop severe illness may die. Yellow fever virus is found in tropical and subtropical areas in South America and Africa. Yellow fever virus is a very rare cause of illness in U.S. travelers to these areas.