The ancient Mayans lived in what is now known as southern Mexico and northern Central America including Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, Yucatan Yucatán peninsula And El. Salvador their descendants still live there, today and many of them speak The mayan. languages The ancient Mayans lived in what is now known as southern Mexico and northern Central America including Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, Yucatan Yucatán peninsula And El. salvador
Best Answer: They still live as far north as the Yucatan Peninsula (Mexico), down through Central America, particularly around Honduras, El Salvador, Belize and Guatemala. Mayans did NOT live in Peru (those were the Incas) and they did NOT live in Mexico City or central Mexico (those were the Aztecs). This is not to say there weren't any individuals living there, but these were major Indian forces that although may have shared some similarities (in our eyes), they had different beliefs.
Report Abuse. The ancient Mayans lived in what is now known as southern Mexico and northern Central America including Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, and El Salvador. Their descendants still live there today, and many of them speak the Mayan languages. Over 1,000,000 Mayans live in Chiapas -- mostly in the highlands area. Best Answer: In Classic times, the Maya occupied much the same territory that they do today: All of the Yucatan yucatán, Peninsula, guatemala And, belize plus neighboring: areas the eastern half Of tabasco And, chiapas and the northwest regions Of honduras And El. salvador
The Maya people lived (and still live today) in Honduras, El Salvador, Yucatan, Belize, Guatemala and the Campeche area of southern Mexico. The heartland is around Yaxchilan a … nd Tikal in Guatemala. Today there are around three million Mayas speaking 30 dialects which all evolved from Classic Mayan. 
Maya Indians. The Maya Indians were a group of early people who lived in regions from Central America to Mexico. They were a vast and large group and well civilized. The Maya Indians early culture and forms of learning have fascinated archaeologists, Sociologists, and Anthropologists. 
“Millions of Maya people live in Central America and throughout the world. The Maya are not a single entity, a single community, or a single ethnic group. They speak many languages including Mayan languages (Yucatec, Quiche, Kekchi and Mopan), Spanish and English. 
By 1542, the Spahish established a Viceroyalty of Peru. The Maya. The Maya Civilization lived in Central America, including south Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras between 2500 BCE and 1500 CE. The Classic Maya Civilization 250-900 CE developed a hieroglyphic writing system. 
The Maya. Today, more than seven million Maya live in their original homelands of Mesoamerica and in countries all over the world. Two thousand years ago, the ancient Maya developed one of the most advanced civilizations in the Americas. 