the reference value for the water content in the gaseous phase. is obtained. The dew points of the methane (or ethane) + carbon dioxide. + water mixtures are measured by means of a chilled mirror. instrument. The input pressure (PI6) of the gas to the chilled. mirror instrument is set using a regulator valve (RV2). 
Assuming pure Ethane, dew point temperature at 20 bar suction pressure should be around -10 deg C or so. With an inlet gas temperature to compressor of 10-15 deg C, it maybe doable with one compression (thermodynamic) stage depending on poly-tropic efficiency of the compressor. 
Results. The experimental dew points obtained for the methane+ethane+butane system are presented in Table 1. The water content in the vapour phase and the dew point curves of the mixtures generated with the moisture-generation system were also determined, and the results of the experiments are collected in Table 2. Prior to the study of methane+ethane+butane and methane+ethane+butane+water mixtures, the performance of both the analytical method and the experimental procedures used for the present work was determined [2] .
The hydrocarbon dew point is the temperature (at a given pressure) at which the hydrocarbon components of any hydrocarbon-rich gas mixture, such as natural gas, will start to condense out of the gaseous phase. Our dryers do not change hydrocarbon dew point. Our dryer do affect water dew point. We always need to verify what kind of dew point we’re discussing. In summary, we do not have equipment for reducing the hydrocarbon content or hydrocarbon dew point of gas, at least not in a predictable or systematic way.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For the meteorological dew point, see Dew point. The hydrocarbon dew point is the temperature (at a given pressure) at which the hydrocarbon components of any hydrocarbon-rich gas mixture, such as natural gas, will start to condense out of the gaseous phase. It is often also referred to as the HDP or the HCDP. In the United States, the hydrocarbon dew point of processed, pipelined natural gas is related to and characterized by the term GPM which is the gallons of liquifiable hydrocarbons contained in 1,000 cubic feet (28 m 3) of natural gas at a stated temperature and pressure.
The hydrocarbon dew point of a gas is a different concept from the water dew point, the latter being the temperature (at a given pressure) at which water vapor present in a gas mixture will condense out of the gas. Contents. In the United States, the hydrocarbon dew point of processed, pipelined natural gas is related to and characterized by the term GPM which is the gallons of liquifiable hydrocarbons contained in 1,000 cubic feet (28 m 3) of natural gas at a stated temperature and pressure.
Ethane (/ˈɛθeɪn/ or /ˈiːθeɪn/) is an organic chemical compound with chemical formula C 2 H 6. At standard temperature and pressure, ethane is a colorless, odorless gas. Ethane is isolated on an industrial scale from natural gas, and as a byproduct of petroleum refining.
3 are compared, the dew temperature of methane+ethane+butane mixture is 273.15 K at 60×10 5 Pa (Fig. 2) . If 100.79×10 −6 kg m −3 (STP) (y =0.00012) of water is added, the dew temperature of the mixture is displaced by approximately 2 K (Fig. 3) . Prior to the study of methane+ethane+butane and methane+ethane+butane+water mixtures, the performance of both the analytical method and the experimental procedures used for the present work was determined [2] .
Hydrocarbon Dew Point Control. Hydrocarbon dew point refers to the temperature at any pressure range or the pressure at any temperature range where hydrocarbons begin to condense from the gas mixture. At the same temperature, heavier hydrocarbons’ dew point temperature increases as the pressure is reduced. Hydrocarbon dew point control (HCDPC) can be used for the extraction of NGL from gas streams.