You'll need to phone your ASDA Mobile's Customer Services team for your PUK code. For security reasons, it's only ASDA Mobile that can legally provide you with a PUK code to unlock your ASDA Mobile SIM card. This page contains specific information that may be of use to ASDA Mobile customers. ADSA Mobile offers a number of low-price mobile phone tariffs, as well as some great deals on Pay-as-you-go handsets and a SIM-only deal.
Most phone companies allow you to use your mobile phone when travelling overseas. This service is known as ‘international roaming’. 1  Check if you have international roaming. 2  Charges for using your mobile phone overseas. Using your mobile phone or tablet overseas will usually be more expensive than using it at home in Australia. While it can cost 10c to use a MB of data in Australia, this could cost $15.00 overseas. Here are some things to keep in mind: Most phone companies allow you to use your mobile phone when travelling overseas. This service is known as ‘international roaming’. 1  Check if you have international roaming. 2  Charges for using your mobile phone overseas. 3  Tips for minimising your bill.
Asda Mobile. Asda Mobile only offers pay-as-you-go (PAYG) deals, so those looking for a pay-monthly plan with a subsidised handset will need to look elsewhere. You'll have to buy a new phone or use an old or second-hand model, providing it is unlocked and able to accept Asda SIM cards. Tesco Mobile. Tesco Mobile has a comprehensive offering, with a range of PAYG, pay-monthly and SIM-only deals to suit every budget. You can pay as you go in the traditional way or buy a bundle of calls, texts or data from your top-up credit to use throughout the month.
Tethering is permitted. If you choose a bundle that includes data, you can use your phone as a mobile hotspot to get other devices online, such as a tablet. This process is known as tethering and is useful as a short-term solution to connect to the internet, when you are out and about and away from wi-fi. The maximum tethering limit is 2GB. 
1 To get WorldTraveller, text ADD to 40508 from your mobile to opt in. 2  See Vodafone* for more details. 3  You'll be charged 5/day every time you use your phone, it's a good idea to do all your calls/texts/web surfing on one day, or limit it to just a few days of your trip, so you're not charged every day. There are two ways to access the internet via your mobile while abroad. You can use your mobile's 3G or 4G signal, in which case you'll pay your mobile provider (a lot) for data usage. Or you can connect via Wi-fi, wirelessly hitching up to a local broadband connection.
1 You'll be charged 5/day every time you use your phone, it's a good idea to do all your calls/texts/web surfing on one day, or limit it to just a few days of your trip, so you're not charged every day. 2  A day is from is classified as midnight to 11.59pm, local time. 3  Call 191 free from your Vodafone Mobile to opt in. There are two ways to access the internet via your mobile while abroad. You can use your mobile's 3G or 4G signal, in which case you'll pay your mobile provider (a lot) for data usage. Or you can connect via Wi-fi, wirelessly hitching up to a local broadband connection.
Users with a ASDA Mobile account should be able to use their phone overseas, but note the following: 1  You need to contact Customer Services to enable International roaming. This page contains specific information that may be of use to ASDA Mobile customers. ADSA Mobile offers a number of low-price mobile phone tariffs, as well as some great deals on Pay-as-you-go handsets and a SIM-only deal.
Not only that, but there are great deals on offer with ASDA Mobile Bundles. You can buy 500 texts for only £12 which puts them at just 2.4p each. Or, the Talkaholic Bundle gives you 500 minutes for just £20 which works out as a bargain 4p/minute. This is about as good value as it’s possible to get. ASDA Mobile started out in April 2007 and is run by the supermarket ASDA. It’s a virtual network that relies on Vodafone and, like its parent company, it focuses on a no-frills low-cost business model. ASDA Mobile’s extremely low prices have won it national awards and its phones and.