Everything was just as I had imagined, Houmas House is a gorgeous venue for an outdoor ceremony. We had the ceremony in the front lawn under the oaks and the reception in the Pavilion. Multiple guests commented afterwards it was one of the most beautiful weddings they had ever ... Read More been to. I took my bridal portraits at Houmas House and the venue is absolutely breathtaking. The fee to use the grounds was $160, but we didn't realize that it actually cost us a lot more than the grounds fee! Brides are given access to a changing room in the very back of the pavilion ...
1 If your wedding ceremony goes over three hours, an additional fee of $500 or $800 will apply. 2  If the count of attendees will go over 75, a $20 charge per person will apply. 3  All packages do not include the tax, which is set at 7.5% and gratuity is 20%. 1 The more food items are added on the menu, the higher the price gets. 2  If your wedding ceremony goes over three hours, an additional fee of $500 or $800 will apply. 3  If the count of attendees will go over 75, a $20 charge per person will apply. 4
Indeed, the property is so stunning and romantic that it was voted the Number One Ceremony Location by the Professional Wedding Guild of South Louisiana. Houmas House Plantation is also home to one of the “Top 20 Restaurants in America.” Latil’s Landing offers guests a truly unforgettable, fine dining experience. Houmas House offers visitors much more than a tour of a plantation home. Here, guests feel transported back to a time of antebellum, Southern splendor. The owner invites you to slow down and enjoy a leisurely time here.
After working ten feet away from each other for six months, Lori remembers a moment when picking sour apples off the little tree behind her apartment as the first time she really “saw” Ryan. I love how this seemingly unremarkable moment of post-date fun will forever be imprinted in her mind. Turns out, it was perfect for the venue and the festive atmosphere I wanted at the wedding–not to mention, I saved $1,500 by buying the floor model! I wouldn’t have bought it had I not taken a picture, so I would advise any bride to do whatever it takes to get snapshots of the dresses you try on.
We welcome you to use the property and hope that it will make your photographs very special. Appointments are required, please phone (225) 473-9380. Photography times at Houmas House are as follows, and are subject to availability: Monday and Tuesday from 9AM to 5PM (must be completed by 5PM). A photo session fee of $400 allows use of the grounds by a photographer and three guests. A fee of $24 per person will be charged for any additional guests. These fees apply to children, regardless of ages. A private dressing area is included.
Our wedding planner and event staff have the experience and creativity to bring any bride's vision to life.&nbsp. From the very elegant to the very simple ceremony, Houmas House can provide a great experience for the wedding party and guests. From an intimate dinner party to a grand reception, wedding designs can be delivered turn-key. ~ View our Wedding Gallery ~.
Average Wedding Cost. The average wedding cost in the United States is $26,444. Couples typically spend between $19,833 and $33,055 but, most couples spend less than $10,000. This does not include cost for a honeymoon. Understanding wedding cost now can help you with your wedding budget later. Enter your US zip code to get an idea of how much other couples spent on their wedding in your area
We had the perfect wedding at Houmas House Plantation! Though the price is a little higher than other venues, it includes almost everything you need in the price-catering, full bar, tables, chairs, linens, and even a wedding coordinator. You also don't need to spend a lot of ... I took my bridal portraits at Houmas House and the venue is absolutely breathtaking. The fee to use the grounds was $160, but we didn't realize that it actually cost us a lot more than the grounds fee! Brides are given access to a changing room in the very back of the pavilion ...