Beef-Lamb-Veal Roasts-Steaks-Chops. For roasts of lamb, beef, or veal: place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the steak will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly.
3. Cooking Temperature. There are varying opinions about what the perfect temperature to cook a roast beef but in my experience starting the beef in a very hot oven 425F/220C/Gas 7 for the first 30 mins then lower the temperature to 375F/190C/Gas5 for the remaining cooking time then .... 
Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. Continue roasting the meat until the internal temperature has reached 5 or 10 degrees below the desired doneness. When roasting beef it is important to select the proper cut of roast beef to produce moist and tender meat when the roast beef is cooked to the desired doneness. Using the proper beef cooking times and temperatures is critical to the end results.
Using an accurate meat thermometer is the best way to ensure proper beef doneness. Whether you are looking for an eye round roast cooking time or a beef tenderloin cooking time, use the following chart as a guide for any roast beef cooking time and cooking temperature. I cooked a rump roast today, not a rolled one though, but used cooking temperature and cooking times from this chart. Cooked at 300 degrees for a little over 2 hours. Was a little pink inside, just the way I wanted it!.
RecipeTips. The proper beef cooking times and the correct beef cooking temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various cuts of beef can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef. I cooked a rump roast today, not a rolled one though, but used cooking temperature and cooking times from this chart. Cooked at 300 degrees for a little over 2 hours. Was a little pink inside, just the way I wanted it!.
Internal Temperature Cooking Chart Beef-Pork-Poultry-Fish and Seafood-Baked Goods copyright 2004 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. This web site may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission and appropriate credit given. Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly.
For approximate cooking times for use in meal planning, see the following chart compiled from various resources. Cooking times are based on starting with beef at refrigerator temperature (40 °F). Remember that appliances and outdoor grills can vary in heat. Use a meat thermometer to check for safe cooking and “doneness” of beef. http://www.fsis.usda.gov/Fact_Sheets/Beef_from_Farm_to_Table/index.asp. 
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. When roasting beef it is important to select the proper cut of roast beef to produce moist and tender meat when the roast beef is cooked to the desired doneness. Using the proper beef cooking times and temperatures is critical to the end results.
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 