The actual name of the theatre is Shakespeare's Globe Theatre and  it was built in 1599. Shakespeare himself, of course, had nothing  to do with it, except possibly as some … kind of inspiration, and his  plays were performed in it.
(Newser) – Archaeologists say they have discovered the remains of an Elizabethan theater where some of William Shakespeare's plays were first performed. Experts from the Museum of London have uncovered a yard and gallery walls from the Curtain Theatre in Shoreditch, just east of London's business district.
The theater is where some of William Shakespeare's plays were first performed. (AP Photo/Museum of London Archaeology). A newly discovered portrait of William Shakespeare, presented by the Shakespeare Birthplace trust, in central London, Monday March 9, 2009.
(Answer #12). Shakespeare's plays were performed in the Globe theatre. The Globe Theatre was constructed in 1599. There were two primary parts of the globe theatre: the outer stage and the inner stage. The outer stage was a rectangular platform and the inner stage was at the very back of the outer stage.
Obviously, there are many differences from modern day performance. Shakespeare's plays were performed in many different … theatres, the most famous of which is the Globe Theatre. It was the most successful theatre in Elizabethan England although the Fortune Theatre was bigger.
THE GLOBE Many of Shakespeare’s plays were first performed at the Globe, although his plays were performed at other theatres and many playwrights wrote for the Globe.Who built the first Globe?The first Globe was built by the company Shakespeare was in – the Lord Chamberlain’s Men.
Shakespeare's plays were performed in various places, but the best known works had their most significant performances at the Globe Theatre in the Southwark district of London. The link below has tons of information on Shakespeare's Globe Theatre.
What plays were performed at the Globe?Probably the first Shakespeare play to be performed at the Globe was Julius Caesar, in 1599. Some other Shakespeare plays first performed there are: As You Like It; Hamlet; Measure for Measure; Othello; King Lear; Macbeth and Antony and Cleopatra.