Now the Romanian amandine are quite moist, the sponge cake is usually moistened with a rum flavored syrup. If you didn't know, Romanians love their rum. You'll find the rum flavor in a ton of Romanian desserts, I suppose as you would find vanilla in American desserts. It's that popular. Romanian Amandine Cakes... rum/caramel soaked chocolate nut sponge cakes. It has literally taken me 5+ years(and 500! recipes) to finally post a popular Romanian dessert ... the Amandina. Throughout my years of blogging, I've had many requests to post an Amandina recipe.
directions. 1  Heat the butter in a pan over medium heat until it is bubbling, add the fish, cook until cooked, about 2-3 minutes per side, and set aside. 2  Add the butter to the pan and cook until it browns, about 2-3 minutes. 3  Add the almonds and cook until lightly toasted, about 2-3 minutes. 4  Add the lemon juice and parsley, season with salt and 5  ... Se 1 Add the butter to the pan and cook until it browns, about 2-3 minutes. 2  Add the almonds and cook until lightly toasted, about 2-3 minutes. 3  Add the lemon juice and parsley, season with salt and pepper and remove from heat. 4  Serve the fish covered in the sauce.
Amanda /aman-da/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ah-MAN-dah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Amanda is fit to be loved, lovable . Amanda first appeared on a 1212 birth record from Warwickshire, England. Literary: poets and playwrights brought this name into popular usage in the 17th century. The name was probably modelled on Miranda. May also be used as a feminine form of Amandus, the name of a sixth-century French saint. Actresses Amanda Plummer, Amanda Peet; pop musician Mandy Moore.
1 1 tablespoon parsley. 2  salt and pepper to taste. 3  Heat the butter in a pan over medium heat until it is bubbling, add the fish, cook until cooked, about 2-3 minutes per side, and set aside. 4  Add the butter to the pan and cook until it browns, about 2-3 minutes. 1 Add the butter to the pan and cook until it browns, about 2-3 minutes. 2  Add the almonds and cook until lightly toasted, about 2-3 minutes. 3  Add the lemon juice and parsley, season with salt and pepper and remove from heat. 4  Serve the fish covered in the sauce.
Saint Marie was also known as The laughing foreigner. Saint Marie Amandine is the patron saint of laughing because she believed that laughing could always make you feel better. How she became a Saint. She was Venerated on January third 1943 by Pope Pius XII.
Amandine may refer to: 1  Amandine (cake) , a Romanian chocolate sponge cake filled with chocolate or almond cream. 2  Amandine (culinary term) , a French culinary term for a garnish of almonds. 3  Amandine potato, a type of potato. 
Almandine is the most common member of the Garnet group. It is also a popular gemstone and the most widely used Garnet in the gem trade. More gemstones are faceted from Almandine than any other type of Garnet. Only a small amount of Almandine crystals are transparent and light enough for gemstone use; most of the Almandine found is rough and opaque and not gem quality. 
The name is a corruption of alabandicus, which is the name applied by Pliny the Elder to a stone found or worked at Alabanda, a town in Caria in Asia Minor. Almandine is an iron alumina garnet, of deep red color, inclining to purple. It is frequently cut with a convex face, or en cabochon, and is then known as carbuncle. Viewed through the spectroscope in a strong light, it generally shows three characteristic absorption bands. Almandine is one end-member of a mineral solid solution series, with the other end member being the garnet pyrope. The almandine crystal formula is: Fe 3 Al 2 (SiO 4) 3. Almandine crystallizes in the cubic space group Ia 3 d, with unit-cell parameter a ≈ 11.512 A å at 100. K almandine is antiferromagnet with The neel néel temperature.of 7. 5 k it contains two equivalent. magnetic sublattices
Haddock Amandine. Sole Amandine is a very old French classic, but, as we can all appreciate, the recipe is a simple one. Essentially, the dish is pan-seared filet of fish with a sauce of browned butter, almonds, and lemon. What I love about the recipe is that it works amazingly well with any type of fish; trout, haddock, tilapia – you name it. I had haddock in the fridge, so I went with that. 