Learn more about flight delay compensation. Get Money Back for Delayed Flights. Delayed flights seem like a normal part of travelling by air. Sometimes your flight is on time and sometimes it can be an hour late, two hours late or even more. If the delay caused you to suffer more severely, then you may be owed more money. This could include instances where you missed a connecting flight and had to buy a new ticket to make your next connection. You may be compensated for that ticket’s cost on top of the
Based on these two variables the amount of compensation can be calculated. In order to qualify for compensation for delayed flights the flight delay would have to be a minimum of 3 hours. A passenger could be entitled to 250, 300, 400 or 600 Euros based on the flight circumstances, as each case is different. 'This is our second successful claim with Blueway. We have recently just received compensation for 26 family members for a flight delay from Manchester to Cyprus. The professionalism of Blueway was excellent. We were always kept up to date with the progress of our claim.
Aviva pays 25 for each 12-hour period you're delayed, up to a maximum of 250. If your flight is delayed for 24 hours or cancelled by the airline, you can claim for abandonment of your trip if you decide not to travel. If your flight is delayed by more than 12 hours and you decide to abandon your trip, you can claim up to 5,000 for any unused travel and accommodation. LV's Premier policy will give you 25 for each 12-hour period you're delayed, up to a maximum of 250.
If you've been on a flight departing from or flying to Israel and you've been denied boarding or your flight is cancelled, delayed or brought forward, you may be entitled to benefits under the Israel Aviation Services Law (Compensation and Assistance for Flight Cancellation or Change of Conditions), 2012. 
Under EU rules, airlines must pay compensation for cancelled or heavily delayed flights, however, they can escape this under some 'extraordinary circumstances'. This can include sudden severe weather events, such as the hurricane and the volcanic ash cloud episode almost three years ago will fall into this bracket. However, in 2009 the ECJ ruled in the Sturgeon case that compensation should also apply to long delays of more than three hours. Passengers can claim by telling the airline their flight number, names and reason for the delay.
If you do take the flight. You can claim up to £600 in compensation if the delay is the airline’s responsibility-for example, if they didn’t get enough bookings or there was a technical fault. You won’t get compensation if it was delayed because of something like bad weather or a strike. If not, you can claim from the airline later. You also have a legal right to: 1  help with costs-if the cancellation delays you 2 or more hours. 2  compensation-if you’d be delayed 2 or more hours by the replacement flight offered.
If you're delayed by more than three hours or your flight's cancelled, under EU rule 261/2004 you are often entitled to between 90 and 450 in compensation-and it's possible to claim this for free. If your flight is delayed by more than 12 hours and you decide to abandon your trip, you can claim up to 5,000 for any unused travel and accommodation. LV's Premier policy will give you 25 for each 12-hour period you're delayed, up to a maximum of 250.
Passengers can claim compensation of between 250 (190) and 600 (450) if their flight was delayed by more than three hours and they meet the wider criteria for compensation (eg, travelling on an EU flight, delay has to be the airline's fault and so on). The amount depends on the length of the flight and the delay. If your flight is delayed by more than 12 hours and you decide to abandon your trip, you can claim up to 5,000 for any unused travel and accommodation. LV's Premier policy will give you 25 for each 12-hour period you're delayed, up to a maximum of 250.
Claim compensation. You’re legally entitled to get compensation if the delay is the airline’s responsibility and either: 1  the replacement flight delays your arrival by 2 or more hours. 2  your flight was cancelled at least 7 days before departure. If not, you can claim from the airline later. You also have a legal right to: 1  help with costs-if the cancellation delays you 2 or more hours. 2  compensation-if you’d be delayed 2 or more hours by the replacement flight offered.