Pernicious Anemia. Pernicious anemia (PA) is an autoimmune disorder in which the body fails to make enough healthy red blood cells (RBCs). The body requires vitamin B-12 and a type of protein called intrinsic factor (IF) to make red blood cells. Vitamin B-12, or cobalamin, is found in certain foods and medications
Pernicious anaemia is a condition in which the body's immune system attacks stomach cells that produce a protein vital for the absorption of vitamin B12. Vitamin B12, which is found naturally in meat, fish and dairy products, is absorbed into the body through the stomach. 
Pernicious anemia (per-NISH-us uh-NEE-me-uh) is a condition in which the body can't make enough healthy red blood cells because it doesn't have enough vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is a nutrient found in some foods. The body needs this nutrient to make healthy red blood cells and to keep its nervous system working properly. Outlook. The term “pernicious” means “deadly.” The condition is called pernicious anemia because it often was fatal in the past, before vitamin B12 treatments were available. Now, pernicious anemia usually is easy to treat with vitamin B12 pills or shots.
Specific Types of Treatment. Pernicious anemia usually is easy to treat with vitamin B12 shots or pills. If you have severe pernicious anemia, your doctor may recommend shots first. Shots usually are given in a muscle every day or every week until the level of vitamin B12 in your blood increases.
Back to Top Causes. Pernicious anemia is a type of vitamin B12 anemia. The body needs vitamin B12 to make red blood cells. You get this vitamin from eating foods such as meat, poultry, shellfish, eggs, and dairy products. A special protein, called intrinsic factor, helps your intestines absorb vitamin B12. 
1 Pernicious anemia is a condition caused by too little vitamin B12 in the body. 2  It is a form of vitamin B12 deficiency anemia. 3  Vitamin B12 helps the body make healthy red blood cells and helps keep nerve cells healthy. 4  It is found in animal foods, including meat, fish, eggs, milk, and other dairy products. 1 The most common cause of pernicious anemia is the loss of stomach cells that make intrinsic factor. 2  Intrinsic factor helps the body absorb vitamin B12 in the intestine. 3  The loss of parietal cells may be due to destruction by the body's own immune system.
One way pernicious anemia can develop is by loss of gastric parietal cells, which are responsible, in part, for the secretion of intrinsic factor, a protein essential for subsequent absorption of vitamin B 12 in the ileum. Historically, pernicious anemia (PA) was detected only after it caused symptoms and the anemia was well established, i.e., liver stores of B 12 had been depleted. The pernicious aspect of the disease – prior to the discovery of treatment – was its fatal prognosis, similar to leukemia at that time.
Overview. Pernicious anemia is a type of anemia. The term anemia usually refers to a condition in which the blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells. In pernicious anemia, the body can't make enough healthy red blood cells because it doesn't have enough vitamin B12. Outlook. The term “pernicious” means “deadly.” The condition is called pernicious anemia because it often was fatal in the past, before vitamin B12 treatments were available. Now, pernicious anemia usually is easy to treat with vitamin B12 pills or shots.
If your pernicious anemia is caused by something other than a lack of intrinsic factor, you may get treatment for the cause (if a cause can be found). For example, your doctor may prescribe medicines to treat a condition that prevents your body from absorbing vitamin B12. Pernicious anemia usually is easy to treat with vitamin B12 shots or pills. If you have severe pernicious anemia, your doctor may recommend shots first. Shots usually are given in a muscle every day or every week until the level of vitamin B12 in your blood increases.
Pernicious anemia is a condition in which the body produces insufficient numbers of red blood cells because the intestines cannot absorb vitamin B12 properly. Vitamin B12 is essential for the production of red blood cells in the bone marrow. Oral vitamin B12 supplements are not absorbed well because patients with pernicious anemia lack adequate intrinsic factor in the stomach lining. Treatment with vitamin B12 injections can prevent the permanent neurological damage that may result from deficiency of this vitamin.