The Aidensfield Arms. 2,515 pages on this wiki. The Aidensfield Arms is in the centre of the village and the only public house in Aidensfield. Used as a 'local' by many of Heartbeat' s characters, many storylines revolve around it and most of the later episodes usually end in there. 
Heartbeat is mainly set in Aidensfield, a sleepy fictional village upon the North Yorkshire Moors, which is filmed on location in Goathland. Many of Heartbeat's storylines revolve around the village as it is home to The Aidensfield Arms, the Aidensfield Garage, the Doctor's Surgery and the Aidensfield Police House.
The ITV medical drama series The Royal was originally a spin-off from Heartbeat, with the twelfth-series Heartbeat episode Out of the Blue serving as an introductory pilot for the show, with the Aidensfield police officers conducting parts of their investigations in The Royal hospital. In 2001 Heartbeat came sixth in the UK TV ratings list with a peak audience of 13.82 million and it was sixth again in 2003 with 12.8 million viewers. In autumn 2008 typical viewing figures were around 6 million per episode.
Show Summary. Heartbeat is set in the 1960s, in the fictional Yorkshire town of Aidensfield. The first seasons focus on the lives of London policeman Nick Rowan, who moves to the village with his doctor wife Kate. Nick's police colleagues feature in the series, under the leadership of the crusty but kindhearted Sergeant Blaketon. Greengrass is a regular patron of the Aidensfield Arms hotel, run by George Ward and his pretty niece Gina. It's here at the pub that we see much of the day-to-day social interaction in the series. Heartbeat is based on the Constable books by Nicholas Rhea.There have been a load of Heartbeat coppers over the years.
Heartbeat is not just popular here in the UK, but it also has a huge following. in many other countries such as Australia, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Estonia, China, Cyprus, Greece, and most of. Europe. It is shown in Kenya, India, Hong Kong, Israel, South Africa, the Caribbean ..... the list goes on. In the whole of Heartbeat's 17 years, there have only been a few buildings in the village that have been used as regulars. They are the Post office, Aidensfield Stores, the Goathland Hotel (Aidensfield Arms), Mostyn's Garage, (now Scripps), Greengrass's.
The title Heartbeat was chosen to represent the bobby 's beat and the medical connotations of the word 'heart' (bobby being British slang for a police officer (from Robert Peel), and medical connotations referring to the medical themes that have featured regularly in the show since its inception). In 2001 Heartbeat came sixth in the UK TV ratings list with a peak audience of 13.82 million and it was sixth again in 2003 with 12.8 million viewers. In autumn 2008 typical viewing figures were around 6 million per episode.
1 She later returned to Aidensfield to assist Nick Rowan in the rearing of Katie (Nick's and Kate's daughter), taking over that role from Nick's mother Ruby. 2  Eileen then stayed on after the marriage of Nick and Jo Weston to continue to assist with Katie. 1 Proprietor of Aidensfield Garage, mechanic, taxi operator and funeral director, though in later series he increasingly appeared to be long past retirement age and incapable of undertaking such a workload.
Heartbeat. The 1960's period series Heartbeat was filmed from 1991 until May 2009 a grand total of 18 years, the longest decade yet! During this time they filmed 18 series and 372 episodes. Goathland made an ideal location for Yorkshire Television to film in. 
In early series, Aidensfield Garage featured only peripherally; it was run by Malcolm Mostyn (as late as episode 7.6, long after his apparent departure, a sign outside the premises still read Mostyn's Garage and Funeral Services). 1 Proprietor of Aidensfield Garage, mechanic, taxi operator and funeral director, though in later series he increasingly appeared to be long past retirement age and incapable of undertaking such a workload.
Vanuatu. In the whole of Heartbeat's 17 years, there have only been a few buildings in the village that have been used as regulars. They are the Post office, Aidensfield Stores, the Goathland Hotel (Aidensfield Arms), Mostyn's Garage, (now Scripps), Greengrass's. farm, and Glendale House (Dr.Ferrenby's surgery)