burning something is combining a fuel with oxygen. If you burn a hydrocarbon, you get water (hydrogen and oxygen) and carbon dioxide (carbon and oxygen). If you burn hydrogen gas (H 2) then you get 2 H 2 + O 2 2 0. H 2 0 is ...water...and you have a balanced equation, so there are no other products.
Combustion /kəmˈbʌs.tʃən/ or burning is a high-temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant, usually atmospheric oxygen, that produces oxidized, often gaseous products, in a mixture termed as smoke. The incomplete (partial) combustion of a hydrocarbon with oxygen produces a gas mixture containing mainly CO 2, CO, H 2O, and H 2. Such gas mixtures are commonly prepared for use as protective atmospheres for the heat-treatment of metals and for gas carburizing.
Coal is mostly carbon. During complete combustion, carbon is oxidised to carbon dioxide: carbon + oxygen → carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas greenhouse gases: the gases responsible for the global warming-carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and CFCs. Increasing concentrations of it in the atmosphere contribute to global warming. Hydrocarbon fuels contain carbon and hydrogen. 
Hydrocarbon combustion refers to the type of reaction where a hydrocarbon reacts with oxygen to create carbon dioxide, water, and heat. Hydrocarbons are molecules consisting of both hydrogen and carbon. They are most famous for being the primary constituent of fossil fuels, namely natural gas, petroleum, and coal. 
Uncatalyzed combustion in air requires fairly high temperatures. Complete combustion is stoichiometric with respect to the fuel, where there is no remaining fuel, and ideally, no remaining oxidant. Thermodynamically, the chemical equilibrium of combustion in air is overwhelmingly on the side of the products. The incomplete (partial) combustion of a hydrocarbon with oxygen produces a gas mixture containing mainly CO 2, CO, H 2O, and H 2. Such gas mixtures are commonly prepared for use as protective atmospheres for the heat-treatment of metals and for gas carburizing.
The products of complete combustion of hydrocarbons and oxy-hydrocarbons are carbon dioxide and water. Many fossil fuels contain the elements sulfur and nitrogen, which are co … nverted to their oxides by complete combustion; this is one of the primary causes of air pollution. Hydrocarbons (which are only hydrogen and carbon) require oxygen to combust, and they form water and carbon dioxide. So a general formula might look something like this: CnH … m + (m/4 + n)O2 → (m/2)H2O + nCO2 where n is the number of carbons in the hydrocarbon and m is the number of hydrogens.
Hydrocarbons are mainly used as fuels. The burning of a substance in air is called combustion. In chemistry, combustion (or burning) means reacting with oxygen. Combustion is a form of oxidation. The main products of combustion from hydrocarbons are carbon dioxide, water and heat. The reaction is exothermic (it gives out heat)
Write a balanced chemical equation to represent the complete combustion of methane gas. In a particular experiment, excess methane was combusted in limited oxygen to produce soot (solid carbon) and water vapour. Write a balanced chemical equation to represent the incomplete combustion of methane in this experiment. 
Description. In this demonstration a solid hydrocarbon burns and a pump is used to draw the gaseous combustion products over a piece of cobalt chloride paper and through limewater to show the presence of water and carbon dioxide respectively. Demonstration. In this demonstration a solid hydrocarbon burns and a pump is used to draw the gaseous combustion products over a piece of cobalt chloride paper and through limewater to show the presence of water and carbon dioxide respectively.