Cold symptoms can last up to two weeks, but most people recover after a week to 10 days. If your symptoms persist, call your doctor. You may be suffering from allergies, not a cold. If you have a high fever, severe sinus pain or a cough that produces mucus, you may have a more serious illness. A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Symptoms usually start two to three days after you've been infected, and colds can last for up to two weeks. The first symptoms of influenza, including fever, chills, headache, and body aches, often begin to go away after about 2 or 4 days. In some cases, these symptoms will last 5 days or longer
Flu symptoms are usually more severe than cold symptoms and come on quickly. Symptoms of flu include sore throat, fever, headache, muscle aches and soreness, congestion, and cough. Swine flu in particular is also associated with vomiting and diarrhea. If cold symptoms begin quickly and are improving after a week, then it is usually a cold, not allergy. If your cold symptoms do not seem to be getting better after a week, check with your doctor to see if you have developed an allergy or sinusitis.
Cold symptoms usually begin with a sore throat, which usually goes away after a day or two. Nasal symptoms, runny nose, and congestion follow, along with a cough by the fourth and fifth days. Fever is uncommon in adults, but a slight fever is possible. Children are more likely to have a fever with a cold. If cold symptoms begin quickly and are improving after a week, then it is usually a cold, not allergy. If your cold symptoms do not seem to be getting better after a week, check with your doctor to see if you have developed an allergy or sinusitis.
There are over 200 viruses that can cause a cold. The common cold is an upper respiratory infection caused by a virus that creates inflammation in the nose and throat. Symptoms include a runny nose, sore throat, cough, watery eyes, sneezing, congestion, headaches, fatigue, and sometimes a low-grade fever. 
However, the most contagious phase is said to be the first three to four days, when the symptoms are severe. In short, common cold may last for a few days to a few weeks, depending on various factors. While some people may recover within three to five days, others may take two to three weeks. A common cold may last anywhere between a few days to a few weeks, depending on various factors like the age, level of immunity and the causal agent. Advertisement. Cold is one of the common infections in humans, especially kids.
The duration of a cold may vary with different factors like the age and health condition of the person, the causal agent, and the level of immunity. In general, a common cold is found to last for around five to seven days, but in some cases, it can last for two to three weeks too. Infectious Stage: A person who has contracted common cold can spread the infection right from the incubation phase till the symptoms subside and even after recovery. A common cold may last anywhere between a few days to a few weeks, depending on various factors like the age, level of immunity and the causal agent. Advertisement. Cold is one of the common infections in humans, especially kids.
Most uncomplicated colds last between eight and nine days, but about 25 percent last two weeks, and five to 10 percent last three weeks. Even the most stubborn colds will typically resolve in a few weeks' time; this is actually one of the ways you can distinguish a cold from allergies. A cold will last, at most, a few weeks, but allergy symptoms can last all season. How quickly you bounce back is typically defined by you and your collective lifestyle habits -- and this does not mean popping over-the-counter cough and cold remedies or fever reducers. More than 300 different viruses can cause colds, so each time you have a cold it is caused by a distinct virus (i.e. adenovirus, rhinovirus, parainfluenza virus, coronavirus). A virus is much smaller than a bacteria; it is a tiny cluster of genetic material surrounded by a protein wrapper.
If cold symptoms do not seem to be improving after a week, you may have a bacterial infection, which means you may need antibiotics. Sometimes you may mistake cold symptoms for allergic rhinitis (hay fever) or a sinus infection. If cold symptoms begin quickly and are improving after a week, then it is usually a cold, not allergy. If your cold symptoms do not seem to be getting better after a week, check with your doctor to see if you have developed an allergy or sinusitis.
In addition, our ability to fight a cold varies from person to person and time to time. So colds can last for anything between a couple of days to well over a week of sore throat, fever, blocked nose and other miserable symptoms. But as a rough guide, colds have usually run the worst of their course within a week, and you should certainly be well on the way to recovery by ten days. 