13 Followers. A. A torn muscle usually has a visible defect and a lot of bruising. The pulled muscle is usually a few torn fibers but no visible defect seen in the muscle belly. A torn muscle is a lot of muscle fibers that are disrupted and a pulled muscle is a few muscle fibers torn
Similar to sprains, a strain may be a simple stretch in your muscle or tendon, or it may be a partial or complete tear in the muscle-and-tendon combination. Typical symptoms of a strain include pain, muscle spasm, muscle weakness, swelling, inflammation, and cramping. 
Back pain in the lower region and spasm is an outcome of frequent lifting injuries. Summary: 1.A pulled muscle is usually termed as a sprain while torn muscles are classically called a strain. 2.Pulled muscles are caused by injury to the ligaments. A ligament is a tough form of fibrous tissue that connects cartilage and bone at a joint or sustains a muscle, organ, and other parts of the body. Torn muscles are caused by an injury to tendon tissues or muscles. 
A pulled muscle is a common way to refer to a strained muscle. A muscle strain is when the muscle or tendon is stretched beyond its normal length, causing small to large tears in the muscle or tendon fibers. Answer: A pulled muscle is a common way to refer to a st rained muscle. A muscle strain is when the muscle or tendon is stretched beyond its normal length, causing small to large tears in the muscle or tendon fibers.
The difference between a pulled ligament and a pulled muscle is the connection of the tissue to the bone. A ligament is the tissue that connects bone to another bone. Such as … a ligament connecting your forearm to your upper arm, in order to help your muscle bring up your forearm. A strain is an overstretched or pulled or torn muscle. a sprain is an overstretched or torn ligament (holds bones together at a joint), and a fracture is a crack, chip, brea … k or crush of a bone.
What is a Muscle Strain. Definition of a muscle strain : A strain is an injury to a muscle or tendon in which the muscle fibres tear as a result of over-stretching. Remember a Strain is NOT a Sprain. You strain a muscle but you sprain a ligament. A muscle strain is also commonly known as a pulled muscle. There are times you may think you have a pulled muscle in the lower back or a pulled muscle in your neck but it could also be a trapped nerve. You can read here different symptoms of a pinched nerve in the neck or pinched nerve in the lower back.
A 'pulled' muscle is technically torn, but these tears are microscopic. With a 'torn' muscle, there may be swelling, bruising and definitely a lot of pain-you can even see a deformity. Pulled muscles can be painful when stressed and require icing and rest for at least one to three weeks. How do I tell the difference between a pulled muscle and a torn muscle. A kneed to knowEverytime I climb stairs, I feel a pain below my kneecap and there's always a slight swelling.