The term verbal contract is sometimes incorrectly used as a synonym for oral contract. However, a verbal contract is one that is agreed to using words, either written or spoken, as opposed to an implied contract. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An oral contract is a contract, the terms of which have been agreed by spoken communication. This is in contrast to a written contract, where the contract is a written document. There may be written, or other physical evidence, of an oral contract – for example where the parties write down what they have agreed – but the contract itself is not a written one
An Oral Contract is as legally binding as a Written Contract, the issue with an Oral Contract is in proving its existence. To begin, the existence of a Written Contract is fairly obvious, either there is a writing or there isn’t. As you can see, the difficulty in enforcement of an oral contract lies in the parties' ability to prove what the terms of the contract were. Absent proof of the terms of the contract, a party may be unable to enforce what it believes to be a firm contract.
In general, oral contracts are just as valid as written ones, but some jurisdictions either require a contract to be in writing in certain circumstances (for example where real property is being conveyed), or that a contract be evidenced in writing (although the contract itself may be oral). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An oral contract is a contract, the terms of which have been agreed by spoken communication. This is in contrast to a written contract, where the contract is a written document. There may be written, or other physical evidence, of an oral contract – for example where the parties write down what they have agreed – but the contract itself is not a written one
Most contracts can be either written or oral, but some agreements must be in writing in order to be binding. The following types of contracts need to be executed in writing: 1  real estate sales; 2  agreements to pay someone else's debts; 3  contracts that take longer than one year to complete; 
If you want to enforce a written contract, you usually are required by law to file the lawsuit within five years of the date the written contract was made, or four years if it is an oral contract. However, the deadline for filing suit to enforce a contract may be as little as one year after the agreement was made. Written contracts are almost always preferable to oral contracts, because a written document helps eliminate disputes about the terms and conditions of the agreement. Also, oral contracts can be difficult to enforce in a court of law, because nothing is in writing.
Sometimes there is no written or oral agreement, but the behavior of the employer and the employee can be viewed as an implied employment contract. Most employment contracts have common elements such as the employee's start date, salary, and benefits. 
The existence of an oral contract can be more difficult to prove in a different type of scenario. Imagine a scenario with P and Q. P and Q are complete strangers. P approached Q and offers to buy a Corvette from Q for $1,000. Q laughs, and says “sure”, then drives away in the Corvette. As you can see, the difficulty in enforcement of an oral contract lies in the parties' ability to prove what the terms of the contract were. Absent proof of the terms of the contract, a party may be unable to enforce what it believes to be a firm contract.
Samuel Goldwyn said, An oral contract is as good as the paper it's written on, but this is often not the case. The vast majority of transactions among individuals and between people and merchant companies are, in fact, the execution of oral contracts. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An oral contract is a contract, the terms of which have been agreed by spoken communication. This is in contrast to a written contract, where the contract is a written document. There may be written, or other physical evidence, of an oral contract – for example where the parties write down what they have agreed – but the contract itself is not a written one
Verbal evidence, such as the testimony of a witness at trial. In the context of contracts, deeds, wills, or other writings, parol evidence refers to extraneous evidence such as an oral agreement (a parol contract), or even a written agreement, that is not included in the relevant written document.