Most of our eggs are incubated to be Females, so instead of using an incubator for them I just keep them on a shelf in the Reptile room. I keep the room at a temperature between 79 - 82 degrees, which is the perfect temperature to produce Females. The next thing we need to do is figure out the proper way to provide the right amount of humidity for the eggs to hatch in. I incubate the eggs in a Perlite to water ratio of – 1 part Perlite to .8 parts water by weight. You will need a Digital scale to do this. The model I use is an ACCULAB GS-200.
Incubation temperature determines a leopard gecko’s sex. If eggs are incubated at 80 degrees, then 100 percent of the hatchlings will be female. At temperatures around 87 degrees you basically get an equal number of male and female leopard geckos. At 90 degrees 98 percent of the hatchlings will be male. Temperature conditions below 74 degrees can be lethal. Feed to Breed. Feed breeding leopard geckos crickets at least every other day, or keep a dish of mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) in the enclosure at all times. Insects should be no longer than the leopard gecko’s head and no thicker than half its width.
1 When you research what temperatures you need to incubate eggs of any species you will see that there is a range of both temperatures and days of incubation. 2  For example let's say 82-87 degrees F (27-30 degrees C) for 60-90 days would be the range you found for your species. In an emergency, like unanticipated eggs, you can make your own incubator. You will need a 10 gallon (37.9 L) tank, a fish tank heater, a brick or two and plastic wrap. 1  Place the bricks in your tank and fill it with water to just below the top of the bricks.
Egg incubation in the Australian Bearded Dragon Below are excerpts on egg incubation in bearded dragons (BD or beardies) from the Pogona list, an internet discussion list dedicated to the topic of bearded dragons (Pogona vitticeps). You will find some redundancy, and I have slightly edited some posts to make them fit this context. Incubation. Kathryn on incubation: Mix the vermiculite and water in a ratio of about 5:1 by volume (i.e. 5 cups vermiculite to 1 cup water) or 2:1 by weight, before introducing the eggs; better to do so even before the eggs are laid to let the vermiculite reach the correct temperature.
–the eggs aren’t getting the right amount of humidity or heat: leopard gecko eggs need to be incubated at a steady temperature between about 80-88 degrees F (the temperature should not vary more than a degree or two) in a humid container. They are usually incubated in an incubator. There is a time range for gecko egg hatching based on species and incubation temperature, with eggs hatching sooner when incubated at higher temperatures. It’s important for a breeder to know the expected temperature range given the incubation conditions but also to be prepared for eggs that may hatch outside the range.
1 Before you pick up your egg make an indentation with your finger in the incubation medium where you want to put your egg. 2  Put your egg in the indentation and take a sharpie or pencil and mark a dot on top of the egg. In an emergency, like unanticipated eggs, you can make your own incubator. You will need a 10 gallon (37.9 L) tank, a fish tank heater, a brick or two and plastic wrap. 1  Place the bricks in your tank and fill it with water to just below the top of the bricks.
Get the right incubator. The first thing you should do is research the lizard species who laid the eggs. Find out what incubation temperatures you need to incubate the eggs and how long you need to incubate them. 1  Purchase an incubator and set it to the desired temperature. In an emergency, like unanticipated eggs, you can make your own incubator. You will need a 10 gallon (37.9 L) tank, a fish tank heater, a brick or two and plastic wrap. 1  Place the bricks in your tank and fill it with water to just below the top of the bricks.
1. You must keep the eggs at the appropriate temperature. While the appropriate temperatures vary from one species to the next, most eggs need temperatures between 80 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit. For lizards that deposit eggs out in the open, cover the eggs with a small deli cup to protect them. Place a small hole in the cup to provide a small amount of airflow, and place a slightly damp paper towel in the container to keep it from drying out.