DNA replication, the process by which genetic information is duplicated, occurs in order to ensure that each cell in an organism has a complete and correct copy of the organism's genome, or library of genetic data. The arrangement of the component parts, or nucleotides, of DNA provide coded instructions that govern almost every process that occurs within an organism. The process of DNA replication ensures that each cell contains a copy of these instructions and is, accordingly, able to function correctly within the organism.
As such, extensive and redundant error checking mechanisms are built into the replication process, ensuring that, despite the fact that replication occurs in many cells in the body at any given moment, errors are very rare. Ad. DNA replication occurs in two different forms of cellular division. The first is mitosis, which serves all of the normal needs of growth, maintenance, and repair within an organism. In mitosis, a single cell divides into two, each with its own set of genetic information. The arrangement of the component parts, or nucleotides, of DNA provide coded instructions that govern almost every process that occurs within an organism. The process of DNA replication ensures that each cell contains a copy of these instructions and is, accordingly, able to function correctly within the organism.
DNA directs the synthesis of RNA under a chemical process known as transcription. Basically, what happens, is that cellular enzymes are directed by the genetic code itself to recreate strands of RNA in relation to the coded sequences stored in the DNA itself. Secondarily, DNA serves the purpose of biological synthesis in terms of the creation of cellular proteins and RNA molecules. The DNA molecule consists of two long polymer chains of simpler molecular units called nucleotides.
Transcription is the process by which DNA is copied (transcribed) to mRNA, which carries the information needed for protein synthesis. Transcription takes place in two broad steps. First, pre-messenger RNA is formed, with the involvement of RNA polymerase enzymes. The mechanism of transcription has parallels in that of DNA replication. As with DNA replication, partial unwinding of the double helix must occur before transcription can take place, and it is the RNA polymerase enzymes that catalyze this process.
It is the helicase the 'undwinds' the DNA for most of replication. In E. coli, for example, Dna … A protein binds DNA to make a small gap between the two DNA strands, where DnaB enzyme (a helicase) can bind to the lagging strand (the one that is copied in fragments). It is known as SEMI-CONSERVATIVE REPLICATION because the DNA produces two copies of DNA that each contain the original strand and one entirely new strand. You can definitely c … ompare this to complementary base pairing.
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 1 DNA polymerase binds to the leading strand and then ‘walks’ along it, adding new complementary nucleotide bases (A, C, G and T) to the strand of DNA in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This sort of replication is called continuous.
1 A portion of the double helix is unwound by a helicase. 2  A molecule of a DNA polymerase binds to one strand of the DNA and begins moving along it in the 3' to 5' direction, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand of nucleotides and reforming a double helix. 1
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance.