Silica is the chemical compound silicon dioxide (SiO2). It is composed of the elements silicon and oxygen. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz. It is a principal component of most types of glass and substances such as concrete.
The chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica or silox (from the Latin silex), is the oxide of silicon, chemical formula SiO2, and has been known for its hardn … ess since the 9th century. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz. It is a principal component of most types of glass and substances such as concrete.
The chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica or silox (from the Latin silex), is the oxide of silicon, chemical formula SiO2, and has been known for its hardn … ess since the 9th century. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz. It is a principal component of most types of glass and substances such as concrete. 
Silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is a chemical compound that is an oxide of silicon with the chemical formula Si O 2. It has been known since ancient times. Silica is most commonly found in nature as quartz, as well as in various living organisms. 
Silica gel is a granular, vitreous, porous form of silicon dioxide made synthetically from sodium silicate. Silica gel is tough and hard; it is more solid than common household gels like gelatin or agar. It is a naturally occurring mineral that is purified and processed into either granular or beaded form. In this form, it is used as a desiccant to control local humidity to avoid spoilage or degradation of some goods. Because silica gel can have added chemical indicators (see below) and adsorbs moisture very well, silica gel packets usually bear warnings for the user not to eat the contents.
Raw Materials. Silicon metal is made from the reaction of silica (silicon dioxide, SiO2) and carbon materials like coke, coal and wood chips. Silica is typically received in the form of metallurgical grade gravel. This gravel is 99.5% silica, and is 3 x 1 or 6 x 1 in (8 x 3 cm or 15 x 3 cm) in size. 
Silica (quartz) Silica, SiO 2, is a white or colorless crystalline compound found mainly as quartz, sand, flint, and many other minerals. Silica is an important ingredient to manufacture a wide variety of materials. Quartz; Quartz is the most abundant silica mineral. Pure Quartz is colorless and transparent. Silica, Sa,is a component of glass and concrete. A form of Silica commonly known as quartz, Silica tetrahedra, is the second most common mineral in the earth's crust, it comes in many different forms. Silica is a compound of silicon and oxygen. Earth's outer crust contains 59% of this material.
Answers. Best Answer: Silica, which is short for silicon dioxide is a compound made of the elements Silicon and Oxygen: SiO2 Most common form of silica is Quartz. Source(s):
Silica may just be one of the most overlooked minerals in terms of health benefits. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz. In the human body, this chemical compound is what holds us together as it its a key element in the formation of collagen. 
Silica or silicon dioxide (SiO 2) is a chemical compound consisting of one silicon and two oxygen atoms. Quartz is a common mineral with the same chemical composition but quartz and silica are not synonyms. Quartz is made of silica but so are also cristobalite, tridymite and few other minerals (polymorphs of silica). They are collectively referred to as silica minerals. Siliceous Devonian sandstone in Estonia. Quartz is the most common sand-forming mineral.