In 1982, Blue Shield merged with The Blue Cross Association to form the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association (BCBS). Prior to 1986, organizations administering BCBS were tax exempt under 501(c) (4) as social welfare plans. The American Hospital Association (AHA) adopted the Blue Cross symbol in 1939 as the emblem for plans meeting certain standards. In 1960, the AHA commission was superseded by the Blue Cross Association. Blue Cross severed its ties with the AHA in 1972. Blue Shield was developed by employers in lumber and mining camps of the Pacific Northwest to provide medical care by paying monthly fees to medical service bureaus composed of groups of physicians. In 1939, the first official Blue Shield Plan was founded in California
I December 5, 2008 anthem.com Working together to improve the health of our members in Colorado Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans to transition to standardized ID cards starting in January In November 2008, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield started the transition to a new standardized format for our members’ ID cards. 
As a Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association member Plan, Arkansas Blue Cross is managed and controlled by its own community-based Board of Directors, which must contain a majority of public members.. Public members are people from the community who are not employed in the health care industry. As a not-for-profit, mutual insurance company, Arkansas Blue Cross is owned by its policyholders, not by stockholders. This means that premium dollars are used solely to pay claims and administrative costs, not to pay stock dividends.
On March 14, 1969, we changed our name to Blue Cross of Washington and Alaska. MSC Becomes a New Partner in 1994. In 1994, Blue Cross of Washington and Alaska affiliated with Medical Service Corporation (MSC) in Spokane, the Blue Shield plan serving Eastern Washington. Blue Cross Plan Is Born in Dallas. The nationwide Blue Cross organization can be traced to a hospital prepayment plan for schoolteachers. Justin Ford Kimball started the plan in 1929 for the Baylor University Hospital
Blue Cross was founded in 1929, and became the Blue Cross Association in 1960, while Blue Shield emerged in 1939 and the Blue Shield Association was created in 1948. The two organizations merged in 1982. The American Hospital Association (AHA) adopted the Blue Cross symbol in 1939 as the emblem for plans meeting certain standards. In 1960, the AHA commission was superseded by the Blue Cross Association. Blue Cross severed its ties with the AHA in 1972. Blue Shield was developed by employers in lumber and mining camps of the Pacific Northwest to provide medical care by paying monthly fees to medical service bureaus composed of groups of physicians. In 1939, the first official Blue Shield Plan was founded in California
Here's how it all began: Blue Cross Roots. 1929 - Justin Ford Kimball, an official at Baylor University in Dallas, introduces a plan to guarantee schoolteachers 21 days of hospital care for $6 a year. Other groups of employees in Dallas soon join the plan, and the idea quickly attracts nationwide attention. Thus the Blue Cross concept is born. 1939 - The Blue Cross symbol is officially adopted as national emblem for such plans. Blue Shield Roots. 1900 - The Blue Shield concept emerges from the lumber and mining camps of the Pacific Northwest at the turn of the century.
1 Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies begin to empower more working Americans to access the healthcare system, some for the first time in their lives. 2  1955: The spread of health insurance coverage – from less than 10 percent of the population having coverage in 1940 – grows to nearly 70 percent. 1 In just 10 years, enrollment in these plans will grow from just more than 1,300 covered lives to 3 million. 2  E.A. van Steenwyk, executive secretary with the forerunner to Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, identified his hospital care program with a solid blue Greek cross design.
The Origins of Wellmark. 1939 - Hospital Service Incorporated of Iowa, later known as Blue Cross of Iowa, begins business in Des Moines. That same year, Associated Hospital Services Incorporated, later known as Blue Cross of Western Iowa and South Dakota, begins in Sioux City, Iowa. Thus the Blue Cross concept is born. 1939 - The Blue Cross symbol is officially adopted as national emblem for such plans. Blue Shield Roots. 1900 - The Blue Shield concept emerges from the lumber and mining camps of the Pacific Northwest at the turn of the century.
The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association (BCBSA) will continue the work started at the turn of the last century, when Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies first pioneered the concept of health insurance. 1 In just 10 years, enrollment in these plans will grow from just more than 1,300 covered lives to 3 million. 2  E.A. van Steenwyk, executive secretary with the forerunner to Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, identified his hospital care program with a solid blue Greek cross design.