Attempting to predict what the Supreme Court will or will not do is always a gamble. The Court receives nearly 10,000 petitions for a writ of certiorari each term, and the justices grant review in roughly 1 percent of cases. Some issues, though, are relatively safe bets, and the following two are more than likely to be reviewed by the Supreme Court in the near future. Same-Sex Marriage.
In the United States, certiorari is most often seen as the writ that the Supreme Court of the United States issues to a lower court to review the lower court's judgment for legal error (reversible error) and review where no appeal is available as a matter of right. Certiorari (/ˌsɜrʃⁱəˈrɛəraɪ/ , /-ˈrɛəri/ , or /-ˈrɑri/), often abbreviated as cert. in the United States, is a writ seeking judicial review. It is issued by a superior court, directing an inferior court, tribunal, or other public authority to send the record of a proceeding for review.
The justices decide which cases they will hear, about 80 each year. They decide another 50 without hearing arguments. The cases they choose usually address constitutional issues or federal law. The Supreme Court gets about 7000 requests to hear cases per year, so there are many cases that don't get heard. If they decide not to hear a case, the decision of the lower court stands.
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest federal court in the United States and the only court specifically established by the Constitution of the United States, implemented in 1789. This article is concerned with the process and procedures used by the modern court. 
Cases on the Horizon. Attempting to predict what the Supreme Court will or will not do is a gamble. The Court receives nearly 10,000 petitions for a writ of certiorari each term, and the justices grant review in roughly 1 percent of cases. The following cases, however, have a good chance of being reviewed by the Court in the near future.
Cases. When exercising its appellate jurisdiction, the Court, with a few exceptions, does not have to hear a case. The Certiorari Act of 1925 gives the Court the discretion to decide whether or not to do so. In a petition for a writ of certiorari, a party asks the Court to review its case. Although the Constitution establishes the Supreme Court, it permits Congress to decide how to organize it. Congress first exercised this power in the Judiciary Act of 1789. This Act created a Supreme Court with six justices. It also established the lower federal court system.
Courts of Appeal. People who lose a case or part of a case in the trial court can ask a higher court (called an appellate court) to review the trial court’s decision. Appeals of family law cases, probate cases, juvenile cases, felony cases, and civil cases for more than $25,000 are heard in the Court of Appeal. 
Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution establishes the Supreme Court of the United States. Currently, there are nine Justices on the Court. Before taking office, each Justice must be appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Oral Arguments. By law, the U.S. Supreme Court's term begins on the first Monday in October and goes through the Sunday before the first Monday in October of the following year. The Court is, typically, in recess from late June/early July until the first Monday in October.
The Supreme Court chose to hear the case United States v. the Claimants of the Amistad (1841) because of its implications to the United States's foreign relations. The case was documented in Steven Spielberg's 1997 movie, Amistad. It has almost complete control over which cases it will hear. The justices choose about 90 percent of their 100 to 120 cases by writ of certiorari, an order to send up a case record from a lower court.