Full-frame digital SLR. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The sizes of sensors used in most current digital cameras, relative to a 35mm format. The term Full Frame is used by D-SLR users as a short-hand for an image sensor which is the same size as 35mm format (36×24 mm) film. Historically, 35 mm was considered a small film format compared with medium format, large format and even larger. This is in contrast to cameras with smaller sensors (for instance, those with a size equivalent to APS-C -size film), much smaller than a full 35 mm frame. For example, a 24 mm lens on a camera with a crop factor of 1.5 has a 62° diagonal angle of view, the same as that of a 36 mm lens on a 35 mm film camera. On a full-frame digital camera, the 24 mm lens has the same 84° angle of view as it would
A small business that is typically owned and run by members of a family. payday loan. payday loan. n. A small short-term loan, with very high interest rates, that the borrower promises to repay on or near the next payday. Used by wage earners who run short of cash before payday. Thesmall print of a contract or agreement is the part of it that is written in very small print. You refer to it as thesmall print especially when you think that it might include unfavourable conditions which someone might not notice or understand.
3. being of delicate or slender build. Familiarity information: SLIGHT used as an adjective is uncommon. • SLIGHT (verb). The verb SLIGHT has 1 sense: 1. pay no attention to, disrespect. Familiarity information: SLIGHT used as a verb is very rare. 
In order to refine and define theoretical weights, researchers added frame size as a factor. The sizes are categorized into three categories:- Small frame, medium frame and large frame. The reason for this is that obviously bone structures vary in size and density from person to person. Equally obviously men and women have different structures. 1 Use the forefinger and thumb of your other hand to locate the narrow part of your elbow joint. 2  Use your same forefinger and thumb as a guage to determine your elbow breadth by measuring the gap between them with with a ruler or tape measure. 3  Compare the value with the tables below.
The optimal weight for an individual is dependent on their frame size as the bone structures vary in size and density from person to person and in men and women. So, before embarking on a diet regime, we suggest that you use this calculator to know your frame size and accordingly plan your weight loss program. 
frame. n. 1. an open structure that gives shape and support to something, such as the transverse stiffening ribs of a ship's hull or an aircraft's fuselage or the skeletal beams and uprights of a building. 2. an enclosing case or border into which something is fitted: the frame of a picture. frame. n. 1. a. A structure that gives shape or support: the frame of a house. b. The structure or physique of a human or animal body: a worker's sturdy frame. c. An open structure or rim for encasing, holding, or bordering: a window frame; the frame of a mirror.
See also: sleight, slightly, sight, slighting. frame liner. frame liner. n. A moulding commonly used in framing oil paintings. The liner is fixed inside the frame and appears between the image and the outer frame. Generally made out of wood or some other hard material, the liner may have fabric glued down to it. Liners are to canvases what a mat/mount is to a print on paper. a person paid by the state to work in the interests of the nation who considers it to be a ‘right’ to be able abuse his or her authority to ensure personal gain for himself or herself at the expense of the nation…. neologism ...
pe·tite. adj. 1. Short and slender. Used of a girl or woman. 2. Small in size or scope; tiny: a bagel that is fairly petite by today's standards (Ed Levine). See Synonyms at small. n. A clothing size for short, slender women. 
Internet work is defined by job opportunities that did not exist before the rise of the internet and furthermore the work is likely to be carried out over the internet and payment received for work undertaken via the internet. Wirk describes both full time and part time internet work. a person paid by the state to work in the interests of the nation who considers it to be a ‘right’ to be able abuse his or her authority to ensure personal gain for himself or herself at the expense of the nation…. neologism ...