If you order a straight stair lift, you could be back to having the freedom of your home within a week. IF your staircase is curved, meaning you require a curved stair lift, the installation period will be between 14 to 28 days. Most stair lifts can be fitted in a matter of hours with the minimum of fuss. Brooks stair lifts are fitted directly to the stair treads and not the wall which results in the process being quick, simple and clean.
Comments (1). Also called a stairway lift, stairway elevator, stair glide, chair lift or stair chair, a stair lift is a motorized chair you sit it to glide up or down a staircase on a rail system for anyone who has difficulty or in unable to navigate stairs. 1 Most stair lifts are used indoors; outdoor models tend to be at the higher end of the price range. 2  Options include adjustable seat and footrest heights, folding seats and rests to save space, greater weight capacity (usually 300 pounds but can be 375-500 pounds) and a security lock to limit who can use the chair lift.
The Harmar SL600 Pinnacle Premium Stair Lift has a 2-year warranty on components only. And the Harmar SL600HD Pinnacle Heavy Duty Stair Lift comes with a warranty of 3 years for components, 10 years for the rack, and one year for the batteries. Cycle-A cycle of a stair lift is one roundtrip of an ascent and a descent (1 up, 1 down.) Manufacturers will refer to stair lift cycles when speaking in terms of warranties, life span, and how long batteries will last. Stair tread-When discussing measuring for the stair lift unit, the term “stair tread” is used.
The price of a stair lift varies depending on your type of stair case. Straight stair lifts are always cheaper than curved stair lifts. Compare prices with us today by filling in the form on this page to find out how much a stair lift will cost. 
Q12 How long does it take to install a Stairlift (Stair lift)? Straight DC Battery stairlifts (Stair lifts) can be installed within 1-2 hour including a full test and user demonstration. Usually a minimum of 6 months, the average price per week £10-15.00 and a small installation deposit will also be required. Q8 Does my Stairlift (Stair lift) come with a Guarantee / Warranty? Yes all stairlifts (Stair lifts) come with a full 12 month guarantee & warranty.
The delivery time will depend on your chosen model and how much work is involved in the factory to build the rail to fit your staircase. Generally, stair lifts for straight stairs are installed in under 2 weeks. You may have to wait 4-6 weeks for a stair lift for curved stairs. Ask the stair lift company how long you will have to wait. If it is urgent, some companies can install quicker. Your stair lift will be contructed and tested in the factory, so it will arrive at your home ready to be fitted. It usally takes only 1-2 hours to fit a stair lift to straight stairs, slightly longer to fit a curved stair lift. The rail will be fitted first, then the motor and the seat. It will then be tested thoroughly and you will be shown how to use it.
All our stair lifts attach to the stairs and not to the wall. In general, a standard straight stair lift rail has 3 attachment points. The stair lift rail is attached to the staircase treads at the top of the stairs, in the middle and at the bottom. The stair lift rail attachment points sit over the top of your carpet. Every new stair lift comes with a 2 year comprehensive warranty and the first stair lift service is free. Reconditioned stairlifts come with a 12 month warranty. For further details please see http://www.norfolkstairlifts.co.uk/Service_Maintenance.aspx.
Stair lift prices can cost between £1700-£9,500, there is a huge variation on price due to the different requirements of the user and the difference in the staircase itself. Curved stair lifts will always be more expensive as they are custom manufactured to the exact dimensions of your staircase. Most stair lifts can be fitted in a matter of hours with the minimum of fuss. Brooks stair lifts are fitted directly to the stair treads and not the wall which results in the process being quick, simple and clean.
For more information on specific stairlift stair lift dimensions please see http://www.norfolkstairlifts.co.uk/Brochures.aspx. How long does it take to install a straight stair lift? It usually takes only 1-2 hours to fit a stair lift to straight stairs. The rail will be fitted first, then the motor and the seat. Every new stair lift comes with a 2 year comprehensive warranty and the first stair lift service is free. Reconditioned stairlifts come with a 12 month warranty. For further details please see http://www.norfolkstairlifts.co.uk/Service_Maintenance.aspx.