The Boer goat is a breed of goat that was developed in South Africa in the early 1900s for meat production. Boer goats are polyestrous (they can breed throughout the year), and they reach sexual maturity at five months of age. A typical breeding program is to produce three kid crops every two years, meaning the does are pregnant for five months, nurse their kids for three months, and then are rebred.
Also Known by: Africander, Afrikaner, South African common goat The Boer is an improved indigenous breed with some infusion of European, Angora and Indian goat breeding many years ago. The Boer goat is being used very effectively in South Africa in combination with cattle due to its browsing ability and limited impact on the grass cover. Producing weaning rates in excess of 160% the Boer goat doe is a low maintenance animal that has sufficient milk to rear a kid that is early maturing.
With goats, the equal comparison would be six does with two kids each per acre. Ten months after breeding, a cow is nursing a 75 pound calf. Ten months after breeding to a Boer buck, six dairy or spanish goats will have raised 12 kids (a goat's gestation period is 5 months), and the kids will have been sold. Boer cross kids reach a market weight of 50 to 90 pounds at about 5 months of age. The most obvious difference is the size. A Boer is a large, double muscled animal. Boers are specifically meat goats. They can consistently produce more muscling in less time, and will pass this capability to their kids. Boers are to the meat goat industry what imported cattle were to the beef industry.
Boer goats commonly have white bodies and distinctive brown heads. Some Boer goats can be completely brown or white or paint, which means large spots of a different color is on their bodies. Like the Nubian goat, they possess long, pendulous ears. They are noted for being docile, fast-growing, and having high fertility rates. Boer goats are polyestrous (they can breed throughout the year), and they reach sexual maturity at five months of age. A typical breeding program is to produce three kid crops every two years, meaning the does are pregnant for five months, nurse their kids for three months, and then are rebred.
Show goats are bred to represent the most desirable characteristics of the Boer goat, and their main purpose is to introduce these animals to the public. It is also a method of recognizing the best of the best, although some really superior goats are not shown. preference. Boer goats are polyestrous (they can breed throughout the year), and they reach sexual maturity at five months of age. A typical breeding program is to produce three kid crops every two years, meaning the does are pregnant for five months, nurse their kids for three months, and then are rebred.
Goat meat or goat's meat is the meat of the domestic goat (Capra aegagrus hircus) . Marinating goat chops. Goat meat or goat's meat is the meat of the domestic goat (Capra aegagrus hircus) . It is often called chevon or mutton when the meat comes from adults, and cabrito, capretto, or kid when from young animals.
Boer goat is a highly meat productive goat breed which originated from South Africa. They are of very big sized goat among the other popular meat goat breeds. They also produce milk highly, but mostly suitable for meat production. Boer goats are generally white colored with red or brown heads. Boer goats generally consume the same food as other domestic goat breeds do. They usually love to eat leaves of trees, corns, green grasses and some other supplementary feeds.
History. The development of the Boer goat in the early 1900’s can be traced to the Dutch farmers of South Africa. Boer is a Dutch word meaning farmer. With meat production setting the selection criteria, the Dutch farmers developed the Boer goat as a unique breed of livestock. The Boer goat has a rapid growth rate, excellent carcass qualities and is highly adapted to different environments. The Boer goat is commonly a goat with a white body and a red head. Docile, high fertility and a fast growth rate are some of the traits that set the Boer goat apart in the purebred and commercial segments of the American meat goat industry.
The Boer goat was developed in South Africa as a breed meant solely for meat production. The term “Boer” refers to the descendants of the Dutch immigrants, or Boers, most of them farmers, who settled the country; thus, “Boer” goat simply means “farmer’s” goat. Boer goat prices are still relatively high but are approaching what you’d pay for a quality registered Angora or registered dairy goat. They are nowhere near the steep amounts paid during the winter and spring of 1994, when a bit of buying “frenzy” took hold of some goat breeders and exotics traders.