Dent Dynamics. PDR is simply short for Paintless Dent Removal – the art of removing dents, dings, creases, large dents, and hail damage from an automobile without the need for repainting or refinishing. In the late 1980’s the technology was expanding to the United States but was rather limited to the size of dents that could actually be removed. During the 1990’s technicians in the industry began to push the art of PDR into new frontiers of possibilties moving from small door dings to larger dents and hail damage.
Physicians' Desk Reference: A thick volume that provides a guide to prescription drugs available in the United States. Although not exactly recommended fare for bedtime reading, the PDR is the most commonly used drug reference. The information is the same as the leaflet in the drug package, also known as the package insert. Drug companies pay to have their drug included, so many generic medicines will not be in the book. 
(June 2010). Paintless Dent Repair (PDR), also known as Paintless Dent Removal, describes a method of removing minor dents from the body of a motor vehicle. A wide range of damage can be repaired using PDR as long as the paint surface is intact. PDR may be used on both aluminum and steel panels. The most common practical use for PDR is the repair of hail damage, door dings, minor creases, large dents and bodylines damage. The method can also be utilized to prepare a damaged panel for repainting by minimizing the use of body filler. The process of Paintless Dent Repair requires a technician to manipulate precise locations of metal to the correct height, which can only be observed by the use of a PDR reading instrument such as a paintless dent repair light.
The Physicians' Desk Reference (PDR) is a commercially published compilation of manufacturers' prescribing information (package insert) on prescription drugs, updated annually. In 1984, Paul C. Kranz and Michael Grondin travelled to Oradell, New Jersey, and presented to Medical Economics (then-publisher of the PDR) a prototype developed by Grondin on a TI 99/4A computer of how a digital copy of the PDR would work and benefit clinicians.
PDR: Physicians' Desk Reference (please see entry to Physicians' Desk Reference). PDR less frequently stands for postdelivery room. 
While designed to provide physicians with the full legally mandated information relevant to writing prescriptions (just as its name suggests), it is widely available in libraries and bookstores, widely used by other medical specialists, and sometimes valuable to the layman. In 1984, Paul C. Kranz and Michael Grondin travelled to Oradell, New Jersey, and presented to Medical Economics (then-publisher of the PDR) a prototype developed by Grondin on a TI 99/4A computer of how a digital copy of the PDR would work and benefit clinicians.
The information is largely that included by the manufacturer in the labeling or package insert as required by the Food and Drug Administration: indications for use, effects, dosages, administration, warnings, hazards, contraindications, drug interactions, side effects, and precautions. 
PDR is an excellent alternative for use on vehicles that were produced after 1990, with small to medium size dents with no broken or cracked paint that are not located near the edge of the panel and as long as the panel has had no prior body damage repair with bondo. 
Both the metal and paint are put back to pre-accident condition. Because the original factory finish is preserved, there is no need for grinding the paint off, and filling the dent with bondo, primers, and sealers that are needed with conventional body repairs. PDR is also 100% environment friendly. No chemicals or other toxic materials are used in this process. And since your original factory paint is preserved, there are no problems with colors not matching, as is common with conventional repair. Time savings is yet another advantage. 