A diastolic murmur occurs when the heart muscle relaxes between beats. A systolic murmur occurs when the heart muscle contracts. Systolic murmurs are graded by intensity (loudness) from one to six. A grade 1/6 is very faint, heard only with a special effort. A grade 6/6 is extremely loud. Innocent heart murmurs are sounds made by the blood circulating through the heart's chambers and valves or through blood vessels near the heart.
Heart murmurs are sounds during your heartbeat cycle — such as whooshing or swishing — made by turbulent blood in or near your heart. These sounds can be heard with a stethoscope. A normal heartbeat makes two sounds like lubb-dupp (sometimes described as lub-DUP), which are the sounds of your heart valves closing. Often, heart murmurs are harmless (innocent) and don't need treatment. Some heart murmurs may require follow-up tests to be sure the murmur isn't caused by a serious underlying heart condition. Treatment, if needed, is directed at the cause of your heart murmur. 1  Symptoms.
A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat. Murmurs range from very faint to very loud. Sometimes they sound like a whooshing or swishing noise. Normal heartbeats make a lub-DUPP or lub-DUB sound. This is the sound of the heart valves closing as blood moves through the heart. Doctors can hear these sounds and heart murmurs using a stethoscope.
1 Turbulent blood flow within the heart causes abnormal sounds called murmurs. 2  Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 3  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. A heart murmur is a continuous sound that is audible with a common stethoscope, produced when blood passes through particular areas of the heart. The heart has four chambers, two atria (singular = atrium) and two ventricles separated by a skeleton of cartilage that separates each chamber.
Heart murmurs are most often caused by defective heart valves. A stenotic heart valve has a smaller-than-normal opening and can't open completely. A valve may also be unable to close completely. This leads to regurgitation, which is blood leaking backward through the valve when it should be closed. Innocent heart murmurs are sounds made by the blood circulating through the heart's chambers and valves or through blood vessels near the heart.
1 Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 2  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 3  Holes in the septum or wall that divides the atrium or ventricles may cause a murmur. 4  A murmur is a physical finding and not a structural problem within the heart itself. A heart murmur is a continuous sound that is audible with a common stethoscope, produced when blood passes through particular areas of the heart. The heart has four chambers, two atria (singular = atrium) and two ventricles separated by a skeleton of cartilage that separates each chamber.
1 Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 2  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 3  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 4  Holes in the septum or wall that divides the atrium or ventricles may cause a murmur. A heart murmur is a continuous sound that is audible with a common stethoscope, produced when blood passes through particular areas of the heart. The heart has four chambers, two atria (singular = atrium) and two ventricles separated by a skeleton of cartilage that separates each chamber.
There are two types of murmurs. A functional murmur or  physiologic murmur is a heart murmur that is primarily due to physiologic conditions outside the heart. Other types of murmurs are due to structural defects in the heart itself. Functional murmurs are benign (an  innocent murmur ). Murmurs may also be the result of various problems, such as narrowing or leaking of valves, or the presence of abnormal passages through which blood flows in or near the heart. Such murmurs, known as pathologic murmurs, should be evaluated by an expert.
Heart murmur facts. 1  Turbulent blood flow within the heart causes abnormal sounds called murmurs. 2  Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 3  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 4  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). A heart murmur is a continuous sound that is audible with a common stethoscope, produced when blood passes through particular areas of the heart. The heart has four chambers, two atria (singular = atrium) and two ventricles separated by a skeleton of cartilage that separates each chamber.
A. A heart murmur is a sound that is created by inadequate blood flow through the heart and its large vessels, for example the aorta. Some are born with a heart murmur and further testing doesn't reveal any significant problem. This is called a physiological murmur. Heart murmur Cardiology An auscultatory sound of cardiac or vascular origin, usually caused by an abnormal flow of blood in the heart due to structural defects of the valves or septum; murmurs may be benign or pathological.