Organic molecules are those that: 1) formed by the actions of living things; and/or 2) have a carbon backbone. Methane (CH4) is an example of this. If we remove the H from one of the methane units below, and begin linking them up, while removing other H units, we begin to form an organic molecule. Each organic molecule group has small molecules (monomers) that are linked to form a larger organic molecule (macromolecule). Monomers can be jouined together to form polymers that are the large macromolecules made of three to millions of monomer subunits.
what are the characteristics of organic molecules? this is for bio, i look in the text book but i don't think its in there. Neutral organic compounds tend to be less soluble in water compared to many inorganic salts, with the exception of certain compounds such as ionic organic compounds and low molecular weight alcohols and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.
organic molecules characteristics: 1) Based on carbon. carbon atoms gives the ability to do long chains, branches and rings. 2) form from few elements. 99.4 % carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, 0.2% phosphorous, 0.2% calcium, and 0.2% all other elements. 3) modular structures form from simple buildings blocks. Organic molecules are the chemicals of life, compounds composed of more than one type of element, that are found in, and produced by, living organisms. The feature that distin … guishes an organic from inorganic molecule is that organic contain carbon-hydrogen bonds, whereas inorganic molecules do not.
Solutions are studied by the science of physical chemistry. Like inorganic salts, organic compounds may also form crystals. A unique property of carbon in organic compounds is that its valency does not always have to be taken up by atoms of other elements, and when it is not, a condition termed unsaturation results. Neutral organic compounds tend to be less soluble in water compared to many inorganic salts, with the exception of certain compounds such as ionic organic compounds and low molecular weight alcohols and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.
Organic chemistry is a chemistry subdiscipline involving the scientific study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic compounds and organic materials, i.e., matter in its various forms that contain carbon atoms. 
Click here for more information! Overview: Characteristics of Organic Molecules addresses the nature and importance of sigma and pi bonds, hybridization, forces of attraction, solubility influences, and classification of compounds. The Chemistry Professor never tires of repeating explanations whenever needed. Another of the characteristics of organic molecules and one that students frequently meet in the laboratory is solubility of organic structures in a variety of solvents. This unit addresses those factors impacting solubility and does so using animation technique
Here are some characteristics of compounds:     Compounds are made up of 2 or more elements and they are all  chemically bonded.  The properties of a compound are d … ifferent from the elements  that make it up.  Compounds can be broken back into elements by chemical  reaction, exposure to light, etc. 
RE: what are the characteristics of organic molecules? what are the characteristics of organic molecules? this is for bio, i look in the text book but i don&#39;t think its in there. Neutral organic compounds tend to be less soluble in water compared to many inorganic salts, with the exception of certain compounds such as ionic organic compounds and low molecular weight alcohols and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.