Go to a specific bookmark. On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Bookmark. Click either Name or Location to sort the list of bookmarks in the document. Click the name of the bookmark that you want to go to. Click Go To.
1 In Word 2007, click the Microsoft Office button in the upper left to display the File menu, then click Word Options.. 2  In Word 2010, click the File tab and select Options from the File menu on the left side of the File page.
Add a bookmark. Select the text or item to which you want to assign a bookmark, or click where you want to insert a bookmark. On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Bookmark. Under Bookmark name, type or select a name. Bookmark names must begin with a letter and can contain numbers.
1 In Word 2003, select Options from the Tools menu, then click the View tab. 2  In Word 2007, click the Microsoft Office button in the upper left to display the File menu, then click Word Options.. 3  In Word 2010, click the File tab and select Options from the File menu on the left side of the File page.
1 Select the text or location where you want to create a bookmark in your Word 2013 document. 2  Navigate to “ Insert ” tab in the menu-bar. 3  Click on “ Bookmarks ” in the “ Links ” section. 4  Bookmark page will be open. 5  Put a name of that bookmark on “ Bookmark Name ” section and click “ Add 6  “. That is it.
Add a bookmark. Select the text or item to which you want to assign a bookmark, or click where you want to insert a bookmark. On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Bookmark. Under Bookmark name, type or select a name.
1 Start Word, and then open the document to which you want to add a bookmark. 2  Select the item to which you want to assign a bookmark or click the location in your document where you want to insert a bookmark. 3  On the Insert menu, click Bookmark. 4  In the Bookmark_name box, type a name for the bookmark.
1 Start Word, and then open the Web page in which you want to create a hyperlink. ( 2 Click Open on the File menu, locate the Web page, and then click Open 3  .). Select the text or object in which you want to create a hyperlink or click the location on the page where you want to insert the
Go to a specific bookmark. On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Bookmark. Click either Name or Location to sort the list of bookmarks in the document. Click the name of the bookmark that you want to go to. Click Go To.