The  Shaq–Kobe feud  (or  Kobe–Shaq feud ) was the rivalry between National Basketball Association (NBA) players Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant, who played together on the Los Angeles Lakers team from 1996 to 2004. From 2004–2006, the Heat and the Lakers met on Christmas Day to emphasize the Shaq-Kobe battle. This tradition ended in 2007, as the Lakers faced the Suns, and the Heat took on the Cavaliers. However, on February 20, 2008, O'Neal was traded from the Heat to the Suns.
During the Q/A portion of Magic Johnson’s “Evening With” series at Long Beach State University Monday evening, the former Lakers great was asked to choose between Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant. “Jordan over Kobe, even though I like Kobe a lot and Kobe is my man,” said Johnson. “But Michael Jordan never lost a Finals. “I love Kobe, but he is not Michael. But he’s the closest to (him) that we have ever seen. Kobe got game.”. Even though he called it an “easy” decision to pick Jordan over Bryant, Johnson did not hesitate to offer high praise of the Lakers superstar, who missed the majority of the season with knee injuries.
During the 1996 off-season, the Lakers acquired 17-year-old Kobe Bryant from the Charlotte Hornets for Vlade Divac; Bryant was drafted 13th overall out of Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, Pennsylvania in that year's draft, by Charlotte. Los Angeles also signed free-agent and former Magic Center Shaquille O'Neal. 
LOS ANGELES, UNITED STATES: Michael Jordan of the Chicago Bulls (L) eyes the basket as he is guarded by Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers during their 01 February game in Los Angeles, CA. “I love Kobe, but he is not Michael. But he’s the closest to (him) that we have ever seen. Kobe got game.”. Even though he called it an “easy” decision to pick Jordan over Bryant, Johnson did not hesitate to offer high praise of the Lakers superstar, who missed the majority of the season with knee injuries.
Former Lakers point guard Magic Johnson offered some praise for Kobe Bryant on Twitter today, saying that Bryant is a player he thinks could have played in his era: Three future Hall Of Famers that could've played when MJ, Bird and I were playing are Tim Duncan, Kobe Bryant and LeBron James. 
Lakers complete fifth 'three-peat' in NBA history. POSTED: May 17, 2013 5:50 PM ET. AD. In 2002, Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal won their last championship together. When Pat Riley trademarked the phrase Three-Peat in 1988, he anticipated it would be for his two-time defending NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers. In the first season of the O'Neal-Bryant-Jackson era, the Lakers finished the regular season with a record of 67-15 — second-best in franchise history behind the 1971-72 Lakers who went 69-13. O'Neal was named the league MVP and the Lakers would go on to win their first championship since 1988
Kobe Bryant is the best Laker and arguably the best to ever play the game of basketball. Kobe is a much better scorer than magic ever was. Kobe is 5th on the all time scoring … record and magic is not even on it. 2 people found this useful. Confidence votes 2.2K. No, they did not. Even though it was pretty close. Johnson came back from his retirement, for a brief 32 game stint with the Lakers in the 1995-96 NBA season. However he retired for good at the end of that season; Just before Bryant was drafted and began his career with the Lakers in the 1996-97 NBA season
Bryant and the Lakers would go to face the Orlando Magic in the 2009 NBA Finals. Shaq showed support for Kobe, on his Twitter page saying: “thats right i am saying it today and today only, i want kobe bryant to get number 4, spread da word [ sic ]”. From 2004–2006, the Heat and the Lakers met on Christmas Day to emphasize the Shaq-Kobe battle. This tradition ended in 2007, as the Lakers faced the Suns, and the Heat took on the Cavaliers. However, on February 20, 2008, O'Neal was traded from the Heat to the Suns.