Psychrotrophic bacteria are not a specific type or family of bacteria, but rather this is the name given to bacteria that are capable of growing at 44.6°F (7°C) or less. This group of microbes is a concern in dairy products because they grow at refrigerator temperature and cause spoilage, often resulting in off-flavors. The most common psychrotrophs are in the genus Pseudomonas. These organisms are killed by pasteurization, but may occur in milk from contamination after pasteurization.
Psychrotrophic bacteria are defined as those that grow at 7°C, although their optimal growth temperature is higher. During cold storage after milk collection they dominate the flora, and their extracellular enzymes, mainly proteases and lipases, contribute to the spoilage of dairy products.
Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are useful bacteria for the food industry and are used as starter cultures in the production of, for example, cheese, yoghurt, sourdough bread and cured sausage, as a protective culture in products that are ready to eat and increasingly as probiotics, especially in dairy products.
Spores are commonly found in soil, manure and other environmental sources Bacteria of Concern The bacteria present in dairy products may cause disease or spoilage. Human illness from milk-borne pathogens is usually associated with consumption of raw milk or products made from raw milk such as fresh cheeses.
The aim of the project is increasing our understanding of 1) key properties of lactic acid bacteria that are important for food production 2) mechanisms for survival and growt … h of undesirable bacteria in food and the food industryIn this project we analyse existing and new forms of antibacterial treatment.
Many of these bacteria are not harmful to humans, but some may be harmful to humans even though the dairy animals are not affected and appear healthy.  Milk may become contaminated with bacteria during or after milking. Mastitis is an inflammation of the udder, typically caused by a microbiological infection.
Psychrotrophic Count. Psychrotrophic bacteria are bacteria that are capable of surviving or even thriving in a cold environment. They are of particular concern in the dairy industry. The assay for Psychrotrophs uses the TAC vial and a low temperature of incubation.