Gluten is a special type of protein that is commonly found in rye,  wheat, and barley. Therefore, it is found in most types of cereals  and in many types of bread. Not all f … oods from the grain family,  however, contain gluten. Examples of grains that do not have gluten  include wild rice, corn, buckwheat, millet, amaranth, quinoa, teff,  oats, soybeans, and sunflower seeds. Some people suffer from a disease called  celiac disease, which is an allergy to gluten. Individuals with  celiac disease must eat foods that do not contain gluten in order  to prevent illness. If improperly treated, celiac disease can be  fatal.
YES. Foods made from grains (and grain-like plants) that do not contain harmful gluten, including: 1  Corn in all forms (corn flour, corn meal, grits, etc.). 2  Plain rice in all forms (white, brown, wild, basmati, enriched rice, etc.). Barley and malt, which is usually made from barley, including malt syrup, malt extract, malt flavoring and malt vinegar. Rye, which is most often found in bread products. It is not typically used to make ingredients. Breaded or floured meat, poultry, seafood and vegetables, when the breading is made with wheat.
Barley is related to wheat and barley grains definitely contain gluten. Malted barley is barley grains which have been allowed to germinate, converting some of the starch into sugars. Barley malt therefore contains gluten unless it's been specifically processed to remove it. 
However, beers, ales, lagers, malt beverages and malt vinegars that are made from gluten-containing grains are not distilled and therefore are not gluten-free. There are several brands of gluten-free beers available in the United States and abroad. Products labeled wheat-free are not necessarily gluten-free. They may still contain spelt (a form of wheat), rye, or barley-based ingredients that are not gluten-free (GF). To confirm if something is gluten-free, be sure to refer to the product’s ingredient list.
Gluten-free beer is beer made from ingredients that do not contain glycoproteins (gluten). People who have gluten intolerance (including celiac disease and dermatitis herpetiformis sufferers) have a reaction to certain proteins in the grains commonly used to make beer, barley and wheat. Beers brewed mainly from cereals such as millet, rice, sorghum, buckwheat and corn, which do not contain gluten, do not trigger an autoimmune response in celiacs. Some brewers brew with barley or rye, and reduce the level of gluten to below 20 ppm. In most countries this technically classifies them as gluten-free beers.
Gluten is the name for the protein in grains. All grains contain protein that is theoretically gluten but people with celiac disease and most other gluten allergies only react to the form of gluten found in wheat (including spelt, kamut, triticale and all varieties of wheat), barley, and rye. While it’s not really correct to refer to other grains as “gluten-free,” they are free from the form of gluten found in varieties of wheat, barley, rye, and their derivatives and are safe for people with celiac disease and most gluten intolerances.
Gluten is a protein found in many different grains, including wheat, rye, oats and barley. Individuals who develop an allergy to gluten -- a condition called celiac disease -- are unable to consume foods containing this protein without enduring gastrointestinal pain, including diarrhea in some cases. Certain alcoholic beverages do not contain malt, barley or other gluten-bearing products and are safe for people with celiac disease. Hard ciders that do not feature caramel coloring are safe, as are sorghum beers.
Glass of beer with barley and hop grains. Photo Credit aaron007/iStock/Getty Images. Malt extract is a common addition and flavoring agent to processed foods. The extract is usually made from barley, a grain that contains gluten. Rye and wheat also contain gluten. For people who have gluten sensitivity or celiac disease, avoiding most or all gluten in food is very important to maintain health and avoid life-threatening complication
Malt is commonly made from barley, a grain containing gluten. The grain is steeped in water then allowed to germinate and after around 4-6 days it is heated to stop the germination process from continuing. The grain is then dried, then Kilned at an even higher temperature until the correct colour is achieved. Although corn, like wheat, rye and barley, does have a protein content it does not cause harmful effects to the intestines of someone with celiac disease. Therefore it is considered safe for celiacs to eat from a gluten perspective.