Add the 50 units purchased on January 12 to the 125 units remaining and calculate the total cost of all those units. Then divide cost by the total number of units. The weighted average cost on January 17 is $8.09. The inclusion of the units costing $8.25 increased the weighted average cost slightly. Using $8.09 as the unit cost, calculate the cost of the sale. Now we can calculate the cost of the sale by taking the average cost per unit multiplied by the number of units sold. Next, calculate the value of the remaining units. There are 125 units left. We will assign $8.03 per unit because that is the weighted average cost of those units on January 7.
Weighted Average Cost is a method of calculating Ending Inventory cost. It is also known as WAVCOs. It takes Cost of Goods Available for Sale and divides it by the number of units available for sale (number of goods from Beginning Inventory + Purchases /production). This gives a Weighted Average Cost per Unit. 
By Chizoba Morah AAA |. A: The main difference between weighted average cost accounting, LIFO, and FIFO methods of accounting is the difference in which each method calculates inventory and cost of goods sold. The weighted average cost method uses the average of the costs of the goods to assign costs. In other words, weighted average uses the formula: Total cost of items in inventory available for sale divided by total number of units available for sale. In contrast, FIFO (first in, first out) accounting means that the costs assigned to goods are the costs for the first goods bought
Average costing method in periodic inventory system: When average costing method is used in a periodic inventory system, the cost of goods sold and the cost of ending inventory is computed using weighted average unit cost. Weighted average unit cost is computed using the following formula : Cost of goods sold: 2,500 units × $10.5118 = $26,280 Cost of ending inventory: 900 units × $10.5118 = $9,460. When average costing method is used in a perpetual inventory system, an average unit cost figure is computed each time a purchase is made.
Therefore, at the time of each sale, we must calculate the weighted average cost of the units on hand at the time of the sale. On January 7, the company sold 100 units. We must calculate the average cost of the 225 units on hand as of that date. We calculate the average cost by taking total cost divided by the number of units on hand. This gives us a weighted average cost of $8.03 per unit. Now we can calculate the cost of the sale by taking the average cost per unit multiplied by the number of units sold. Next, calculate the value of the remaining units. There are 125 units left. We will assign $8.03 per unit because that is the weighted average cost of those units on January 7.
Average Cost (AVCO) Method. Average cost method (AVCO) calculates the cost of ending inventory and cost of goods sold for a period on the basis of weighted average cost per unit of inventory. Weighted average cost per unit is calculated using the following formula: Like FIFO and LIFO methods, AVCO is also applied differently in periodic inventory system and perpetual inventory system. 
When using the weighted average method, divide the cost of goods available for sale by the number of units available for sale, which yields the weighted-average cost per unit. In this calculation, the cost of goods available for sale is the sum of beginning inventory and net purchases. Weighted Average Method Overview. The weighted average method is used to assign the average cost of production to a product. Weighted average costing is commonly used in situations where: 1  Inventory items are so intermingled that it is impossible to assign a specific cost to an individual unit.
The weighted average cost per unit is therefore $257.78 ($116,000 ÷ 450 units.). The ending inventory valuation is $45,112 (175 units × $257.78 weighted average cost), while the cost of goods sold valuation is $70,890 (275 units × $257.78 weighted average cost). The sum of these two amounts (less a rounding error) equals the $116,000 total actual cost of all purchases and beginning inventory. Weighted Average Method Overview. The weighted average method is used to assign the average cost of production to a product. Weighted average costing is commonly used in situations where: 1  Inventory items are so intermingled that it is impossible to assign a specific cost to an individual unit.