A hospital admitting clerk has duties similar to a receptionist, but in a hospital setting (see Reference 2). Often, the clerk will greet and interview patients, input personal information into a database, direct patients to different areas of the building, make appointments and maintain patient files. Save. The hospital admitting clerk might be the first warm face that greets you when you enter a hospital. Generally these employees are friendly and helpful and understand that you might be uncomfortable. If you are looking for a new career and enjoy helping people, this is a good place to start.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Admitting Clerk in the United States is $30,803 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Admitting Clerk in the United States are expected to make less than $30,803. Source: HR Reported data as of September 2015. Median $30,803. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Admitting Clerk in the United States.
Hospital Admitting Clerks with a lot of experience do not necessarily enjoy more money. Folks with fewer than five years of experience take home $25K on average, and those who have worked for five to 10 years see a bigger median salary of $27K. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $9.38 per hour and $17.21. While some workers in this profession — about one in four — do not have any health coverage, a majority do receive medical benefits and the larger part have dental insurance.
Most Hospital Admitting Clerks in the United States are women. The workforce as a whole earns a median of approximately $12.48 per hour. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $9.38 per hour and $17.21. While some workers in this profession — about one in four — do not have any health coverage, a majority do receive medical benefits and the larger part have dental insurance. The majority of workers are highly satisfied with their job
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) receptionist jobs like admitting clerks made a median 2010 income of $12.14 an hour, or $25,240 a year. Generally, you only need a high school diploma to start as a receptionist. Admitting clerks are customer facing, but must also understand the world of medicine. They must know how to handle patients, doctors, nurses, and as well as health insurance processing and hospital policies.
Admitting Clerk Job Description. Admitting clerks work on the front lines of the hospital and medical profession, and are often the first person people see when coming in for treatment. Admitting clerks are customer facing, but must also understand the world of medicine. They must know how to handle patients, doctors, nurses, and as well as health insurance processing and hospital policies.
Admitting/Discharge Clerk Job Description The following is a full job description for Admitting/Discharge Clerk. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Admitting/Discharge Clerk along with statistics. If after reading this page you determine that Admitting/Discharge Clerk is not the position you are looking for, you may want to try one of these similar titles: Requirements and Responsibilities For Admitting/Discharge Clerk Performs a variety of clerical tasks related to patient admission and discharge processes. If after reading this page you determine that Admitting/Discharge Clerk is not the position you are looking for, you may want to try one of these similar titles: Requirements and Responsibilities F
Hospital Admitting Clerks see a median salary of $30K after reaching one to two decades on the job. Hospital Admitting Clerks who surpass 20 years on the job report pay that isn't as high as one would expect; the median compensation for this crowd sits around $33K. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $9.38 per hour and $17.21. While some workers in this profession — about one in four — do not have any health coverage, a majority do receive medical benefits and the larger part have dental insurance.
Women comprise the majority of Admissions Clerks in the United States. Individuals in this line of work make around $11.89 per hour on average. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $8.50 per hour and $15.68. Medical benefits are awarded to a fair number, and the greater part earn dental coverage. The majority of workers are highly satisfied with their job.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Admitting Clerk may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Admitting Clerk in the United States.