Items that I think are important about Jambalaya; 1. The word Jambalaya comes from both the Spanish and French words for Ham Jamon. And the Creole slang ya ya, for many people talking together or from the Cajun for an mishap. Also many say it is African for rice. 1 Also a Creole jambalaya is usually made with shrimp and a seafood stock. 2  Jambalaya can be made from many base meats, both smoked and fresh. 3  Smoked meats can be a hot or mild smoked pork sausage, tasso or wild game. 4  Fresh meats such as chicken, pork, rabbit, alligator and road kill are all used.
The first and most common is the city Creole jambalaya (also called red jambalaya). First, meat is added to the trinity of celery, peppers, and onions; the meat is usually chicken and sausage such as andouille or smoked sausage. Next vegetables and tomatoes are added to cook, followed by seafood. The first appearance in print of any variant of the word 'jambalaya' in any language occurred in Leis amours de Vanus; vo, Lou paysan oou theatre, théâtré By (Fortune) Fortuné, fortunat chailan first Published in provencal. provençal in 1837
After Hank Williams Sr recorded his version with the new words, Cajuns re-recorded Jambalaya with Hank Williams' words translated into Cajun French. Cajuns now consider the song to be one of our own songs. (By the way, Hank Williams mispronounced the word Bayou. This is the Jambalaya Song Lyrics (On the Bayou) sung by Hank Williams. (followed by the Cajun French version). Here are the Jambalaya lyrics to the Jambalaya song done by Hank Williams Sr. Hank Williams Sr copied the Jambalaya musical melody from an earlier tune recorded in Cajun French called Grand Texas.
The Oxford English Dictionary indicates that 'jambalaya' comes from the Provencal provençal 'word', jambalaia meaning a mish, mash or, mixup and also meaning a (pilau) pilaf of. Rice this is supported by the fact that the first printed appearance of the word is in A provencal provençal poem published. in 1837 The first appearance in print of any variant of the word 'jambalaya' in any language occurred in Leis amours de Vanus; vo, Lou paysan oou theatre, théâtré By (Fortune) Fortuné, fortunat chailan first Published in provencal. provençal in 1837
Jambalaya (On the Bayou)  is a song written and recorded by American country music singer Hank Williams that was first released in July 1952. A demo version of Williams singing Jambalaya (On the Bayou) with just his guitar, likely recorded in 1951, is also available. Williams composed a sequel to the song from the female perspective, I'm Yvonne (Of the Bayou), with Jimmy Rule, recorded by Goldie Hill.
Jambalaya: noun: a Creole dish of rice with a mixture of fish and meat such as shrimp, chicken, ham, and spicy sausage.     A Creole dish consisting of rice that … has been cooked with shrimp, oysters, ham, or chicken and seasoned with spices and herbs. (followed by the Cajun French version) Here are the Jambalaya lyrics to the Jambalaya s … ong done by Hank Williams Sr. Hank Williams Sr copied the Jambalaya musical melody from an earlier tune recorded in Cajun French called Grand Texas.
Creole jambalaya originates from the French Quarter of New Orleans, in the original European sector. It was an attempt by the Spanish to make paella in the New World, where saffron was not readily available due to import costs. Tomatoes became the substitute for saffron. The first appearance in print of any variant of the word 'jambalaya' in any language occurred in Leis amours de Vanus; vo, Lou paysan oou theatre, théâtré By (Fortune) Fortuné, fortunat chailan first Published in provencal. provençal in 1837
Cookbook writers often state that jambalaya comes from the French jambon (ham ,) and an African word for rice, given variously as ya, aya or yaya. This is also the story told by modern New Orleanians. It has proven impossible to verify this derivation. 
The Oxford English Dictionary indicates that 'jambalaya' comes from the Provencal provençal 'word', jambalaia meaning a mish, mash or, mixup and also meaning a (pilau) pilaf of. rice The first appearance in print of any variant of the word 'jambalaya' in any language occurred in Leis amours de Vanus; vo, Lou paysan oou theatre, théâtré By (Fortune) Fortuné, fortunat chailan first Published in provencal. provençal in 1837