Adagio for Strings. March 13 -- Samuel Barber wrote this classical piece for string quartet, and it was first performed in 1938. Now a standard short piece for orchestra, Adagio for Strings endures in part due to its appearance in wo well-known film soundtracks -- Platoon and The Elephant Man. 
One Fiddler's Collection of Old-Time Tunes. This is a collection of old-time fiddle tunes — most of them from Appalachia — that I collected for my own use and would like to share with other fiddlers who love this kind music. Clicking on the title of any tune below will take you to a page of sheet music in PDF format. 1 Blackberry Blossom. 2  This was Kentucky fiddler Ed Haley's signature tune, according to Jeff Todd Titon. 3  It's in the unusual (for old-time music) key of G minor. 4  Ed Haley was unusual, too, among old-time fiddlers in his willingness to improvise and vary a tune with each repetition.
Linscott recorded a dance, also called Devil's Dream, for which this tune was played in Hinsdale, N.H., and Howe (c. 1867) and Burchenal (1918) also printed New England contra dances of the same name to the tune. I play classical violin myself, and enjoy classical music. Nor do I have a problem with Devil's Dream. It's a cool tune, that happened to get caught in the crossfire.
Devil's Dream is an important fiddle tune, and I didn't want to just play the basic tune if I was going to play it, so I worked this up for you! Devil's Dream according to Fiddler's Companion. DEVIL'S DREAM [1] (Aisling An Diabail). I play classical violin myself, and enjoy classical music. Nor do I have a problem with Devil's Dream. It's a cool tune, that happened to get caught in the crossfire.
Enough about that. After not playing Devil’s Dream for a number of years, I came across this recording of Jean Carignan playing Devil’s Dream (Le Reve Du Diable) and my faith in the tune was revived. Devil’s Dream is an important fiddle tune, and I didn’t want to just play the basic tune if I was going to play it, so I worked this up for you! DEVIL’S DREAM [1] (Aisling An Diabail).
Linscott recorded a dance, also called “Devil’s Dream,” for which this tune was played in Hinsdale, N.H., and Howe (c. 1867) and Burchenal (1918) also printed New England contra dances of the same name to the tune. Devil’s Dream is an important fiddle tune, and I didn’t want to just play the basic tune if I was going to play it, so I worked this up for you! DEVIL’S DREAM [1] (Aisling An Diabail).
After not playing Devil's Dream for a number of years, I came across this recording of Jean Carignan playing Devil's Dream (Le Reve Du Diable) and my faith in the tune was revived. I play classical violin myself, and enjoy classical music. Nor do I have a problem with Devil's Dream. It's a cool tune, that happened to get caught in the crossfire.
Fiddler's Green is a legendary supposed afterlife, where there is perpetual mirth, a fiddle that never stops playing, and dancers who never tire. In 19th-century maritime folklore it was a kind of afterlife for sailors who have served at least 50 years at sea. The author Richard McKenna wrote a story, first published in 1967, entitled Fiddler's Green, in which he considers the power of the mind to create a reality of its own choosing, especially when a number of people consent to it.
Fiddler on the Roof is a musical with music by Jerry Bock, lyrics by Sheldon Harnick, and book by Joseph Stein, set in the Pale of Settlement of Imperial Russia in 1905. Tevye, a poor Jewish milkman with five daughters, explains the customs of the Jews in the Russian shtetl of Anatevka in 1905, where their lives are as precarious as the perch of a fiddler on a roof ( Tradition ). At Tevye's home, everyone is busy preparing for the Sabbath meal.
For the film, see Fiddler on the Roof (film) . Fiddler on the Roof is a musical with music by Jerry Bock, lyrics by Sheldon Harnick, and book by Joseph Stein, set in the Pale of Settlement of Imperial Russia in 1905. It is based on Tevye and his Daughters (or Tevye the Dairyman) and other tales by Sholem Aleichem. Tevye, a poor Jewish milkman with five daughters, explains the customs of the Jews in the Russian shtetl of Anatevka in 1905, where their lives are as precarious as the perch of a fiddler on a roof ( Tradition ). At Tevye's home, everyone is busy preparing for the Sabbath meal.