1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 1 The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 2  DNA is a double stranded molecule while RNA is a single stranded molecule. 3  DNA is stable under alkaline conditions while RNA is not stable.
Deoxyribose is a component of DNA which lacks-OH (alcohol group) on the 2' carbon ring Ribose is a component of RNA which contains-OH group on the 2 carbon ring   The … main difference between the two is that ribose has an oxygen atom attached to carbon 2. Ribose is the sugar component of the structure of RNA (ribonucleic acid) and deoxyribose is the sugar component in DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
Ribose and Deoxyribose. The 5-carbon sugars ribose and deoxyribose are important components of nucleotides, and are found in RNA and DNA, respectively. The sugars found in nucleic acids are pentose sugars; a pentose sugar has five carbon atoms. A combination of a base and a sugar is called a nucleoside. Ribose, found in RNA, is a normal sugar, with one oxygen atom attached to each carbon atom. Deoxyribose, found in DNA, is a modified sugar, lacking one oxygen atom (hence the name deoxy). This difference of one oxygen atom is important for the enzymes that recognize DNA and RNA, because it allows these two molecules to be easily distinguished inside organisms. Notice the difference between ribose and deoxyribose in the figure above. In ribose, carbon atom #2 carries one hydroxyl group (colored red).
Deoxyribose sugar: 1. Deoxyribose is the pentose sugar of DNA with five carbon atoms. 2. Four out of the five carbon atoms plus a single atom of oxygen form a five-membered ring. 3. The fifth carbon is outside the ring and forms a part of the –CH 2 group. Ribose sugar: 1. Ribose is the pentose sugar of RNA with five carbons. 2. It has an identical structure to DNA except that there is an hydroxyl (-OH) group instead of hydrogen on carbon atom 2’ . 3. Ribose has free –OH groups on carbons 2’, 3’ and 5’ . 4. The phosphate can attach at any of these three positions.
Ribose Sugar. The sugar found in RNA (as opposed to deoxyribose in DNA). Ribose is a 5-carbon sugar, and has one more oxygen on it than deoxyribose does. At the center of each RNA nucleotide is a 5 carbon sugar-ribose sugar, attached to that is the phosphate group & a nitrogenous bases. Deoxyribose sugar. Deoxyribose is the sugar molecules found in DNA. They have one less oxygen atom than ribose sugar which is found in RNA. The backbone of the DNA is made up of phosphate and deoxyribose.
1. Ribose is the pentose sugar of RNA with five carbons. 2. It has an identical structure to DNA except that there is an hydroxyl (-OH) group instead of hydrogen on carbon atom 2’ . 3. Ribose has free –OH groups on carbons 2’, 3’ and 5’ . 4. Ribose sugar: 1. Ribose is the pentose sugar of RNA with five carbons. 2. It has an identical structure to DNA except that there is an hydroxyl (-OH) group instead of hydrogen on carbon atom 2’ . 3. Ribose has free –OH groups on carbons 2’, 3’ and 5’ . 4. The phosphate can attach at any of these three positions.
Deoxyribose is a ribose molecule that has a hydrogen (H) atom in place of a hydroxyl (OH) group at position 2. Deoxyribose is a component of DNA. Ribose is a compone … nt of RNA. Both nucleic acids carry genetic information. Ribose is the sugar component of the structure of RNA (ribonucleic acid) and deoxyribose is the sugar component in DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
Ribose and deoxyribose are both sugars. They have identical chemical structure except that ribose has a hydroxyl group (OH) on carbon 2, while deoxyribose is without an oxygen on carbon 2 (H). Ribose is the sugar component of the structure of RNA (ribonucleic acid) and deoxyribose is the sugar component in DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
The 5-carbon sugars ribose and deoxyribose are important components of nucleotides, and are found in RNA and DNA, respectively. The sugars found in nucleic acids are pentose sugars; a pentose sugar has five carbon atoms. This difference of one oxygen atom is important for the enzymes that recognize DNA and RNA, because it allows these two molecules to be easily distinguished inside organisms. Notice the difference between ribose and deoxyribose in the figure above. In ribose, carbon atom #2 carries one hydroxyl group (colored red).