PCBs are not listed RCRA hazardous wastes. It is possible that PCBs will be present as incidental contaminants in a listed hazardous waste (e.g., solvent used to remove PCBs from transformers). Typically PCBs do not exhibit a characteristic.
PCB-containing ballasts (non-leaking) do not meet the definition of a special waste but are considered a municipal solid waste unless the generator is a manufacturer of PCB capacitors. Leaking PCB-containing ballasts are handled in the same manner as transformers as a special waste.
1 PCB-containing wastes that are municipal solid wastes may be placed with the regular garbage and accepted by your municipal waste landfill. 2  USEPA suggests incineration or disposal in a hazardous landfill for non-leaking PCB-containing ballasts.
A hazardous waste is (1) listed on the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency hazardous waste list which can be obtained from the Office of Small Business or (2) has the characteristic of ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity, or toxicity (determined by generator knowledge or analytical testing in a laboratory).
The Virginia hazardous waste management regulations, which closely follow federal standards established under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), require permits for storage, treatment, and disposal of hazardous wastes.
DTSC has classified PCBs as a hazardous waste when the concentrations are equal to or. greater than 5mg/l in liquids or when the total concentrations are equal to or greater. than 50 mg/kg in nonliquids (Title 22, CCR, 66261.24).
All weights of PCB wastes on the hazardous waste manifests must in kilograms (kg) and the out of service date must be listed on the manifest. Certificate of Disposals (CODs) must be received by EH&S within one year of shipment and 30 days of when the material was disposed (incinerated). 8.
The following are not hazardous wastes and don’t need to be reported as a hazardous waste: Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) wastes regulated under the federal Toxic Substances Control Act (see 40 CFR 761).
PCB's are regulated under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). This program is not delegated to the State of Oklahoma. Questions regarding PCB’s should be directed to EPA Region 6 in Dallas, Texas, (214) 665-7579. Mixtures of hazardous waste and PCB’s are regulated by both the EPA and DEQ.