However, the DaTscan can only help in the diagnosis to a certain extent. It can point towards Parkinsonism, but cannot help the doctor distinguish between many similar disorders, of which classic Parkinson's disease is one. GE Healthcare announced the availability of DaTscan™ (Ioflupane I 123 Injection) in June 2011.
The hallmark of Parkinson’s disease is the loss of these neurons and a decrease in dopamine; when these neurons die, there are fewer dopamine transporters, leading to decreased activity on the brain scan. For the classic motor symptoms of Parkinson’s to be present, typically 50% or more of these neurons must be lost.
When using the DaTscan, the patient is injected with a small quantity of a radioactive contrast agent which binds to dopamine transporters in the brain. Then, a scanner is used to measure how much of the contrast agent there is in the brain, and where exactly it is.
DaTSCAN is a solution for injection that contains the active substance ioflupane (123 I). DaTSCAN is for diagnostic use only. It is used to detect the loss of nerve cells in an area of the brain called the striatum, specifically the cells that release dopamine, a chemical messenger.
DaTscan is the trade name for Ioflupane I-123, which is a radiotracer used in a nuclear medicine imaging test called brain SPECT. DaTscan binds to the presynaptic dopamine active transporter (DAT) on neurons that communicate with areas controlling movement, including the striatum.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. DaTscan is a drug used in combination with brain scans to help doctors diagnose Parkinson's disease in people who have tremors that could be caused by other conditions.
In situations like these, where the physical exam or symptoms may be atypical for Parkinson’s disease, an imaging test called a DaTscan may help to either confirm the diagnosis of Parkinson’s or make it unlikely.
DaTscan is a radiopharmaceutical imaging agent that works by binding to dopamine transporters (DaT) in the brain. A specific marker for DaT, DaTscan produces images that provide visual evidence of the presence of dopamine transporters.