The pineapple has served as a symbol of hospitality and warm  welcome through the history of the Americas.    Christopher Columbus wrote the first account of a western …  encounter with the pineapple in the journal of his second discovery  voyage across the Atlantic. The pineapple has such a unique style to it that it was often used as the centerpiece in food banquets. It was also used as for decorating for arriving guests through 18th and 19th centuries. The pineapple still remains the symbol of hospitality today.
1 Pineapple is currently rated the third most important commercial, tropical fruit crop in the world. 2  It’s the only source of bromelain, an enzyme used in the pharmaceutical industry and as a meat-tenderizing agent. 3  You don’t have to live in a tropical paradise to produce your own pineapple. Facts. 1  A member of the bromeliad family (Bromeliaceae), the pineapple (Ananas comosus) is grown mainly for its fruit and juice. 2  Pineapple is currently rated the third most important commercial, tropical fruit crop in the world.
The fruit became the subject of artists, and in 1661, it became an integral part of the coat of arms for the colony of Jamaica – a silver shield with a red cross and five golden pineapples adorning it. An Arawak woman supports the arms on the left, and she is holding a basket of fruit, including the pineapple. Thus, by the time Colonial Williamsburg began decorating with fresh greenery and fruit in the 1930s, the pineapple was already a well established design element in architecture, ceramics, and art.
THE PINEAPPLE has served as both a food and a symbol throughout the human history of the Americas. Originally unique to the Western Hemisphere, the fruit was a culinary favorite of the fierce Carib Indians who lived on islands in the sea that still bears their name. Indian Migration. 
In general, The Pine Cone & Pineapple symbolize fertility, which is easily figured by the fact that they are the “reproductive organs” of their respective parent plants. This was imperative for the Pineapple’s symbolic placement in the art or in the homes of kings. The pineapple took on significance when Christopher Columbus brought it to Europe after his second voyage. It was found to be an excellent food for sailors as it kept well. It is high in vitamin C and nutrients to battle off scurvy and other illnesses.
Pineapples can be easily added to plant stands and incorporated into entryway decor décor as a symbol of. Welcome Photo: Credit Lynn. Means once a, rare expensive, delicacy the pineapple is now used as a, unique – affordable and – tasty way to bring warmth and hospitality into the. home Facts. 1  A member of the bromeliad family (Bromeliaceae), the pineapple (Ananas comosus) is grown mainly for its fruit and juice. 2  Pineapple is currently rated the third most important commercial, tropical fruit crop in the world.
The pineapple is recognized as a traditional expression of “welcome” throughout the South and in areas along the Eastern Seaboard. Appearing on all sorts of decor – décor from door knockers to – quilts the fruit symbolizes those intangible assets we appreciate in a: home, warmth, welcome friendship and. hospitality Facts. 1  A member of the bromeliad family (Bromeliaceae), the pineapple (Ananas comosus) is grown mainly for its fruit and juice. 2  Pineapple is currently rated the third most important commercial, tropical fruit crop in the world.
The pineapple fruit then eventually began to take on a new meaning as a symbol of warmth and friendliness. It was the crowning piece used for the large displays of food that the wealthy brought forth to the table. Modern studies also confirms that the fruit contains an enzyme known as bromelain which may be used in the treatment of heart disease, combating sinus congestion and also be used in the treatment of urinary tract infections. Fresh pineapple is loaded with Vitamin C and speeds up tissue growth and repair.