Rating Newest Oldest. To qualify for maternity benefits you need to have worked 600 hours, doesnt matter how long you work as long as you have that number of hours. At 40 hours a week its only like 15 weeks. 
If you qualify for statutory maternity pay (SMP), it will be paid based on the salary of whichever parent is on leave. Statutory maternity pay (SMP) is a weekly payment from your employer. Currently, you'll qualify for maternity pay if: SMP is paid for a continuous period of up to 39 weeks. For the first six weeks, you'll be paid 90 per cent of your average weekly earnings with no upper limit. You may then take an extra 26 weeks' additional maternity leave, giving you a year's leave in total. If you take a year off, you'll have taken your full statutory maternity leave. You can take this regardless of how long you've been in your job, how many hours you work, or how much you're paid.
To get Maternity Allowance you must have: 1  Been working for an employer or been self-employed for at least 26 weeks in any of the 66 weeks up to and including the week before your baby is due. 2  And earned on average £30 a week or more in 13 of the 26 weeks. 6. If you are pregnant you are entitled to maternity leave. You may also be entitled to Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP) from your employer or Maternity Allowance from the Department for Work and Pensions. If you or your partner are receiving certain benefits, you may be entitled to a Sure Start Maternity Grant.
You may then take an extra 26 weeks' additional maternity leave, giving you a year's leave in total. If you take a year off, you'll have taken your full statutory maternity leave. You have the right to maternity leave regardless of how long you've been in your job, how many hours you work, or how much you're paid. You can start maternity leave any time from 11 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby's due. You can bring the date forward if you need to take time off work for pregnancy-related reasons within four weeks of the expected birth date.
If you are pregnant you are entitled to up to 52 weeks of maternity leave, even if you do not qualify for Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP) or Maternity Allowance. This is generally regardless of how long you have worked for your employer. 6. If you are pregnant you are entitled to maternity leave. You may also be entitled to Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP) from your employer or Maternity Allowance from the Department for Work and Pensions. If you or your partner are receiving certain benefits, you may be entitled to a Sure Start Maternity Grant.
If your expected week of childbirth is on or after April 1st 2007, the law will have changed and you are entitled to one year no matter how long your service with a company has been. Before that date, the old law entitles everyone to 26 weeks, but only those with 26 weeks continuous service to the full 52 weeks. Best Answer: first find out if your company pays contractual maternity pay, if they do then it varies from company to company. if not the you can apply for SMP statutory maternity pay http://www.direct.gov.uk/Bfsl1/BenefitsA...
editor to qualify for smp you need to have been earning an average of £ 109 a week in the eight weeks leading up to the 26th week of your pregnancy 
In the Uk, they don't have to keep paying you! After you have been there 26 weeks you are entitled to 26 weeks Satutory Maternity Pay (SMP). Don't get too excited about this tho, its 90% of your salary for 6 weeks, then it drops to approx £120 a week. Less tax etc... Best Answer: first find out if your company pays contractual maternity pay, if they do then it varies from company to company. if not the you can apply for SMP statutory maternity pay http://www.direct.gov.uk/Bfsl1/BenefitsA...
Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP). To qualify for SMP you must: 1  earn on average at least £112 a week. 2  give the correct notice. 3  give proof you’re pregnant. 4  have worked for your employer continuously for at least 26 weeks up to the ‘qualifying week’ - the 15th week before the expected week of childbirth. Work out your qualifying week using the maternity pay calculator. You can’t get SMP if you go into police custody during your maternity pay period. It won’t restart when you’re discharged.