No other animal has hair in the same form as mammals, and all mammals have some hair at least at the beginning of their lives-baby whales and dolphins are born with a moustache. Character Three. The lower jaw in mammals is a single bone on either side. In all other vertebrates there are more than one bone on each side of the jaw. Character Four. The mammal middle ear, and only the mammal middle ear, contains 3 bones. The Stapes or (Stirrup), Incus or (Anvil) and the Malleus or (Hammer)
Hair. Hair is one of the characteristics of a mammal that is unique to mammals—no other animals have true hair and all mammals have hair covering at least part of their body at some time during their life. An individual hair consists of a rod of cells that are reinforced by a protein known as keratin. 
The official definition for the word mammal is a warm-blooded  vertebrate animal of a class that is distinguished by the  possession of hair or fur, the secretion of milk by females for the  nourishment of the young, and the birth of live young.. + 21 others found this useful. Mammals also include such fascinating animals as porcupines, gorill … as, giraffes, rhinoceroses and kangaroos. Humans are warm-blooded animals, so are all other Mammals are found to exist all over the world in all different climates. Mammals such as chimpanzees and elephants dwell in tropical regions.
The word  mammal  is modern, from the scientific name Mammalia coined by Carl Linnaeus in 1758, derived from the Latin mamma (teat, pap). The basic body type is a four-legged land-borne animal, but some mammals are adapted for life at sea, in the air, in the trees, or on two legs. The largest group of mammals, the placentals, have a placenta, which enables feeding the fetus during gestation.
Obviously, what we need in order to define a mammal are some characters, or traits that are possessed by all mammals and are unique to mammals, i.e. they do not occur in fishes and /slugs etc.. Fortunately, scientists have already worked it all out for us. The lower jaw in mammals is a single bone on either side. In all other vertebrates there are more than one bone on each side of the jaw. Character Four. The mammal middle ear, and only the mammal middle ear, contains 3 bones.
Describe the body of the mammal. 1) use lungs to breathe 2) have a 4-chambered heart 3) well-developed excretory system [system that eliminates (get rid of) wastes of the body] 4) most highly developed brain of all the animals 5) highly developed senses of sight, hearing, taste, and smell. 
Any of various warm-blooded vertebrate animals whose young feed on milk that is produced by the mother's mammary glands. Unlike other vertebrates, mammals have a diaphragm that separates the heart and lungs from the other internal organs, red blood cells that lack a nucleus, and usually hair or fur. Any of various warm-blooded vertebrate animals of the class Mammalia, including humans, characterized by a covering of hair on the skin and, in the female, milk-producing mammary glands for nourishing the young.
Procedures. 1. Show the class pictures of five very different mammals, such as a cat, kangaroo, horse, rabbit, and monkey. Explain that all these animals are mammals, and that mammals constitute one class of the animal kingdom, which also includes other classes, such as reptiles, birds, and fish. Ask students what these five mammals have in common and mark their responses on a sheet of chart paper. 
Mammals. Mammals are a class of vertebrates characterised by warm-blood, hairy bodies, a four-chambered heart, a single jaw bone, sweat glands and-in females-mammary glands for suckling young. Some mammals, such as naked mole rats and whales have lost some or all of their hair. Almost all mammals give birth to live young, but there are a few that lay eggs. These are known as monotremes, and include the platypus. Scientific name: Mammalia.