We know that A, B, AB and O are the four blood groups that can be Rh positive or negative (viz: A+, A-, B+, B-, AB+, AB-, O+ and O-). Among them, O+ is the most common; while AB-is the rarest blood type. The detailed explanation provided here will help in better understanding of the subject. AB-and B-are the rarest blood types in the world. The Bombay blood group (hh), a relatively unknown blood type, is also one of the most uncommon blood types in the world. Little is known about the Bombay blood group (hh) , one of the most uncommon blood group
Two types of blood on a blood typing test card. People with rare blood types often bank their blood ahead of surgical procedures. Red blood cells. Type O blood does not have A or B antigens. Blood type is determined by the presence of certain antigens in the blood. The A and B antigens are very common, making it easy to classify people by which antigen they have, while people with Type O blood have neither antigen.
The rarest phenotypic blood type is Type AB negative found in only 0.7% of people worldwide. Genetically the rarest blood type should be Type O; however, it's the most common blood type. There is more to ABO blood typing that just the ABO gene. There is also an inhibitory gene that will change any genotype into the phenotype O. Therefore a person with genetically AB blood can be tested as having Type O.
AB negative is the rarest but do not worry if you have it. If a person has AB blood then they are universal acceptors which means they can accept AB, A, B, or O. This is because the person with the AB blood does not produce A or B antibodies. AB negative is the rarest blood type but the good news is those with AB negative blood can be given any negative blood type. The blood banks love O negative because they are universal donors.
Blood type (or blood group) is determined, in part, by the ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells. A blood type (also called a blood group) is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the blood group system. Some of these antigens are also present on the surface of other types of cells of various tissues. Several of these red blood cell surface antigens can stem from one allele (or an alternative version of a gene) and collectively form a
➡ AB- (AB negative) is the most uncommon or the rarest blood type in the world. It is found in less than 1% of the world's population. To be precise, people having this blood group comprise 0.45% of the world population, i.e., 1 in 175-200 people. AB-and B-are the rarest blood types in the world. The Bombay blood group (hh), a relatively unknown blood type, is also one of the most uncommon blood types in the world. Little is known about the Bombay blood group (hh) , one of the most uncommon blood group
Within the ABO/Rhesus Group systems which are used to classify most blood types, there are several rare blood types. The rarest is AB-, with less than one percent of the world's population having this blood type. B-and O-are also very rare, each accounting for less than 5% of the world's population. Blood type is determined by the presence of certain antigens in the blood. The A and B antigens are very common, making it easy to classify people by which antigen they have, while people with Type O blood have neither antigen.
A blood type is considered rare if fewer than 1 in 1,000 people have them. One of the rarest blood types in the world is Rh-null, which lack any antigens in the Rh system. There are only 9 active donors in the community of rare blood donors that have Rh-null blood. Rh-null is considered a “universal blood” for anyone with a rare blood type within the Rh syst
In addition to the A and B antigens, there is a third antigen called the Rh factor, which can be either present (+) or absent (–). In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB blood type. O positive is the most common blood type. Not all ethnic groups have the same mix of these blood types. Hispanic people, for example, have a relatively high number of O’s, while Asian people have a relatively high number of B’s.