While PTH acts to increase the concentration of ionic calcium (Ca 2+) in the blood, calcitonin, a hormone produced by the parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid gland, acts to decrease ionic calcium concentration. 
The parathyroid glands produce hormones that regulate calcium levels. Calcitonin produced by the thyroid gland, and PTH produced by the parathyroid gland. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcitonin regulate blood calcium levels. PTH increases the calcium concentration in the blood, and calcitonin decreases it. 2 people found this useful. Edit.
Calcitonin is the other major hormone involved with calcium regulation. Parathyroid hormone (PTH), produced by the parathyroid gland, increases the level of calcium in the blo … od. It usually accomplishes this by increasing the resorption rate (taking back) from bone. Calcitonin does the exact opposite and reduces calcium in the blood. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcitonin regulate blood calcium levels. PTH increases the calcium concentration in the blood, and calcitonin decreases it. 2 people found this useful. Edit.
When blood calcium levels drop, the parathyroid gland secretes parathyroid hormone. This hormone works to raise blood calcium levels by stimulating osteoclasts to break down bone and release calcium into the bloodstream. PTH also signals your kidneys to conserve calcium by reducing the amount excreted in the urine. Vitamin D. Vitamin D acts as a hormone in your body to help regulate blood calcium. This steroid hormone is so vital in maintaining calcium balance that its active form is sometimes referred to as calcitriol. Vitamin D is necessary for sufficient absorption of dietary calcium in your small intest
The hormone also stimulates kidney production of the active form of vitamin D, which triggers increased calcium absorption from the gut. Low levels of PTH -- due to autoimmune disease or another cause -- can lead to abnormally low blood calcium. Vitamin D. Vitamin D acts as a hormone in your body to help regulate blood calcium. This steroid hormone is so vital in maintaining calcium balance that its active form is sometimes referred to as calcitriol. Vitamin D is necessary for sufficient absorption of dietary calcium in your small intestine
1 PTH regulates how much calcium is absorbed from your diet, how much calcium is excreted by your kidneys, and how much calcium is stored in your bones. 2  We store many pounds of calcium in our bones, and it is readily available to the rest of the body at the request of the parathyroid glands. Parathyroid Glands: Essentials. 1  Parathyroid hormone regulates the body’s calcium levels. 2  There are four parathyroid glands, and they are each about the size of a grain of rice. 3  Though they’re located near each other, the parathyroid glands are not related to the thyroid gland.
Normal Parathyroid Gland Function. How Parathyroid Glands Work. Parathyroid glands control the calcium in our blood and bones. Learn how parathyroid glands work by making parathyroid hormone to control blood and bone calcium. This page of Parathyroid.com discusses the normal function of parathyroid glands, how parathyroid glands monitor and control blood calcium and what it means to have high blood calcium. When the calcium level in the blood is too low, the cells of the parathyroids sense it and make more parathyroid hormone. Once the parathyroid hormone is released into the blood, it circulates to act in a number of places to increase the amount of calcium in the blood (like removing calcium from bones).
Calcitonin is the other major hormone involved with calcium regulation. Parathyroid hormone (PTH), produced by the parathyroid gland, increases the level of calcium in the blo … od. It usually accomplishes this by increasing the resorption rate (taking back) from bone. Calcitonin does the exact opposite and reduces calcium in the blood. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcitonin regulate blood calcium levels. PTH increases the calcium concentration in the blood, and calcitonin decreases it. 2 people found this useful. Edit.