The general concept of a chemical reaction has been extended to reactions between entities smaller than atoms, including nuclear reactions, radioactive decays, and reactions between elementary particles as described by quantum field theory.
Scientists combine substances to cause chemical reactions. Oxygen combines with iron in a chemical reaction to form iron oxide, which is more commonly known as rust. Chemists may perform chemical reactions. Numerous scientific advancements occur when there is an understanding of chemistry.
A chemical reaction is a process that is usually characterized by a chemical change in which the starting materials (reactants) are different from the products. Chemical reactions tend to involve the motion of electrons, leading to the formation and breaking of chemical bonds.
A chemical reaction is a process in which the identity of at least one substance changes. A chemical equation represents the total chemical change that occurs in a chemical reaction using symbols and chemical formulas for the substances involved.
Classically, chemical reactions encompass changes that only involve the positions of electrons in the forming and breaking of chemical bonds between atoms, with no change to the nuclei (no change to the elements present), and can often be described by a chemical equation.
The substance (or substances) initially involved in a chemical reaction are called reactants or reagents. Chemical reactions are usually characterized by a chemical change, and they yield one or more products, which usually have properties different from the reactants.
Let's start with the idea of a chemical reaction. Reactions occur when two or more molecules interact and the molecules change. Bonds between atoms are broken and created to form new molecules. That's it.
Chemical reactions occur whenever bonds are formed or broken between molecules. Why certain atoms combine with which other atoms is a complex question which is explained exhaustively by quantum chemistry. The simple version is that atoms bond together electromagnetically based on the properties of their electron shells.
Chemical reactions happen at a characteristic reaction rate at a given temperature and chemical concentration. Typically, reaction rates increase with increasing temperature because there is more thermal energy available to reach the activation energy necessary for breaking bonds between atoms.