Mongolia's population is just under 3 million (July, 2008 estimate). (About 4 million ethnic Mongols live in Inner Mongolia, which is now part of China.). 94% of the population of Mongolia are ethnic Mongols, mainly from the Khalkha clan. About 9% of the ethnic Mongols come from the Durbet, Dariganga, and other clans.
At 1,564,116 square kilometres (603,909 sq mi), Mongolia is the 19th largest and one of the most sparsely populated independent countries in the world, with a population of around 3 million people. Ulaanbaatar, the capital and also the largest city, is home to about 45% of the population. Mongolia's political system is a parliamentary republic. The area of what is now Mongolia has been ruled by various nomadic empires, including the Xiongnu, the Xianbei, the Rouran, the Turkic Khaganate, and others.
Mongolia Population. With a population of around 3 million, Mongolia is the most sparsely populated country in the world. In fact, Mongolian people are slightly outnumbered by horses! But less than half of Mongolian people actually live in their homeland. Of the 3 million Mongolian people in this vast land - 1 million are below the age of 14! They live a life Western children can only dream of! Free from the scourge of health and safety concerns, they climb, run, leap, wrestle... living life to the full.
Mongolian Children. Mongolia has a young population. Of the 3 million Mongolian people in this vast land - 1 million are below the age of 14! They live a life Western children can only dream of! Free from the scourge of health and safety concerns, they climb, run, leap, wrestle... living life to the full.
In other words, what are people from Mongolia called? A person from Mongolia and/or a citizen of Mongolia is called Mongolian. You may also be interested in what people from Mongolia speak? In other words, what language do people in Mongolia speak? The language that people speak in Mongolia is Mongolian. Okay, now that you know what people from Mongolia are called and you know what language they speak, you may want to learn more about the people of Mongolia. Here is more information about the country of Mongolia.
The racial term Mongoloid (which comes from the Mongolian people of East Asia) is quite commonly used as a synonym for persons with Down Syndrome. Since people with Down's syndrome may appear to have epicanthic folds (which are skin folds of the upper eye lid) , the condition was called Mongol or Mongoloid Idiocy. The term Mongol originated because suffererers facial features resembled those of people from Mongolia. The term Mongol has, quite rightly, been seen as an offensive term to use. Likewise, people are no longer referred to as mentally retarded but as learning disabled.
1 Facts About Mongolia Mongolia is a country located in Asia. 2  If you look at a map, you will find Mongolia in Central Asia, situated between Russia to the north and China to the south. 1 Europe on a Budget: 21 Free Walking Tours in Europe Walking tours can be a great way to get to know a new city. 2  Fortunately, those heading to Europe in the near future can take advantage of the free walking tours that are offe…. 3 
The Mongols (Mongolian: монголчууд, Mongolchuud) are an East-Central Asian ethnic group native to Mongolia and China 's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. Today, the majority of Mongols live in the modern state of Mongolia, China (mainly Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang), Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Afghanistan. The differentiation between tribes and peoples (ethnic groups) is handled differently depending on the country.
Mongolian is the official national language of Mongolia, where it is spoken by nearly 2.8 million people (2010 estimate), and the official provincial language of China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, where there are at least 4.1 million ethnic Mongols. Today, the majority of Mongols live in the modern state of Mongolia, China (mainly Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang), Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Afghanistan. The differentiation between tribes and peoples (ethnic groups) is handled differently depending on the country.