When permanence and archival quality is important, archival dye ink is the crafter's choice. 1  Over 35 gorgeous on-trend colors, ideal for scrapbooking and journaling projects. 2  Fast-drying, permanent and perfect for watercoloring. 3  Dry ink will not smear when moistened. 
It is an improvment over the MIS 7600 ink. These inks are for the Epson Ultrachrome printers, 2100, 2200, 4000, 7600, 9600, 10600 and also for the C80, C82, C84, C86 & C88. They are designed for making archival pigmented prints on matte, semi gloss and glossy papers. Our version matches the Epson properties, drying time and colors. We now offer R800, R1800 and R1900 Archival Pigment inksets in 2 oz, 4 oz, pint, and gallon quantities. The R800, R1800, & R1900 inks are designed for use on both matte and glossy surfaces. It is only for the Epson R800, R1800, & R1900 printers.
Brilliant results every time. Epson gives you the most vibrant inks possible to use in your Epson printer or all-in-one. Specially formulated to work with Epson printers and specialty paper, Epson ink delivers superior photographic quality prints with true-to-life color and laser-sharp text.
Archival Inks™ provide the lasting results you are looking for. They won't deteriorate paper or precious photographs. Get a crisp image that doesn't bleed with water-based inks and markers, acrylic paint, water colors & more. 
Ranger Archival Inks produce lasting results in a classic palette of rich, , colors. Archivally safe for all your paper projects, these inks provide crisp, stamped images over waterbased dye inks, alcohol inks, acrylic paints, and watercolors. The inks are acid free, non-toxic and permanent on most paper. Ranger's archival inkpads are waterproof and are great for layering within mixed media projects. They come in a nice variety of colors, more so than what Blick's sells when you add in all of Wendy Vecchi's colors, and she has just added three more to her palette in January 2015.
RANGER-Archival Ink Pads. The ink pads provide lasting results. They will not deteriorate paper or precious photographs, they will not bleed when painted or brayered over with watercolors, water-based inks, markers or pearl pigments. These inks are fade resistant, water resistant, acid free, non-toxic and permanent for paper-heat set for permanence on non-porous surfaces. These pads feature removable hinged lid, raised stamping surface, and measure 2-3/4x4in.
Inkjet printing is a type of computer printing that recreates a digital image by propelling droplets of ink onto paper, plastic, or other substrates. Inkjet printers are the most commonly used type of printer, and range from small inexpensive consumer models to expensive professional machines. 
Regardless, if HP doesn't supply what it calls archival then consider it a lost cause. Alot depends on the ink makeup, which in turn demands the printer be capable of using but further not cause problems when other inks(if applicable) are swapped out for other tasks. In reply to: an Ink by any other name. Any printer can use only XYZ ink carts. Meaning, if your HP model has only those ink carts to choose from. While some HP models use the exact same ink carts, others don't. Your manual or possibility a decal/embossing on the printer will show what ink carts can be used.
thanks for the advice. i found out through further reading that Archival inks are pigmented ink. And HP has a new Pigmented ink. They just don't call it Archival.. Problem is it is for a new printer. Don't know if you can find it for another printer. In reply to: an Ink by any other name. Any printer can use only XYZ ink carts. Meaning, if your HP model has only those ink carts to choose from. While some HP models use the exact same ink carts, others don't. Your manual or possibility a decal/embossing on the printer will show what ink carts can be used.
You are posting a reply to: archival inks..can you get them for HP printers. Track this discussion and email me when there are updates. If you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem. In reply to: an Ink by any other name. Any printer can use only XYZ ink carts. Meaning, if your HP model has only those ink carts to choose from. While some HP models use the exact same ink carts, others don't. Your manual or possibility a decal/embossing on the printer will show what ink carts can be used.