While Testofen was determined safe in this study, some experts found fenugreek caused gastrointestinal issues, diarrhea, bloating, and nasal congestion when taken in amounts larger than normally found in food. Testofen is considered safe and is an effective testosterone boosting supplement. Naturally increasing testosterone with Testofen boosts sex drive, energy, and vitality. If you are allergic to fenugreek or experience any symptoms or side effects, however, discontinue using Testofen and speak with a doctor.
Recommended by consumers and experts alike, Testofen is touted as the natural solution for boosting testosterone production, enhancing muscle growth, and stimulating sex drive. Furthermore, Testofen is extremely versatile, offering multiple applications and a wide variety of active compounds. Traditionally speaking, fenugreek herbs were used to add flavor to food, improve women’s lactation, and treat digestive problems. However, with the discovery of a new component in the seeds, Fenugreek has proven to be an effective testosterone booster as well.
Fenuside saponins, also known as testofen, are one of 100 chemicals found in fenugreek. Testofen is advertised as testosterone booster which may be useful to athletes and people with low T levels. However, it should be noted that studies have been done mostly on animals. SIDE EFFECTS. People taking fenugreek or fenugreek based supplements such as testofen found out that herb may cause their urine to smell like maple syrup. However, I regulary consume curry which contains fenugreek but I haven't experienced these kind of problems, yet.
The main ingredient of Testofen™, fenugreek extract, is a natural compound found in fenugreek. Fenugreek is one of several herbs traditionally used to improve lactation in women. The discovery of a new component in the seeds of the plant, however, has been found to be beneficial to testosterone production as well. 
In foods, fenugreek is included as an ingredient in spice blends. It is also used as a flavoring agent in imitation maple syrup, foods, beverages, and tobacco. In manufacturing, fenugreek extracts are used in soaps and cosmetics. Fenugreek leaves are eaten in India as a vegetable. Fenugreek is LIKELY SAFE for people when taken by mouth in amounts normally found in foods. It is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken in amounts used for medicinal purposes (amounts larger than normally found in food) for up to 6 months.
Testofen, by Gencor Pacific, is the name used for an ingredient known as fenugreek extract. Gencor sells Testofen as an ingredient that is said to help enhance sexual performance and help boost testosterone levels in men. An additional bonus is that this product may help preserve muscle mass. 
Testofen is commonly found in male enhancement and muscle building supplements as an active ingredient, though you may be able to find the ingredient by itself depending on where you look. The next time you look for a testosterone booster, double-check the label. Make sure that Testofen is near the top of the list. 
Testosterone is critical for muscle development, many people use products containing Testofen™ to increase muscle mass and burn fat. Increasing testosterone production is also said to improve libido and performance. The main ingredient of Testofen™ is a natural compound found in fenugreek seed extract. Fenugreek is one of several herbs that historically has been used to improve milk production in breast feeding women. In addition, fenugreek seed extract has been found to be beneficial to testosterone production as well. Fenuside, the effective compound, is a combination of several saponins that naturally stimulate the androgens inside the system. As a result, muscle mass and sexual performance in men are increased
Fenugreek is used for kidney ailments, a vitamin deficiency disease called beriberi, mouth ulcers, boils, bronchitis, infection of the tissues beneath the surface of the skin (cellulitis), tuberculosis, chronic coughs, chapped lips, baldness, cancer, and lowering blood sugar in people with diabetes. Fenugreek is LIKELY SAFE for people when taken by mouth in amounts normally found in foods. It is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken in amounts used for medicinal purposes (amounts larger than normally found in food) for up to 6 months.
Created and Patented by Gencor Pacific INC, Testofen is a unique compound derived from fenugreek seeds. Traditionally speaking, fenugreek herbs were used to add flavor to food, improve women’s lactation, and treat digestive problems. However, with the discovery of a new component in the seeds, Fenugreek has proven to be an effective testosterone booster as well.