EAMCET Medical 2014 Cutoff-The Cutoff score of EAMCET Medical 2014 entrance exam will be based on factors such as availability of seats, number of applicants and difficulty level in the entrance examination. Apply Now. LATEST NEWS-TS EAMCET Medical 2015 Result declared-Click here. While preparing EAMCET Medical 2014 cutoff score, 85% seats will be reserved for local candidates and remaining 15% for non-local candidates. A candidate shall be regarded as a local candidate if they have studied not less than four consecutive academic years in an educational institution of that particular area
The qualifying percentage of marks in the Entrance Test is 25% i.e. 40 out of a total 160 .For candidates belonging to SC/ST there no minimum qualifying mark is fixed. # 4. There is No qualifying Marks for EAMCET. Ranks are Generated on the basis of Marks and for all the students who have filled and Given The exam will get his/her Rank for sure. But the Criteria of Filling up of Seats in Different Colleges Under JNTU And other andhra unversities under some criteria like.
EAMCET results 2014 have been declared at the official website. Candidates can view their total scores and their rank obtained by entering their Hall Ticket number. Ranks will only be awarded to general category candidates having secured at least the qualifying marks and to SC/ST candidates. 
View Comments. The qualifying percentage of marks in entrance test is 25% i.e 40 out of a total of 160. However, for a candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST), no minimum qualifying mark is prescribed. But their admission will be limited to the extent of seats reserved for such categories (vide G.O.Ms No. 179, LEN&TE, dated 16.06.1986).
The qualifying percentage of marks for the EAMCET-2014 is 25% of the maximum marks of EAMCET-2014 for ranking. However, for candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe, no minimum qualifying mark is prescribed. Candidates satisfying the following requirements shall be eligible to appear for EAMCET: 1  Candidates should be of Indian Nationality or Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) / Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) Card Holders.
The qualifying percentage of marks in the Entrance Test is 25% i.e. 40 out of a total. 160.For candidates belonging to SC/ST there no minimum qualifying mark is fixed. Ranks are Generated on the basis of Marks and for all the students who have filled and Given The exam will get his/her Rank for sure. There is No qualifying Marks for EAMCET. Ranks are Generated on the basis of Marks and for all the students who have filled and Given The exam will get his/her Rank for sure. But the Criteria of Filling up of Seats in Different Colleges Under JNTU And other andhra unversities under some criteria like.
A Common Entrance Test designated as Engineering, Agriculture & Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) will be conducted by JNT University Hyderabad for admission into the First Year of Professional Courses i.e. B.E. / B.Tech. Candidates satisfying the following requirements shall be eligible to appear for EAMCET: 1  Candidates should be of Indian Nationality or Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) / Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) Card Holders.
Andhra Pradesh Medical and Dental colleges MBBS and BDS seat seats will be allotted according to the rank obtained in EAMCET Medical 2014 entrance exam. According to Medical Council of India (MCI), there are 6200 MBBS seats in 43 Medical Colleges of Andhra Pradesh. Apply Now. LATEST NEWS-TS EAMCET Medical 2015 Result declared-Click here. While preparing EAMCET Medical 2014 cutoff score, 85% seats will be reserved for local candidates and remaining 15% for non-local candidates. A candidate shall be regarded as a local candidate if they have studied not less than four consecutive academic years in an educational institution of that particular area