Low Back Pain Causes. Back pain is a symptom. Common causes of back pain involve disease or injury to the muscles, bones, and/or nerves of the spine. Pain arising from abnormalities of organs within the abdomen, pelvis, or chest may also be felt in the back. This is called referred pain. 
1 Infections are not a common cause of back pain. 2  However, infections can cause pain when they involve the vertebrae, a condition called osteomyelitis; the intervertebral discs, called discitis; or the sacroiliac joints connecting the lower spine to the pelvis, called sacroiliitis. 1 Radiculopathy is a condition caused by compression, inflammation and/or injury to a spinal nerve root. 2  Pressure on the nerve root results in pain, numbness, or a tingling sensation that travels or radiates to other areas of the body that are served by that nerve.
Symptoms that can be associated with back pain include dull ache, numbness, tingling, sharp pain, pulsating pain, pain with movement of the spine, muscle spasm, tenderness, sciatica with shooting pain down one or both lower extremities, rash, and loss of continence of bowel or bladder. Pain in the low back can relate to the bony lumbar spine, discs between the vertebrae,...learn more » Pictures, Images, Illustrations & Quizzes Back Pain Pictures Slideshow: Myths and Facts About Back Pain Read about back pain myths and facts to learn the truth about the causes and treatments for back pain.
Lower back pain can be caused by a variety of problems with any parts of the complex, interconnected network of spinal muscles, nerves, bones, discs or tendons in the lumbar spine. Typical sources of low back pain include: 1  The large nerve roots in the low back that go to the legs may be irritated. An irritation or problem with any of these structures can cause lower back pain and/or pain that radiates or is referred to other parts of the body. Many lower back problems also cause back muscle spasms, which don't sound like much but can cause severe pain and disability.
Back pain can come on suddenly and last less than six weeks (acute), which may be caused by a fall or heavy lifting. Back pain that lasts more than three months (chronic) is less common than acute pain. Back pain often develops without a specific cause that your doctor can identify with a test or imaging study. Conditions commonly linked to back pain include: 1  Muscle or ligament strain. 2  Repeated heavy lifting or a sudden awkward movement may strain back muscles and spinal ligaments. 3  If you're in poor physical condition, constant strain on your back may cause painful muscle spasms. 1 Back pain can occur if your spine curves abnormally. 2  Scoliosis, a condition in which your spine curves to the side, also may lead to back pain, but generally only if the scoliosis is severe. 3  Osteoporosis. 4  Your spine's vertebrae can develop compression fractures if your bones become porous and brittle.
Causes of back pain. Your back is a complex structure made up of bones, muscles, nerves and joints. This can often make it difficult to pinpoint the exact cause of the pain. Most cases of back pain aren't caused by serious damage or disease but by minor sprains, strains or injuries, or a pinched or irritated nerve.
Causes of back pain. Lifting something in an improper manner is a common cause of back pain. 1  Strained muscles. 2  Strained ligaments. 3  Lifting something improperly. 4  Lifting something that is too heavy. 5  The result of an abrupt and awkward movement. 6  A muscle spasm. 7  Ruptured disks-each vertebra in our spine is cushioned by disks. For example, pain may be a symptom while a rash may be a sign. The main symptom of back pain is, as the name suggests, an ache or pain anywhere on the back, and sometimes all the way down to the buttocks and legs. In most cases signs and symptoms clear up on their own within a short period.