The purpose of your Basis of Claim Form (BOC Form) is to present your claim for refugee protection to the Refugee Protection Division of the IRB. All members of your family who are claiming refugee protection must provide their own BOC Form, even though your claims will be processed together. 
You must also disclose the interest rate on the claim and whether it is fixed or variable as of the date of the bankruptcy filing. If your claim is secured, you must also indicate the extent to which it is secured or unsecured, and the basis for perfection (this will be discussed further in a separate article). Part 2 asks for the basis of the claim. This is where you write a very brief explanation as to why you are owed money. You might write promissory note or loan.. Part 3 asks about the last four digits of any number you use to identify the debtor.
The Basis of Claim Form is available in French and English and may be completed in either language. The Basis of Claim Form includes a question asking claimants to choose the language they want the Board to use for their hearing and in communicating with them. Download the Basis of Claim Form. If information is missing, incorrect, or inconsistent, the Board could refuse the claim. Claimants must tell the truth. At the hearing, the claimant will have to answer questions about what they said on
It is therefore critical you both establish and control your claim and basis and not allow the EEO Counselor to change, in any way, your claim and basis, provided such claims and basis are properly presented and structured based on the facts of your circumstances. In the complaint process, this is the inception point to establish both claims and basis upon which, either 1) the agency will elect to settle (our preferred outcome) or 2) an EEOC judge will later rule.
Definition. Type of insurance policy which pays only those claims that occur and are filed during the period covered by the policy. See also claims occurrence basis. Nearby Terms. 1  claim expense. 2  claim for refun... 3  claim investiga... 4  claim provision. 5  claim report. 6  claimant. 7  claimant unempl... 8  claims. 9  claims made bas... 10  claims made bas... 11  claims processi... 12  claims reserve. 13  claims-occurren... 14  clamshell packa... 15  clan control. 16  clarity. 17  class.
Completing your Basis of Claim form for an inland claim. The Basis of Claim (BOC) form is an important part of your refugee claim. It explains who you are, what you are afraid of in your country and why you need refugee protection in Canada. Get legal help as soon as possible. Get help with your Basis of Claim (BOC) form right away. If you start a claim inside Canada, you will not have a deadline for your BOC form. When you visit a Citizenship and Immigration (CIC) Office to start your claim, they will give you a list of forms to complete, including the BOC form and other immigration forms.
The Basis of Claim Form is a crucial document that a refugee claimant must fill out for the Immigration and Refugee Board. It is used to determine if they have a valid claim. The claimant must complete it carefully and correctly. If information is missing, incorrect, or inconsistent, the Board could refuse the claim. Claimants must tell the truth. At the hearing, the claimant will have to answer questions about what they said on the Basis of Claim Form.
If the contract is written on a claims occurrence basis and a claim arises from an event when the policy is in force, the INSURER must pay the INSURED up to the stated amount, regardless of when the claim is actually filed (i.e., filing may occur after the policy has expired). 
Both the presentation and structuring of your claim and basis must be in conformance with law and EEOC administrative guidelines. Therefore, the complainant who simply thinks they can walk into an EEO Counselor’s office, tell a sad story, and file a complaint on that story, is in in for a rude awakening. In the complaint process, this is the inception point to establish both claims and basis upon which, either 1) the agency will elect to settle (our preferred outcome) or 2) an EEOC judge will later rule.
The three commonly regarded categories for these claims are: In order to show the Court there is a basis for the medical malpractice claim, the plaintiff and his or her attorney must prove that several elements are more than likely true (based on a preponderance of evidence). 