MotorsportsMotor sports is passion. Motor sports is pure fascination. And Porsche is the epitome of sportive driving. Find in the following chapters what Porsche race cars, teams and drivers experience at the racetracks. Porsche Driving ExperiencePorsche Driving Experience gives you the chance to put your passion for sporty driving into practice. Find out more about the involvement in golf. Porsche Partner ForumOur cooperation options and forms of partnership are as multifaceted as the world of Porsche itself. Including measures to effectively support customer acquisition, customer loyalty and customer care.
Take the plunge into the world of Porsche Leipzig: Follow the Cayenne, the Panamera and the Macan along the production line. In a factory tour, we will give you a closer look behind the scenes followed by a voyage of discovery inside the Customer Center. The minimum age for joining the factory tour or accompanying the driving event is 6 years. Additional information. Drivers must have been in possession of a valid driving license for at least the last 3 years. A commodatum agreement with a 2,500 Euro (5,000 Euro for 911 GT3) excess is to be signed at the plant.
The Porsche Customer Center will be closed to visitors for safety reasons due to renovation and expansion work from December 14, 2015 up until March 2016. We ask for your understanding in that we will not be offering our factory collections, events and event packages during that time. The shop will also be closed. The minimum age for joining the factory tour or accompanying the driving event is 6 years. Additional information. Drivers must have been in possession of a valid driving license for at least the last 3 years. A commodatum agreement with a 2,500 Euro (5,000 Euro for 911 GT3) excess is to be signed at the plant.
Established in 2010 by KRyS Global Founder and Executive Chairman and ultra-marathon runner, Kenneth Krys, Off The Beaten Track maintains its adrenaline-charged reputation in Grand Cayman with a different route every year. 
Immerse yourself into the world of Porsche Clubs. Auto ShowsFascination you can hold: here, you will find full information on current and past motor show highlights. Porsche Tennis Grand PrixEsthetics, drive and joie de vivre – Porsche products and tennis have a lot in common. Find out more about the involvement in golf. Porsche Partner ForumOur cooperation options and forms of partnership are as multifaceted as the world of Porsche itself. Including measures to effectively support customer acquisition, customer loyalty and customer care.
The goal for the Cayman Invitational is to become a yearly fixture on the track calendar and after a few years achieve World Challenger status which will mean that the event will be included on the official International Amateur Athletic Federation calendar. Speaking about the event, Ms. Mothersil explained that the idea to host an invitational track meet in Cayman was born years ago but it was through the commitment and generous contributions from several sponsors along with the Premier and the Ministry of Tourism that her dream became reality.
Premier McKeeva Bush was pleased to partner with the organisers on what he said will become a signature event on Cayman’s sports tourism calendar. The Premier said, “I believe that this event will mark the beginning of a new sporting era in our country. Speaking about the event, Ms. Mothersil explained that the idea to host an invitational track meet in Cayman was born years ago but it was through the commitment and generous contributions from several sponsors along with the Premier and the Ministry of Tourism that her dream became reality.
The Cayman Invitational is a professional track meet that comprises of eleven track and 2 field events. The May 9th one day competition takes place at the Truman Bodden Sports Complex in George Town, Grand Cayman. If you are a copyright owner, or are authorized to act on behalf of one or authorized to act under any exclusive right under copyright, please do not flag this content but instead report alleged copyright violations on our DMCA notice form.