EatingWell's Jessie Price shows how to make kale chips, a healthy snack recipe with less calories and fat than a serving of potato chips. To make this kale chips recipe, drizzle with oil and salt and bake kale chips for 8-12 minutes at 400 degrees. Hi, this is Jessie. I'm here in the EatingWell Test Kitchen, and today I'm going to show you how to make a super-delicious, super-quick 100-calorie snack: Kale Chips. So I have this big bowl of already washed and dried kale. I drizzle that with a little bit of olive oil, a little bit of salt.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Remove the ribs from the kale and cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces. Lay on a baking sheet and toss with the olive oil and salt. Bake until crisp, turning the leaves halfway through, about 20 minutes. Serve as finger food.
Eating kale chips can help with weight management when you substitute them for other high-calorie snacks. One cup of chopped kale contains just 34 calories, and 1 tablespoon of olive oil contains 119 calories for a total of 153 calories in a homemade batch. Heart Health. Kale contains no cholesterol and no unhealthy saturated or trans fats making it a good choice for cardiovascular health. The olive oil you use in making the kale chips is a good source of heart-healthy monounsaturated fats. When monounsaturated fats are consumed in place of saturated fats or refined carbohydrates, they can help to lower your LDL -- or “bad” -- cholesterol and raise your HDL -- or “good” -- cholesterol
Dinosaur kale, also known as cavolo nero, works really well for making kale chips, though any kind of kale will do. To make kale chips, wash, dry and chop the leaves of one large bunch of kale; remove the ribs and woody stems. Toss the leaves with a tablespoon of olive oil, salt, pepper and smoked paprika and lay on a baking sheet
Kale chips in general are just as beneficial as eating kale in a salad or anything else—and they can be a good starter for people who aren’t so keen on the green’s tough texture and occasional bitterness. And, contrary to rumor, cooking kale does not take away its nutritional benefits. In other words, it totally defeats the purpose. Some packaged chips have 10 grams of fat and over 200 milligrams of sodium per serving. If you make your own, you can cut the fat content by at least half—and you control the salt. Here is Gomer’s totally easy, totally delicious, totally healthy kale chip recipe.
As a bonus, baked kale chips contain 2 grams of dietary fiber. Fiber is difficult for your body to break down, prolonging the sensation of fullness for as much as two hours and promoting healthy digestion. Kale chips darken when they bake. Kale is a leafy green species of cabbage with curly leaves and a fresh flavor. When baked, kale becomes a crispy snack comparable to potato chips. The nutritional value of baked kale, however, is far superior to the average potato chip.
Protein, Fat and Cholesterol. The protein content of baked kale chips is 3 grams per serving. A healthy adult female should consume around 46 grams of protein per day and a healthy adult male around 56 grams of protein per day. Each helping of baked kale chips also contains 1 gram of fat, 0.1 of which is saturated, and no cholesterol. Kale chips darken when they bake. Kale is a leafy green species of cabbage with curly leaves and a fresh flavor. When baked, kale becomes a crispy snack comparable to potato chips. The nutritional value of baked kale, however, is far superior to the average potato chip.
Kale has many health benefits, from weight management to healthy eyesight. If you’re looking for a healthy and tasty way to cook kale, try whipping up some kale chips. These are very easy to make by tossing chopped kale in a small amount of olive oil and then baking the chips in the oven until they are crispy. Heart Health. Kale contains no cholesterol and no unhealthy saturated or trans fats making it a good choice for cardiovascular health. The olive oil you use in making the kale chips is a good source of heart-healthy monounsaturated fats. When monounsaturated fats are consumed in place of saturated fats or refined carbohydrates, they can help to lower your LDL -- or “bad” -- cholesterol and raise your HDL -- or “good” -- cholesterol