(Let's have a good time in town.). (She is pregnant.). Idioms are classified as figurative language, which is the use of words in an unusual or imaginative manner. Figurative language includes the use of metaphors, similes, personification, hyperbole, euphemisms, and pun. An idiom is a commonly used expression whose meaning does not relate to the literal meaning of its words.
An idiom (Latin: idioma, special property, from Greek: ἰδίωμα – idiōma, idíōma special, feature special, phrasing a, peculiarity. F: greek – ἴδιος, idios’ídios one) s own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has, a figurative or, sometimes. literal meaning Some idioms are transparent. Much of their meaning does get through if they are taken (or translated) literally. For example, lay one's cards on the table meaning to reveal previously unknown intentions, or to reveal a secret.
Idioms usually do not translate well; in some cases, when an idiom is translated directly word-for-word into another language, either its meaning is changed or it is meaningless. When two or three words are often used together in a particular sequence, the words are said to be irreversible binomials, or Siamese twins. Some idioms are transparent. Much of their meaning does get through if they are taken (or translated) literally. For example, lay one's cards on the table meaning to reveal previously unknown intentions, or to reveal a secret.
'Idiom' is not originally an English word it is one of the many that have come into the language from Greek. 'Idiom' means 'one of a kind' and indicates that a phrase is being used with a special meaning that can be very different to the literal meaning. 
An idiom (also called idiomatic expression) is an expression, word, or phrase that has a figurative meaning conventionally understood by native speakers. This meaning is different from the literal meaning of the idiom's individual elements. In other words, idioms don't mean exactly what the words say. They have, however, hidden meaning. Examples Kick the bucket Spill the beans. The meaning of these expressions is different from the literal meaning or definition of the words of which they are made. Their meaning are however used figuratively.
Idioms are words, phrases, or expressions that cannot be taken literally. In other words, when used in everyday language, they have a meaning other than the basic one you would find in the dictionary. Every language has its own idioms. Learning them makes understanding and using a language a lot easier and more fun! For example, break a leg is a common idiom.
An idiom's figurative meaning is different from the literal meaning. There are thousands of idioms, and they occur frequently in all languages. It is estimated that there are at least twenty-five thousand idiomatic expressions in the English language. Some idioms are transparent. Much of their meaning does get through if they are taken (or translated) literally. For example, lay one's cards on the table meaning to reveal previously unknown intentions, or to reveal a secret.
Examples of Idioms. Idioms are, literally ideas as expressions. They develop from older usage, where the words mean something other than their literal meaning. In some cases the meaning of the original expression has been lost, or is an archaism. Examples of idioms and idiomatic usage. Idiom: He really went to town on that issue. Idiomatic usage: He not only went, he apparently hasn't come back yet. Idiom: That was a curly question.
4. idiom-an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up. idiomatic expression, phrasal idiom, set phrase, phrase. locution, saying, expression-a word or phrase that particular people use in particular situations; pardon the expression. 