Betaseron and Extavia are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS to reduce the frequency of clinical exacerbations. Relapsing forms of MS include individuals with secondary-progressive MS who continue to experience relapses or acute attacks. 
Other Brand Names: Betaseron. Uses: This medication is used to treat multiple sclerosis. Interferon is not a cure for multiple sclerosis, but it may help to decrease the number of attacks of weakness and slow the worsening of the disease. This medication is the same as a protein that your body naturally produces (interferon)
Extavia and Betaseron are approved by the FDA for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS to reduce the frequency of clinical exacerbations. Relapsing forms of MS include individuals with secondary-progressive MS who continue to experience relapses or acute attacks. Description. Extavia® and Betaseron ® are brand names for interferon beta 1b, a medication manufactured by a biotechnological process from one of the naturally occurring interferons (a type of protein).
BETASERON is a prescription medicine used to reduce the number of flare-ups in people with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). This includes people who have had their first symptoms of multiple sclerosis and have an MRI consistent with multiple sclerosis. BETASERON will not cure MS. Do not take BETASERON® (interferon beta-1b) if you are allergic to interferon beta-1b, to another interferon beta, to human albumin, or mannitol. See additional Important Safety Information below.
(interferon beta-1b) for Injection. Betaseron® (interferon beta-lb) is a purified, sterile, lyophilized protein product produced by recombinant DNA techniques. Interferon beta-1b is manufactured by bacterial fermentation of a strain of Escherichia coli that bears a genetically engineered plasmid containing the gene for human interferon betaser17. 
Betaseron ® (interferon beta-1b) is a prescription medication approved for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). It is injected subcutaneously (just under the skin) every other day. At this time, it is not fully understood how Betaseron works to treat MS. Although the exact causes of MS are not known, it is often considered to be an autoimmune disease in which the immune system attacks and destroys the protective coating around nerve fibers.
Betaseron is the brand name of the injectable drug interferon beta-1b, which is used to treat symptoms of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). Interferon beta-1b is also manufactured under the brand name Extavia. MS is a neurological condition in which the immune system attacks the protective covering of nerves. Relapsing-remitting MS, or RRMS, is defined by alternating periods of relapses and remissions
Indications. BETASERON® (interferon beta-1b) is a prescription medicine used to reduce the number of relapses in people with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). This includes people who have had their first symptoms of multiple sclerosis and have an MRI consistent with multiple sclerosis. Personal. BETASERON® (interferon beta-1b) is a prescription medicine used to reduce the number of relapses in people with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS).