A haka is a traditional ancestral war cry, dance or challenge of the Māori people of New Zealand which the New Zealand national rugby union team, the All Blacks, and a number of other New Zealand national teams perform before their international matches. Some non-New Zealand sports teams have also adopted the haka. Other teams from the Pacific and elsewhere however have performed the Ka Mate or Kapa O Pango haka. For instance, the Kapa O Pango haka was used by the University of Hawaii Warriors in 2006, before they created their own war dance, the Ha ʻ a, in the Hawaiian language with original movements.
The Haka, which is performed by the New Zealand All Blacks rugby team before each match, is an ancestral war dance of the Māori people, traditionally used to intimidate an opponent before battle. It is also performed to honour a distinguished guest. 
Haka is a traditional dance form of the Māori of New Zealand, which has become familiar worldwide through their rugby team display. It is a posture dance performed by a group, with vigorous movements and stamping of the feet with rhythmically shouted accompaniment. 
The haka is a traditional genre of Māori dance. This picture dates from ca. 1845. The haka (plural is the same as singular: haka) is a traditional ancestral war cry, dance, or challenge from the Māori people of New Zealand. It is a posture dance performed by a group, with vigorous movements and stamping of the feet with rhythmically shouted accompaniment. The New Zealand sports teams' practice of performing a haka before their international matches has made the haka more widely known around the world. This tradition began with the 1888–89 New Zealand Native football team tour and has been carried on by the New Zealand rugby team since 1905.
The Haka. The Haka is the traditional Maori war dance performed by New Zealand teams at the beginning of a match. The team practise of the dance has made it widely known around the world. The centrality of the haka within All Black rugby tradition is not a recent development. Since the original All Black team of New Zealand Natives led by Joseph Warbrick the haka has been closely associated with New Zealand rugby.
The Haka is a traditional Maori dance. The Haka was originally a combination of dance and chanting that was performed by Maori warriors before the went to battle. Nowadays the Haka is mainly performed for amusement or ceremoniously: a welcome for important guests or to commemorate an important day or event. 
Also, focussing on Ka mate, the haka performed by the All Blacks there are a few paragraphs on its origin, a translation of the words, and a brief description of how it relates to rugby. Finally there is a bibliography for further reading and links to a couple of related websites. 
The Haka is the traditional Maori war dance performed by New Zealand teams at the beginning of a match. The centrality of the haka within All Black rugby tradition is not a recent development. Since the original All Black team of New Zealand Natives led by Joseph Warbrick the haka has been closely associated with New Zealand rugby.