Turmeric is naturally high in a COX-2 inhibitor called curcumin. This is an anti-inflammatory that offers great relief for arthritis pain. If you struggle with joint pain, back pain, or even stomach ulcers, incorporating gelatin into your daily diet may help ease your daily pain and restore some of your mobility. More: #anti-inflammatory, #cayenne pepper, #gelatin, #home remedy, #joint pain, #turmeric. 1  The #1 Nutrient That REVITALIZES Your Heart. 
Arthritis Support: Gelatin contains Chondroitin, which has long been used as supplement for helping people with arthritis pain and stiffness.Chondroitin found in gelatin supports joints, cartilage and tendons because it is basically the dissolved connective tissue of animals. Gelatin is a translucent, colorless, brittle, flavorless solid substance, derived from collagen found in animal bones. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceuticals, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing.
GELATIN Overview Information. Gelatin is a protein made from animal products. Gelatin is used for weight loss and for treating osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and brittle bones (osteoporosis). Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is also used for improving hair quality and to shorten recovery after exercise and sports-related injury. In manufacturing, gelatin is used for preparation of foods, cosmetics, and medicines.
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis, or inflammation and swelling of the joints. It occurs as a consequence of aging and the thousand natural shocks that weight-bearing joints or frequently used joints -- such as the knees, fingers, and wrists -- are exposed to. 
If you have problems with pain in the joints, back, legs, or neck, this is the recipe for you! The recipe is as follows: -In any store buy 150 gr of any edible gelatin (150gr – for a course of treatment for a month). 
1 Supplementing with gelatin can be beneficial for overall joint and bone health, and has been shown to reduce joint pain related to arthritis. 2  Gelatin is a much better alternative to protein powders, which often contain artificial sweeteners and/or preservatives. 
Gelatin is a known promotor of skin health. Gelatin provides glycine and proline, two amino acids that are used in the production of collagen. Collagen is one of the primary structural elements of skin, so providing the building blocks for this important protein can ensure that your body is able to create enough of it. 
9. Gelatin is most effective when used internally, but even externally, it can smooth and strengthen skin. Another tip: Mix 1 tablespoon Gelatin Powder with 2 tablespoons warm water and 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice and apply to face. Leave on for 15 minutes and rinse with warm water. I order Gelatin online and use this brand since I’ve been able to verify that it comes from grass-fed, humanely raised animals. The Collagen Protein (green lid) will gel and is good for things like Jello while the Collagen Peptides (blue lid) is great for mixing in to hot or cold drinks.
To make, stir 1 tablespoon of Gelatin powder (green lid) in to 1/2 cup of cool water until mixed. Add 1/2 cup warm/hot water, 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar and 1 teaspoon of honey to create a thick gel/liquid. Pour into hair and massage through hair and scalp. I order Gelatin online and use this brand since I’ve been able to verify that it comes from grass-fed, humanely raised animals. The Collagen Protein (green lid) will gel and is good for things like Jello while the Collagen Peptides (blue lid) is great for mixing in to hot or cold drinks.
1 A kind of arthritis called osteoarthritis. 2  There is some clinical evidence that gelatin might relieve pain and improve joint function in patients with osteoarthritis. 3  Brittle bones (osteoporosis). 4  Strengthening bones and joints. 5  Strengthening fingernails. 6  Improving hair quality. 7  Weight loss. Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is also used for improving hair quality and to shorten recovery after exercise and sports-related injury. In manufacturing, gelatin is used for preparation of foods, cosmetics, and medicines.