1. reduced stretch of the granular cells-drop in BP below 80 mmHg 2.stimulation of the granular cells by input from activated macula densa cells 3.Direct stimulation of granular cells via B1-adrenergic receptors. 
1. Most of the salt and water filtered from the blood is reabsorbed across the wall of the proximal tubule. 2. The reabsorption of water occurs by osmosis, in which water follows the active extrusion of NaCl from the tubule & into the surrounding peritubular capillaries. - Since the surrounding interstitial fluid is hypertonic to the filtrate in the descending limb, water is drawn out of the descending limb by osmosis and enters blood capillaries. The concentration of tubular fluid is thus increased, and its volume decreased, as it descends toward the tip of the Loop.
The __________ collect(s) urine, which drains continuously from the papillae; the urine is then emptied into the __________. calyces; renal pelvis. 10. Glomerular hydrostatic pressure (HPg) is the chief force pushing water and solutes out of the blood and across the filtration membrane. A 13-year-old girl is admitted to the psychiatric unit for anorexia. Her body weight is 89 lbs. and height is 64 inches. She admits to frequent self-induced vomiting and abuse of laxatives. She was treated on the medical unit with intravenous fluids.
The blood plasma is filtered through the capillaries of the glomerulus into the capsule. The Bowman's capsule empties the filtrate into the proximal tubule that is also part of the nephron. The glomerulus is a tuft of small blood vessels called capillaries located within Bowman's capsule within the kidney. Between the capillaries and Bowman's capsule lies mesangium. Blood enters the capillaries of the glomerulus by a single arteriole called an afferent arteriole and leaves by an efferent arteriole.
A glomerulus is a network (as a tuft) of capillaries located at the beginning of a nephron in the kidney. It serves as the first stage in the filtering process of the blood carried out by the nephron in its formation of urine. The glomerulus is surrounded by a cup-like sac known as Bowman's capsule. The glomerulus is a tuft of small blood vessels called capillaries located within Bowman's capsule within the kidney. Between the capillaries and Bowman's capsule lies mesangium. Blood enters the capillaries of the glomerulus by a single arteriole called an afferent arteriole and leaves by an efferent arteriole.
The rate at which the glomerulus produces filtrate from plasma (the glomerular filtration rate) is much higher than in systemic capillaries because of the particular anatomical characteristics of the glomerulus. The glomerulus is a tuft of small blood vessels called capillaries located within Bowman's capsule within the kidney. Between the capillaries and Bowman's capsule lies mesangium. Blood enters the capillaries of the glomerulus by a single arteriole called an afferent arteriole and leaves by an efferent arteriole.
The capillary also allows waste from the metabolizing cell to diffuse from the tissue spaces into the capillaries for transport by the blood to the organs of excretion. The capillaries are called exchange vessels because they allow for an exchange of nutrients and waste. 6 people found this useful. The diameter of the afferent renal arteriole narrows progressively  more and more into the glomerular capillaries, with the same blood  flow, leading to an increase in press … ure within the glomerulus.
1. Vascular component: glomerulus capillary bed, afferent (to) and efferent (from) arterioles, and peritubular capillaries (efferent arterioles divide to become these, supply kidneys with O2 and nutrients and are important in exchanges between blood and tubular component during urine formation. 2. - Since the surrounding interstitial fluid is hypertonic to the filtrate in the descending limb, water is drawn out of the descending limb by osmosis and enters blood capillaries. The concentration of tubular fluid is thus increased, and its volume decreased, as it descends toward the tip of the Loop.
The capillaries have the thinnest walls of any of the blood vessels. The capillary wall is made up of a single layer of endothelium lying on a delicate basement membrane … . The thin capillary wall enables water and dissolved substances, including oxygen, to diffuse from the blood into the tissue spaces, where they become available for use by the cells. The diameter of the afferent renal arteriole narrows progressively  more and more into the glomerular capillaries, with the same blood  flow, leading to an increase in press … ure within the glomerulus.
The capillary vascular supply consists of two distinct capillary beds, the glomerulus and the peritubular capillary bed. Vessels leading to and from the glomerulus, the first capillary bed, are both arterioles: the afferent arteriole feeds the bed while the efferent arteriole drains it. The glomerular capillary bed has no parallel elsewhere in the body. It is a high-pressure bed along its entire length. Its high pressure is a result of two major factors: (1) the bed is fed and drained by arterioles (arterioles are high-resistance vessels as opposed to venules, which are low-resistance vessels), and (2) the afferent feeder arteriole is larger in diameter than the efferent arteriole draining the bed.