Paracetamol. 450,00 mg. IV: An initial dose of 150 mg/kg in 200 mL glucose injection, given intravenously over 15 minutes, followed by an intravenous infusion of 50 mg/kg in 500 mL glucose injection over the next 4 hours and then 100 mg/kg in 1000 mL over the next 16 hours. The volume of intravenous fluids should be modified for children
In medicine, an indication is a valid reason to use a certain test, medication, procedure, or surgery. The opposite of an indication is a contraindication, a reason to withhold a certain medical treatment due to the harm that it would cause the patient. If the drug usage is officially indicated they are FDA approved (also called 'labeled') and if they're prescribed or taken outstanding to its applied indications the term Non-approved (or 'off-label') is used. As the consensus to use the drug increases its class of indication is improved.
I have always used syndol, but thought I would try these Lenapain and they are wonderful. I will def... 
Currently I am using LENAPAIN which contains about 10mg of codeine per tablet. I think it is the codeine that I am addicted to. I just ran out, and have taken 3 STILL PAINS, I currently have in my handbag, about 120 myprodol tablets, 3 box of STILLPAIN. And I have no doubt, I will get some more LENAPAIN tomorrow. Has anyone been thru similar addiction-how does this progress-and what can I do. No, I stick to the prescribed dosage. You are doing serious damage to your liver and kidneys and need to see a doctor as soon as possible. The lenapain (Syndol) is known to cause rebound headaches and is highly addictive.
The first is the actual API or Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, which is the central ingredient. The second is known as an excipient. This refers to the substance inside the drug or tablet. If it is in syrup form, then the excipient will be the liquid that has been used. Generic drugs are named according to the main chemical or salt present in the drug. These drugs are not given fancy brand names by different pharmaceutical companies and patented in the market, rather they are sold under their manufacturer's name.
450,00 mg. PHARMACOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION: A - 2.9: Special analgesic combination PHARMACOLOGICAL ACTION: Lenapain tablets have analgesic, antipyretic and antihistaminic action. INDICATIONS: Relief of mild to moderate pain associated with tension. CONTRA-INDICATIONS: Sensitivity to any of the ingredients. Lenapain should not be taken during pregnancy, nor whilst breast-feeding. WARNINGS: Dosages in excess of those recommended may cause severe liver damage. Patients suffering from liver or kidney disease should take Paracetamol under medical supervision.
Hi, Please kindly assist, i. Submitted by Adrian on Thu, 01/06/2011 - 05:51. Hi, Please kindly assist, i have been addicted to Adcodol & Lenapain Medication for 4 years now and everytime i try to stop the withdrawal symptoms gets really bad, i take 27 pills a day, please assist and advise how can this addiction stop. Thank you... 
Several cellular actions of Lenapain (Caffeine) have been observed, but it is not entirely clear how each contributes to its pharmacological profile. Among the most important are inhibition of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases, antagonism of adenosine receptors, and modulation of intracellular calcium handling. Lenapain (Acetaminophen) is used on its own or in combination with pseudoephedrine, dextromethorphan, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, doxylamine, codeine, hydrocodone, or oxycodone. Caffeine-A methylxanthine naturally occurring in some beverages and also used as a pharmacological agent.
Indication: For temporary relief of fever and minor aches and pains. Lenapain (Acetaminophen) (USAN) or Paracetamol (INN) is a widely used analgesic and antipyretic drug that is used for the relief of fever, headaches, and other minor aches and pains. It is a major ingredient in numerous cold and flu medications and many prescription analgesics. Lenapain (Acetaminophen) is used on its own or in combination with pseudoephedrine, dextromethorphan, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, doxylamine, codeine, hydrocodone, or oxycodone. Caffeine-A methylxanthine naturally occurring in some beverages and also used as a pharmacological agent.