this article: Sacramento alt-metal quintet the Deftones will release their sixth studio album this May, capping nearly four years of writing and recording that included a return to the drawing board after sudden tragedy hit the band. 
On June 20, 2000, the band released their third album, White Pony, again produced by Date and Deftones. It was recorded at the Plant Studios in Sausalito, California and at Larrabee Sound Studios, West Hollywood, California. The album debuted at No. 3 on the U.S. Billboard chart with sales of 178,000 copies. Sample of When Girls Telephone Boys from Deftones's self-titled album (2003) which showcases the album's heavier sound, Moreno's screamed vocals and Delgado's sampling effects in the background.
In the middle of the Golden State, about halfway between San Francisco and Reno, Nevada, lies Sacramento, California's capitol and current bastion of Pete Wilson's republican rule. As irony would have it, it is also home to a thriving music scene, And Sacramento's hard-hitting Deftones play a major role. I'm better at fucking with your head.. Deftones were formed back in 1988, but their first debut was only in 1995, at that time we met Deftones with Adrenaline, a combustible compound of razor-blade riffs, rumble, rage, and rap-ish delivery.
Deftones are an American alternative metal band from Sacramento, California, founded in 1988. The band consists of Chino Moreno (lead vocals, rhythm guitar), Stephen Carpenter (lead guitar), Frank Delgado (keyboards and turntables), Abe Cunningham (drums and percussion) and Sergio Vega (bass). Sample of When Girls Telephone Boys from Deftones's self-titled album (2003) which showcases the album's heavier sound, Moreno's screamed vocals and Delgado's sampling effects in the background.
Teaming up with bands Mastodon and Alice in Chains, Deftones went on tour in the fall of 2010 in the United States and Canada. The tour was called Blackdiamondskye, a portmanteau of the three bands' latest albums (Black Gives Way to Blue, Diamond Eyes, and Crack the Skye). Sample of When Girls Telephone Boys from Deftones's self-titled album (2003) which showcases the album's heavier sound, Moreno's screamed vocals and Delgado's sampling effects in the background.
White Pony was subsequently re-released with Back to School (Mini Maggit) as the album's opening track. The eponymous Deftones was released in 2003, peaking at number two in the US, and garnering widespread international success. B-Sides & Rarities saw a release in 2005, bringing together unreleased and obscure material accrued since 1995. 1997's Around the Fur was far more successful, peaking at number one on the Billboard Heatseekers Albums chart, and at number 29 on the Billboard 200. It was also their first international success, entering the UK Albums Chart at number 56.
You love Deftones hits “7 Words,” “Change (In the House of Flies),” “Digital Bath,” “Minerva,” and “My Own Summer (Shove It)!” Don't miss your chance to see Chino Moreno and the rest of Deftones LIVE on tour! Buy your Deftones tickets now! All event and delivery times based on local time of event location. Deftones Concert Tickets In the alternative metal world, few bands have stood as tall as the Deftones over the last two decades. Since forming in the late 1980s, the California-based sextet has enjoyed a loyal fan following who have long been clamoring for Deftones tickets.
Throughout the 90s, the Deftones continued to grow in popularity, but it was not until their landmark 2000 album White Pony that earned them widespread acclaim. Thanks to tracks such as Elite and Digital Bath, the record went on to become a big hit, eventually peaking at number three on the Billboard 200 chart. In the years since White Pony, the Deftones have maintained their place as one of the most beloved metal bands active today. Deftones Concert Tickets In the alternative metal world, few bands have stood as tall as the Deftones over the last two decades. Since forming in the late 1980s, the California-based sextet has enjoyed a loyal fan following who have long been clamoring for Deftones tickets.
They have sold around 10 million albums worldwide. Deftones formed in 1988 in Sacramento, California. Their first commercially released album was Adrenaline, in 1995. It peaked at number 23 in the Billboard Heatseekers Albums chart, its success attributable to word-of-mouth and rigorous touring and live performance. 1997's Around the Fur was far more successful, peaking at number one on the Billboard Heatseekers Albums chart, and at number 29 on the Billboard 200. It was also their first international success, entering the UK Albums Chart at number 56.