For a full time live-in maid you should calculate around S$1000 per month plus hiring costs and airfare tickets for the bi-annual home leave and return. Monthly salaries for Filipinas average S$350-S$400 and depend on the country of origin, experience and English language abilities. 
1.Cost of Hiring Maid-Maid Agency Fee or service fee. This can range from $0 to $2000. It is important for you to check with your maid agency or domestic helper agency what the agent fee or service fee covers. Cost of Hiring Maid-Settling-in Program. This may cost you $75 if your foreign domestic worker is working in Singapore for the first time. This sometimes is included in the agent fee or service fee.
3.Cost of Hiring Maid-Performance Bond. This is only relevant if you are hiring a Filipino maid, you need to furnish a bond of $7000 to the Philippines Embassy in Singapore. You can purchase an insurance plan from insurer. This may cost you about $71.69. Cost of Hiring Maid-Settling-in Program. This may cost you $75 if your foreign domestic worker is working in Singapore for the first time. This sometimes is included in the agent fee or service fee.
Employers' guidelines can be found in www.mom.gov.sg. The salary ranges from $310-$360 per month for a new FDW with little or no experience. If the FDW has several years of experience in her own country or in other countries, her salary will be $20 to $100 more. Know the Cost in hiring a Maid. Most Employer engage licensed employment agency to find a Maid. 
Cost of Hiring Maid-Employers'orientation program. If you are hiring maid for the first time, you may need to attend the orientation program unless you have valid reason. This can cost you $20 or $30. This sometimes is included in the service fee or agent fee. Cost of Hiring Maid-Settling-in Program. This may cost you $75 if your foreign domestic worker is working in Singapore for the first time. This sometimes is included in the agent fee or service fee.
The Cost. Part-time maids are available for between $10 and $20 an hour, and can be hired independently or through a company. Full-time, live-in maids can be hired for as little as $450 per month, although expats often pay them $650 or more, depending on their level of experience. Employers must also pay a monthly levy (currently $265) to the Singaporean government, plus a security bond of $5,000. Hiring. Fees vary, but from around $400, a maid agency will find you a maid, and will usually give you the chance to interview several. Alternatively, you can source a maid yourself (log on to the Ministry of Manpower website), but the process can be confusing.
You may be intimidated by the potential cost of hiring a maid service, but before you get discouraged, here are a number of factors that could decrease your price or make it worthwhile regardless. The average maid service cost is $152, though homeowners could spend anywhere between $112 and $226 for their services. Typically, maid service charges are either by the hour or square footage. Per hour costs are between $25 and $35. Square footage charges depend on the size of your house. 
As I have always stressed, the cost to hire a FDW is not just a salary of $450-$600 per month. There are monthly MOM levy, non refundable agency fee and live-in costs that anybody with eyes and brains should not overlook. Fresh Indonesian and Myanmar is about S$450, some has one off day each month, some gets 4 off. The rest-Cost to Hire a FDW will be the same as below table. In total, each month, to employ a maid, her salary and live-in costs is about S$1500...
Report Abuse. You have to pay for the agent fees; which is about $ 1500. Then you have to pay the maid about $ 500 each month and additional $ 265 for levy to the government. They are only employed on a 2 year's contract and you have to pay for their return journey to their country. Also there is insurance of about $ 275 for her and for you. Moonie Minnie · 2 years ago