Uses. This medication is used to treat sleep problems (insomnia). It may help you fall asleep faster, stay asleep longer, and lessen how often you wake up during the night, so you can get a better night's rest. Triazolam belongs to a class of drugs called sedative-hypnotics. It acts on your brain to produce a calming effect. Use of this medication is usually limited to short treatment periods of 1 to 2 weeks or less. If your insomnia continues for a longer time, talk to your doctor to see if you need other treatment. How to use Halcion. Read the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist before you start using triazolam and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually just before you get into bed.
Triazolam is a benzodiazepine (ben-zoe-dye-AZE-eh-peen) similar to Valium. Triazolam affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause sleep problems (insomnia). Triazolam is used to treat insomnia symptoms, such as trouble falling or staying asleep. Triazolam may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. To make sure triazolam is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have any of these conditions: 1  asthma, emphysema, bronchitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), or other breathing problems; 2  glaucoma; 3  kidney or liver disease; 4  myasthenia gravis; or.
Triazolam is a benzodiazepine (ben-zoe-dye-AZE-eh-peen) similar to Valium. Triazolam affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause sleep problems (insomnia). Triazolam is used to treat insomnia symptoms, such as trouble falling or staying asleep. Triazolam may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
On the other hand, triazolam is a drug that has been around for some time but has been used primarily to aid sleep. In this context, it has received bad press because of side effects that have shown up in patients that use it over an extended period of time. The advantages of oral triazolam sedation. Oral sedation with triazolam is simple to administer and, because of the nature of the drug, it is convenient and safe to use.
When this medication is used for a long time, it may not work as well. Talk with your doctor if this medication stops working well. Along with its benefits, this medication may rarely cause abnormal drug-seeking behavior (addiction). This risk may be increased if you have abused alcohol or drugs in the past. How to use Halcion. Read the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist before you start using triazolam and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually just before you get into bed.
Triazolam is a benzodiazepine (ben-zoe-dye-AZE-eh-peen) similar to Valium. Triazolam affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause sleep problems (insomnia). Triazolam is used to treat insomnia symptoms, such as trouble falling or staying asleep. Triazolam may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Triazolam is usually used for short-term treatment of acute insomnia including jet lag. It is an ideal benzodiazepine for this use because its fast onset of action and short half-life. It puts one to sleep for not more than 1.5 hours (approximately 1–2 hours), allowing its user to avoid morning drowsiness. A review of the literature found that long-term use of benzodiazepines, including triazolam, is associated with drug tolerance, drug dependence, rebound insomnia, and CNS related adverse effects. It recommended that benzodiazepine hypnotics are used at their lowest possible dose and for a short period of time.
Triazolam (original brand name Halcion) is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant in the benzodiazepine class. It possesses pharmacological properties similar to that of other benzodiazepines, but it is generally only used as a sedative to treat severe insomnia. A review of the literature found that long-term use of benzodiazepines, including triazolam, is associated with drug tolerance, drug dependence, rebound insomnia, and CNS related adverse effects. It recommended that benzodiazepine hypnotics are used at their lowest possible dose and for a short period of time.