In English law, a villain in gross, was one who did not belong to the land, but immediately to the person of the lord, and was transferrable by deed, like chattels, from one owner to another. Advowson in gross, an advowson separated from the property of a manor,and annexed to the person of its owner. Coarse; rude; rough; not delicate; as gross sculpture. 3. Coarse, in a figurative sense; rough; mean; particularly, vulgar; obscene; indelicate; as gross language; gross jests. 4. Thick; large; opposed to fine; as wood or stone of a gross grain. 5.
vulgar often implies boorishness or ill-breeding. gross implies extreme coarseness and insensitiveness. obscene applies to anything strongly repulsive to the sense of decency and propriety especially in sexual matters. ribald applies to what is amusingly or picturesquely vulgar or irreverent or mildly indecent. 19 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  gross. 2  gross adventure. 3  gross anatomy. 4  gross area. 5  gross average. 6  gross domestic product. 7  gross income. 8  gross national product. 9  gross negligence. 10  gross out. 11  gross-out. 12  gross premium. 13  gross spread. 14  gross ton. 15  gross tonnage. 16  common in gross. 17  easement in gross. 18  great gross. 19  power in gross.
Quote. &raquo more... (on the current state of satire) Alas, irreverence has been subsumed by mere grossness, at least in the so-called mass media. What we have now--to quote myself at my most pretentious--is a nimiety of scurrility with a concomitant exiguity of taste.
coarse, vulgar, gross, obscene, ribald mean offensive to good taste or morals. coarse implies roughness, rudeness, or crudeness of spirit, behavior, or language. 19 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  gross. 2  gross adventure. 3  gross anatomy. 4  gross area. 5  gross average. 6  gross domestic product. 7  gross income. 8  gross national product. 9  gross negligence. 10  gross out. 11  gross-out. 12  gross premium. 13  gross spread. 14  gross ton. 15  gross tonnage. 16  common in gross. 17  easement in gross. 18  great gross. 19  power in gross.
Noun. 1. grossness-the quality of lacking taste and refinement. raunch, vulgarity, vulgarism, commonness, coarseness. inelegance-the quality of lacking refinement and good taste. noun. How I should like to describe her--just to see what a holy indignation I could stir up in the world--just to hear the unreflecting average man deliver himself about my grossness and coarseness, and all that. A Tramp Abroad by Twain, Mark View in context.
Full Definition of GROSS. 1. a archaic: immediately obvious c: visible without the aid of a microscope. 2. a: big, bulky; especially: excessively fat b: growing or spreading with excessive luxuriance. 3. a: of, relating to, or dealing with general aspects or broad distinctions. 4. 19 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  gross. 2  gross adventure. 3  gross anatomy. 4  gross area. 5  gross average. 6  gross domestic product. 7  gross income. 8  gross national product. 9  gross negligence. 10  gross out. 11  gross-out. 12  gross premium. 13  gross spread. 14  gross ton. 15  gross tonnage. 16  common in gross. 17  easement in gross. 18  great gross. 19  power in gross.
In the gross, in gross, in the bulk, or the whole undivided; all parts taken together. By the gross, in a like sense. Gross weight, is the weight of merchandize or goods, with the dust and dross, the bag, cask, chest, &c., in which they are contained, for which an allowance is to be made of tare and tret. Coarse; rude; rough; not delicate; as gross sculpture. 3. Coarse, in a figurative sense; rough; mean; particularly, vulgar; obscene; indelicate; as gross language; gross jests. 4. Thick; large; opposed to fine; as wood or stone of a gross grain. 5.
How I should like to describe her--just to see what a holy indignation I could stir up in the world--just to hear the unreflecting average man deliver himself about my grossness and coarseness, and all that. A Tramp Abroad by Twain, Mark View in context. 