Under the Grade-school definition, electricity is certainly not a form of energy. Under this definition there are only two kinds of electricity: AC electricity and DC electricity; the two kinds of electric current. THE POPULAR DEFINTION: Quantities of electricity are measured in Joules or KWH. Electrical energy is The Electricity.. This definition is used by electric companies, and used by people who discuss home energy use and home appliances.
Dictionaries often define electricity as a fundamental entity of nature consisting of negative and positive kinds.. This is a scientist's definition of the word, where quantity of electricity means the same as quantity of charge.. In other words, electric charge is a charge of electricity. THE POPULAR DEFINTION: Quantities of electricity are measured in Joules or KWH. Electrical energy is The Electricity.. This definition is used by electric companies, and used by people who discuss home energy use and home appliances.
Full Definition of ELECTRICITY. 1. a: a fundamental form of energy observable in positive and negative forms that occurs naturally (as in lightning) or is produced (as in a generator) and that is expressed in terms of the movement and interaction of electrons b: electric current or power. 2. Definition of ELECTRICITY for Kids. 1. : an important form of energy that is found in nature but that can be artificially produced by rubbing together two unlike things (as glass and silk), by the action of chemicals, or by means of a generator. 2. : electric current
Electricity is not measured in kilowatt hours (since, according to definition #1, electricity is charge, not energy.). Under definition #1 there are only two types of electricity: positive electricity and negative. THE POPULAR DEFINTION: Quantities of electricity are measured in Joules or KWH. Electrical energy is The Electricity.. This definition is used by electric companies, and used by people who discuss home energy use and home appliances.
1 A form of energy resulting from the existence of charged particles (such as electrons or protons), either statically as an accumulation of charge or dynamically as a current. Example sentences. 1  Unlike most metals, they conduct electricity without losing any energy as heat. 
Electricity is the set of physical phenomena associated with the presence and flow of electric charge. Electricity gives a wide variety of well-known effects, such as lightning, static electricity, electromagnetic induction and electric current. In addition, electricity permits the creation and reception of electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves.
electricity. n. 1. (General Physics) any phenomenon associated with stationary or moving electrons, ions, or other charged particles. 2. (General Physics) the science concerned with electricity. 3. (General Physics) an electric current or charge: a motor powered by electricity. transposition - (electricity) a rearrangement of the relative positions of power lines in order to minimize the effects of mutual capacitance and inductance; he wrote a textbook on the electrical effects of transposition. amplification - (electronics) the act of increasing voltage or power or current.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. A bulb powered by electricity. A bulb powered by electricity. Electricity is defined as the effects of an electric charge. 1  An example of electricity is the force that powers a light bulb. 2  An example of electricity is lightning. 3  An example of electricity is static electricity, the buildup of electric charges on an object's surface. electricity-Computer Definition. From the Greek elektor, meaning shining or the sun. A fundamental form of energy created by the movement of electrons (negative charges), protons, or positrons (positive charges) and generating current. See also current.
1. The scientist's definition : Electricity means only one thing: quantities of electricity are measured in Coulombs, so electricity is the electrons and protons themselves; the electric charge inside the wires, and not the flow. Examples: CURRENT OF ELECTRICITY. QUANTITY OF ELECTRICITY.