1 While shopping, make sure you pick up the exact item from the competitor’s ad. 2  Items purchased must be identical to the ad: size, quantity, brand, flavor, color, etc. 3  At the register, place price match items all together on the belt, do not mix with non-price match items. 1 At the register, place price match items all together on the belt, do not mix with non-price match items. 2  I put them first on the belt, but this is simply a personal preference. 3  Inform the cashier that you will be price matching and as they pick up items, read off your price list.
Blog Entries: 1. Walmart policy states that they do not match store brands. I know the store I work at does, but its up to our store manager. IF your store matches store brands, it would have to be their store brand to walmarts store brand. You can't match a national brand to a store brand just because walmart doesn't carry that national brand.
If I go to target and they have the target brand chickens at .99 cents a pound and Walmart is selling their store brand chicken at 1.99 you can’t price match it. Reply. says: January 14, 2013 at 11:35 AM. Your store was incorrect when they told you that they do not price match store brand for store brand. There is no brand name on the package, which means it’s just the store brand that Loblaws is selling. You can still price match this item at Walmart. You must purchase the Walmart store brand (Great Value) in place of the Loblaws store brand in order to match the price.
June 5, 2013 at 9:18 AM. I just want to make a comment that No Frills will price match meats, and produce in the same way that walmart does the only difference is they will not match a store brand to their no name brand. There is no brand name on the package, which means it’s just the store brand that Loblaws is selling. You can still price match this item at Walmart. You must purchase the Walmart store brand (Great Value) in place of the Loblaws store brand in order to match the price.
1 Make a list of the items and prices. 2  Check to see what coupons you have or can print to match up with these sales. 3  Check electronics, I have saved HUGE this way at Walmart! 4  Take a look at the price matching policy. 5  They will not do B1G1 free sales that do not have a stated price, but they will do 2 for $4 or 2/$4. 
They will match the ad even to the price offered by Publix. For instance-BOGO on Helmans’s mayo per add is savings up to $5.35. Walmart now will charge me the $5.35 for one mayo and than the second one if free. They said they no longer will do a BOGO at Walmart prices unless it’s cheaper than the price of the ad. It will be honored at walmart. And with the new policy, allegedley you can tell them the price at the other store and they will match it. So yes. Other store price – $2. off coupon = Walmart policy. They only match store in ad coupons for a specific price, they don’t match the $ off coupons in the ads.
1 We will match any local competitor's advertised price. 2  We do not require customers to have the ad with them to honor a competitor's ad, but we reserve the right to verify an ad at any time; we also require the store to verify the ad if there is a difference in price greater than 25% from the competitor. 
My Wal-Mart certainly does. They price match Aldi's and any other store brands....for example, if somewhere has store brand eggs on sale for say 99 cents, they will PM to their store brand. About 2 weeks ago Aldi's had any type 3 lb bagged apples for $1.49, and I PM'd to a 3 lb bag of Gala apples from Wal-Mart. Price matching to aldi's. Just wondering does wal mart price match to aldi's I seen 3 ls bag onions was .79. then teir brand cheese cubes were 1.99 a bag, and I believe their chocolate chips were fair price too, wondering if I can price match it to walmart brand. Thanks.
Some Walmarts are more lenient than others about their price-match/coupon policy. Our store WILL NOT price-match Great Value (store brand) items, however, if you drive a few miles away to a different Walmart, they’re more than happy to. Also, Walmart updated their coupon software—it sucks. If you are going through Self-Checkout DO NOT USE COUPONS. 