Sideroxylon inerme subsp. inerme (aMasethole or white milkwood, Afrikaans: wit-melkhout, Xhosa: Ximafana, Zulu: Umakhwelafingqane) is a Southern African coastal tree, with dense foliage, black berries and small, dainty white flowers. The Milkwood has considerable value in traditional medicine and attracts birds, monkeys and other animals to its flowers and fruits: Speckled mousebirds eat the flowers; birds, bats, monkeys and bush pigs eat the fruit.
The energy of the milkwood tree can assist us with feeling at home in the world-it connects you with your personal power, and may remind us on a cellular level that we are all one family-each of us loved and needed and cared for. Corresponding Chakra & Colour: Root Chakra at the base of the spine-the colour is red. (Milkwood bark was traditionally used for broken bones-so the essence is helpful here-this essence is very much to do with underlying structure and form; stability and grounding.). The Milkwood Tree in Nature. Milkwoods are hardy, slow-growing trees with deep-green, leathery leaves and rough grayish-brown bark.
Sideroxylon inerme is a semi-coastal sturdy broadleaf evergreen tree with dense foliage, displays of white bisexual flowers and edible purplish-black berries. It boasts leathery, spiral leaves, which, like the berries, contain milky latex. The Milkwood has considerable value in traditional medicine and attracts birds, monkeys and other animals to its flowers and fruits: Speckled mousebirds eat the flowers; birds, bats, monkeys and bush pigs eat the fruit.
The energy of the milkwood tree brings a deep sense of connection and belonging. The energy of the milkwood tree can assist us with feeling at home on the Earth – it connects you with your personal power, and reminds you on the cellular level that we are all one family. This is a nurturing and supportive tree and the essence may balance feelings of insecurity and lack of grounding. May be useful for adjusting to changes in the family structure brought about through loss or divorce. Milkwood essence may be helpful for nightmares and fears of the unknown.
The tree’s formal name means “Iron-wood” in Greek, referring to its very hard timber. It is one of South Africa’s “Protected Trees” and several specimens are provincial heritage sites. This is the only member of the Sideroxylon genus in Southern Africa. Young branches and new leaves are always covered with fine hairs. The tree can reach 15 m. The Milkwood has considerable value in traditional medicine and attracts birds, monkeys and other animals to its flowers and fruits: Speckled mousebirds eat the flowers; birds, bats, monkeys and bush pigs eat the fruit. It is also an effective firebreak and is cultivated for that purpose
A characteristic feature of the Southern Overberg, the milkwood is a low-growing, evergreen tree. It is rarely found with a straight trunk; instead, its gnarled, sprawling branches often create impenetrable thickets that are home to a variety of wild life. The small, yellowy-green flowers have an unusual sour-smell (Jan-July). The edible, juicy, black fruit (July-Jan) are enjoyed by birds and baboons. The milky latex which gives the tree its common name makes the leaves and the bark unpalatable to grazing animals. The wood is very hard, heavy and strong. In the past, it was used for ship building, bridges, mills and ploughs. It is very durable even when wet and it shrinks little with drying
Status Sideroxylon inerme is widespread on mountains and is not an endangered species. It is, however, one of South Africa's Protected Trees, which means that no milkwood may be damaged, moved or felled. Derivation of the name Sideroxylon is a small genus found in Africa, America and Asia with one species in South Africa, Sideroxylon inerme. The tree has a sturdy trunk that is normally 600mm in diameter, and a large, dense, rounded crown. The bark is normally grey-brown to black. Young branches are always covered with fine hairs. The leaves are leathery and spirally arranged, dark green above and dull beneath.
The Sideroxylon inerme trees are scattered through the coastal woodlands and littoral forests of South Africa as far as Zimbabwe. Historically, dense forests of large Milkwood trees used to exist along the coast and bays of Cape Town, especially at Noordhoek, Macassar and Gordons Bay. The Milkwood has considerable value in traditional medicine and attracts birds, monkeys and other animals to its flowers and fruits: Speckled mousebirds eat the flowers; birds, bats, monkeys and bush pigs eat the fruit.