The base of any tamarind sauce is the pulp of the tamarind fruit, either as a paste, as a juice, or as a concentrate. The flavor of tamarind is both sweet and sour, and it is a main component in pad Thai sauce, Worcestershire sauce, and in many marinades, barbeque sauces, chutneys, and curry sauces.
When the tamarind fruit is ripe (colored brown or reddish-brown) it can be made into a paste. This is typically done by removing the seeds from the tamarind fruit and then blending the tamarind fruit into a pulp with a combination of water and sugar / spices.
Tamarind paste is just the fruit (separated from the pod and seeds) of the tamarind tree made into a ready-to-use cooking paste. It comes in a jar or plastic tub-like container and one bottle is likely all you will need for a very long time, as the paste is usually quite strong and condensed.
1. Combine the tamarind and 2 cups of the water in a small saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Remove the pan from the heat and let stand until the tamarind has softened, about 15 minutes. Help it along by breaking up the pulp with a spoon.
The tamarind sauce that's prepared as part of this recipe is delicious and can be used for all kinds of dishes, we especially like it with our recipe for duck-fried rice. Place sugar, red wine, tamarind candy, onion, ginger, and garlic in heavy large saucepan.
What is Tamarind Paste. Tamarind paste is the pure concentrate form of the fruit from the Tamarind tree. This fruit is born in the form of thin brown pods with each pod containing 3-12 seeds that are surrounded by the fleshy tamarind fruit.
Tamarind is a sticky, sour-tasting fruit that grows in large brown pods on the tamarind tree, a common fruit tree that grows all over Asia and also in Mexico (see photo of pods below). The fruit is removed from the pods and must be separated from the seeds in order to use it.
Tamarind pulp is often used in sweet and sour sauces that are popular in Asian cuisine. Tamarind sauce is sometimes used to impart a slightly sour edge to South Asian curries. The tropical tamarind tree is native to Africa.