A Bachelor of Science, B.S. or BSc, is an undergraduate degree in an academic field relating to the sciences or technology.
BA/BSc (Honours) Open degree. The BA/BSc (Honours) Open is the most flexible degree programme in the UK because you can study any subjects you like, in any combination. This means you can build a qualification that's unique to you.
The Bachelor of Science degree (abbreviated BSc) in Australia can be completed in three years. Students interested in earning a BSc (hons.) can complete a fourth year of Honours studies. To progress toward a PhD students must earn a BSc (hons.) degree or a traditional BSc and MSc degree.
For other uses of BS, see BS. A Bachelor of Science (B.S. , BS, B.Sc. , BSc or Bc. ; less commonly, S.B. , SB, or Sc.B. from the Latin Scientiae Scientiæ) baccalaureus or A Science degree is an undergraduate academic degree awarded for completed courses that generally last three to five. years
As is the case in both Australia and New Zealand, the Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree in South Africa can be completed in just three years of full-time study, while the BSc Honors (considered a postgraduate degree) requires four years of full-time study.
The Bachelor of Science (commonly abbreviated BS, B.S., Bc, BSc, B.Sc., or less commonly, SB, S.B., or Sc.B., depending on the country) is an undergraduate degree that takes three to five-years to complete depending on the institution, area of focus, and country.
What is a Bachelor of Science? A Bachelor of Science, B.S. or BSc, is an undergraduate degree in an academic field relating to the sciences or technology. Typically lasting three to four years when studied full time, a Bachelor of Science degree program typically proves to be highly valuable investment.
One can also see that, in order to get a job, a Bsc (hons) degree is more beneficial than a Bsc degree. If two persons, one with a Bsc degree, and another with a Bsc (hons) degree, apply for a job, the candiate with the Bsc (Hons) degree will be given the first preference.
The BSc is just another abbreviation for a bachelor of science degree. Other abbreviations for the same degree are, BS, ScB, SB depending on the institution. Most US schools indicated it as a BS.
In contrast to the Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree which focus on liberal arts studies, the BS or BSc degree traditionally focuses on science-related disciplines, majors and subject areas. However, what is considered a “science” or an “art” may vary from university to university.