As Sleeping Beauty Castle is a Disney icon, it and Magic Kingdom 's Cinderella Castle have become the basis for the logo of Walt Disney Pictures, Walt Disney Television, Disney Music Group and Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. Opened July 17, 1955, the castle is the oldest of all Disney castles. Its primary inspiration was the Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany.
The Cinderella Castle at Walt Disney World is much taller than the Sleeping Beauty Castle elsewhere. When Disneyland Tokyo opened in 1983, it copied Cinderella Castle extremely closely. The former began at Disneyland in Anaheim, while the latter first opened at Disney World in Florida (partially as a means of differentiating the two). Walt Disney World is not technically considered a Disneyland theme park, but rather its own entity.
Two Types. The two basic castle designs are for Sleeping Beauty's Castle and Cinderella Castle. The former began at Disneyland in Anaheim, while the latter first opened at Disney World in Florida (partially as a means of differentiating the two). Walt Disney World is not technically considered a Disneyland theme park, but rather its own entity.
Sleeping Beauty Castle is the fairy tale structure castle at the center of Disneyland Park, Hong Kong Disneyland and Disneyland Paris. It is based on the late-19th century Neuschwanstein Castle in Bavaria, Germany, with some French inspirations (especially Notre Dame de Paris and the Hospices de Beaune). Opened July 17, 1955, the castle is the oldest of all Disney castles. Its primary inspiration was the Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany.
Sleeping Beauty's Castle. The movie Sleeping Beauty was still in production when Disneyland opened in Anaheim, but that didn't stop Walt Disney from using it in his park. The former began at Disneyland in Anaheim, while the latter first opened at Disney World in Florida (partially as a means of differentiating the two). Walt Disney World is not technically considered a Disneyland theme park, but rather its own entity.
Cinderella Castle is located in Walt Disney World and Tokyo Disneyland. Sleeping Beauty Castle is located in Disneyland, Hong Kong Disneyland, and Disneyland Paris. And yes, it is Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty Castle, not Cinderella ’s or Sleeping Beauty ’s Castle. 1  oh-brad-im-mad reblogged this from disneytrivia. 
/ Home / Tokyo Disneyland / Fantasyland /. A castle is literally the centerpiece of every Disneyland theme park (or Magic Kingdom, as it's called in Florida). At Disneyland in California, the original Disney castle is called Sleeping Beauty Castle. In Tokyo Disneyland, it's Cinderella Castle (not Cinderella's Castle as it is sometimes incorrectly referred to). 
There are distinct castles at each of the Disney resorts, five total. The castles at Disneyland (Anaheim, CA), Disneyland Paris (Marne-la-Vallee, Vallée) france And Hong Kong (Disneyland'penny S, Bay Lantau, Island Hong) kong belong To Sleeping. beauty The castles at Disneyland (Anaheim, CA), Disneyland Paris (Marne-la-Vallee, Vallée) france And Hong Kong (Disneyland'penny S, Bay Lantau, Island Hong) kong belong To Sleeping. Beauty the castles at The Magic (Kingdom Lake Buena, VISTA) fl And Tokyo (Disneyland, Urayasu, Chiba) japan belong To. cinderella
The flat and wide ones (like in Disneyland Anaheim,) are Sleeping Beauty castles. Cinderella C … astle: 1. Walt Disney World 2. Tokyo Disneyland 3. ShangHai Disneyland (coming in 2015-2016) Sleeping Beauty Castle 1. Disneyland (Anaheim, California) 2. Hong Kong Disneyland 3. Disneyland Paris. The castles at Disneyland (Anaheim, CA), Disneyland Paris (Marne-la-Vallee, Vallée) france And Hong Kong (Disneyland'penny S, Bay Lantau, Island Hong) kong belong To Sleeping. Beauty the castles at The Magic (Kingdom Lake Buena, VISTA) fl And Tokyo (Disneyland, Urayasu, Chiba) japan belong To. cinderella