Liked 1 Times on 1 Posts. Starter Yeast Nutrient. Im using a food grade yeast nutrient for a starter because I wanna have it ready to go and feisty in a day or two. With keeping everything sterile in mind, do I add a teaspoon of this stuff to a liter after it cools or before it gets to pitching temp. Quote: Originally Posted by shot0rum247. Im using a food grade yeast nutrient for a starter because I wanna have it ready to go and feisty in a day or two. With keeping everything sterile in mind, do I add a teaspoon of this stuff to a liter after it cools or before it gets to pitching temp.
Besides the popular 125 ml ACTIVATOR TM Smack Pack, Wyeast sells the PROPAGATOR TM 50 ml XL Smack pack, which they designed for brewers growing up their own pitch of yeast. The package includes instructions on how to make a starter, which is required if you're making a 5 gallon (18.9 liter) batch of beer. Add 1 gram of DME for every 10 ml of final volume. (If you're making a 2 liter starter, add water to 200 grams of DME until you have 2 liters total.) Add 1/4 teaspoon of yeast nutrient, boil 15 minutes, cool, and add yeast.
1 Liter Starter Here is how to make a starter with a gravity of about 1.030. Sanitize: thermometer, flask, funnel, yeast, scissors, foam 1. Heat 1100 ml of filtered water to boiling (about 100 ml will boil off). 2. Add 1/2 cup (3 oz) of DME 3. Add 1/4 tsp. of yeast nutrient. (This is optional, but recommended). If, after a day or two, you see yeast sediment in the container, your starter has been active. 2 Liter Starter Here is how to make a 2-qt. (~2L) starter with a gravity of about 1.030. 1. Heat 2 qts.
I rarely use the nutrient in my batches, but I do in my yeast starters. Since I make my starters in the kitchen I use a normal tsp and put about 1/8 to 1/4 tsp of nutrient in my starter depending on the size of the starter (either 1L, 2L, or 1 gal). Quote: Originally Posted by shot0rum247. Sounds good, Thanks all. Quote: Originally Posted by shot0rum247. Im using a food grade yeast nutrient for a starter because I wanna have it ready to go and feisty in a day or two. With keeping everything sterile in mind, do I add a teaspoon of this stuff to a liter after it cools or before it gets to pitching temp.
If you're working in metric, it couldn't be easier. Use a 10 to 1 ratio. Add 1 gram of DME for every 10 ml of final volume. (If you're making a 2 liter starter, add water to 200 grams of DME until you have 2 liters total.) Add 1/4 teaspoon of yeast nutrient, boil 15 minutes, cool, and add yeast. Using an Erlenmeyer flask made of borosilicate glass (such as Pyrex or Bomex) it is even easier
For starter wort you can use the 1/2 tsp and a sachet of yeast hulls, although I usually double this, just to make sure the yeast have all they need. I've even used 1/2 tsp in a single 1 quart starter with no ill effects. The yeast hulls are necessary since they contain trace elements that are essential for the yeast. You use the same wort/nutrients regardless of the yeast type-it's the size of the starter that counts, and by using a larger quantity of wort, you naturally have also more nutrients. Similarly, there's no need to differentiate wort from the first or second stage of a starter.
I am going to make a batch of wort to be stored in 1 quart jars to make starters from. I'd like to add the yeast nutrient (diammonium phosphate and yeast hulls) at this time so I don't have to mix it when making the starter. How much (per gallon) should I use? The directions suggest adding 1/2 tsp per 5 gal of wort when making beer. You use the same wort/nutrients regardless of the yeast type-it's the size of the starter that counts, and by using a larger quantity of wort, you naturally have also more nutrients. Similarly, there's no need to differentiate wort from the first or second stage of a starter.