Knot Density. A large part of a hand-knotted rug’s value is placed on how many knots there are in one square inch. Knots per square inch ranges from 40 up to 2,000. 160 knots per square inch is considered very good, 400 knots per square inch is extraordinary, and 1,000 knots per inch or more is very rare.
The quality of a hand knotted carpet is determined by the number of knots per square inch, and a higher density means a better quality. A complex and unique pattern can take a very long time to produce. An average weaver can tie about 10,000 knots per day, now imagine how long it can take to complete one rug.
The quality, and very often cost of a hand-knotted carpet is determined by the number of knots per square inch. In this case a higher density means better quality. A complex pattern can require very dense knotting and thus it can take a long time to produce. An average weaver can tie about 10,000 knots per day.
Depending on how many knots are in each square inch (50 to 160 knots per inch is typical, 400 per square inch is remarkable), it can take more than a year for one weaver to complete a 9x12 rug. Wool, silk and cotton are the three primary materials that are used to make a hand-knotted rug. Wool is the most used material.
Every single knot is tied by hand. A single rug has 25 to over 1000 knots per square inch. A skillful weaver is able to tie a knot in about ten seconds, meaning 6 knots per minute or 360 knots per hour. It would take our weaver 6,480 hours to weave a 9x12-foot rug with a density of 150 knots per square inch. That means one weaver needs 810 days (approximately two-and-a-half years) to weave a rug. This is why hand woven rugs are an investment — not just of money, but of time.
You have three days from the time you receive your stock rug to request a return. After three days, we do not accept the return of rugs. If your request is within three days, we issue a return authority to you so that the warehouse will know to whom to issue the credit.
Answer: Even though both hand-knotted and hand-tufted rugs are made by hand, they are very different in many respects. The process of creating both types of rugs is different not just in complexity, but also the time it takes to create one and the skill level required in manufacturing it.
All Oriental Persian rugs are hand knotted; none are machine made. For a small 3' x 5' rug, it might take a person several months to make that rug. Medium-sized rugs (5' x 8') can take a person or people up to a year to complete.
Very large rugs (10′ x 20′) might take a group of people years to finish it, and larger silk rugs, which often have up to 1,000 knots or more per square inch, can take a person a lifetime to complete. Now you know why authentic handmade rugs are considerably more expensive than machine made ones.