1 Go to your profile and click. 2  Click View As... in the dropdown menu. 3  You’ll see what your profile looks to the public. 4  To see how your profile appears to a specific person, like a friend or coworker, click View as Specific Person, type their name and press enter. You can see what your profile looks like to other people by using the View As tool. To use View As 1  :
3. Then there is a the button where you have to find (screenshot), which is labeled, “View as”. The View As button. 4. Once you clicked the “View as” button, you will see this box, where you can type your friend’s name, and then click again the View As button. Type one of your friend's name. You will finally be someone or a friend who you typed the name in the box, viewing your own profile. First of all, you will need to login to your Facebook account. 2. Right after logged in, you need to look at the top right of your account’s page, and click “profile” tab. You will see then your profile page.
Step 3: Select ‘View As….’. You will then be shown what your Facebook profile looks like to non-friends. To find out what it looks like to friends, at the top of the ,view as’ page you can search the name of the friend you want to know what your profile page looks like to them. So if you have made specific permission changes to your profile, this is the best way to find out if your settings have been made as you intended. O.R Aborishade Jun 16, 2014 Tech Tools 0 comments. Viewing your Facebook Timeline as someone else ensures your profile changes have been implemented. If you are curious to find out what your Facebook profile looks like to someone else, it is actually quite simple.
View your Timeline as someone else. 1. Click on your name to get to your Timeline, otherwise known as your profile page. 2. Towards the right of your large cover photo, you’ll see a few buttons – Update Info, View Activity Log, and three little dots. Click the dots and choose “ View As….”. Well on Facebook, you can! Here’s how to check what your Facebook profile (also called your Timeline) looks like when others view it. This is an easy way to make sure that your Facebook privacy settings are doing their job. [Instructions updated January 2013 and again May 2015].
There are 2 different ways to get to the “View As…” tool on Facebook: 1. (as an alternate to #2) Click on your name in the upper left hand corner of Facebook to go to your Facebook Timeline (aka Facebook Profile). Near the lower right hand corner of your cover image, you will see a gear (settings) icon. In this dropdown menu, select “View As…”. 2. (as an alternate to #1) In the upper right hand corner of your Facebook, you will see a little padlock icon just to the right of your name. 
How can I see what my profile looks like to other people? You can see what your profile looks like to other people by using the View As tool. To use View As 1  : Go to your profile and click. 2  Click View As... in the dropdown menu. 3  You’ll see what your profile looks to the public.
There are 2 different ways to get to the “View As…” tool on Facebook: 1. (as an alternate to #2) Click on your name in the upper left hand corner of Facebook to go to your Facebook Timeline (aka Facebook Profile). Near the lower right hand corner of your cover image, you will see a gear (settings) icon. In this dropdown menu, select “View As…”. 2. (as an alternate to #1) In the upper right hand corner of your Facebook, you will see a little padlock icon just to the right of your name. Open up this dropdown
1 Click View As... in the dropdown menu. 2  You’ll see what your profile looks to the public. 3  To see how your profile appears to a specific person, like a friend or coworker, click View as Specific Person, type their name and press enter. You can see what your profile looks like to other people by using the View As tool. To use View As 1  : Go to your profile and click. 2  Click View As... in the dropdown menu. 3  You’ll see what your profile looks to the public. 4