When it comes to testing for dyslexia in your child, there are many signs and symptoms to look for. The most obvious signs are how your child performs at school, especially when it comes to reading and writing. If your child does appear to have dyslexia, talk with your child’s doctor. As a parent, you are your child’s advocate. Therefore, there are many signs and symptoms you can look when it comes to testing for dyslexia. Children with dyslexia are not dumb or unintelligent. However, due to their learning disability they may struggle with reading, schoolwork, and even paying attention.
There is no cure for dyslexia. But early intervention can give children with dyslexia the encouragement and tools they need to manage in school and compensate for their disability. If you suspect that your child has dyslexia or another learning disability, talk with your pediatrician as soon as possible. Your doctor can rule out any physical issues -- such as vision problems -- in your child. They may then refer you to a learning specialist, educational psychologist, or speech therapist
Understand emotional adjustments. Once your child's teacher is aware that your child has dyslexia, the teacher can make adjustments to support your child's emotional needs. For instance, your child won’t be put on the spot to do challenging read-alouds that can cause tremendous stress and anxiety. Three Parts: Learning About Dyslexia and the Importance of Diagnosing It Looking For Signs of Dyslexia Knowing What to Do If You Think Your Child Has Dyslexia. Dyslexia is the most common of all reading disorders. Many parents notice the learning disability in their pre-preschoolers.
When it is comes to testing for dyslexia, there is not one true test that can be done. Because of this problem, many children have dyslexia, yet go untreated for it, while other children may have another learning disability and are wrongly diagnosed with dyslexia. As a parent, you are your child’s advocate. Therefore, there are many signs and symptoms you can look when it comes to testing for dyslexia. Children with dyslexia are not dumb or unintelligent. However, due to their learning disability they may struggle with reading, schoolwork, and even paying attention.
A single test can't diagnose dyslexia. Rather, your doctor or a school professional (such as a reading specialist) will ask you what signs of dyslexia you and your child's teachers have seen. He or she will ask your child questions too. Reading tests and other types of assessments may be done to help find out more about your child's skills. For example, tests may include those that focus on your child's learning style, language and problem-solving skills, and intelligence quotient (IQ).
You can test a child's phonemic awareness even before you try to teach him to read. A test designed for 5 and 6 year olds was released in July 1999. It is normed and standardized, can be given in approximately 30 minutes, and provides a clear statistical profile of a child's phonemic awareness. IMPORTANT: There is no quick fix or silver bullet for dyslexia. It can take from 1 to 3 years to get a dyslexic child reading and spelling at grade level, depending upon their level of severity, the frequency of their tutoring or intervention, and other issues.
Meet with a specialist. If it appears likely that your child has dyslexia, take the results to a specialist like a psychologist or a school counselor who can guide you in getting a professional diagnosis. Three Parts: Learning About Dyslexia and the Importance of Diagnosing It Looking For Signs of Dyslexia Knowing What to Do If You Think Your Child Has Dyslexia. Dyslexia is the most common of all reading disorders. Many parents notice the learning disability in their pre-preschoolers.
Our free online dyslexia test for children can determine whether your child's difficulties reading and processing words is likely to be dyslexia. The interactive tool will help diagnose specific problems and recommend an effective path for treatment. 
Tests and diagnosis. There's no one test that can diagnose dyslexia. Your child's doctor will consider a number of factors, such as: 1  Your child's development, educational issues and medical history. 2  Your doctor will likely ask you questions about these area