* Printer. Directions: First, you’ll need to print out your Target Cartwheel account barcode. To do this, head over here, sign into your account and click on barcode (located at the top) and then click the Print button. Using another membership card as a guide, trace around the barcode.
You are allowed one Cartwheel offer with one manufacturer’s coupon and one Target coupon, triple the savings! You can sign up thru email or your Facebook account and you will need a smartphone to redeem savings in stores although you can bring a printed barcode with you in lieu of a smartphone.
* Hole Punch. * Printer. Directions: First, you’ll need to print out your Target Cartwheel account barcode. To do this, head over here, sign into your account and click on barcode (located at the top) and then click the Print button. Using another membership card as a guide, trace around the barcode.
Save on the things you already buy at Target with Cartwheel! Choose from hundreds of offers with discounts of 5-50% off every area of the store. Just add an offer to your Cartwheel list, scan your barcode in store, and save.
Cartwheel is now offering the option to login or sign up with email ! Keep in mind though, Cartwheel’s sign in feature is currently in testing and your account may be temporarily unavailable as they work out the details. If you do sign up, you can provide valuable feedback while they are testing by going HERE.
First, just go to Target Cartwheel. Click on the blue Facebook login button, Sign up with Email or the apps. Once you are signed in, Then, go through all of the offers and click on those you are interested in using. One you select the offer, it will show up in your own cartwheel. You can add up to 6 offers initially.
You may redeem all the Cartwheel offers on your Cartwheel list at the time of your transaction. For example, if you have 10 offers on your list when you scan your barcode at a Target store, and you're purchasing items tied to all 10 offers, you'll save on all 10 items. If you've unlocked additional spots on your Cartwheel, you will save on all the offers you have room for in your Cartwheel at one time.