1 Krishnarajah G. Cost-effectiveness analysis of Boostrix (tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine, adsorbed) among individuals ≥65 years of age in prevention of pertussis. 2  Presented to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), February 22, 2012. In July 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved expanding the age indication for Boostrix (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) to aged 65 years and older (4). In February 2012, ACIP recommended Tdap for all adults aged 65 years and older.
The DTaP vaccine is for children (usually infants) under 7 to inoculate them against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whooping cough). Tdap is the booster shot given at age 11 and then throughout life after roughly every 10 years to ensure continued immunity through adolescence and adulthood. 
You should use DTaP in children younger than age 7 years. In addition, ACIP recommends to give a single dose of Tdap to children ages 7 through 10 years who did not finish a minimum 3-dose series of pertussis-containing vaccines before their 7th birthday (or for whom their pertussis vaccine status is unknown). Since the first DTaP was received before 12 months of age and one Tdap dose has been given, this person needs one dose of Td 6 calendar months after the Tdap dose. A routine Td booster should be administered every 10 years.
The tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis vaccine (Tdap) prevents 3 diseases-tetanus (or lockjaw), diphtheria (a respiratory infection), and pertussis (whooping cough). Tdap should be given once to around the age of 11 or 12 years, or to older individuals who have never received Tdap. 
1 Acosta A. Cost-effectiveness of Tdap substitution for Td in prevention of pertussis in adults 65 years and older. 2  Presented to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), February 22, 2012. 3  Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2012. In July 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved expanding the age indication for Boostrix (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) to aged 65 years and older (4). In February 2012, ACIP recommended Tdap for all adults aged
In this article. DTaP is a vaccine that helps children younger than age 7 develop immunity to three deadly diseases caused by bacteria: diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough (pertussis). Tdap is a booster immunization given at age 11 that offers continued protection from those diseases for adolescents and adults. The current recommendation is that one dose of the Tdap vaccine be substituted for one dose of the Td vaccine between the ages of 11 and 64. Pregnant women are also advised to get the Tdap vaccine, preferably between 27 and 36 weeks' gestation.
No. In March 2014, FDA lowered the age indication for Adacel brand Tdap vaccine (sanofi) from age 11 years to age 10 years. Both Tdap products, Adacel and Boostrix (GSK), now have the same lower age indication. Since the first DTaP was received before 12 months of age and one Tdap dose has been given, this person needs one dose of Td 6 calendar months after the Tdap dose. A routine Td booster should be administered every 10 years.
Teens ages 13 through 18 who haven't gotten the Tdap vaccine yet should get a dose, followed by a booster of tetanus and diphtheria (Td) every 10 years. The current recommendation is that one dose of the Tdap vaccine be substituted for one dose of the Td vaccine between the ages of 11 and 64. Pregnant women are also advised to get the Tdap vaccine, preferably between 27 and 36 weeks' gestation.
DTaP is approved for children under age 7. Tdap, which has a reduced dose of the diphtheria and pertussis vaccines, is approved for adolescents starting at age 11 and adults ages 19 to 64. It is often called a booster dose because it boosts the immunity that wanes from vaccines given at ages 4 to 6. The current recommendation is that one dose of the Tdap vaccine be substituted for one dose of the Td vaccine between the ages of 11 and 64. Pregnant women are also advised to get the Tdap vaccine, preferably between 27 and 36 weeks' gestation.
Only Boostrix is approved for adults aged 65 years and older; however, ACIP discussed the use of Adacel in this age group. On February 22, 2012, ACIP approved use of Tdap for all adults aged 65 years and older. In July 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved expanding the age indication for Boostrix (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) to aged 65 years and older (4). In February 2012, ACIP recommended