Onyx is a beautiful type of quartz that comes in a variety of colors. It is extremely similar to Agate, another type of quartz. Onyx usually comes in black or black with white bands. The bands that are found on Onyx run parallel and are consistent. Agate bands are round or circular and are not consistent. 
Report Abuse. onyx (ŏn'ĭks) , variety of cryptocrystalline quartz, differing from agate only in that the bands of which it is composed are parallel and regular. Its appearance is most striking when the bands are of sharply contrasting colors; black and white specimens are often used for cameos. Answers. Best Answer: Most multi-colored raw onyx is found in Brazil, but it can be found worldwide in places such as Italy, US, and Mexico (although Mexican Onyx isn't an Onyx, but usually either a Calcite or an Agate). Onyx may be brown, white, grey, or black, although the color most commonly associated with onyx is black. The name onyx comes from the Greek word for fingernail. Mythology states that Cupid cut the fingernails from Venus with an arrowhead while she was sleeping
Onyx is a banded variety of the silicate mineral chalcedony. Agate and onyx are both varieties of layered chalcedony that differ only in the form of the bands: agate has curved bands and onyx has parallel bands. The colors of its bands range from white to almost every color (save some shades, such as purple or blue). Onyx is a gemstone found in various regions of the world including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Germany, India, Madagascar, Latin America, the UK, and various states in the US.
Onyx ON EBAY. ALL ABOUT. Onyx is an ancient gemstone, having been used in jewelry and as an ornamental gemstone for carvings since antiquity. Onyx has traditionally been one of the most important engraving and cameo gemstones, where its most common form was a black base with a white upper layer. 
Sardonyx Meaning. This stone has been found in a large number of locations including Brazil, India, Germany, Uruguay, Russia and USA, but it is said that the best stone comes from India.
In the north and centre of America we can name several varieties from Mexico (among them, the Onyx of Padrara, white/green with orange coloured veins, which is used a lot in San Diego, USA, the marble Tecali, the Oaxaca Onyx and Inca Onyx), and in Honduras, such as Monte Onyx and Juan and Cedro Onyx. 
We are importers of onyx slabs from Italy. The selection of onyx slab colors include pink, white, green, brown as well as other colors in 2cm slabs. Onyx is formed from carbonate minerals that are dissolved when limestone or dolomite sediments come into contact with hot water. 
Today when we think of onyx we often preface the word with black to distinguish it from other varieties of onyx that come in white, reddish brown, brown and banded. A variety of onyx that is reddish brown with white and lighter reddish bands is known as sardonyx. Onyx is a form of chalcedony, part of the quartz group. The name comes from the Greek word onyx which means nail of a finger or claw. Legend says that one day while Venus was sleeping Eros/Cupid cut her fingernails and left the clippings scattered on the ground. Because no part of a heavenly body can die, the gods turned them into stone which later became known as onyx.