Given the range of diversity in soil type, climate, culture, ethnic group and occupations, these cuisines vary significantly from each other and use locally available spices, herbs, vegetables and fruits. Indian food is also heavily influenced by religious and cultural choices and traditions. Staple foods of Indian cuisine include pearl millet (bājra), rice, whole-wheat flour (aṭṭa), and a variety of lentils, such as masoor (most often red lentils), toor (pigeon peas), urad (black gram), and mong (mung beans).
Thai food is eaten with a fork and spoon. Even single dish meals such as fried rice with pork, or steamed rice topped with roasted duck, are served in bite-sized slices or chunks obviating the need for a knife. The spoon is used to convey food to the mouth. 
It is a sauce made with onions and tomatoes partially fried. Lechona: Is a typical dish from the Tolima area and consists of a whole roasted pig, stuffed with rice, yellow peas, green onions and spices which is cooked for ten hours in a clay oven. It is served with arepa. This dish is often served at parties and other large gatherings. 
A healthy vegetarian diet is high in plenty of nutrient-dense foods, such as fruits, vegetables, healthy fats and whole grains, and often low in saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium. However, nutritional deficiencies might still occur, and supplementation will be necessary. Proteins. Since vegetarians do not eat any type of meat, they must be sure to get enough protein from other types of foods. MayoClinic.com recommends vegetarians eat at least five daily servings of protein-rich foods, such as beans, legumes, nuts and soy.
The food is a blend of grains, seeds, vegetables, fruits, and various types of proteins, as well as additional vitamins and minerals. The ingredients are mixed and then baked. This formulated diet may be in the form of pellets, crumbles, or nuggets. 
Within each food group, some foods are more nutritious than others. Try to include more nutrient-dense foods on your plate. This means choosing whole grains instead of refined grains and low-fat protein and dairy instead of full-fat. Choose seafood or vegetarian-protein sources such as legumes for some meals, as these contain high levels of vitamins and minerals but very little fat. Salads are a nutritious addition to your meal. With all the nutrition advice that exists, it can be hard to focus on the basics of what you should eat if you want to be healthy.
A traditional Japanese-style breakfast consists of steamed rice, miso soup, and various side dishes. Common side dishes are broiled/grilled fish, tamagoyaki (rolled omelet), tsukemono pickles, nori (dried seaweed), natto, and so on. 
A vegan does not eat meat, poultry, fish, eggs or dairy products. A lacto-vegetarian diet does not include meat, poultry, fish or eggs. However, lacto-vegetarians will eat dairy products, such as milk, cheese and yogurt. A lacto-ovo vegetarian diet only excludes meat, fish and poultry, while eggs and dairy products are allowed. Proteins. Since vegetarians do not eat any type of meat, they must be sure to get enough protein from other types of foods. MayoClinic.com recommends vegetarians eat at least five daily servings of protein-rich foods, such as beans, legumes, nuts and soy.
Limit sodium to 2,300 milligrams per day if you are otherwise healthy and are under the age of 51; limit cholesterol to 300 milligrams; and limit added sugar to 6 teaspoons if you are a woman and 9 teaspoons if you are a man. Salads are a nutritious addition to your meal. With all the nutrition advice that exists, it can be hard to focus on the basics of what you should eat if you want to be healthy.
Vegetables and Fruit. Vegetables are utilized mostly in soups and stews, or, as a side dish of a casado meal, fresh cabbage, tomatoes, and carrots make up the typical salad. Corn is one of the most favored vegetables, and it is usually prepared in the form of tortillas and corn pancakes. Consisting of rice and beans, meat or fish, fried plantains, and a carrot, tomato, and cabbage salad, this basic and well-rounded meal strikes a good nutritional balance. The plantain, or plantano, plántano is probably the Quintenencial tico. snack