Ampiclox is used to treat a variety of infections, such as respiratory and gut infections. I recommend discussing with your physician to determine if this medication can be used to treat and STD, as well as what would be the appropriate dosage for that use. 
Look out for important symptoms Ampiclox can make some existing conditions worse, or cause serious side effects such as allergic reactions, bleeding and severe diarrhoea (pseudomembranous colitis). You must look out for certain symptoms while you are taking Ampiclox, to help reduce the risk of any problems. If you have any further questions on the use of this medication, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 4 Possible side effects Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. The following side effects may happen with this medicine.
(b) Parenteral Ampicillin sodium B P. and cloxacillin sodium B.P. available as: AMPICLOX 75 I: Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 50 mg ampicillin and 25 mg cloxacillin per neonatal vial. AMPICLOX 500 I: Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 250 mg ampicillin and 250 mg cloxacillin per vial. PHARMACOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION: A.20.1.2 Penicillins PHARMACOLOGICAL ACTION: (a) Bacteriology: AMPICLOX exhibits in vivo and in vitro bactericidal activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms.
Powder for preparing neonatal drops. When dispensed as directed, each 0,6 mL of the suspension contains the equivalent of 60 mg ampicillin and 30 mg cloxacillin. The powder contains 0,525% m/m sodium benzoate B.P. as a preservative. Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 50 mg ampicillin and 25 mg cloxacillin per neonatal vial. AMPICLOX 500 I. : Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 250 mg ampicillin and 250 mg cloxacillin per vial.
Uses. Cloxacillin is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. This medication is a type of penicillin antibiotic. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu). 
Ampicillin is an antibiotic used to prevent and treat a number of bacterial infections. This includes respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections, meningitis, salmonella infections, and endocarditis. It may also be used to prevent group B streptococcal infection in newborns. It is used by mouth, by injection into a muscle, or intravenously. It is not useful for the treatment of viral infections.
Powder for preparing fruit-flavoured suspension. When dispensed as directed each 5 mL of the suspension contains the equivalent of 125 mg ampicillin and 125 mg cloxacillin. The powder contains 0,13% m/m of sodium benzoate B.P. as a preservative. Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 50 mg ampicillin and 25 mg cloxacillin per neonatal vial. AMPICLOX 500 I. : Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 250 mg ampicillin and 250 mg cloxacillin per vial.
Ampicillin is the generic name of a drug that's prescribed to treat bacterial infections. It was once sold under several brand names, such as Omnipen, Amcill, and Principen. Though these brand names are no longer on the market, your health care provider can prescribe generic ampicillin to treat infections such as pneumonia, bronchitis, urinary tract infections, meningitis, and typhoid fever.
AMPICLOX S: Powder for preparing fruit-flavoured suspension. When dispensed as directed each 5 mL of the suspension contains the equivalent of 125 mg ampicillin and 125 mg cloxacillin. The powder contains 0,13% m/m of sodium benzoate B.P. as a preservative. AMPICLOX 500 I: Sterile powder for preparing the equivalent of 250 mg ampicillin and 250 mg cloxacillin per vial. PHARMACOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION: A.20.1.2 Penicillins PHARMACOLOGICAL ACTION: (a) Bacteriology: AMPICLOX exhibits in vivo and in vitro bactericidal activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms.