A predator is an animal that eats other animals, and the prey is the animal that gets eaten by the predator. In the food chain above: the frog is a predator and the grasshopper is its prey. the hawk is a predator and the frog is its prey. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3. 5  4. Notice that the first consumer in the chain is also called the primary consumer, the next one is the secondary consumer and the one after that is the tertiary consumer. A consumer that eats plants is called a herbivore, and a consumer that eats other animals is called a carnivore.
Best Answer: Cows are herbivores, which means that they only eat plants. Carnivores eat only meat, and omnivores eat both plants and meat. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cows are herbivores, which means that they only eat plants. Carnivores eat only meat, and omnivores eat both plants and meat. Cows don't have the right type of teeth for ripping meat.
Herbivores only eat plants to get energy and nutrients. Most animals will eat the leaves and fruits of plants as these tend to be the more nutritious. Plant vegetation, however, is very hard to break down into energy so most herbivores have a specialised digestive system. Cow Digestive System.
A carnivore /ˈkɑrnɪvɔər/ meaning 'meat eater' (Latin, caro meaning 'meat' or 'flesh' and vorare meaning 'to devour') is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging. Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
The precursors to dogs, these creatures are heterotrophs in that they like to eat meat. This type of carnivore is called a wolf. Wolves like to travel in packs, and usually team up against other animals such as deer for prey. Herbivore Examples. Herbivores like to munch on autotrophs such as plants and grass. There are several different types of herbivores varying from insects and mammals. Some insects just eat a part of a plant while others such as mammals have to chew a large quantity of grass in order to stay healthy.
Carnivores eat meat (and other animal tissue) to get the calories and energy to survive. Meat is a high energy food source. Carnivores find their food through predation or scavenging, and are often adapted with big claws, sharp teeth/beak and quick speed whether on land, in the sea or in the sky. Most animals will eat the leaves and fruits of plants as these tend to be the more nutritious. Plant vegetation, however, is very hard to break down into energy so most herbivores have a specialised digestive system. Cow Digestive System.
It's more than just throwing a cow out to pasture. What makes a bovine healthy and productive has everything to do with what it's fed and how nutritious that feed is. No, they are herbivores. Carnivores eat other animals whereas herbivores eat plants. Thus, since cows eat plants, they would be herbivores. Cows are not typically carnivorous. They are herbivores. However, sometimes ground-up animal products are fed to cattle
A lion is a Carnivore, carnivores eat meat only. + 130 others found this useful. John Downing. Edit. Share to: Don Dfoofnik. 1,118,446 Contributions. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. Omnivore! which means we can eat all types of food.. meat, fruit, veg etc. except for some people who choose to unnaturally cut out meat from their diet.
A herbivore is an animal that gets its energy from eating plants, and only plants. Omnivores can also eat parts of plants, but generally only the fruits and vegetables produced by fruit-bearing plants. Many herbivores have special digestive systems that let them digest all kinds of plants, including grasses. Herbivores need a lot of energy to stay alive. Many of them, like cows and sheep, eat all day long. There should be a lot of plants in your ecosystem to support your herbivores.