An alfajor is a type of cookie commonly found in South American countries, and in Spain. A Spanish alfajor, though it has the same name, is quite different than the alfajores of South America. The Spanish alfajor is a pastry made with honey, almonds, and spices, and is usually consumed during the Christmas holiday. South American alfajores are made with layers of cookie or cake-like confection, most commonly two layers, in between which there is a filling of some kind or another. The filling in the middle is what makes an alfajor an alfajor. In fact, the word alfajor is derived an Arabic word meaning filled or stuffed
An alfajor or alaju (. [alajú] , alfaˈxor plural) alfajores is a traditional confection found in some regions Of, spain The, philippines and in parts Of Latin, america Including, Paraguay, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru Southern, brazil And. mexico In South America, more specifically the South Cone, due to the lack of habits, alfajores were made totally differently. Nowadays, they are found most notably in Argentina, Bolivia, Uruguay, Ecuador, Paraguay, Chile, Colombia, Peru and Brazil. The food has been popular in Argentina and Uruguay since the mid-19th century.
Alfajores-Only the Best Will Do. Alfajores are sandwich cookies filled with dulce de leche, a creamy caramel confection made from milk and sugar. Alfajores have their origins in the Middle East. This is the standard alfajor cookie, filled with dulce de leche and sprinkled with powdered sugar. Most people fill these cookies with store-bought dulce de leche to save time, but when made with homemade dulce de leche they are truly out of this world. 2 of 5 Show All. 1.
An alfajor is a type of cookie commonly found in South American countries. The flag of Spain, where alfajors are common. Alfajores are traditionally sweetened with honey. Chocolate is commonly used to make an alfajor. The Spanish alfajor is a pastry made with honey, almonds, and spices, and is usually consumed during the Christmas holiday. South American alfajores are made with layers of cookie or cake-like confection, most commonly two layers, in between which there is a filling of some kind or another.
Total Time: Active Time: Makes: 12 sandwich cookies. Alfajores are soft, delicate cookies from South America made, surprisingly, with cornstarch. The cornstarch gives the dough a smooth, satiny texture that makes it a dream to work with and produces a tender, crumbly cookie. Creamy Dulce de Leche holds the cookies together. 
Alfajores (Al-fa-ho-res) are a South American type of shortbread sandwich cookie that are filled with dulce de leche (caramel filling). These delicious cookies can trace their origin back to the Moorish occupation of Andalusia, Spain and the great culinary traditions of the Mediterranean Basin. Try these Alfajores-sugar cookies that are filled with dulce de leche and covered with chocolate or just drenched in confectioners' sugar. A classic Latin American dessert.
Recipe for Traditional Alfajores. This is the standard alfajor cookie, filled with dulce de leche and sprinkled with powdered sugar. Most people fill these cookies with store-bought dulce de leche to save time, but when made with homemade dulce de leche they are truly out of this world. 2 of 5 Show All. 1.
[alfaˈxor] , plural alfajores) is a traditional confection found in some regions of Spain, the Philippines, and in parts of Latin America, including Paraguay, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Southern Brazil, and Mexico. The archetypal alfajor entered Iberia during the period of al-Andalus. In South America, more specifically the South Cone, due to the lack of habits, alfajores were made totally differently. Nowadays, they are found most notably in Argentina, Bolivia, Uruguay, Ecuador, Paraguay, Chile, Colombia, Peru and Brazil. The food has been popular in Argentina and Uruguay since the mid-19th century.
Alfajores are made with two soft and crumbly cookies sandwiched around a luscious dollop of dulce de leche. Alfajores would be nothing without this traditional caramel filling, which is simply milk and sugar boiled down to its raw, creamy essence. Lucila's Homemade alfajores are made using authentic artisanal techniques, and it is our mission to stay true to the concept of what an alfajor is. After tasting one, you will agree with us that alfajores are the best treats you have ever had!