BIOLOGY WORKBENCH contains a three programs for determining regions of hydrophobicity in a protein and potential membrane spanning domains. Enter the Biology Workbench and select your sequence under Protein Tools. Next select one of the programs listed below. 
Hydropathy (Molecular Biology). A-helices can be identified in the primary structure of a membrane protein with a relatively high confidence using hydropathy analysis, in which each residue is assigned a characteristic hydrophobicity value. An example of a hydropathy prediction is shown in Figure 1. In the cases of bacteriorhodopsin, cytochrome oxidase, and bacterial photosynthetic reaction center, this simple analysis correctly identified the approximate positions of all the transmembrane helices, with no false positives.
Figure 10-22 Molecular Biology of the Cell (© Garland Science 2008) Hydropathy plots for identification of α-helical membrane spanning segments Kyte-Doolittle is a widely applied scale for delineating hydrophobic character of a protein. 
1 find web based proteomics protein to analyze protein sequences and structures. 2  describe the basis for methods used to predict the secondary structure and hydrophobic structures of proteins. 3  analyze secondary structure and hydropathy plots from web-based proteomics programs. 1 describe the basis for methods used to predict the secondary structure and hydrophobic structures of proteins. 2  analyze secondary structure and hydropathy plots from web-based proteomics programs. 3  describe differences between integral and peripheral membranes proteins, and how each could be purified.
Hydropathy is a term that refers to the spectrum of amino acid side chains in the hydrophilicity-hydrophobicity scale. It was originally coined by Kyte and Doolittle(1) in an article describing an algorithm that identifies helical transmembrane spans and that came to be widely used. An example of a hydropathy prediction is shown in Figure 1. In the cases of bacteriorhodopsin, cytochrome oxidase, and bacterial photosynthetic reaction center, this simple analysis correctly identified the approximate positions of all the transmembrane helices, with no false positives.
Create a variety of plots that display different amino acid properties, such as hydropathy or charged residues, and their position in the sequence. Launch Pepinfo. 
A Kyte-Doolittle hydropathy analysis of subunits I (a) and II (b) of the bovine cytochrome c oxidase, with the true locations of the transmembrane helices marked beneath the plot. A window length of 11 residues was used. The C-terminal peripheral domain of subunit II is indicated. An example of a hydropathy prediction is shown in Figure 1. In the cases of bacteriorhodopsin, cytochrome oxidase, and bacterial photosynthetic reaction center, this simple analysis correctly identified the approximate positions of all the transmembrane helices, with no false positives.
Each α-amino acid consists of a backbone part that is present in all the amino acid types, and a side chain that is unique to each type of residue. An exception from this rule is proline, where the hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to the side chain. Many proteins contain only amino acids and no other chemical groups, and they are called simple proteins. However, other kind of proteins yield, on hydrolysis, some other chemical component in addition to amino acids and they are called conjugated proteins.
Hence, this text will not discuss in significant detail the genome and transcriptome, and mechanisms of replication, transcription, or translation. However, with its emphasis on protein structure and function, proteomics is a logical candidate for inclusion. 1 describe the basis for methods used to predict the secondary structure and hydrophobic structures of proteins. 2  analyze secondary structure and hydropathy plots from web-based proteomics programs. 3  describe differences between integral and peripheral membranes proteins, and how each could be purified.