Fertilizing New Grass Seeds and Lawns. In addition to water and sunlight, your new grass seed lawn requires soil nutrients for good growth. However, not every soil is ideal for providing adequate nutrition for germinating grass seeds, especially the low quality soils that typically surround new construction. 
Time Frame. Since the soil takes some time to absorb the fertilizer, you should fertilize the lawn before planting the grass seed instead of afterward. You can apply your grass seed as soon as you add fertilizer to your lawn. However, you must not use fertilizer that contains preemergent herbicides, or the grass seeds will not germinate. Before adding the fertilizer, you should till the soil.
Seeding After Weed and Feed. You should not seed your lawn after applying weed and feed. First, if you have not yet seeded your lawn, then the fertilizer will go to waste because the grass seeds will not be able to absorb it as quickly as full grown grass. The proper time to apply weed and feed to your grass is after you are able to mow the grass at least four times. In general, the first mowing of new grass takes place two to three weeks after planting and proceeds every week to two weeks after that.
The first watering after planting grass seed will require more water than it takes later to keep everything moist. You want to get adequate moisture in the soil for the seed to start soaking it up. Once this happens, lighter sprinkling will maintain the moisture. If you leave the weeds and go ahead with planting the grass seed, the weeds have a head-start. You may be able to clear the area of new weeds easily with a hula-hoe (swivel head hoe). Then rake the debris off and make sure all is smooth. This will have you planting the grass seed right now.
Read the bag label to see what kind of herbicide is used in the weed and feed you are considering using or have used. The bag label will tell you how many days you must wait before applying seed to a lawn that has been treated with that product. Before you seed, you can use a non-selective, post-emergent herbicide to control any weeds in the area to be seeded. Most of these can be applied up to two weeks before seeding to control any existing weeds.
If you are ready… Planting grass seed is the most temperamental part of the process of growing a new lawn. Grass seed can be very particular about how it is treated. Read on for all the details you need to ensure a successful transition from bare soil to green lawn. If you leave the weeds and go ahead with planting the grass seed, the weeds have a head-start. You may be able to clear the area of new weeds easily with a hula-hoe (swivel head hoe). Then rake the debris off and make sure all is smooth. This will have you planting the grass seed right now.
Application. The proper time to apply weed and feed to your grass is after you are able to mow the grass at least four times. In general, the first mowing of new grass takes place two to three weeks after planting and proceeds every week to two weeks after that.
Application Timing. A general rule of thumb is to wait at least until you have mowed the new grass four times before using any standard postemergent broadleaf herbicide. A standard pre-emergent herbicide should not be applied until at least three to four months after seeding the area. Weed management should be completed before seeding the lawn with a non-selective herbicide seven to 14 days before you till the soil. A second application of the herbicide may be required to kill any weeds you missed during the first treatment.
Herbicides can target weeds before they germinate from seed -- pre-emergent -- or as developed plants -- post-emergent. Before you seed, you can use a non-selective, post-emergent herbicide to control any weeds in the area to be seeded. Most of these can be applied up to two weeks before seeding to control any existing weeds. Herbicides should not be used after seeding until the new seedlings are established