1 instead of bread crumbs you can also add 2 to 3 slices of bread dipped in water and then squeezed completely of the water. 2  mix everything very well. 3  check the taste and add more salt or the spice powders if required. 4  in another small bowl, take 2 tbsp maida/all purpose flour and 3 tbsp water. 1 in another small bowl, take 2 tbsp maida/all purpose flour and 3 tbsp water. 2  stir and mix this mixture to get a smooth paste without any lumps. 3  now take the cutlet mixture in a plate and using a cutlet mould, shape it or make small to medium sized round cutlets by rolling and flattening the mixture in your palms.
1 Add the maida to the potato mixture and mix well. 2  Mix the corn flour with water to make a thin batter. 3  I use the cookie cutter to make them into heart shape. 4  Dip the cutlet in corn flour batter on both the sides. 5  Spread the bread crumbs on the plate. 6  Roll the maida dipped cutlets in bread crumbs and keep it aside. 1 Just add raw cashew nuts. 2  Add the finely chopped coriander leaves. 3  Add the maida to the potato mixture and mix well. 4  Mix the corn flour with water to make a thin batter. 5  I use the cookie cutter to make them into heart shape. 6
For the seasoning. Oil -1 tbsp. Mustard seeds -1 tsp. Chop onion, beans and carrots finely. Now let us see how to cook vegetables for cutlet-I kept beans and carrot in a vessel without water, closed it with a lid, kept potatoes on top and pressure cooked for 3 whistles.(see picture below). Heat oil in a pan and shallow fry the cutlets until golden brown on both sides.You can even deep fry if you want. Serve hot with tomato ketchup or green chutney. Method -1 Take bread that is 2-3 days old, dry it in the sun for 15 minutes and powder it in a mixie.
dust the excess bread crumbs and place the cutlet in the medium hot oil. 17. dip each vegetable cutlet this way in all purpose flour paste, coat with bread crumbs and keep on the pan for frying. 18. when one side is golden, flip and fry the other side. add more oil if required. 20. flip a couple of time more and fry all the cutlets till they are evenly golden and crisp from all sides. 1 in another small bowl, take 2 tbsp maida/all purpose flour and 3 tbsp water. 2  stir and mix this mixture to get a smooth paste without any lumps. 3  now take the cutlet mixture in a plate and using a cutlet mould, shape it or make small to medium sized round cutlets by rolling and flattening the mixture in your palms.
9. Meanwhile, put the bread crumbs in a plate. 10. Make cutlets to the size desired, roll in the crumbs and coat well with the bread crumbs. 11. Place on the skillet once the oil is hot. 12. Allow the Cutlets to get golden brown on the bottom side. Tips: 1. Mix the Salt into the mixture when you are ready to make the Cutlets. Salt always tends to make the vegetables sweat and then it will be difficult to form the cutlets. 2. Make the Cutlets and semi-cook them (without Oil) and then freeze them.
Vegetable cutlet (vegetable chop)recipebysagarika.blogspot.in. 10. Vegetable cutlet (vegetable chop) recipebysagarika.blogspot.in. Vegetable cutlets /mixed vegetable cutlets-how to make vegetable cutlets.sailajakitchen.org. 8. Vegetable cutlets /mixed vegetable cutlets-how to make vegetable cutlets. 
heat 2 to 3 tbsp oil for shallow frying in a pan. take a cutlet and dip in the maida paste gently. 14. coat the paste evenly all over the cutlet. 14. then coat the cutlet in breadcrumbs. if you do not have breadcrumbs, then you can also use rava/sooji/cream of wheat. coat the veg cutles with rava. 1 in another small bowl, take 2 tbsp maida/all purpose flour and 3 tbsp water. 2  stir and mix this mixture to get a smooth paste without any lumps. 3  now take the cutlet mixture in a plate and using a cutlet mould, shape it or make small to medium sized round cutlets by rolling and flattening the mixture in your palms.
Crumble potatoes with your hands and add it to the vegetable mixture. Add breadcrumbs to the mixture to make it dry. Make small balls with the mixture and roll into desired shapes. Dip each of them in beaten egg, then roll in breadcrumbs. Heat oil in a pan. Turn heat to medium. Deep fry in oil. 
1 Add the finely chopped coriander leaves. 2  Add the maida to the potato mixture and mix well. 3  Mix the corn flour with water to make a thin batter. 4  I use the cookie cutter to make them into heart shape. 5  Dip the cutlet in corn flour batter on both the sides. 6  Spread the bread crumbs on the plate. 1 Just add raw cashew nuts. 2  Add the finely chopped coriander leaves. 3  Add the maida to the potato mixture and mix well. 4  Mix the corn flour with water to make a thin batter. 5  I use the cookie cutter to make them into heart shape. 6