Vladimir Lenin was born in the city of Simbirsk in the Russian Empire on April 22, 1870. His birth name was Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov. Lenin's parents were both well educated and his father was a teacher. Growing up Lenin attended school and was an excellent student. 
Writer | Miscellaneous Crew. V.I. Lenin was born on April 22, 1870 in Simbirsk, Russian Empire as Vladimir Ilich Ulianov. Uliánov he is known for his work On padenie Dinastii (romanovykh), 1927'un (alba) 1920 And The assassination Of (trotsky). 1972 he was married To Nadezhda. krupskaya 
He was born Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov on April 22, 1870, in Simbirsk, Russia, which was later renamed Ulyanovsk in his honor. In 1901, he adopted the last name Lenin while doing underground party work. His family was well-educated, and Lenin, the third of six children, was close to his parents and siblings. Synopsis. Vladimir Lenin founded the Russian Communist Party, led the Bolshevik Revolution and was the architect of the Soviet state. He was the posthumous source of Leninism, the doctrine codified and conjoined with Marx's works by Lenin’s successors to form Marxism-Leninism, which became the Communist worldview.
Vladimir Lenin was born on April 22, 1870 and died on January 21, 1924 at the age of 53. 
Table of Contents. Lenin was born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov on April 22, 1870, to an upper-middle class family in the Russian town of Simbirsk, on the Volga River. His father was an inspector of schools, and died in 1886. The next year his older brother, Alexander, was executed for taking part in a plot to assassinate Tsar Alexander III. Context. Lenin was born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov on April 22, 1870, to an upper-middle class family in the Russian town of Simbirsk, on the Volga River.
Vladimir Lenin Biography. Born: April 10, 1870 Ulianovsk, Russia Died: January 21, 1924 Moscow, Russia. Russian statesman. The Russian statesman Vladimir Lenin was a profoundly influential figure in world history. 
Ninety years ago, the Bolshevik Party overthrew the Russian monarchy. Today’s page looks at its infamous leader. VLADIMIR IIyich Lenin was born in Simbirsk, Russia, on April 10, 1870. He was a good student, and his intelligence made him a bit of an outcast at school.
A painting of Lenin consoling his mother after the execution of his brother. Vladimir Lenin was the leader of the Bolshevik movement, the first ruler of Soviet Russia and the dominant figure of the Russian Revolution. Lenin was born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov in the town of Simbirsk in 1870. The Ulyanovs were of mixed ethnic heritage, including Russian, German, Swedish and Jewish strains.