I would recommend cooking boneless pork chops to about 140*F. That is the temperature that most of the recipies i use call for and I always have nice juicy chops.   A … s far as i know, bone in chops should be cooked to the same temperature, they may just take longer to get there. To cook pork chops, place pork chops on BBQ on high heat for 5 minutes on each side, let cool for a least 10 minutes.
The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. 
Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria. To cook pork chops, place pork chops on BBQ on high heat for 5 minutes on each side, let cool for a least 10 minutes.
First the pork chops are dipped in a mixture of milk and egg, then they are coated with corn bread stuffing mix. The chops are baked at 425 degrees F for 20 minutes or until the chops reach an internal temperature of 145 degrees F. Allow chops to stand for 3 minutes at room temperature before serving. To stuff, cut a pocket in the side of each pork chop. How to Test Pork Chops for Doneness. The thickness of a pork chop will determine its final cooking time, regardless of whether it's boneless or bone-in. Chops typically range in thickness from 3/4 inch to 1-1/2 inches.
A tangy marinade makes these pork chops a real family pleaser! ... Continue baking 30 minutes, or until internal temperature of the chops has reached 160 degrees F (70 degrees ... Oven Baked Bone In Pork Chops Recipe. Oven Baked Bone In Pork Chops recipe from GroupRecipes.com. This may be the easiest way ... 
The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. To cook pork chops, place pork chops on BBQ on high heat for 5 minutes on each side, let cool for a least 10 minutes.
The National Pork Board recommends cooking pork chops, roasts, and tenderloin to an internal temperature between 145° F. (medium rare) and 160° F. (medium), followed by a 3 minute rest. Since large cuts increase approximately 10° F. while resting, remove them from the heat at 150° F. followed by a 10 minute rest. 
Cook all raw pork steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming. 
The pork chops are then rubbed with a flavorful mixture of black pepper, oregano, crushed red pepper, and thyme before they are baked at 375 degrees F for 35 minutes or until they reach an internal temperature of 145 degrees F. Allow chops to stand for 3 minutes at room temperature before serving. How to Test Pork Chops for Doneness. The thickness of a pork chop will determine its final cooking time, regardless of whether it's boneless or bone-in. Chops typically range in thickness from 3/4 inch to 1-1/2 inches.
Of course, you can take these pork chops to a higher temperature, but anything over 165 degrees F/75 degrees C will be dry and overcooked. The perfect pork chop should be cooked closer to the 145 degrees F/65 degrees C temperature. To test a pork chop for temperature, pick it up with a pair of tongs and insert the temperature probe into the side of the chop until it reaches the middle. Testing from the top of the chop will not get an accurate reading