Full Definition of LYE. 1. : a strong alkaline liquor rich in potassium carbonate leached from wood ashes and used especially in making soap and for washing; broadly: a strong alkaline solution (as of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide). 2. Medical Definition of LYE. 1. : a strong alkaline liquor rich in potassium carbonate leached from wood ashes and used especially in making soap and washing; broadly: a strong alkaline solution (as of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide). 2. : a solid caustic (as sodium hydroxide).
The term saponification is the name given to the chemical reaction that occurs when a vegetable oil or animal fat is mixed with a strong alkali. The products of the reaction are two: soap and glycerin. Water is also present, but it does not enter into the chemical reaction. 
1 A carbonate or hydroxide of an alkali metal, the aqueous solution of which is bitter, slippery, caustic, and characteristically basic in reactions. 2  Any of various soluble mineral salts found in natural water and arid soils. 3  Alkali metal. noun. 1  A carbonate or hydroxide of an alkali metal, the aqueous solution of which is bitter, slippery, caustic, and characteristically basic in reactions. 2  Any of various soluble mineral salts found in natural water and arid soils.
When the alkali is sodium hydroxide, a sodium soap is formed. Sodium soaps are hard soaps. When the alkali is potassium hydroxide, a potassium soap is formed. Potassium soaps are softer and are found in some liquid hand soaps and shaving creams. The carboxylate end of the soap molecule is attracted to water. It is called the hydrophilic (water-loving) end
Soap is an alkali (like sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide) combined with fats. Together they go through a reaction called “saponification”, and in the end you are left with soap. So, by the very definition of “soap”, you cannot have soap without lye. 
Full Definition of ALKALI. 1. : a soluble salt obtained from the ashes of plants and consisting largely of potassium or sodium carbonate; broadly: a substance (as a hydroxide or carbonate of an alkali metal) having marked basic properties — compare base 7a. 2. : alkali metal. 3. Definition of ALKALI for Kids. 1. : a substance that has a bitter taste and reacts with an acid to form a salt: base. 2. : a salt or a mixture of salts sometimes found in large amounts in the soil of dry regions.
In chemistry, soap is a salt of a fatty acid. Consumers mainly use soaps as surfactants for washing, bathing, and cleaning, but they are also used in textile spinning and are important components of lubricants. Fats and oils are composed of triglycerides; three molecules of fatty acids attach to a single molecule of glycerol. The alkaline solution, which is often called lye (although the term lye soap refers almost exclusively to soaps made with sodium hydroxide), brings about a chemical reaction known as saponification.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an alkali is a soluble salt that comes from the ashes of plants and is made up of mostly potassium or sodium carbonate. Lye and calcium carbonate are each an example of an alkali. noun. 1  A carbonate or hydroxide of an alkali metal, the aqueous solution of which is bitter, slippery, caustic, and characteristically basic in reactions. 2  Any of various soluble mineral salts found in natural water and arid soils. 3  Alkali metal