The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle. The mantle is the layer located directly under the sima. It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick.
The Crust. The Earth's Crust is like the skin of an apple. It is very thin in comparison to the other three layers. The crust is only about 3-5 miles (8 kilometers) thick under the oceans(oceanic crust) and about 25 miles (32 kilometers) thick under the continents (continental crust). The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle. The mantle is the layer located directly under the sima. It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick.
Layers of the Earth. The earth is made up of layers (crust, mantle, outer core, and inner core). Each one has a unique make-up to it. Crust. This is the outer layer of the Earth about 10 miles or so thick. Mostly made up of rock and loose material. 
Also, ocean crust is made of denser minerals than continental crust. The tectonic plates are made up of Earth’s crust and the upper part of the mantle layer underneath. Together the crust and upper mantle are called the lithosphere and they extend about 80 km deep. The mantle is to divide into the inner mantle and the outer mantle. It is about 1,800 miles(2,900 km) thick and makes up nearly 80 percent of the Earth's total volume.. The Crust The crust lays above the mantle and is the earth's hard outer shell, the surface on which we are living.
The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistency called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Crust The Earth's Crust is like the skin of an apple. It is very thin in comparison to the other three layers. The crust is only about 3-5 miles (8 kilometers) thick under the oceans (oceanic crust) and about 25 miles (32 kilometers) thick under the continents (continental crust).
The Earth's Crust is like the skin of an apple. It is very thin in comparison to the other three layers. The crust is only about 3-5 miles (8 kilometers) thick under the oceans(oceanic crust) and about 25 miles (32 kilometers) thick under the continents (continental crust). The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle.
The Earth's Crust, Lithosphere and Asthenosphere. Crust, the upper layer of the Earth, is not always the same. Crust under the oceans is only about 5 km thick while continental crust can be up to 65 km thick. Also, ocean crust is made of denser minerals than continental crust. The tectonic plates are made up of Earth s crust and the upper part of the mantle layer underneath. Together the crust and upper mantle are called the lithosphere and they extend about 80 km deep. The lithosphere is broken into giant plates that fit around the globe like puzzle pieces. 
Best Answer: Crust, the upper layer of the Earth, is not always the same. Crust under the oceans is only about 5 km thick while continental crust can be up to 65 km thick. The mantle is to divide into the inner mantle and the outer mantle. It is about 1,800 miles(2,900 km) thick and makes up nearly 80 percent of the Earth's total volume.. The Crust The crust lays above the mantle and is the earth's hard outer shell, the surface on which we are living.
1 The mantle is made up of semi-molten rock called magma. 2  In the upper parts of the mantle the rock is hard, but lower down the rock is soft and beginning to melt. 3  The crust is the outer layer of the earth. 4  It is a thin layer between 0-60 km thick. 5  The crust is the solid rock layer upon which we live. 1 It has a thickness of approximately 2,900 km. 2  The mantle is made up of semi-molten rock called magma. 3  In the upper parts of the mantle the rock is hard, but lower down the rock is soft and beginning to melt. 4