Remember, however, that the best diagnosis will come from a doctor. 1  Psoriasis is red or pinkish patches of thick, raised, and/or dry skin. 2  The most common areas affected are the scalp, elbows and knees. 3  Psoriasis is not picky thought and it will gladly affect any area of the body it sees fit. To fully deal with the symptoms of psoriasis requires one to understand what psoriasis is and how it affects your skin. First, it’s important to figure out how normal skin works. During the course of a month, skin cells go through their life cycle process. The skin has two layers, the top and bottom layers.
Plaque Psoriasis. Plaque Psoriasisis the most common type of the disease. Each person is different, but for the most part it appears as patchy, thick flaky skin that causes itching and inflammation. If the skin is damaged skin gets injured in some other way, it is easily infected. To fully deal with the symptoms of psoriasis requires one to understand what psoriasis is and how it affects your skin. First, it’s important to figure out how normal skin works. During the course of a month, skin cells go through their life cycle process. The skin has two layers, the top and bottom layers.
Plaque Psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the most common form of the disease and appears as raised, red patches covered with a silvery white buildup of dead skin cells. These patches or plaques most often show up on the scalp, knees, elbows and lower back. They are often itchy and painful, and they can crack and bleed. 
Psoriasis is not contagious. It is not something you can “catch” or that others can catch from you. Psoriasis lesions are not infectious and cannot be passed from person to person. It is okay to have contact with people who have psoriasis.
Plaque psoriasis is not contagious. It cannot spread from person to person in any way. The lesions (plaques-areas of raised, dry, itchy skin) associated with this disorder are not infectious. It is not something you can “catch” or that others can catch from you. Psoriasis lesions are not infectious and cannot be passed from person to person. It is okay to have contact with people who have psoriasis.
They often have silvery scales. While plaque psoriasis is the most common, there are other types of psoriasis that can affect different areas of the body and appear in a variety of forms. Symptoms may appear on any part of the body, including your hands, feet, scalp, and nails. And, it is not just a skin condition. Psoriasis is a lifelong condition of the immune system. The exact cause is unknown; however, researchers think that family history, environment, and the immune system can all play a role in psoriasis.
1 The most common areas affected are the scalp, elbows and knees. 2  Psoriasis is not picky thought and it will gladly affect any area of the body it sees fit. 3  Psoriasis is more likely to appear where there skin is injured. 4  Areas of trauma, constant rubbing or scratching, and abrasions or scratches can cause flare-ups. To fully deal with the symptoms of psoriasis requires one to understand what psoriasis is and how it affects your skin. First, it’s important to figure out how normal skin works. During the course of a month, skin cells go through their life cycle process. The skin has two layers, the top and bottom layers.
A. Psoriasis is not contagious. It is not something you can catch or that others can catch from you. Psoriasis lesions are not infectious. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. 
Even though psoriasis is not contagious, you are probably looking for a way to cure the problem. Some people have severe cases of psoriasis, and this can be quite uncomfortable... at times even debilitating. And since psoriasis is caused by something in your own immune system, you cannot pass the condition on to others. Thus psoriasis itself is not contagious. Now if you develop psoriasis due to one of the common triggers such as a severe illness or infection, that illness or infection can of course be passed on to others.