The semilunar valves (SV) are two valve structures that sit between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery and between the left ventricle and the aorta. The flaps of the valves open and close to allow the unidirectional flow of blood out of the heart, while preventing backflow of blood. The semilunar valves open to let blood pass out of the ventricles. The right ventricle pumps into the pulmonary artery, which leads to the lungs, and the left ventricle empties into the aorta, a main artery that distributes oxygen rich blood to the rest of the body.
Noun. 1. pulmonary valve-a semilunar valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery; prevents blood from flowing from the artery back into the heart. semilunar valve-a heart valve with cusps shaped like half-moons; prevents blood from flowing back into the heart. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. pulmonary valve-a semilunar valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery; prevents blood from flowing from the artery back into the heart
The valve between the left ventricle and aorta is called the aortic valve and the valve between the pulmonary artery and right ventricle is called the pulmonary valve. The heart has two types of valves: the atrioventricular (AV) and semilunar. The semilunar valves open to let blood pass out of the ventricles. The right ventricle pumps into the pulmonary artery, which leads to the lungs, and the left ventricle empties into the aorta, a main artery that distributes oxygen rich blood to the rest of the body.
The semilunar valves (pulmonary valve and aortic valve) are one-way valves that separate the ventricles from major arteries. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta, while the pulmonary valve separates the right ventricle from the pulmonary artery. As the ventricles contract, ventricular pressure exceeds arterial pressure, the semilunar valves open and blood is pumped into the major arteries. The right atrium pumps blood through the right atrioventricular (tricuspid) valve to the right ventricle. From the right ventricle, blood flows through the pulmonary valve to the lungs via the pulmonary arteries (deoxygenated blood). In the lungs the blood becomes more red in color as it is oxygenated.
1. semilunar valve-a heart valve with cusps shaped like half-moons; prevents blood from flowing back into the heart. aortic valve-a semilunar valve between the left ventricle and the aorta; prevents blood from flowing from the aorta back into the heart. pulmonary valve-a semilunar valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery; prevents blood from flowing from the artery back into the heart. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The pulmonary valve (sometimes referred to as the pulmonic valve) is the semilunar valve of the heart that lies between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery and has three cusps. Similar to the aortic valve, the pulmonary valve opens in ventricular systole, when the pressure in the right ventricle rises above the pressure in the pulmonary artery.
The pulmonary valve is located between the right ventricle of the heart and the pulmonary artery thus preventing backflow of blood from the pulmonary artery back into the righ … t ventricle. The valve, along with the Pulmonary semilunar valve, prevent backflow into the ventricles. The shutting of the valve also produces the second heart sound in the (Lub-Dup) comp … lex.