Ode (O'Shaughnessy). The Ode is the first poem in O'Shaughnessy's collection Music and Moonlight (1874). It has nine stanzas, although it is commonly believed to be only three stanzas long. The opening stanza is: The phrase movers and shakers originates here
In A Nutshell. Ode to a Nightingale is one of the most famous – probably the most famous – of John Keats 's Great Odes, which also include  Ode on a Grecian Urn  and . To Autumn .. The ode is a traditional Greek form that usually celebrates the person or object to which it is dedicated
6 Tips for Writing an Ode. An ode is a poem that is about one specific thing that you think is truly amazing and praiseworthy. This type of poem can be centered upon a person, an object, or something abstract like a feeling or an idea. 1 You can also make up your own pattern -- just commit to it, and use it in every stanza of your ode. 2  Share your poem! 3  If your ode is written about a particular person, you could give it to them as a gift. 4  You can recite your ode, or put it to music and sing it.
Ode Poems. Below are examples of ode poems. This list of poems in the ode form of poetry is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of ode poems or a list of ode poetry. These examples illustrate what ode poems look like and its form. There is also a link below to the definition of ode and a page where you can discuss it
Ode is a poem written by the English poet Arthur O'Shaughnessy and first published in 1873. It is often referred to by its first line We are the music makers. The Ode is the first poem in O'Shaughnessy's collection Music and Moonlight (1874). It has nine stanzas, although it is commonly believed to be only three stanzas long. The opening stanza is:
ode. n. 1. A lyric poem of some length, usually of a serious or meditative nature and having an elevated style and formal stanzaic structure. A classical Greek poem modeled on the choric ode and usually having a three-part structure consisting of a strophe, an antistrophe, and an epode.
Ode (from Ancient Greek: ᾠδή ōidē) is a type of lyrical stanza. A classic ode is structured in three major parts: the strophe, the antistrophe, and the epode. Different forms such as the homostrophic ode and the irregular ode also exist. It is an elaborately structured poem praising or glorifying an event or individual, describing nature intellectually as well as emotionally. Shelley's Ode to the West Wind, written in fourteen line terza rima stanzas, is a major poem in the form. Perhaps the greatest odes of the 19th century, however, were Keats's Five Great Odes of 1819, which included  Ode to a Nightingale ,  Ode on Melancholy ,  Ode on a Grecian Urn ,  Ode to Psyche , and .