It is located in the upper right corner of the heart superior to the right ventricle. Deoxygenated blood entering the heart through veins from the tissues of the body first enters the heart through the right atrium before being pumped into the right ventricle. The right atrium is one of the two atria of the heart, which function as receiving chambers for blood entering the heart. It is located to the right of the left atrium and superior to the much larger and more muscular right ventricle.
Right Side of the Heart. 1  Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve. Left Side of the Heart. 1  The pulmonary vein empties oxygen-rich blood from the lungs into the left atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. 3  When the ventricle is full, the mitral valve shuts
The right and left sides of the heart work together. Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium. 
1 Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve. Left Side of the Heart. 1  The pulmonary vein empties oxygen-rich blood from the lungs into the left atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. 3  When the ventricle is full, the mitral valve shuts
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax. The right atrium is one of the two atria of the heart, which function as receiving chambers for blood entering the heart. It is located to the right of the left atrium and superior to the much larger and more muscular right ventricle.
Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium. Left Side. Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs to your heart's left atrium through the pulmonary veins. The mitral valve does this between the left atrium and ventricle. The lub is the sound of the tricuspid and mitral valves closing. Each of your heart's ventricles has an outlet valve. The right ventricle uses the pulmonary valve to help move blood into the pulmonary arteries.
The walls of the left atrium are slightly thicker than the walls of the right atrium. Oxygen-rich blood from the lungs enters the left atrium through the pulmonary vein. The blood is then pumped into the left ventricle chamber of the heart through the mitral valve. From there, the blood is ready to be pumped into the body to deliver oxygen-rich blood to all bodily tissues.
Blood that has traveled through the body returns to the heart and enters the right atrium. This blood flows through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. The right ventricle pumps the blood to the lungs, where it absorbs oxygen. Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs and enters the heart through the left atrium. Blood passes from the left atrium through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle. The left ventricle, the largest and most muscular of the four chambers, is the main pumping chamber of the heart. When the left ventricle contracts, blood is pumped through the aortic valve into the main artery of the body (aorta). 
­ Blood now returns to the heart from the lungs by way of the pulmonary veins (8) and goes into the left atrium (LA) (9). When the LA contracts, blood travels through the mitral valve (10) and into the left ventricle (LV) (11). All blood enters the right side of the heart through two veins: The superior vena cava (SVC) and the inferior vena cava (IVC) (see figure 3). The SVC collects blood from the upper half of the body.