In simpler terms: the dew point, or frost point, is the temperature at which dew or frost will form should the air temperature fall sufficiently. Other things being equal, as the temperature falls, the relative humidity rises, reaching 100% at the dew point, at least at ground level. A technical definition follows: The dew point is the temperature at which the water vapor in a sample of air at constant barometric pressure condenses into liquid water at the same rate at which it evaporates. At temperatures below the dew point, water will leave the air.
Dew point is closely linked to relative humidity, which is the ratio of the pressure of water vapor in a parcel of air relative to the saturation pressure of water vapor in that same parcel of air at a specific temperature. Relative humidity (RH) is expressed as a percentage. The relative humidity is 100 percent when the dew point and the temperature are the same. If the temperature drops any further, condensation will result, and liquid water will begin to form.
The dew point is the temperature at which air is saturated with water vapor, which is the gaseous state of water. The relative humidity is 100 percent when the dew point and the temperature are the same. If the temperature drops any further, condensation will result, and liquid water will begin to form.
Compared to relative humidity, dew point is frequently cited as a more accurate way of measuring the humidity and comfort of the air, since it is an absolute measurement (unlike relative humidity). Most people are comfortable with a dew-point temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 degrees Celsius) or lower. At a higher dew point of, for example, 70 F (21 C), most people feel hot or sticky because the amount of water vapor in the air slows the evaporation of perspiration and keeps the body from cooling. The relative humidity is 100 percent when the dew point and the temperature are the same. If the temperature drops any further, condensation will result, and liquid water will begin to form.
The dew point is always lower than (or equal to) the air temperature. If the air temperature cools to the dew point, or if the dew point rises to equal the air temperature, then dew, fog or clouds begin to form. At this point where the dew point temperature equals the air temperature, the relative humidity is 100%. The dewpoint temperature is the temperature at which the air can no longer hold all of the water vapor which is mixed with it, and some of the water vapor must condense into liquid water.
The dew point temperature is the temperature at which the air must become cooled to in order to become completely saturated with water vapor. If the air is cooled to the dew point temperature, it will become saturated and condensation will begin to form. A dew point temperature close to the actual temperature means that the air is quite full of water vapor and thus humid. If the dew point is significantly lower than the air temperature, the air is dry and can still hold much additional
The dew point is associated with relative humidity. A high relative humidity implies that the dew point is closer to the current air temperature. Relative humidity of 100% indicates the dew point is equal to the current temperature and that the air is maximally saturated with water. When the moisture content remains constant and temperature increases, relative humidity decreases. A technical definition follows: The dew point is the temperature at which the water vapor in a sample of air at constant barometric pressure condenses into liquid water at the same rate at which it evaporates. At temperatures below the dew point, water will leave the air.
Dew Point vs. Humidity. The dew point is the temperature the air needs to be cooled to (at constant pressure) in order to achieve a relative humidity (RH) of 100%. At this point the air cannot hold anymore water in the gas form. 
Dew point is a measure of atmospheric moisture. It is the temperature to which air must be cooled to reach saturation (assuming air pressure and moisture content are constant). A higher dew point indicates more moisture present in the air. A technical definition follows: The dew point is the temperature at which the water vapor in a sample of air at constant barometric pressure condenses into liquid water at the same rate at which it evaporates. At temperatures below the dew point, water will leave the air.