Active voice is used in a clause whose subject expresses the agent of the main verb. That is, the subject does the action designated by the verb. A sentence whose agent is marked as grammatical subject is called an active sentence. In contrast, a sentence in which the subject has the role of patient or theme is named a passive sentence, and its verb is expressed in passive voice. Active voice is a grammatical voice common in many of the world's languages. It is the unmarked voice for clauses featuring a transitive verb in nominative–accusative languages, including English and most other Indo-European languages
1 When a verb is in the active voice, the subject of the sentence is also the doer of the action.  2 The sentence 'John picked up the bag' is in the active voice because the subject, John, is also the thing or person doing the action of 'picking up.'. 1 Use the following three steps to write in the active voice: 1. Locate the action (verb) of the sentence.2. 2  Locate who or what is doing the action. 3  This is the doer (subject) of the sentence. 4  If the doer is implied and not written in or is being acted on by the action, the sentence is weak or passive
To know whether you are writing in the active or passive voice, identify the subject of the sentence and decide whether the subject is doing the action or being acted upon. 1  Passive Voice: the subject is the receiver of the action. 2  The tax return (subject) was completed (action) before the April 15 deadline by Mr. Doe. 
The passive voice swaps the subject of a sentence in its active voice with the object of the same sentence by using any form of the auxiliary verb 'to be' along with the past participle of the main verb. Active voice: I took the cake. or: I made a mistake.     Passive voice: The cake was taken. or: A mistake was made. When the verb takes the action from the subject (the … doer) and passes on   to the object (the receiver), the verb is said to be in Active voice.
Active and Passive Voice. Summary: This handout will explain the difference between active and passive voice in writing. It gives examples of both, and shows how to turn a passive sentence into an active one. Also, it explains how to decide when to choose passive voice instead of active. Contributors: April Toadvine, Allen Brizee, Elizabeth Angeli. In a sentence using active voice, the subject of the sentence performs the action expressed in the verb. Image Caption: The arrow points from the subject performing the action (the dog) to the individual being acted upon (the boy).
Look at this example of the active voice: Active voice is a quality of a verb that describes when its subject is acting out the verb. When the opposite is true (i.e., the subject of the sentence is being acted upon by the verb), it is said to be in passive voice. Look at this example of the passive voice: If a verb is in the active voice, its subject perform the action of the verb. Examples of active verbs (active verbs shaded): Sometimes, it's a little trickier to spot whether the subject carried out the action of the verb.
ACTIVE / PASSIVE VOICE. In most English sentences with an action verb, the subject performs the action denoted by the verb. These examples show that the subject is doing the verb's action. Because the subject does or acts upon the verb in such sentences, the sentences are said to be in the active voice. It is generally preferable to use the ACTIVE voice. To change a passive voice sentence into an active voice sentence, simply reverse the steps shown above. 1. Move the passive sentence's subject into the active sentence's direct object slot. 2.