Example of Latin text with abbreviations. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning short) is a shortened form of a word or phrase. It consists of a group of letters taken from the word or phrase. For example, the word abbreviation can itself be represented by the abbreviation abbr. , abbrv. or abbrev. 
The million is sometimes used in the English language as a metaphor for a very large number, as in Not in a million years and You're one in a million, or a hyperbole, as in I've walked a million miles and You've asked the million-dollar question. The meaning of the word million is common to the short scale and long scale numbering systems, unlike the larger numbers, which have different names in the two systems.
The 'M' (which should always be capitalized) originates from an abbreviation for the Latin word mille meaning 1000. The 'M' should be be used with numbers related to intangible and conceptual subjects like money, time, and counting. Related to the 'M' is the 'k' (always a lower-case) which is the abbreviation for kilo-. The 'k' abbreviation should be used with tangible and physical subjects like distance and weight. Usage: The abbreviation for $100,000 is $1M. The abbreviation for $1,000,000 is $1MM. The confusion comes from a former symbol abbreviation of an 'M' with an overstrike or overbar. This overbar means that the mille (1,000) is multiplied again by 1,000 in lieu of 'MM'
MM is an abbreviation that may represent one million (See 1st related link below). M typically represents one thousand, so MM literally conveys a thousand thousand. --M is the roman numeral for 1000. Roman numerals do not interpret adjacency in the same way as equations (ie multiplication). 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: MM: an abbreviation for one million, seen in a few traditional units such as those listed below. The abbreviation is meant to indicate one thousand thousand, M being the Roman numeral 1000. However, MM actually means 2000, not one million, in Roman numeration. Reference: http://www.eia.doe.gov/neic/pubstyle/mea... Related to the 'M' is the 'k' (always a lower-case) which is the abbreviation for kilo-. The 'k' abbreviation should be used with tangible and physical subjects like distance and weight. Usage: The abbreviation for $100,000 is $1M.
In keeping with this I use: M = million B = billion T = trillion. etc...but it's not clear. INCORRECT mm = very common. In many measures of materials...million metric tonnes (tons) is abbreviated to mmt. From that I see many analysts use mm to mean million. But it is a terrible abbreviation. I've found answers on the web but also got conflicting answers from financial professionals (coworkers). In metric, you'd use M (mega) for million, G (giga) for billion and T (tera) for trillion.
Abbreviation for Million. When recruiters read resumes, it’s very common to see something like this: $250M. We have no idea if the writer means $250,000 or $250 million. That’s a huge difference. Don’t confuse us. We’re already confused enough. If you’re talking millions, use the word: $250 million. 
The 'M' (which should always be capitalized) originates from an abbreviation for the Latin word mille meaning 1000. The 'M' should be be used with numbers related to intangible and conceptual subjects like money, time, and counting. Related to the 'M' is the 'k' (always a lower-case) which is the abbreviation for kilo-. The 'k' abbreviation should be used with tangible and physical subjects like distance and weight. Usage: The abbreviation for $100,000 is $1M.
Most people will write $1M. There is no standard abbreviation for million. For those that use a pseudo-metric abbreviation, it would be $1M, where M stands for mega, or million. This follows the use of K (kilo) as an abbreviation for thousands. Also commonly used is an abbreviation based loosely on Roman numerals. Using this format, $1M represents $1,000 and $1MM for $1,000,000. 