Part of the Business terms glossary: A contingency plan is a course of action designed to help an organization respond effectively to a significant future event or situation that may or may not happen. A contingency plan is sometimes referred to as Plan B, because it can be also used as an alternative for action if expected results fail to materialize.
You will see that it depends for its practical realization not on one contingency, but on a series of contingencies, which must all happen exactly as we wish them to happen. Due to the uncertainty of the situation, contingencies require plans, rapid response, and special procedures to ensure the safety and readiness of personnel, installations, and equipment. See also contingency contracting.
For the play of this title, see The Contingency Plan. A contingency plan is a plan devised for an outcome other than in the usual (expected) plan. It is often used for risk management when an exceptional risk that, though unlikely, would have catastrophic consequences. Contingency plans are often devised by governments or businesses
IS-15: Special Events Contingency Planning Job Aids Manual March 2005 Page 1-7 P OLITICAL I SSUES (C ONTINUED) Any event has the potential to become an incident of national significance as that term is described in the National Response Plan (NRP). IS-15: Special Events Contingency Planning Job Aids Manual March 2005 Page 2-41 S ITE H OSPITAL Depending on the nature of the event, a site or field hospital may be needed to provide resuscitation or care for the number of casualties anticipated.
Full Definition of CONTINGENCY. 1. : the quality or state of being contingent. 2. : a contingent event or condition: as b: something liable to happen as an adjunct to or result of something else. See contingency defined for English-language learners. See contingency defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. juncture, exigency, emergency, contingency, pinch, straits, crisis mean a critical or crucial time or state of affairs. juncture stresses the significant concurrence or convergence of events. exigency stresses the pressure of restrictions or urgency of demands created by a special situation.
Noun. 1. contingency-a possible event or occurrence or result. contingence, eventuality. happening, natural event, occurrence, occurrent-an event that happens. Due to the uncertainty of the situation, contingencies require plans, rapid response, and special procedures to ensure the safety and readiness of personnel, installations, and equipment. See also contingency contracting.
An event that may or may not happen, a doubtful or uncertain future event The quality of being contingent. A fortuitous event, which comes without design, foresight, or expectation. A contingent expense must be deemed to be an expense depending upon some future uncertain event People v. Yonkers, 39 Barb. (N. Y.) 272. 
Contingency planning is a component of business continuity, disaster recovery and risk management. The seven-steps outlined for an IT contingency plan in the NIST 800-34 Rev. 1 publication are: 1. Develop the contingency planning policy statement. A contingency plan is a course of action designed to help an organization respond effectively to a significant future event or situation that may or may not happen.