Some carbohydrates are seen as 'good' carbohydrates, such as the carbohydrate in vegetables, particularity the non-starchy vegetables such as the leafy green vegetables, and broccoli, and the carbohydrate in fruits, particularly the lower fructose (sugar) fruits such as berries. Starches are complex carbohydrates that take longer to be digested and include foods such as breads, grains, pasta, tortillas, noodles, fruits and vegetables.
Report Abuse. Some examples of carbohydrates are the following: pasta, noodles, bread, potatoes, fruit, cakes, cereals, rice and the list goes on and on. Basically there are two types of carbs-complex and simple carbohydrates
Sugars are simple carbohydrates that can be easily digested by your body and include foods like cake, soda, candy, jellies … and fruits. Starches are complex carbohydrates that take longer to be digested and include foods such as breads, grains, pasta, tortillas, noodles, fruits and vegetables.
Best Answer: Carbohydrates are sugars and starches. Pasta, bread, candy, sugar, soda, flour, pancakes, popsicles, pop-tarts, cereal, fruit (fresh and canned) potatoes, even some vegetables are high in carbs like peas, and corn are some examples, but carbohydrates are in almost all foods except meats and cheeses. What the doctor probably told her was not to eat SIMPLE SUGARS and simple carbohydrates--white flour, white sugar, pastries, most white-flour pastas, any processed foods with high-fructose corn syrup. CHECK THE LABEL of the foods you buy. The lower the Total Carbohydrate numbers are, the better.
Bad. Almost all foods you eat contain some type of carbohydrate -- starch, sugar, fiber or a combination of those. Good carbs come from minimally processed whole foods. Examples include low-fat dairy, whole grains, beans, legumes, nuts, seeds, veggies and fruits. You’ll get starch, sugar or possibly a little fiber in heavily manufactured foods too. Good-carbohydrate starches in your diet should come from whole grains, vegetables, beans, seeds and nuts instead of from processed foods. You’ll still get starch from manufactured products, including white bread, chips, crackers and pasta.
Some foods are very low in carbohydrate, or have negligible or no-carbohydrate, such as specific proteins. Those nutritious foods are good for optimum health, or weight loss. To learn more about them and the thermic effect of foods (including proteins versus carbohydrates) see the page link, further down this page. Starches are complex carbohydrates that take longer to be digested and include foods such as breads, grains, pasta, tortillas, noodles, fruits and vegetables.
Good Vs. Almost all foods you eat contain some type of carbohydrate -- starch, sugar, fiber or a combination of those. Good carbs come from minimally processed whole foods. Examples include low-fat dairy, whole grains, beans, legumes, nuts, seeds, veggies and fruits. You’ll get starch, sugar or possibly a little fiber in heavily manufactured foods too. Good-carbohydrate starches in your diet should come from whole grains, vegetables, beans, seeds and nuts instead of from processed foods. You’ll still get starch from manufactured products, including white bread, chips, crackers and pasta.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health.
Complex are the ones that fall into the categories of whole wheats and complex grains such as rice, wheat, cereals, potatoes, yams, etc. Simple carbohydrates are sugars found in fruits, milk, and vegetables. Some other examples of simple sugars are cakes, candy, syrup, etc. Some examples of carbohydrates are the following: pasta, noodles, bread, potatoes, fruit, cakes, cereals, rice and the list goes on and on. Basically there are two types of carbs-complex and simple carbohydrates