Spaying is a general term used to describe the ovariohysterectomy of a female animal. Neutering is a general term used to describe the castration of a male animal. However, neutering is often used in reference to both genders. Spaying a female dog also eliminates the messiness associated with the heat cycle. Neutering of male dogs and cats can prevent certain undesirable sexual behaviors, such as urine marking, humping, male aggression and the urge to roam.
WebMD veterinary experts answer commonly asked questions about spaying or neutering your dog. And the problem with letting your dog have a litter is you’ve just instantly contributed to the pet overpopulation problem. Now you have to find homes for all those puppies. And for each home you find, there’s one less home for a dog that was already born. Plus, you can’t be responsible for what the new owners do.
2. Canine spaying pros and cons-the reasons for and against spaying a dog. 2a. The benefits of dog spaying (the pros of dog spaying) - reasons for spaying your dog.2b. The disadvantages of desexing (the cons of dog spaying) - why some people choose not to spay their female dogs. 3. Information about dog spaying age: when to spay a dog. Alternatives to spaying your dog: 10a. Dog birth control method 1 - separate the male dog from the female and prevent her from roaming.10b. Dog birth control method 2 - neuter your male dog and keep your female dog inside.10c.
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. Benefits. The benefits to your dog are considerable: 1  Spaying reduces risk of certain illnesses, such as pyometra (a common, life-threatening infection of the uterus) or mammary gland cancer. 2  Spaying reduces pet overpopulation. 3  Millions of dogs are put down every year because there aren’t enough homes for them
There are a number of risks associated with spaying your dog that pet owners are not being told about. First, let's look at the positives – the pros, pluses, and advantages – of spaying your female dog. Good reasons to spay your female dog. You can call it spaying or neutering, or even de-sexing. With these breeds, you risk hemangiosarcoma if you spay.... but you risk uterine infections, mammary tumors, etc. etc. if you don't spay. Spaying at the wrong age can have unwanted consequences for the rest of your dog's life.
Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year. 
4. Dog spaying procedure (dog spay operation) - a step by step pictorial guide to dog spaying surgery. As stated in the opening section, dog spaying is the surgical removal of a female dog's internal reproductive organs. Alternatives to spaying your dog: 10a. Dog birth control method 1 - separate the male dog from the female and prevent her from roaming.10b. Dog birth control method 2 - neuter your male dog and keep your female dog inside.10c.
When to Spay. If your lab puppy is at least 6 months old, the time is right for spaying. Some vets, humane societies and breeders recommend spaying as early as 2 to 4 months, but the traditional age is 6 months. A lab puppy’s first heat typically occurs between 7 and 12 months so you likely want to spay before then. With millions of dogs in shelters nationwide, spaying your Labrador retriever puppy will help with population control. Spaying, also known as “fixing,” removes the female parts so your lab will not go into heat. Leave breeding to the professionals and fix your lab puppy to help reduce the breed’s overpopulation.
Through neutering, you can help your dog or cat live a happier, healthier, longer life. Spaying eliminates the constant crying and nervous pacing of a female cat in heat. Spaying a female dog also eliminates the messiness associated with the heat cycle. Neutering of male dogs and cats can prevent certain undesirable sexual behaviors, such as urine marking, humping, male aggression and the urge to roam.