As one of the foundations of the United States, the Declaration of Independence is very much important to every U.S. citizen. This all-important document marked the liberation of the country from British rule. In order to know the reason why Thomas Jefferson and company wrote the Declaration of Independence, it is best to look back at the meaningful history of the U.S....
The Declaration of Independence is important because it was the official document that announced the freedom of the American colonies from Britain. The declaration of independence is important today because it gives you the rights to do things and be protected. Some countries in the world don't have that.
It was the first Colony to break away from British rule. In 1776 when the Declaration was passed the British had an Empire consisting of Colonies in India, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Ireland as well as the US. Best Answer: It meant that the 13 original States of the Union would no longer accept British Colonial Rule and wanted instead to set up their own government. Since the United States no longer wished to be ruled by a Monarchy, they became a Republic with an elected
More. The Declaration of Independence is the founding document of the American political tradition. It articulates the fundamental ideas that form the American nation: All men are created free and equal and possess the same inherent, natural rights. 
(Answer #1). The Declaration of Independence is important because it states that a government exists for the benefit of the people and that all men are created equal.. Adopted by the thirteen American colonies on July 4, 1776, the document is regarded as the best-written statement of individual rights in history
According to historical records, the United States Declaration of Independence came about from June to July 1776. On July 4, 1776, the Continental Congress ratified it. All in all, 56 delegates were supposed to sign and approve the document. This all-important document marked the liberation of the country from British rule. In order to know the reason why Thomas Jefferson and company wrote the Declaration of Independence, it is best to look back at the meaningful history of the U.S....
The Declaration of Independence, 1776. By issuing the Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, the 13 American colonies severed their political connections to Great Britain. The Declaration summarized the colonists’ motivations for seeking independence. The committee presented the final draft before Congress on June 28, 1776, and Congress adopted the final text of the Declaration of Independence on July 4. The British Government did its best to dismiss the Declaration as a trivial document issued by disgruntled colonists.
The declaration of independence is important today because it gives you the rights to do things and be protected. Some countries in the world don't have that. The signing of the declaration of independence was important because this was when the people were getting freedom and rules the president at this time was George Washington.
All rights reserved. 1  Declaration of Independence: The Declaration and Its Importance-The Declaration and Its Importance The Declaration of Independence is the most important of all ... 