In the past, mortgage lenders largely based the amount you could borrow on a multiple of your income. This is known as the loan-to-income ratio. For example, if your annual income was £50,000, you might have been able to borrow three to five times this amount, giving you a mortgage of up to £250,000. Now, when you apply for a mortgage, the lender will cap the loan-to-income ratio at no more than four and a half times your income. They must also assess what level of monthly payments you can afford, after taking into account various personal and living expenses as well as your income.
If you’re a new customer you can apply for a Choices home loan to buy, build or refinance your home, or to buy a rental investment property. Choices is a flexible home loan you can do just about anything with. You can check it out on the Home Loans page. 
According to Buildstore, the amount you can borrow to purchase the land will be 75 per cent of its current value, and for the build costs, again you can borrow around 75 per cent of the end value. Yet, while self-build is glamourised in many property programmes and articles, the process of financing a project can be rigorous. Unless you have a load of spare money lying around, you will need a mortgage to fund your self-build.
If you are buying a new build home, you may be able to use the Equity Loan scheme if the builder is signed up to the scheme. For more details, ask to speak to the mortgage adviser at your chosen new build site. Our eligibility criteria. 1  If you are buying a home that will be your main residence, the maximum you can borrow is 95% of the property value. 2  The maximum purchase price or property value (whichever is lower) accepted is £500,000 or lower.
Many first-time homebuyers expect to be able to build the cost of those improvements and upgrades into their new home loan. Unfortunately, making that work in practice is tough with a VA mortgage. In fact, only certain energy-efficiency improvements can be added to the loan amount, along with acceptable costs and fees. Then, a week later, the VA appraisal indicates the home’s current value is only $150,000. Mortgage lenders aren’t in the habit of paying more for homes their they’re worth, which means you’ll either need to renegotiate with the seller, cover the difference in cash or walk away from the deal.
Home affordability is about more than just how much you can borrow. Home affordability is about more than just how much you can borrow. You'll also need to consider the up-front costs of buying a house, as well as the ongoing expenses of home ownership. Use our Home Affordability Calculator to start thinking through your options. Down payment. You can often get the best mortgage rates by paying a higher mortgage down payment. Down payments can range anywhere from 0% to 20% or more of the total cost of the home. 15% to 20% is ideal.
When applying for a self-build mortgage, your current mortgage or rent commitments will be taken into account by a lender when deciding how much you can borrow for your project. Yet, while self-build is glamourised in many property programmes and articles, the process of financing a project can be rigorous. Unless you have a load of spare money lying around, you will need a mortgage to fund your self-build.
If the lender thinks that you won’t be able to afford your mortgage payments in these circumstances, they might limit how much you can borrow. Comparison websites are a good starting point for anyone trying to find a mortgage tailored to their needs. We recommend the following websites for comparing mortgages: Now, when you apply for a mortgage, the lender will cap the loan-to-income ratio at no more than four and a half times your income. They must also assess what level of monthly payments you can afford, after taking into account various personal and living expenses as well a
Use this calculator to determine how much mortgage you can afford. Simply fill out the fields below and click calculate, the calculator will then analyze your monthly income, expenses, and future property taxes and insurance to estimate the mortgage amount that would best fit your budget. 
Whether you want to borrow working capital to expand your business or leverage equity in a commercial real estate venture, you will soon find out the commercial loan process is very different from the more common home mortgage process. 