1 Cost of living in Sydney is 28% cheaper than in London. 2  Cost of living in Kuala Lumpur is 57% cheaper than in Singapore. 3  Cost of living in Dubai is 28% cheaper than in London. 4  Cost of living in Hong Kong is 10% more expensive than in Singapore. 1 Cost of living in New York is 157% more expensive than in DF. 2  Cost of living in Toronto is 37% cheaper than in London. 3  Cost of living in Sydney is 28% cheaper than in London. 4
In the major cities like London, Manchester.. are more expensive compared to other places in the United Kingdom. The average hotel costs in London for single room is £50 to £300 per day and for double room £75 to £450 per day. Most students in the UK need about £600 a month to live on. This will cover food, clothes and other basic needs
Currently, the average price of a decently rated three-to four-star hotel in central London is 70 to 100 ($111 to 158 USD) GBP per night. For my nine-night trip, that adds up to around $1,000 USD as I would have gone with the cheapest. With these ground rules in place, I set off to do London as your average, everyday traveler: Flight: I used my American Airlines frequent flier miles to pay for my flight. A round-trip ticket from Boston to London cost me 60,000 miles, plus a service charge of $165.10 in taxes and fees.
The cost of living varies from one part of the UK to another. Generally it is more expensive to live in London and the south-east of England, and cheaper up north. 
: If you stay in a B+B outside the center of London (), plan $200-$250 per person per day for daily expenses (see above) while in London. Double that amount if you must stay in a hotel in central London. Add more if you plan to stay on weeknights. A typical budget for a modest but comfortable two-week trip to England is $3,000 per person including airfare, car rental and daily expenses for three weekend days in London and the rest of the time in the countryside.
London is not only for the wealthy but it sure helps to have money if you want a proper place to live. Young people are paying in the order of 600 pounds per month for a room. Other cities like Manchester and Liverpool have a lot to offer, including decent universities, at a much lower cost. At if you look beyond the bigger cities, there are plenty of universities in the UK. 
: Outside London, plan $100-125 per person per day for daily expenses (see above). A typical budget for a modest but comfortable two-week trip to England is $3,000 per person including airfare, car rental and daily expenses for three weekend days in London and the rest of the time in the countryside.
If you are trying to keep costs low while having a great time anyway be sure to check out our London budget travel tips. Most people stay in London, but there are many great and cheap day trips out of London to consider as well. 
Luckily hostels are reasonably affordable (at least for a major city) and there are plenty of great free museums. However, the cost of attractions and food can kill your budget. Below are daily costs to help you estimate your daily travel costs. $70). 1  Attractions: £0 (visit one of the many free museums). 2  Food: £13. 3  Breakfast: £0 (free hostel breakfast). 4  Lunch: £5 (ethnic street food or takeaway shop fare). 5  Dinner: £5 (cook your own meal in the hostel). 6  Treat: £3 (something sweet).
And that’s why London is a perfect first place to do this. Because if you can travel hack London, you can travel hack anywhere. Using my own travel hacking tips, 10 days in London only cost me 481.21 GBP or $710 USD. That works out to be roughly $70 USD per day. And that’s not just my day-to-day expenses. That includes EVERYTHING —my flight to London, my hotel, transportation, food, drinking, and attractions. With these ground rules in place, I set off to do London as your average, everyday traveler: Flight: I used my American Airlines frequent flier miles to pay for my flight. A round-trip ticket from Boston to London cost me 60,000 miles, plus a service charge of $165.10 in taxes and fees.