Other less common long term treatment effects include thyroid problems, lung problems, heart problems and clouding of the lens of the eye (cataract). There is a risk of getting another cancer because of your treatment but this is rare.
Long Term Benefits. Running on a regular basis can prevent certain diseases, such as stroke, diabetes and heart disease. Running burns a lot of calories, which can contribute to consistent weight loss. Losing weight can help lower blood pressure, blood sugar and blood cholesterol.
The benefits of running have an immediate and long term effect on your health and general well-being. According to MayoClinic.com, the long term and short term benefits of running are equal for everyone, regardless of gender, age or physical condition.
Some side effects of radiotherapy are caused by its effect on normal tissue in your body. These may include. 1  Tiredness and feeling run down. 2  A sore throat and trouble swallowing. 3  A cough. 4  Hair loss. 5  Chest pain. 6  A temperature and shivering. 7  Feeling sick.
Different types of treatment for leukaemia cause different problems. Not everybody gets long term side effects. Your risk of developing any effect depends on the type of treatment you had, the dose of those treatments and, to some extent, the age you were when you had treatment.
The Long-Term Effects of Untreated Chronic Pain. Being in pain is quite uncomfortable for most people. Even minor pain, such as a stubbed toe or a paper cut, is unpleasant but that pain fades relatively quickly. Imagine being in pain that never fades, or that fades only to come back a few hours later.
A small number of people have long term side effects, which develop up to 2 years after treatment has finished. Serious long term side effects are rare. If you have radiotherapy just to treat symptoms, you are very unlikely to have side effects.
All medicines have side effects. But many side effects can be managed so that you can still take the medicine. Talk to your doctor if you have any side effects. Your doctor may change your dose or the type of medicine you take.