Petra ReDiscovered. Petra means rock in Greek, fitting for a town literally carved out of sandstone desert cliffs. It is located about three hours south of Amman, the capital of Jordan, and was founded by a nomadic Arab tribe known as the Nabataeans several centuries before Christ's birth.
Petra (Arabic: البترا, Al-Batrāʾ; Ancient Greek: πέτρα) is a historical and archaeological city in the southern Jordanian governorate of Ma'an that is famous for its rock-cut architecture and water conduit system. Another name for Petra is the Rose City due to the color of the stone out of which it is carved. Established possibly as early as 312 BC as the capital city of the Nabataeans, it is a symbol of Jordan, as well as Jordan's most-visited tourist attraction.
Petra is located about fifty miles south of the Dead Sea and 170 miles southwest of modern Amman, Jordan. Petra s main access is via a narrow crevice called the Siq, which winds for about a mile through mountainous terrain. The Siq provided an excellent natural defense for Petra s inhabitants. 
Petra is located in Jordan, south of the Dead Sea (about 100 km by road). Petra, the ancient city of stone, is in Jordan. Petra is also  called Rose City, for the color of the carved stone. A UNESCO World  Heritage Site since 1985, Petra is Jordan … 's most-visited tourist  site. Manlio Fahrni.
In 1985, the Petra Archaeological Park was declared a UNESCO World Heritage site, and in 2007 it was named one of the new seven wonders of the world. Indiana Jones Location. Several scenes from the Hollywood blockbuster Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade were filmed in Petra. 
The rock-carved rose-red city of Petra is full of mysterious charm, it was designed to strike wonder into all who entered it. Petra is considered the most famous and gorgeous site in Jordan located about 262 km south of Amman and 133 km north of Aqaba. It is the legacy of the Nabataeans, an industrious Arab people who settled in southern Jordan more than 2000 years ago
The City of Petra, obscured from the western world until discovered by the Swiss explorer Johann Ludwig Burckhardt in 1812 and still widely unknown by many despite its growing modern fame, is an ancient city located in the Middle Eastern country of Jordan. The City of Petra Today. Today the city of Petra is a wonderful vacation and visitation site. Despite being located in a strong modern Islamic country, many westerners visit the city to view its wonderful history and architecture and feel safe doing so.
Located about 115 miles (185 km) southwest of Amman, Jordan, Petra was an ancient city that was literally carved into red desert cliffs. Its ornate ancient architecture and natural beauty attract people from all over the world. It was rediscovered by Johann Ludwig Burckhardt in 1812 and today it is a major tourist attraction. Contrary to the plot of the Indiana Jones movie, Petra is not located in a Canyon of the Crescent Moon and it is not the location of the Holy Grail. Homes and water.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Jelliee. Confidence votes 1. Petra is located in Jordan which is south-west of the Dead Sea, Also just west of El-Gi (a town located near Jordan). Petra, the ancient city of stone, is in Jordan. Petra is also  called Rose City, for the color of the carved stone. A UNESCO World  Heritage Site since 1985, Petra is Jordan … 's most-visited tourist  site.
Petra is located in Jordan, south of the Dead Sea (about 100 km by road). Petra, the ancient city of stone, is in Jordan. Petra is also  called Rose City, for the color of the carved stone. A UNESCO World  Heritage Site since 1985, Petra is Jordan … 's most-visited tourist  site.