1.08 Extrinsic semiconductor. To produce extrinsic semiconductor material specific amounts of impurity are added to the pure intrinsic semiconductor. This process is called doping and the impurity atoms are called donor atoms. There are two types of extrinsic semiconductor which are manufactured, P type semiconductor and N type semiconductor.
Note it is important to point out that the material is called P type semiconductor because the majority of charge carriers which contribute to an electrical current are positively charged holes produced by the doping process. 
The potential of NADH and FADH 2 is converted to more ATP through an electron transport chain with oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor. Most of the ATP produced by aerobic cellular respiration is made by oxidative phosphorylation. This is also called the Krebs cycle or the tricarboxylic acid cycle. When oxygen is present, acetyl-CoA is produced from the pyruvate molecules created from glycolysis. When oxygen is present, the mitochondria will undergo aerobic respiration which leads to the Krebs cycle.
Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. This is also called the Krebs cycle or the tricarboxylic acid cycle. When oxygen is present, acetyl-CoA is produced from the pyruvate molecules created from glycolysis. When oxygen is present, the mitochondria will undergo aerobic respiration which leads to the Krebs cycle.
Cells harvest the energy contained in the chemical bonds of glucose in a very controlled, step-by-step series of reactions that release small amounts of energy during each biochemical reaction. Glycolysis is the first step of cellular respiration, where a molecule of glucose is split to release energy. Refer to the illustration Kreb's cycle to see the breakdown of the energy-containing molecules. In summary, the Kreb's cycle removes carbon dioxide molecules from glucose in a stepwise fashion to release energy, but like glycolysis, the primary purpose is to create the high-energy electron carriers NADH and FADH 2. The carbon dioxide expelled in the process is a waste product and must be removed from the system
Glycolysis literally means splitting sugars.. Glucose, a six carbon sugar, is split into two molecules of a three carbon sugar. Glycolysis takes place in the cell's cytoplasm. In the process, two molecules of ATP, two molecules of pyruvic acid and two high energy electron carrying molecules of NADH are produced. In the process, a gradient is formed, and ultimately ATP is produced by oxidative phosphorylation. The enzyme ATP synthase uses the energy produced by the electron transport chain for the phosphorylation of ADP to ATP.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity. This is also called the Krebs cycle or the tricarboxylic acid cycle. When oxygen is present, acetyl-CoA is produced from the pyruvate molecules created from glycolysis. When oxygen is present, the mitochondria will undergo aerobic respiration which leads to the Krebs cycle.
The electron transport chain is a series of electron carriers in the membrane of the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells. Through a series of reactions, the high energy electrons are passed to oxygen. In the process, a gradient is formed, and ultimately ATP is produced by oxidative phosphorylation. The enzyme ATP synthase uses the energy produced by the electron transport chain for the phosphorylation of ADP to ATP.
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 2  the complete oxidation of pyruvic acid to carbon dioxide and water.