Spirulina is a blue-green alga that's a rich source of proteins, carotenoids and other micronutrients. Studies now support its antiviral and anticancer properties. Chlorella, a single-celled alga, has the highest known levels of chlorophyll of any plant. Spirulina Blue-green micro alga. Kombu-Nori-Hijiki / Hiziki-Wakame-Arame-agar-agar-Spirulina-Chlorella-Minerals-Health. Index. Ocean / Sea algae are the richest natural source of minerals, trace minerals and rare earth elements.
Spirulina, which is a type of microscopic blue-green algae, gained popularity as a dietary supplement due to its high content of vitamins and minerals. It also represents a valuable source of protein, since it contains more of this nutrient than meat and soy combined. Spirulina for High Protein Diets. Mineral and Vitamin Content of Spirulina. Spirulina abounds in vitamins and minerals, a fact that makes it a very effective dietary supplement for anyone who suffers from a nutrient deficiency. The vitamins contained by this alga include: 1  Vitamin A. 2  Vitamin B complex. 3  Vitamin C.
Blue-green algae are used as a source of dietary protein, B-vitamins, and iron. They are also used for weight loss, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), hayfever, diabetes, stress, fatigue, anxiety, depression, and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and other women’s health issues. Phenylketonuria: The spirulina species of blue-green algae contains the chemical phenylalanine. This might make phenylketonuria worse. Avoid Spirulina species blue-green algae products if you have phenylketonuria.
Spirulina and other algae are a primary source of vitamin A precursors-it is from algae carotenoids that fish livers derive and concentrate vitamin A. Spirulina contains the yellow/orange pigments cryptoxanthine and beta-carotene from which vitamin A can be made. Transformed into natural organic forms by Spirulina, minerals become chelated with amino acids and are therefore more easily assimilated by the body. Many times people have ingested large amounts of inorganic minerals without benefit to health because the body does not know what to do with these incompatible forms.
Spirulina supplies ten of the twelve non-essential amino acids. Non-essential does not mean that these amino acids are not needed by the body, but merely indicates that the body can synthesize them itself if it needs to do so, provided the appropriate nutritional building blocks are available. Transformed into natural organic forms by Spirulina, minerals become chelated with amino acids and are therefore more easily assimilated by the body. Many times people have ingested large amounts of inorganic minerals without benefit to health because the body does not know what to do with these incompatible forms.
If you have one of these conditions, it’s best to avoid using blue-green algae. Phenylketonuria: The spirulina species of blue-green algae contains the chemical phenylalanine. This might make phenylketonuria worse. Avoid Spirulina species blue-green algae products if you have phenylketonuria.
Vitamins and Minerals in Chlorella and Spirulina. Chlorella and spirulina both contain zinc, magnesium and other minerals that are lacking in most modern-day diets. If you eat a lot of processed food, there is a chance you are not getting enough of certain minerals. Both algae contain Omega-3 and spirulina is especially rich in GLA. They can also be great detox aids. Because of their high chlorophyll content, they help to remove impurities from the body, improving your health and well-being.
Blue-green algae have a high protein, iron, and other mineral content which is absorbed when taken orally. Blue-green algae are being researched for their potential effects on the immune system, swelling (inflammation), and viral infections. Phenylketonuria: The spirulina species of blue-green algae contains the chemical phenylalanine. This might make phenylketonuria worse. Avoid Spirulina species blue-green algae products if you have phenylketonuria.
1 Early research findings show that taking 1 gram of spirulina blue-green algae (Spirulina fusiformis) daily by mouth for 12 months reduces oral leukoplakia in people who chew tobacco. 2  Weight loss. 3  Research shows that taking spirulina blue-green algae does not seem to help reduce weight. Phenylketonuria: The spirulina species of blue-green algae contains the chemical phenylalanine. This might make phenylketonuria worse. Avoid Spirulina species blue-green algae products if you have phenylketonuria.
Proteins: The blue-green algae, and Spirulina in particular, have a primitive structure with few starch storage cells and cell membrane proliferation, but rich amounts of ribosomes, the cellular bodies that manufacture protein. Transformed into natural organic forms by Spirulina, minerals become chelated with amino acids and are therefore more easily assimilated by the body. Many times people have ingested large amounts of inorganic minerals without benefit to health because the body does not know what to do with these incompatible forms.