4.5 17. This classic handheld with tender chicken, Parmesan cheese and chopped Caesar croutons features the perfect amount of dressing for a tasty meal any night. Nancy Pratt-Longview, TX. 
Marinated chicken grilled then sliced and served on your favorite salad greens with a topping of parmesan cheese and croutons with creamy Caesar salad dressing. Your man will love it!. Saved Save I Made it Rate it Share Print. Saved. Save. ADVERTISEMENT. 1 h 15 m servings 259 cals. Added to shopping list. You might also like. Caesar Salad Supreme See how to make a classic salad with garlic croutons and a creamy dressing. See how to make a classic salad with garlic croutons and a creamy dressing. Coconut and Lime Grilled Kale Coconut and lime marinated kale cooked on a grill.
Post # 10. I'd serve soup and/or chips, rather than salad, especially one with a mayo-based dressing. . .too much like the chicken salad in the sandwiches. I'd rule out fruit for the same reason-with pineapple, raisins and nuts in the chicken salad, fruit salad would also be redundant. 
1 Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 2  Add chicken and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until golden. 3  Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk vinegar and the remaining Caesar dressing mix and 1/4 cup oil; mix well. 1 Dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture, coating completely. 2  Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Add chicken and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until golden. 4
What To Do: 1  In a shallow dish, combine bread crumbs and 2 tablespoons Caesar dressing mix; mix well. 2  Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk vinegar and the remaining Caesar dressing mix and 1/4 cup oil; mix well. 1 Dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture, coating completely. 2  Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Add chicken and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until golden. 4
What To Do: 1  In a shallow dish, combine bread crumbs and 2 tablespoons Caesar dressing mix; mix well. 2  Place egg in another shallow dish. 3  Dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture, coating completely. 1 Dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture, coating completely. 2  Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Add chicken and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until golden. 4  Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk vinegar and the remaining Caesar dressing mix and 1/4 cup oil
1 In a shallow dish, combine bread crumbs and 2 tablespoons Caesar dressing mix; mix well. 2  Place egg in another shallow dish. 3  Dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture, coating completely. 1 Dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture, coating completely. 2  Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Add chicken and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until golden. 4  Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk vinegar and the remaining Caesar dressing mix and 1/4 cup oil
what to do in a shallow dish combine bread crumbs and 2 tablespoons caesar dressing mix mix well place egg in another shallow dish dip chicken in egg then in the bread crumb mixture coating completely heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium high heat add chicken and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side or until golden meanwhile in a small bowl whisk vinegar and the remaining caesar dressing mix and 1 4 cup oil mix well toss with romaine lettuce then place on a platter top with chicken and sprinkle with parmesan cheese serve immediately
The husband invited some friend over, and asked that I make his favorite chicken salad... my creativity is lacking at the moment and I can't decide what to serve with it-so you tell me, as long as it's simple-I'm lacking on time for this one. nalega. The husband invited some friend over, and asked that I make his favorite chicken salad... my creativity is lacking at the moment and I can't decide what to serve with it-so you tell me, as long as it's simple-I'm lacking on time for this one. Finish my menu for me please!