As the engine cools when shut off, the contracting coolant in the radiator sucks back coolant from the recovery tank. Fluid in the recovery tank should never be below the full hot or full cold marks, lest air be sucked in. -- BETTER ANSWER ==. Your cooling fans are not turning on. It is not normal for your overflow tank to boil like that. It is true that your radiator is overflowing into the reserve tank, but that means yourr adiaotor is boiling. Check for blown fuses or relays for your cooling fans. IF theya re fine. run your engine for about 15 minutes and drive. 
I had the same problem. My radiator cap was not keeping any pressure. When I would stop the engine hot, it would spill one or two cup of coolant throught the overflow tank and I would hear the coolant boiling in the engine. Close. My car has 110,000 mi.and I have replaced the radiator cap and had the system flushed and filled, also replaced thermostat, and overflow resovoir tank--and it still pumps coolant out the overflow and then starts to run hot.
If so, you should have gotten it in to the mechanic asap. With the coolant disappearing and the oil being sludgy, I suspect a head gasket leak. The boiling in the overflow tank may be air escaping from the radiator due to pressure from the leak. Have the engine pressure-tested. A bad gasket can cause serious damage if water dilutes the oil. I have a 2011 Chevrolet Aveo and for the last couple of months the antifreeze has been disappearing out of my overflow tank...and NOW for the last couple of weeks the coolant has been boiling and the car overheats badly...and I&#39;ve recently gotten an oil change in December but now my oil in my...
Adding more water than coolant will decrease the boiling point, yes. Tap water is also bad as it has many minerals in it, and can cause corrosion if too much is used. However, the system is pressurized and should not boil unless the engine has reached around 260F degrees, under normal conditions. My car overheated and I was only able to put tap water in the overflow I noticed once I parked my car the overflow water inside started boiling. Is that because I needed to add 50/50 coolant.
Classifieds Rating: (0). Re: coolant was boiling in overflow tank. If you radiator cap is not holding pressure, that will also cause the water to boil at a lower temperature than when it has 15 psig on it. Classifieds Rating: (0). Re: coolant was boiling in overflow tank. You could just replace both, as they aren't very expensive. To check your thermostat, you can take it out, put it in a pot filled with water on the stove, put in a temp gauge, and watch it open at the correct temp. I would spend the 8 bucks on a new one though
Re: Bubbling in the coolant overflow tank! [. ]. When engine is cold take the radiator cap off and start it up. You may see bubbles there right away which will quickly get to the recovery tank. 
Re: coolant was boiling in overflow tank. that's the excess coolant getting pushed out of the radiator as it expands when it gets hot-it bubbles because it boils when it leaves the 15psi radiator and hits the atmospheric pressure in the coolant tank... don't worry about it unless the car overheats and/or loses coolant. Classifieds Rating: (0). Re: coolant was boiling in overflow tank. You could just replace both, as they aren't very expensive. To check your thermostat, you can take it out, put it in a pot filled with water on the stove, put in a temp gauge, and watch it open at the correct temp. I would spend the 8 bucks on a new one though
my cars water overflow tank starts boiling after I drive a short distance. up vote 0 down vote favorite. My car overheated and I was only able to put tap water in the overflow I noticed once I parked my car the overflow water inside started boiling. Is that because I needed to add 50/50 coolant.
If the coolant is not actually boiling and what you see is simply bubbling in the overflow tank, you almost certainly have a blown head gasket. The bubbling is due to pressure from the combustion chamber being relieved into the cooling system through the leak in the head gasket. My car overheated and I was only able to put tap water in the overflow I noticed once I parked my car the overflow water inside started boiling. Is that because I needed to add 50/50 coolant.