Five Data Management Skills that are important for successfully managing and using information. Looking at and Analyzing Data. The ability to use data effectively to improve your programs, including looking at lists and summaries, looking for patterns, analyzing results, and making presentations to others.
The role includes the development and design of database strategies, system monitoring and improving database performance and capacity, and planning for future expansion requirements. They may also plan, co-ordinate and implement security measures to safeguard the database. 
A database administrator must have a high level of technical skill to work with the computers that house data. DBAs must understand how computers store and retrieve data, and how to build computer databases. A database administrator may manage small or large databases, but in either case he needs a basic set of skills, and for most companies a bachelor's degree is the minimum educational requirement.
Database Skills. It seems strange to me that I've been working on this blog for 3 years or so (with one very long break) and somehow never got around to writing a simple list of skills that all database experts need. So here it is! The various levels of skills are these: 1  Before Hello World!: The basics of tables, columns, rows. 2  The Hello World! Level: SQL Select. 3  Just after Hello World!: Writing Data. 4  Commands to create, modify and drop tables, or Data Definition Language (DDL).
If you are looking for a job on Wall Street, IT skills are the way to go, particularly programming and database expertise, according to a recent study conducted by a leading career site network for the financial services industry. Technology pervades these jobs, as well. In addition to the programming languages and database, fixed income, risk, project management and business analysis skills make up the top five searches on eFinancialCareers from June through August 2012.
In computing, databases are sometimes classified according to their organizational approach. The most prevalent approach is the relational database, a tabular database in which data is defined so that it can be reorganized and accessed in a number of different ways. A distributed database is one that can be dispersed or replicated among different points in a network.
A number of Oracle professionals mistakenly believe that the Oracle DBA skills are purely technical. In reality, the Oracle DBA must be an ace of all IT functions, because he or she has ultimate responsibility for overall database design, database implementation, backup, and recovery. 
Once skills have been entered and approved, the skills database is used in multiple ways. The system includes skills search and compare tools that are used by both employees and managers. Complex searches can be named and saved for future use, and workflow tools facilitate requesting of resources outside your domain. You may also include department and location values into queries, to make your searches location dependent. In addition to structured queries, you can also search employee resumes for key words or phrases. User defined fields can be added to the skills database, and can be searched as well.
A new solution for an old educational goal: Preparing students for college and career readiness. This Database provides the materials needed to help students develop skills for college and career readiness. Created for instructors and administrators, the Database is designed to be used in the classroom as well as in guidance and advisory programs. 
Organization Skills. Database administrators must have strong organization skills to manage large databases. Well-organized data makes access easier for users and improves database performance. A poorly organized database will result in slow data access, which cascades into user frustration and lost productivity. A database administrator may manage small or large databases, but in either case he needs a basic set of skills, and for most companies a bachelor's degree is the minimum educational requirement.