Origin: England and France. Description: The French Bulldog is a small companion dog with perky batlike ears and a stocky body. It has a short coat and laid back personality, and spends most of its time playing or lazing around the house. 
The French Bulldog is a small breed of domestic dog. Frenchies were the result in the 1800s of a cross between bulldog ancestors imported from England and local ratters in Paris, France. In the UK, they moved up to become the fourth most popular registered dog by 2014. The modern French Bulldog breed descends directly from the dogs of the Molossians, an ancient Greek tribe. The dogs were spread throughout the ancient world by Phoenician traders. British Molossian dogs were developed into the Mastiff
The French Bulldog’s motto is “Love the one you’re with.” He is small, with distinctive “bat ears,” and comes in a variety of colors. The Frenchie is adaptable to any home environment, as long as it has air conditioning. A reputable breeder will be honest and open about health problems in the breed and the incidence with which they occur in her lines. The French Bulldog is prone to certain health problems. Here’s a brief rundown on what you should know. These small, flat-faced dogs are prone to a couple of conditions.
French Bulldogs are short and close to the ground, with a compact body. They have erect, round-tipped ears that sit high on the head, and round, dark colored eyes. The head is square, and the nose and muzzle are very short. The lips droop down past the chin, so they look like they are frowning all of the time. The French Bulldog is categorized as a brachycephalic breed, which refers to the short muzzle and “smashed” face. These dogs are more prone to breathing problems because of this, and they will snort and sneeze frequently. The skin is loose over the body and there are wrinkles present on the forehead and down the back.
The French Bulldog is sometimes called 'Frog dog' or a 'Clown dog.' Frog dog is in reference to the way they sit with hind legs spread out. Clown dog is because they are known to be fun loving vivacious 'clowns of the dog world.' Most French Bulldogs enjoy water. The modern French Bulldog breed descends directly from the dogs of the Molossians, an ancient Greek tribe. The dogs were spread throughout the ancient world by Phoenician traders. British Molossian dogs were developed into the Mastiff
ORIGIN AND HISTORY. To say that the French Bulldog is a purely French breed is a bit of a misnomer. Bulldogs were at the height of their popularity in England the 1860s, and small varieties of that breed were especially popular in the lace-making region of the English midlands. 
The French Bulldog has a moderately fine, brilliant coat which is short and smooth. It can be fawn, white, or brindle, with a variety of markings which can result in a surprising diversity of appearances. The French Bulldog s skin is soft and loose, especially at the head and shoulders, forming wrinkles. The French Bulldog has a shoulder height of up to 30 cm (12 in) and weighs 9-13 kg (19-28 lbs). It has a wide head, round ears, and distinctive pointed bat ears with an attentive expression. French Bulldogs have short legs and tails, rounded chests, and compact, muscular bodies.