Some products such as soy sauce and other seasonings and sauces contain wheat. Whole grains are an important part of a healthy diet and a gluten-free diet has no health-related benefit for people who do not have celiac disease or a gluten intolerance.
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye. Gluten also shows up in many whole grain foods related to wheat, including bulgur, farro, kamut, spelt, and triticale (a hybrid of wheat and rye). Some celiac disease experts warn patients to steer clear of oats, as well.
Gluten is the name for the protein in grains. All grains contain protein that is theoretically gluten but people with celiac disease and most other gluten allergies only react to the form of gluten found in wheat (including spelt, kamut, triticale and all varieties of wheat), barley, and rye.
Grains are a common topic for those who require the gluten-free diet. Often, however, the subject is how to avoid grains that contain gluten. Unfortunately, the importance of including gluten-free whole grains is frequently left unaddressed.
Many creative recipes have been developed for gluten-intolerant people, using the gluten-free grains above along with foods like nuts, arrowroot, beans, chestnuts, mesquite, potato, soy, and tapioca, all of which are gluten-free.
Gluten is the name given to the protein found in some, but not all, grains: 1  Grains containing gluten – wheat (including wheat varieties like spelt, kamut, farro and durum, plus products like bulgar and semolina), barley, rye, triticale and oats*. 2  Gluten free grains – corn, millet, rice, sorghum.
For those who have celiac disease or are sensitive to gluten, following a gluten free diet means giving up many grains, pastas, cereals and processed foods. There are, however, tasty grain and starch alternatives to wheat and other sources of gluten.
While it’s not really correct to refer to other grains as “gluten-free,” they are free from the form of gluten found in varieties of wheat, barley, rye, and their derivatives and are safe for people with celiac disease and most gluten intolerances.
The most common whole-grain foods (breads, baked goods, cereals, pasta and crackers) contain gluten. This makes getting enough whole grains even tougher for those with celiac disease because they must avoid wheat, rye and barley because of their gluten content.