Phlebotomy training can range anywhere between $600 and $2,500+. The school charges will vary depending on what is offered for training and the general cost of tuition itself. The average one may expect to pay for the test is $50, though some places may charge more, such as California for $58. Local state departments will all have information on the cost for certification as well as where any nearby testing centers are located.
The cost of phlebotomy training at a community college can cost as little as $600 or as much as $2500 or even more, depending on what classes the school has to offer and what tuition rates the school charges. Fees for Certification Exams. As you might expect, the fees for certification exams vary and add to the cost of phlebotomy training. After the completion of a phlebotomy course, which can last anywhere from 4-8 months, the student should be qualified to take the state certification test. The general fee is usually around $50
1 Phlebotomy training is available online through multiple venues and typically costs $300-$700. 2  While online training offers the advantage of taking classes on a variable schedule, most online schools recommend hands-on training in addition to the online coursework. 1 The American Society for Phlebotomy Technicians offers a training course for $800, but participants must also purchase membership to the association for $35 and a textbook for $40. 2  Some technical colleges offer phlebotomy coursework as part of a larger medical assisting program.
1 Phlebotomy technician training at a technical school or facility costs $700-$1,400. 2  Medtech, which has 10 locations in the Midwest and Southeast, charges $825 for phlebotomy training courses which includes books and lab fees. 1 The American Society for Phlebotomy Technicians offers a training course for $800, but participants must also purchase membership to the association for $35 and a textbook for $40. 2  Some technical colleges offer phlebotomy coursework as part of a larger medical assisting program.
The Fee for Certification. The fee for phlebotomy training varies based on the cost. After you complete the course, (which can last four to eight months), you should be certified enough to take the main state test. The fee for this test is generally $50, though it can vary in different states. To be considered for tuition in your current state, you have to have been in your area of residence for 2 years or more. Otherwise, you have to pay your tuition out of your current state. At most community colleges, phlebotomy training can range from $600 to $2,500. Some classes can cost even more. How much a college charges depends on what the school offers and what they charge in general for tuition
The cost of phlebotomy training differs from $1,500 to $3,000. In California and Louisiana where phlebotomy certification is legally required before starting a job as a phlebotomist, the requirements and standards for training programs are even stricter. 
The cost of your phlebotomy training program can depend on various factors. We have tried to figure how much you will need to pay for your phlebotomy education. The major factor that determines final cost of a degree is a type of program you choose – whether it’s campus-based program, or online. 
According to Salary.com, the average salary of a phlebotomist is around $34,000 per year. Phlebotomists can expect a salary around $31,000 per year. However, your salary can differ from the average depending on your experience and your location. 