The diagnosis of optic neuritis (inflammation of the optic nerve) is usually made clinically, with direct imaging of the optic nerves by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) being reserved for atypical cases. Multiplanar DIR images had the best performance for the diagnosis of optic neuritis, with a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 94%. MRI characteristics of optic neuropathy are demonstrated in the images below. A 43-year-old woman with acute vision loss and eye pain.
For patients with optic neuritis who have an increased risk of developing MS (on the basis of an abnormal brain MRI), many studies support the early use of medications aimed to reduce the risk of MS. However, most patients with Optic Neuritis will not have observable abnormalities of the retina or optic nerve because the inflammation in the optic nerve has occurred behind the eye itself. There is often a “blind-spot” either in the center of vision or diffusely throughout the entire field of vision.
In a study using interferon beta-1a (Avonex) in patients with optic neuritis with 2 or more white matter lesions on MRI scans of the brain, a decreased risk of developing MS at 3 years was demonstrated. Multiplanar DIR images had the best performance for the diagnosis of optic neuritis, with a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 94%. MRI characteristics of optic neuropathy are demonstrated in the images below. A 43-year-old woman with acute vision loss and eye pain.
Between 27% and 70% of patients (in various studies) with isolated optic neuritis show abnormal MRI brain findings, as defined by the presence of 2 or more white matter lesions on T2-weighted images. Multiplanar DIR images had the best performance for the diagnosis of optic neuritis, with a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 94%. MRI characteristics of optic neuropathy are demonstrated in the images below. A 43-year-old woman with acute vision loss and eye pain.
All patients with Optic Neuritis should have a brain MRI because the occurrence of Optic Neuritis is a risk factor for the development of multiple sclerosis (MS). However, most patients with Optic Neuritis will not have observable abnormalities of the retina or optic nerve because the inflammation in the optic nerve has occurred behind the eye itself. There is often a “blind-spot” either in the center of vision or diffusely throughout the entire field of vision.
Read More. Optic nerve drusen can look like papilledema-swelling of the optic nerve. This can be due to a brain tumor or swelling in the brain. If your first doctor was correct, the other doctor misdiagnosed the problem. I was just diagnosed with an optic nerve tumor from a Cat scan and follow up testing from an opthamologist. I was referred to an occuloplastics eye surgeon who is sending me for a MRI. The tumor is sitting on top of the optic nerve and to the left.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. An MRI scan uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to make pictures of your body. During an MRI to check for optic neuritis, you may be injected with a contrast solution to make the optic nerve and other parts of your brain more visible on the images.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head is done to: 1  Look for the cause of headaches. 2  Help diagnose a stroke or blood vessel problems in the head. 3  Problems with blood vessels may include an aneurysm or abnormal twisted blood vessels that are present at birth (this is called an arteriovenous [AV] malformation). 1 Check the eyes, the nerves from the eyes to the brain (optic nerves), the ears, and the nerves from the ears to the brain (auditory nerves). 2  Look for problems of the pituitary gland. 3  Investigate or follow a finding seen on another test.
Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which the nerve to the eye (the optic nerve) becomes inflamed or irritated. Inflammation refers to a process in which white blood cells and chemical messengers go to an area of the body to stimulate healing or to attack viruses or foreign material. Optic neuritis is a condition that can happen because of a disease or without any specific known cause. With ON, there may be slowing in one or both optic nerves. Ocular coherence tomography is a new non-invasive technique to evaluate the back of the eye. The test can measure the nerve fiber layer at the back of the eye. Ocular coherence tomography's role in diagnosis ON is still unclear.
Optic neuritis: MRI of optic nerve Save this for later. 2. Optic neuritis is the medical term that refers to inflammation of the optic nerve, one of the twelve cranial nerves in charge of transmission of light signal processed in the retina to specific portions of the brain (the occipital cortex). In the majority of cases, however, optic neuritis can be easily diagnosed according to clinical and ophthalmologic examination findings. MRI of the nerve is basically reserved for atypical cases when doctors are not sure whether the condition is actually optic neuritis or its resembles this type of inflammation.