Below a quote gleaned on the internet, for what it is worth (not my words, I hasten to add): Cause, you know baby… when I …. Kiss yoooooooooo…. It’s not the same as when yoooooo…..are kissing me……Oh lawdy….”. I had a typo which I've corrected--I meant that I think everyone said lawdy.. Though I also think they said laws, and so on. But I'll continue, just for posterity--Prissy does say lawdy in the movie, though she does not in the book.
Dude is an American English slang term for an individual. It typically applies to males, although the word can encompass any gender. Dude is an old term, recognized by multiple generations although potentially with slightly different meanings. From the 1870s to the 1960s, dude primarily meant a person who dressed in an extremely fashion-forward manner (a dandy) or a citified person who was visiting a rural location but stuck out (a city slicker). In the 1960s, dude evolved to mean any male person, a meaning that slipped into mainstream American slang in the 1970s.
interjection. 1  used to get someone's attention. 2  See more words with the same meaning: exclamations (list of) . 3  See more words with the same meaning: hello and other greetings. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
I think everyone said lawdy.. The word does not strike me as a former slave word. In the mountains in the South, where there were few slaves and today have an almost entirely white population, you still hear laws, as in lawdy, laws and more typically, oh, laws.. Though I've seen the latter in nineteenth century children's novels. I had a typo which I've corrected--I meant that I think everyone said lawdy.. Though I also think they said laws, and so on. But I'll continue, just for posterity--Prissy does say lawdy in the movie, though she does not in the book.
4. She’s f*cking pissed. If said woman in question is exhibiting her bitchy resting face while claiming she is fine, she is not f*cking fine. In fact, it is quite the opposite. She is using this as an excuse to be outright rude because the last thing she wants to do is explain how she is actually feeling. 7. If a guy thinks the reason his girl is “fine” is that she is on her period, the last thing he should do is ask if she’s on her period. It may make absolutely no sense, but just don’t do it. Trust me and thank me later.
I think everyone said laws.. The word does not strike me as a former slave word. In the mountains in the South, where there were few slaves and today have an almost entirely white population, you still hear laws, as in lawdy, laws and more typically, oh, laws.. Though I've seen the latter in nineteenth century children's novels. I had a typo which I've corrected--I meant that I think everyone said lawdy.. Though I also think they said laws, and so on. But I'll continue, just for posterity--Prissy does say lawdy in the movie, though she does not in the book.
6. For some reason, instead of saying either, “I don’t want to talk about it” or “It’s not you, it’s me,” a woman just claims she’s fine. I guess the rationale behind that would be, despite saying she doesn’t want to talk about it, she would somehow be forced into talking about it. 7. If a guy thinks the reason his girl is “fine” is that she is on her period, the last thing he should do is ask if she’s on her period. It may make absolutely no sense, but just don’t do it. Trust me and thank me later.
1 used to get someone's attention. 2  Yo, come here. 3  Citation from Chapter 7, Eastbound & Down (TV), Season 2 Episode 1 (2010) blacked out to resolve Google's penalty against this site. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.