PUTTING your anthurium in a larger pot will definitely encourage more growth which will lead to more flowers, probably larger ones, too. Spring is a good time to do this-if it's in a warm spot indoors you could repot it any time from now on. Use a good quality general potting mix. One with granulated bark would be best as anthuriums need plenty of air around their roots and good drainage. Choose a brand with slow-or controlled-release fertiliser in it, the type which last six to eight months or more. 
When repotting, use high-quality potting soil. Varieties: The anthuriums are collector's plants, and many of the most magnificent varieties are rare outside of greenhouses and botanical gardens. Varieties include: 1  A. andreanum. 2  Heart-shaped leaves up to 1 ft., with flowers available in red, white, pink and variegated. All anthuriums prefer plenty of warmth, regular moisture and ample fertilizer. The easiest to grow are the A. scherzerianum and A. andreanum. These plants have been extensively hybridized and are relatively common in garden centers. Flowering anthuriums will flower any time of the year, providing they are healthy.
The best time to repot your Anthurium plant is when new growth begins in spring. Move into a pot that's only 1 size bigger -- and only when necessary. Set the plant high so that the crown sits above the soil line. If roots show up at the surface between repottings, cover them with potting mix. Use a pot with drainage holes to prevent soggy soil.
4. Water anthuriums when the soil feels dry at a depth of 1 inch. Water outdoor plants only during hot, dry periods or when the soil dries out at a depth of 1 inch. Water deeply enough so that it drips through the bottom of the pot. Drain out the excess water so the plant doesn't stand in it. Fertilize anthuriums every other watering with a 9-3-6 or 12-12-12 water-soluble fertilizer mixed at a rate of 1/2 teaspoon per gallon of water. Use this solution in place of water once every one to three months. Cover the roots and stems with a layer of moss or peat as the plant grows and the root level rises
Tips & Warnings. 1  Repot anthurium plants in spring when new growth is just beginning. 2  Do not repot anthuriums if they are suffering from disease, insects, drought stress or fertilizer stress. 3  Wait until the plant returns to health, as the shock of repotting can kill a weak plant. 
Spraying the stem helps keep the plant well hydrated. Fertilize regularly. For healthy anthuriums that flower continuously, it is best to apply a dilute solution of fertilizer to the water every third or fourth time you feed your plants. Use a low nitrogen fertilizer, such as a 7-9-5. Pot up often. Pot up in a container that is just one size larger, as potting up to a pot that is too large will lead to root rot and anthurium death. The plant should comprise 2/3 of the plant-pot combination; the pot 1/3. Watch for pests. Anthuriums tend to be relatively disease resistant.
The best way to repot an anthurium is into a large basket, like a mesh basket or a wood slat basket lined with mesh, filled with a mix of organic stuff like bark, peanut shells, some humus, perlite, aliflor, etc. The roots are looking for air when they come out of the dirt like yours are. 
Give your plant as much bright light as you can year-round, but keep it out of direct sun. A curtain-filtered sunny window is ideal. Raise the humidity. Because of the need for humidity, Anthurium growing can be challenging in the home. However, newer cultivars are less fussy than the species. If the relative humidity drops below 50%, use a humidity tray or room humidifier to increase the moisture in the air. Move into a pot that's only 1 size bigger -- and only when necessary. Set the plant high so that the crown sits above the soil line. If roots show up at the surface between repottings, cover them with potting mix. Use a pot with drainage holes to prevent soggy soil.
Repot anthuriums as needed when the roots fill up the container. Use a pot with drainage holes, and increase the pot size by 1 or 2 inches at a time. Fill it halfway with pebbles, then use a mixture of three parts orchid peat, one part leaf mold and one part sphagnum moss. Fertilize anthuriums every other watering with a 9-3-6 or 12-12-12 water-soluble fertilizer mixed at a rate of 1/2 teaspoon per gallon of water. Use this solution in place of water once every one to three months. Cover the roots and stems with a layer of moss or peat as the plant grows and the root level rise