To make sure isosorbide mononitrate is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  congestive heart failure; 2  low blood pressure; or. 3  kidney disease (or if you are on dialysis); 4  if you take a diuretic or water pill; or. 5  if you are on a low salt diet.
Do not use isosorbide mononitrate if you are taking medicine to treat erectile dysfunction or pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). This includes sildenafil (Viagra, Revatio), avanafil (Stendra), tadalafil (Cialis, Adcirca), vardenafil (Levitra, Staxyn), and riociguat (Adempas).
Isosorbide mononitrate is in a group of drugs called nitrates. Isosorbide mononitrate dilates (widens) blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow through them and easier for the heart to pump. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent angina attacks (chest pain).
ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATE WARNINGS. Isosorbide mononitrate should be used with caution in: 1  patients with a recent history of heart disease; those with an underactive thyroid gland; liver or kidney disease; patients suffering from hypothermia; poor circulation or malnutrition.
This medication can cause unusual results with certain medical tests. Tell any doctor who treats you that you are using isosorbide mononitrate. Conditions that may cause very low blood pressure include: vomiting, diarrhea, heavy sweating, heart disease, dialysis, a low salt diet, or taking diuretics (water pills).
Be the first to review this Drug. Isosorbide mononitrate is in a group of drugs called nitrates. Isosorbide mononitrate dilates (widens) blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow through them and easier for the heart to pump. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent angina attacks (chest pain).
Before taking isosorbide mononitrate, tell your doctor if you have congestive heart failure, low blood pressure, or kidney disease. Isosorbide mononitrate can cause severe headaches, especially when you first start using it. These headaches may gradually become less severe as you continue to use the medication.
You should not use isosorbide mononitrate if: 1  you are allergic to isosorbide mononitrate, isosorbide dinitrate, or nitroglycerin; or. 2  you have early signs of a heart attack (chest pain or pressure, pain spreading to your jaw or shoulder, nausea, sweating).