1. coastal-of or relating to a coast; coastal erosion. 2. coastal-located on or near or bordering on a coast; coastal marshes; coastal waters; the Atlantic coastal plain. inland-situated away from an area's coast or border. 
Hurricanes form over water and loose power when they reach land. That means that coastal areas will receive the worst winds. The biggest danger from a hurricane is usually wha … t they call storm surges where the low pressure of the storm raises sea levels and the large waves can then move inland and destroy buildings. nights are warmer in coastal areas because the water cools down more slowly than land. so the cool air from the land moves towards the sea which makes the nights in coastal ar … eas warmer.
From Coastal Wiki. To ensure sound communication it is important to define the coastal terms used in coastal engineering and shoreline management. Therefore, definitions of terms for coastal features, processes and management issues are given in the following, see also the coastal profile below. Fig. COAST EROSION. Erosion in the coastal profile. This is taking place in the form of scouring in the foot of the cliffs or in the foot of the dunes. Coast erosion takes place mainly during strong winds, high waves and high tides and storm surge conditions.
Rugged coastline of the West Coast Region of New Zealand. A coastline or a seashore is the area where land meets the sea or ocean, or a line that forms the boundary between the land and the ocean or a lake. A precise line that can be called a coastline cannot be determined due to the Coastline paradox. Both the terms coast and coastal are often used to describe a geographic location or region; for example, New Zealand's West Coast, or the East and West Coasts of the United States. A pelagic coast refers to a coast which fronts the open ocean, as opposed to a more sheltered coast in a gulf or bay. A shore, on the other hand, can refer to parts of the land which adjoin any large body of water, including oceans (sea shore) and lakes (lake shore)
Hurricanes form over water and loose power when they reach land. That means that coastal areas will receive the worst winds. The biggest danger from a hurricane is usually wha … t they call storm surges where the low pressure of the storm raises sea levels and the large waves can then move inland and destroy buildings. 1 person found this useful. nights are warmer in coastal areas because the water cools down more slowly than land. so the cool air from the land moves towards the sea which makes the nights in coastal ar … eas warmer.
The coastal city of Bal Harbour. The coastal city of Bal Harbour. The definition of coastal is something that is either located near or has to do with the coast. 1  Cancun is an example of a coastal city. 2  Pacific Coast Highway is an example of a coastal highway
1.1 DEFINING COASTAL AREAS. Coastal areas are commonly defined as the interface or transition areas between land and sea, including large inland lakes. Coastal areas are diverse in function and form, dynamic and do not lend themselves well to definition by strict spatial boundaries. The multifaceted approach to the management of coastal resources has become known as integrated coastal management (ICM). Pernetta and Elder (1993) have described it as meaning `the process of combining all aspects of the human, physical and biological aspects of the coastal zone within a single management framework'.