The 14th amendment addresses many aspects of citizenship and the  rights of citizens. All persons born or naturalized in the United  States, and subject to the jurisdiction … thereof, are citizens of  the United States and of the state wherein they reside.
The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment echoes that of the Fifth Amendment. The Fifth Amendment, however, applies only against the federal government. After the Civil War, Congress adopted a number of measures to protect individual rights from interference by the states.
Bill of Rights (and 14th Amendment) Provisions Relating to the Right of Privacy. Liberty Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment No State shall... deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.
The 14th amendment is called the rights of citizens. It protects the rights for the free black slaves. It's called the civil rights act of 1964.   It defines who is a citizen of the US. The 14th amendment states that states must provide equal protection to all people.
See more ... All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside.
The “due process” clause in the Fourteenth Amendment must have the same basic meaning as it does in the Fifth Amendment. The meaning of the clause in the Fifth Amendment controls the meaning in the Fourteenth, and not the other way around.
No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
The Second Amendment of the United States Constitution reads: A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.. Such language has created considerable debate regarding the Amendment's intended scope.
No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. ... Section.