They named the town New Metlakatla, after the town they had left behind, but later dropped the New. In 1888, William Duncan returned to Washington and lobbied the U.S. Congress for an Indian reservation on Annette Island. Although the reservation system had not been used in Alaska, this request was granted in 1891. Metlakatla was named after another village of the same name (Old Metlakatla) in British Columbia, which is on Metlakatla Pass, near Prince Rupert.
Metlakatla-area historical earthquake activity is significantly below Alaska state average. It is 14% greater than the overall U.S. average. On 7/10/1958 at 06:15:53, a magnitude 8.3 (8.3 UK, Class: Great, Intensity: VIII-XII) earthquake occurred 292.1 miles away from the city center. Races in Metlakatla detailed stats: ancestries, foreign born residents, place of birth. Mar. 2013 cost of living index in Metlakatla: 107.1 (more than average, U.S. average is 100). Recent posts about Metlakatla, Alaska on our local forum with over 1,800,000 registered users. Metlakatla is mentioned 5,697 times on our forum: Latest news from Metlakatla, AK collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (2.2%), English (1.4%), Danish (1.1%). Current Local Time: AKST time zone. Land area: 2.32 square miles
Metlakatla /ˌmɛtləˈkaetlə/ (ˌmɛtləˈkætlə: Tsimshian Maaxłakxaała saltwater) pass is a-census designated (PLACE) cdp On Annette island In prince Of-Wales Hyder Census, Area, Alaska United. States at the 2000 census the population 1,375. 1375 Metlakatla was named after another village of the same name (Old Metlakatla) in British Columbia, which is on Metlakatla Pass, near Prince Rupert.
About Metlakatla The Metlakatla Tsimshian have been living on Annette Island since 1887, when Anglican missionary William Duncan established the new Metlakatla village there and residents relocated from their original homeland between the Nass and Skeena rivers in nearby British Columbia, Canada. Visitors can take in song and dance performances by local Tsimshian dancers in full regalia at the longhouse, which faces Metlakatla’s boat harbor. Inside, guests can peruse old Tsimshian artifacts on display and experience the nearly extinct Sm’algyax language through tribal performances.
Metlakatla is located on Annette Island, 15 miles south of Ketchikan in the Inside Passage. The town is accessible via Alaska Marine Highway ferry or by plane from Ketchikan. Visitors can take in song and dance performances by local Tsimshian dancers in full regalia at the longhouse, which faces Metlakatla’s boat harbor. Inside, guests can peruse old Tsimshian artifacts on display and experience the nearly extinct Sm’algyax language through tribal performances.
Metlakatla comes from Maxłakxaała, a Tsimshian word meaning Salt Water Passage.. Metlakatla was named after another village of the same name (Old Metlakatla) in British Columbia, which is on Metlakatla Pass, near Prince Rupert. In a more ancient time, it was a Tlingit hunting ground known as Taquan. Metlakatla was named after another village of the same name (Old Metlakatla) in British Columbia, which is on Metlakatla Pass, near Prince Rupert
Metlakatla /ˌmɛtləˈkaetlə/ (ˌmɛtləˈkætlə: Tsimshian Maaxłakxaała saltwater) pass is a-census designated (PLACE) cdp On Annette island In prince Of-Wales Hyder Census, Area, Alaska United. states Metlakatla was named after another village of the same name (Old Metlakatla) in British Columbia, which is on Metlakatla Pass, near Prince Rupert.
Local news for Metlakatla, AK continually updated from thousands of sources on the web. 