› MEASURES 0.01 of a particular ​unit of ​measurement, used in the ​metric ​system: There are 100 ​centimetres in a ​metre. a centilitre. (Definition of centi-from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). › 0.01 or one ​hundredth of the ​stated ​unit: a ​centimetre a ​centilitre. (Definition of centi-from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
Metric Units of Measurement. In the metric system of measurement, designations of multiples and subdivision of any unit may be arrived at by combining with the name of the unit the prefixes. , hecto, and. meaning, respectively, 10, 100, and 1000, and. Prefixes
A metric prefix is a unit prefix that precedes a basic unit of measure to indicate a multiple or fraction of the unit. While all metric prefixes in common use today are decadic, historically there have been a number of binary metric prefixes as well. Each prefix has a unique symbol that is prepended to the unit symbol. 
centi- (Prefix). In the International System of Units and other metric systems of units, multiplying the unit to which it is attached by 10. Symbol: c. Origin: From centum, hundred via. Employed as a prefix to indicate one-hundredth, as centimeter, the one-hundredth of a meter; centi-ampere, the one-hundredth of an ampere.
A prefix meaning one hundredth (1/100). Example: 1/100th of a meter is called a centimeter (there are 100 centimeters in a meter).
In the metric system of weights and measures, the names of multiples and subdivisions of any unit may be derived by combining the name of the unit with prefixes, such as deka, hecto, and kilo, meaning, respectively, 10, 100, 1,000, and deci, 
centi- (c), Prefix used in the SI and metric system to signify one hundredth (10 -2). [L. centum, one hundred]. word element. [L.] hundred; usually used in naming units of measurement to indicate one-hundredth (10 −2) of the unit designated by the root with which it is combined, e.g. centigram. word element [L.], hundred; used (a) in naming units of measurement to indicate one hundredth (10−2) of the unit designated by the root with which it is combined (symbol c) and (b) to denote one hundred (e.g., centipede).
Centi (symbol c) is a unit prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one hundredth. Proposed in 1793 and adopted in 1795, the prefix comes from the Latin centum, meaning hundred. Since 1960, the prefix is part of the International System of Units (SI). It is mainly used in combination with metre to form centimetre, a common unit of length.
Centi is a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one hundredth. Adopted in 1795, the prefix comes from the Latin centum, meaning hundred. It is mainly used with the metre to express lengths in centimetres, a common unit of length. Employed as a prefix to indicate one-hundredth, as centimeter, the one-hundredth of a meter; centi-ampere, the one-hundredth of an ampere.