the mom can be spayed as soon as the pups are weaned at 8 weeks. Pups can be spayed and neutered as early as 8 weeks if they are at least 2 pounds.. you will have to find a vet that is willing to do a pediatric spay/neuter tho.. some vets dont like to speuter until closer to 6 months of age. Nekkid Truth! It's best to wait until after the pups have been weaned and a few weeks after. You definately want to take mom and pups into see a vet as soon as possible for a post natal check over. At that time you can ask your vet when they want to spay mom. As for the pups ask them if they will spay and neuter them that young.
One can spay a mother as soon as the kittens or pups are weaned, (5 to 6 weeks for kittens and 4 to 5 weeks for puppies) and because of the risk of pregnancy this should be done. Today some vets will spay/neuter at eight weeks of age, while other adhere to the old practice of six months of age. The average age at which pets are spayed or neutered is four months. Adolescent cats and dogs as young as five months can get pregnant.
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. A spay surgery prevents dogs from getting pregnant by removing both the ovaries and the uterus. It’s not as simple as the neuter surgery the guys get–in fact, it’s major surgery–but your darling girl will only be affected for a few days, maybe a week.
There are a number of risks associated with spaying your dog that pet owners are not being told about. First, let's look at the positives – the pros, pluses, and advantages – of spaying your female dog. Good reasons to spay your female dog. You can call it spaying or neutering, or even de-sexing. If your dog is spayed before 2.5 years old, she is less likely to develop mammary tumors, the most common malignant tumor in female dogs. In addition, the fewer heat periods she experiences, the lower the risk of mammary tumors.
Through neutering, you can help your dog or cat live a happier, healthier, longer life. Spaying eliminates the constant crying and nervous pacing of a female cat in heat. Spaying a female dog also eliminates the messiness associated with the heat cycle. Neutering of male dogs and cats can prevent certain undesirable sexual behaviors, such as urine marking, humping, male aggression and the urge to roam.
Adult dogs can be neutered at any age, but the best time is before sexual maturity. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Veejay Villafranca/Getty Images News/Getty Images. Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year
A healthy dog can be spayed as early as 6 weeks; however, it is best to spay a dog between 8 weeks and 6 months of age.   It depends on your veterinarian's training. The id … eal age to spay a dog may not be within your veterinarian's training. It is a special skill to spay a young dog. 
All the medical evidence suggests a dog should be spayed before her first heat. It’s much easier for her then because it’s a much easier surgery at that time. And the problem with letting your dog have a litter is you’ve just instantly contributed to the pet overpopulation problem. It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side