Adult yogurt is simply regular, low-fat or fat-free yogurt marketed to an adult population; baby yogurt is whole-milk based, usually organic and marketed for babies. Many brands of adult yogurts are low-fat or fat-free, which is not ideal for an infant.
Yeast, a bacteria found in bread, yogurt and chees (I think) is not harmful-why would we eat it if it was?     Yeast is the bacteria that helps bread rise when it is … baking.     The overall answer:     No, the bacteria is NOT harmful     A2:     This bacteria is acually good for females.
You may want to give some items in your fridge the cold shoulder. The recent recall of Chobani Greek yogurt brought new attention to the issue of mold that develops in food, when it's harmful and what to do about it. On Sept. 5, the company that makes Chobani yogurt voluntarily recalled containers with the code 16-012 and best-by dates of Sept. 11 to Oct. 7.
Many brands of whole-milk yogurt also contain probiotics, which are beneficial bacteria found in the human gut that can help aid in digestion, reduce the severity of certain illnesses and help treat diarrhea.
Yogurt is a high-protein food. Yogurt can be an excellent source of protein, but one variety may contain more than double the protein of another, Blatner says. Greek yogurt, which is strained to make it thicker, has up to 20 grams of protein per container; traditional yogurt may have as few as five grams.
Most brands of yogurt contain good-for-you bacteria. The words live and active cultures on the container mean that your yogurt has probiotics, beneficial bugs that live in your digestive tract and help crowd out harmful microorganisms that can cause intestinal infections.
Yogurt is a dairy product made by fermenting milk using one or more of a variety of particular bacteria such as Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus bulgaricus, Enterococcus faecium, Streptococcus thermophilus, and others.
Avoid giving your infant low-fat or fat-free yogurt. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recommends that infants exclusively breast-feed during the first six months of life and consume breast milk and complementary foods from 6 to 12 months of age. Infant formula can be used in place of breast milk.