Method 2 of 3: Reheat Steak in an Oven. 1. Maintain the flavor of a juicy steak by reheating it in a microwave oven. Place the meat in a microwavable dish, then drizzle a small amount of steak sauce, Italian dressing, teriyaki or barbecue sauce over the top, along with a few drops of oil or melted butter. 3. Heat leftover steak in a heavy frying pan and cover it with beef broth. Turn the heat up until the broth simmers, then allow the meat to simmer in the broth until it is thoroughly heated. Eat as is, or slice it for use in a hoagie roll or a French dip sandwich.
But you want to retain the juices and the flavor of the original steak. So this is how to perfectly reheat leftover steak and prime rib: 1  Place your leftover steak or prime rib in a piece of foil. 2  Then, using the au jus your steak came with, or a beef broth, use cover your steak in 2-3 tbsp worth. 3  Hint: most restaurants provide au jus for prime rib and you can ask for a “to-go” cup of it. 1 Place your leftover steak or prime rib in a piece of foil. 2  Then, using the au jus your steak came with, or a beef broth, use cover your steak in 2-3 tbsp worth.
Instructions. Heat the oven or toaster oven to 250F. Cook the steak until the interior temperature is 110 degrees. Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over high heat until smoking. Sear the steak for about 1 minute on each side. Let the steak rest at least five minutes before cutting to allow the juices to settle. 2. Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over high heat until smoking. Sear the steak for about 1 minute on each side. 3
Essentially, the trick for reheating cooked steak without losing moisture or that flavorful crust is to duplicate the cooking method that got it to where it was in the first place. Start it off slow in the oven, then sear it in a pan, the way the video above describes. 
PrintThe Best Way to Reheat Steak Ingredientsleftover steak vegetable oilInstructionsHeat the oven or toaster oven to 250F. Cook the steak until the interior temperature is 110 degrees. Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over high heat until smoking. Sear the steak for about 1 minute on each side. Let the steak rest at least five minutes before cutting to allow the juices to settle. 2. Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over high heat until smoking. Sear the steak for about 1 minute on each side. 3
Three Methods: Reheat Steak on a Stove Top Reheat Steak in an Oven Reheat Steak with the Heating & Searing Method. While freshly-cooked steak is tender and flavorful, reheating the steak is a different matter, as reheating often results in dry, rubbery, flavorless meat. If you want to enjoy your steak just as much the second time around, try one of these several easy methods for reheating. 1  Prep time (Stove-top): 5 minutes. 3. Heat leftover steak in a heavy frying pan and cover it with beef broth. Turn the heat up until the broth simmers, then allow the meat to simmer in the broth until it is thoroughly heated. Eat as is, or slice it for use in a hoagie roll or a French dip sandwich.
1. Cook the steak in a 250 degree oven until the interior temperature is 110 degrees. In my little toaster oven it took 40 minutes for this 3 inch steak to come to temperature. 2. Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over high heat until smoking. Sear the steak for about 1 minute on each side. 3. Let the steak rest at least five minutes before cutting to allow the juices to settle.
Heat your grilled steak in a Ziploc bag. The best way to reheat grilled steak is to use a Ziploc bag and submerge it in boiling water. In order to do this, you need to get a large pot half-filled with water, which you need to bring to a boil. Do not forget to drizzle the top part of the steak with butter. Stop heating once the temperature is warm, but do not let it get very hot or overcooked. Reheat using beef broth. You can put your leftover grilled steak in a frying pan, then pour beef broth over it. Let the broth and meat simmer by turning the heat up.