Lystrosaurus (/ˌlɪstrəˈsɔrəs/ ; shovel lizard) is a genus of Late Permian and Early Triassic Period dicynodont therapsids, which lived around 250 million years ago in what is now Antarctica, India, and South Africa. L. maccaigi is the largest and apparently most specialized species, while L. curvatus was the least specialized. A Lystrosaurus-like fossil, Kwazulusaurus shakai, has also been found in South Africa. Although not assigned to the same genus, K. shakai is very similar to L. curvatus.
Lystrosaurus georgi. Most Lystrosaurus fossils have been found in the Balfour and Katburg Formations of the Karoo region, which is mostly in South Africa; these specimens offer the best prospects of identifying species because they are the most numerous and have been studied for the longest time. Lystrosaurus had only two teeth, as with all other dicynodonts, as well as a pair of tusk-like canines. Lystrosaurus is thought to have had a horny beak that was used for biting off pieces of vegetation. Lystrosaurus was a heavily-built, herbivorous animal, approximately the size of a pig.
Is it just me or is this loyal lystrosaurus a prehistoric dog? We take a look at another officially announced dinosaur called the Lystrosaurus. A Buffing creature that boosts dinosaur exp gain when this thing is close to them! Surely this is a great addition to the dinosaur zoo and a great companion! If you wondered how to level dinosaurs faster in ark, here's your answer! 
Dossier [edit | edit source]. 1  Wild: Lystrosaurus aicifidelis is a small herbivore, common to much of the island. 2  Domesticated: Not surprisingly, Lystrosaurus is an extremly loyal pet once tamed. 3  Known Information: Despite being among the Island's tinier herbivores, Lystrosaurus is an incredibly resilient survivor. 1 The poisonous insects of the island seem to have little effect on Lystrosaurus. 2  Domesticated: Not surprisingly, Lystrosaurus is an extremly loyal pet once tamed. 3  It's a very fast learner, so it gains experience much more quickly than most other creatures.
Lystrosaurus (meaning shovel lizard in Greek) is an extinct genus of dicynodont therapsid that lived during the Late Permian and Early Triassic periods, around 250 million years ago in what is now Antarctica, India and South Africa. Lystrosaurus had only two teeth, as with all other dicynodonts, as well as a pair of tusk-like canines. Lystrosaurus is thought to have had a horny beak that was used for biting off pieces of vegetation. Lystrosaurus was a heavily-built, herbivorous animal, approximately the size of a pig.
1 Wild: Lystrosaurus aicifidelis is a small herbivore, common to much of the island. 2  Only about two feet long, it is not high on the food chain, and eats small plant life. 3  The poisonous insects of the island seem to have little effect on Lystrosaurus. 1 The poisonous insects of the island seem to have little effect on Lystrosaurus. 2  Domesticated: Not surprisingly, Lystrosaurus is an extremly loyal pet once tamed. 3  It's a very fast learner, so it gains experience much more quickly than most other creatures.
In dinosaurs and mammals, which have erect limbs, the sacral vertebrae are fused to each other and to the pelvis. A buttress above each acetabulum (hip socket) is thought to have prevented dislocation of the femur (thigh bone) while Lystrosaurus was walking with a semi-sprawling gait. Lystrosaurus had only two teeth, as with all other dicynodonts, as well as a pair of tusk-like canines. Lystrosaurus is thought to have had a horny beak that was used for biting off pieces of vegetation. Lystrosaurus was a heavily-built, herbivorous animal, approximately the size of a pig.
By the way, it was once thought that Lystrosaurus lived much like a modern hippopotamus, pursuing a semi-aquatic existence, but it now appears that this creature thrived in hot, dry environments--perhaps an adaptation that aided its success in the harsh climate of the early Triassic period. 
Being a dicynodont, Lystrosaurus had only two teeth, a pair of tusk-like canines, and is thought to have had a horny beak that was used for biting off pieces of vegetation. Lystrosaurus was a heavily built, herbivorous animal, approximately the size of a pig. The structure of its shoulders and hip joints suggests that Lystrosaurus moved with a semi-sprawling gait. L. maccaigi is the largest and apparently most specialized species, while L. curvatus was the least specialized. A Lystrosaurus-like fossil, Kwazulusaurus shakai, has also been found in South Africa. Although not assigned to the same genus, K. shakai is very similar to L. curvatus.