Hillary Clinton made a surprising move this week. It wasn't running for president — she'd already set the stage for that — but embracing the idea of a constitutional amendment to restrict or eliminate big money in politics. We need to fix our dysfunctional political system and get unaccounted money out of it, once and for all, even if that takes a constitutional amendment, Hillary Clinton said at Kirkwood Community College in Iowa Tuesday. Michael B. Thomas/AFP/Getty Images hide caption.
Hillary Rodham Clinton served as a United States Senator from New York from January 3, 2001 to January 21, 2009. She won the United States Senate election in New York, 2000 and the United States Senate election in New York, 2006. In 2005, Clinton issued two studies that examined the disbursement of federal homeland security funds to local communities and first responders. Clinton voted for the USA Patriot Act in October 2001.
But as a senator, I think she passed -- she has her name on three laws in eight years.. There is some truth to Bush’s claim about laws passed, but it doesn’t tell the full story about her legislative accomplishments as a senator. Laws with Clinton’s name. Clinton was first elected as a senator from New York in 2000 and re-elected in 2006. She resigned to become secretary of state, so her Senate tenure was from January 2001 to January 2009. Bush’s spokesman sent us a list of three bills Clinton sponsored hat became law.
President Clinton signs the Brady Bill. The Gun control policy of the Clinton Administration, was the White House's domestic policy on guns during Bill Clinton 's term in office as President of the United States from 1993 to 2001. 
Bush said that as a senator, Clinton had her name on three laws in eight years.. Bush used vague language here, so it’s fair game to look at the three sponsored bills and the 74 co-sponsored ones that passed. Clinton was first elected as a senator from New York in 2000 and re-elected in 2006. She resigned to become secretary of state, so her Senate tenure was from January 2001 to January 2009. Bush’s spokesman sent us a list of three bills Clinton sponsored hat became law.
Democrats wanted a Senate vote on a constitutional amendment, and they got it. The proposal passed, 54 to 42 — 13 short of the two-thirds majority required for a proposed amendment. Ratification also requires a two-thirds vote in the House, and approval from 38 states. We need to fix our dysfunctional political system and get unaccounted money out of it, once and for all, even if that takes a constitutional amendment, Hillary Clinton said at Kirkwood Community College in Iowa Tuesday. Michael B. Thomas/AFP/Getty Images hide caption.
1 If Members of the Senate vote as their States have voted on this amendment, the vote today will be 90 to 10 in favor of a constitutional amendment. 2  Marriage is a foundational institution. 3  It is under attack by the courts. 
Best Answer: Hillary Clinton in her one full term(6 yrs.) and another year campaigning, has authored and passed only 20 pieces of legislation in her term of six years into law. They range from naming a courthouse after Thurgood Marshall to naming a Post Office after Jonn A. O'Shea. In all, since he entered the Senate, Senator Obama has written 890 Bills and co-sponsored another 1096. Why is this not being discussed heavily on the blogs? Obama supporters should be copying and pasting this all over the net and inundating all the Hillary Blogs with this.
Hillary Rodham Clinton is sworn in as a United States Senator by Vice President Al Gore in the Old Senate Chamber, as President Clinton and daughter Chelsea look on. January 3, 2001. In 2005, Clinton issued two studies that examined the disbursement of federal homeland security funds to local communities and first responders. Clinton voted for the USA Patriot Act in October 2001.