Thus, the four haploid gametes (also called a tetrad) have genotypes of four types, two of which are recombinant and two of which are nonrecombinant. Note (aha !) that these are the same four types that would have resulted from independent assortment of genes on separate chromosomes. Half of these gametes (AB and ab) are the same genotype as those produced by the original homozygous parental (P) organisms, and the other half (Ab and aB) are different. So, we say that the gametes produced by the F1 organisms are 50% parental-type and 50% non-parental-type.
Genetic recombination is the production of offspring with combinations of traits that differ from those found in either parent. In eukaryotes, genetic recombination during meiosis can lead to a novel set of genetic information that can be passed on from the parents to the offspring. 
Recombination. Definition. noun, plural: recombinations. (1) (genetics) The process or act of exchanges of genes between chromosomes, resulting in a different genetic combination and ultimately to the formation of unique gametes with chromosomes that are different from those in parents. (2) (general) The process or act of bringing together (dissociated materials) once more
Gametes are produced by a type of cell division called meiosis. They are haploid, meaning that they contain only one set of chromosomes. When the haploid male and female gametes unite in a process called fertilization, they form what is called a zygote. The zygote is diploid and contains two sets of chromosomes. Definition: Gametes are reproductive cells (sex cells) that unite during sexual reproduction to form a new cell called a zygote. Male gametes are sperm and female gametes are ova (eggs). In seed bearing plants, p ollen is the male sperm producing gametophyte. Female gametes are contained within the plant ovary
Crossing-over between two heterozygous loci: • From one meiocyte four different gametes are produced. • The outcome of this is event is two parental gametes (50%), AC and ac; and two recombinant gametes (50%), Ac and aC. • You will notice that the A/a locus segregates at anaphase I, first division segregation.
Independent assortment between two heterozygous loci: • If the parental gametes are AB and ab, you will notice that one meiocyte produces either parental gametes or recombinant gametes, not both types. • The outcome of this is event is two parental gametes (50%) and two recombinant gametes (50%). • From one meiocyte four different gametes are produced. • The outcome of this is event is two parental gametes (50%), AC and ac; and two recombinant gametes (50%), Ac and aC. • You will notice that the A/a locus segregates at anaphase I, first division segregation.
(a) Complete linkage of two genes means that only nonrecombinant gametes will be produced; the recombination frequency is zero. (b) Independent assortment of two genes will result in 50% of the gametes being recombinant and 50% being non recombinant, as would be observed for genes on two different chromosomes. 
In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gamete—called an ovum (or egg)—and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like type—called a sperm. In contrast, isogamy is the state of gametes from both sexes being the same size and shape, and given arbitrary designators for mating type. The name gamete was introduced by the Austrian biologist Gregor Mendel.
Dissimilarity [edit]. In contrast to a gamete, the diploid somatic cells of an individual contain one copy of the chromosome set from the sperm and one copy of the chromosome set from the egg cell; that is, the cells of the offspring have genes expressing characteristics of both the father and the mother. In contrast, isogamy is the state of gametes from both sexes being the same size and shape, and given arbitrary designators for mating type. The name gamete was introduced by the Austrian biologist Gregor Mendel.