Definition of Lupus. Lupus (Systemic Lupus Erythematosus) is a widespread and chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease that, for unknown reasons, causes the immune system to attack the body’s own tissue and organs. Currently, there is no cure for lupus. Lupus causes a wide variety of devastating symptoms. The Four Types of Lupus. 1  Discoid lupus erythematosus: This type affects the skin and is also known as cutaneous lupus. 2  Drug-induced lupus erythematosus: Drug-induced lupus can occur as a side effect of some drugs, such as beta blockers, which are commonly used to treat heart disease and hypertension.
Systemic lupus erythematosus, often abbreviated as SLE or lupus, is a systemic autoimmune disease (or autoimmune connective tissue disease) in which the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. There are many kinds of lupus. The most common type is systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), which affects many internal organs in the body. SLE most often harms the heart, joints, skin, lungs, blood vessels, liver, kidneys, and nervous system.
1 Lupus is an autoimmune disease that can be mild or life threatening. 2  The most common forms of lupus are the milder forms, and most people with lupus enjoy a full life. 3  More than 90% of lupus sufferers are women. 
Lupus is also a disease of flares (the symptoms worsen and you feel ill) and remissions (the symptoms improve and you feel better). These are some additional facts about lupus that you should know: 1  Lupus is not contagious, not even through sexual contact. 2  You cannot catch lupus from someone or give lupus to someone. 1 You cannot catch lupus from someone or give lupus to someone. 2  Lupus is not like or related to cancer. 3  Cancer is a condition of malignant, abnormal tissues that grow rapidly and spread into surrounding tissues. 4  Lupus is an autoimmune disease, as described above.
About Lupus. Lupus is an autoimmune disease that can affect various parts of the body, including the skin, joints, heart, lungs, blood, kidneys, and brain. Normally, the body's immune system makes proteins called antibodies to protect the body against viruses, bacteria, and other foreign materials. A chronic, inflammatory, connective tissue disease that can affect the joints and many organs, including the skin, heart, lungs, kidneys, and nervous system. It can cause many different symptoms; however, not everyone with systemic lupus erythematosus has all of the symptoms.
From the 2012 Lupus Education Series. Understanding what lupus is as an autoimmune disease and how it affects the body was the focus of a presentation by Dr. Laura Geraldino, MD at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Dr. Robert Winchester followed her presentation with an open question and answer session. 
Lupus is an autoimmune disease characterized by inflammation of different tissues of the body. Autoimmune diseases happen when the body’s immune system attacks its own tissues. The most common type of lupus is systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), which affects different parts of the body including internal organs. SLE is an autoimmune disease in which the immune system makes antibodies to cells in the body leading to widespread inflammation and tissue damage. For an epidemiologic overview of SLE, visit the CDC Arthritis Program's lupus page.
Lupus Overview. Lupus, an autoimmune disease, happens when the immune system attacks its tissues, causing inflammation, swelling, pain, and damage. Lupus symptoms include fatigue, joint pain, fever, and a lupus rash. 
Lupus is a chronic, autoimmune disease that can damage any part of the body (skin, joints, and/or organs inside the body). Chronic means that the signs and symptoms tend to last longer than six weeks and often for many years. 1 You cannot catch lupus from someone or give lupus to someone. 2  Lupus is not like or related to cancer. 3  Cancer is a condition of malignant, abnormal tissues that grow rapidly and spread into surrounding tissues. 4  Lupus is an autoimmune disease, as described above.