How long can you leave eggs (uncracked) out unrefrigerated before they can no longer be eaten?
After eggs are refrigerated, they need to stay that way. A cold egg left out at room temperature can sweat, facilitating the movement of bacteria into the egg and increasing the growth of bacteria. Refrigerated eggs should not be left out more than 2 hours.
Once refrigerated, they must continue to stay in the fridge until use, but will stay good up to 6 months (or more) only who keeps eggs that long anyway. Oh, yeah, commercial egg producers. Store bought eggs can be an average of 3 weeks to 3 months old by the time you buy them. Fresh eggs are very hardy.
Refrigeration protects eggs against pathogen growth. Eggs also age 4 times faster when they are unrefrigerated, so eggs that normally have a 30-45 day shelf life, would deteriorate in just over a week. The rule of thumb is that refrigerated foods should not be left out at room temperature for more than 2 hours.
It can even keep eggs fresh for awhile without any refrigeration and extend refrigeration by a week at least. 1  Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.
I put eggs in the frig for long term storage and in the winter time when the hens are not laying I'm happy to have them...even cold they are better than store eggs. But if I have a choice I will use up my fresh eggs first before I go into the frig for an egg.
Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
Safest Choice™ Pasteurized Eggs are good for 6-8 weeks after the Sell By date if kept in refrigeration. You can safely eat pasteurized eggs after this period of time; however, they will not have the same farm-fresh taste and will not cook up as nicely as they will before the 6-8 week mark.