Step 2: Set the new email address as the primary alias. After you set the new email address as your primary alias, that email address will be displayed as your Microsoft account alias when you sign in to all devices and services. Here's how to make this change: 1  Under Account alias, select aliases. 1 If you don't already have an email address, select Create a new email address and add it as an alias. 2  Follow the instructions. 3  If you have a non-Microsoft email address (such as a gmail.com or yahoo.com address) that you want to use, select Add an existing email address as a Microsoft account alias.
Christopher Robbins/Photodisc/Getty Images. Using HTML (hypertext markup language) code to change the name of a link on a website is a valuable skill. Not only does it save character space, for a lengthy URL, but it also makes web page content much cleaner and easier to read. Moreover, it provides the inexperienced website reader with a set of directions. 
You may want to change the email address for your Microsoft account for one of the following reasons: 1  You no longer have access to that email account because you changed email service providers. 2  You changed your name or how you want to be addressed. 3  You want to use an email address that you'll remember more easily. Change the email address that you use to sign in to your Microsoft account. Step 1: Add a new alias. 1  Sign in to your Microsoft account. 2  Select Your Info. 3  Select Manage your sign-in email or phone number
You may want to change the email address for your Microsoft account for one of the following reasons: 1  You no longer have access to that email account because you changed email service providers. 2  You changed your name or how you want to be addressed. 3  You want to use an email address that you'll remember more easily. 1 If you don't already have an email address, select Create a new email address and add it as an alias. 2  Follow the instructions. 3  If you have a non-Microsoft email address (such as a gmail.com or yahoo.com address) that you want to use, select Add an existing email address as a Microsoft account alias.
To insert a hyperlink or HTML page into a message. Click the place in the message where you want the hyperlink or Web page text to appear. To add a hyperlink, on the Insert menu, click Hyperlink. Select the file type, and then type the location or address of the link. To add an HTML page, on the Insert menu, click Text from File. In the Files of type box, select HTML Files, and then find the file you want to add
Click the File tab. Click Account Settings, and then click Account Settings. On the E-mail tab, click the e-mail account that you must change, and then click Change. Under Server Information, in the Incoming mail server box, type the complete name of the server provided by your ISP or mail administrator. Often this is mail. Click the File tab. Click Account Settings, and then click Account Settings. Select the e-mail account for which you want to change the password, and then click Change. Under Logon Information, in the Password box, type the password that was provided by your ISP or mail administrator or the password that you created.
Select the e-mail account for which you want to update the e-mail address, and then click Change. Under User Information, in the E-mail Address box, type the complete e-mail address that was assigned by your e-mail administrator or ISP. Make sure to include the user name, the @ symbol, and the domain name. Click the File tab. Click Account Settings, and then click Account Settings. Select the e-mail account for which you want to change the password, and then click Change. Under Logon Information, in the Password box, type the password that was provided by your ISP or mail administrator or the password that you created.
Change the email address you use to sign in to your Microsoft account. Step 1: Add a new alias. 1  Sign in to your Microsoft account. 2  Select Your Info. 3  Select Manage your sign-in email or phone number. 1 If you don't already have an email address, select Create a new email address and add it as an alias. 2  Follow the instructions. 3  If you have a non-Microsoft email address (such as a gmail.com or yahoo.com address) that you want to use, select Add an existing email address as a Microsoft account alias.
Create a link. You can create a link to a document, e-mail message, file, or Web page. Select the text or picture that you want to display as the link. On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Hyperlink. You can also right-click the text or picture and then click Hyperlink. Do one of the following: To link to an existing file or Web page, click Existing File or Web Page under Link to, and then type the address that you want to link to in the Address box. 