The late payment penalty is 0.5% of the unpaid taxes, assessed on a monthly basis, up to a maximum of 25%. For example, if you have $2,000.00 in unpaid taxes, the IRS may charge you $10.00 per month as a late payment penalty (because $2,000.00 x 0.5% = $10.00). Finally, there is a late filing penalty (also called the failure-to-file penalty) which is imposed if you owe tax to the IRS and you don’t file on time. This fee is 5% of the unpaid taxes, assessed on a monthly basis, up to a maximum of 5 months.
The failure-to-file penalty amount will be reduced by the amount you owe for failure-to-pay. The maximum amount you will owe for filing late will be 25% of your unpaid taxes. If you file more than 60 days late, your minimum failure-to-file penalty will be 100% of your unpaid taxes or $135 (whichever is smaller).
1 The late filing penalty is 5% of the additional taxes owed amount for every month (or fraction thereof) your return is late, up to a maximum of 25%. 2  If you file more than 60 days after the due date, the minimum penalty is $135 or 100% of your unpaid tax, whichever is smaller. 1 If you file more than 60 days after the due date, the minimum penalty is $135 or 100% of your unpaid tax, whichever is smaller. 2  Tip: The late filing penalty can be 10 times higher than the late payment penalty.
The total late–filing penalty is usually 5% of the tax owed for each month, or part of a month, that your return is late up to five months (25%). If your return is over 60 days late, the minimum penalty for late filing is the smaller of $100 or 100 percent of the tax owed. 
1 If your return is over 60 days late, there is also a minimum penalty for late filing; it is the lesser of $135 or 100 percent of the tax owed unless you had reasonable cause and acted in good faith. 2  See Topic 304 for information about extensions if you cannot file on time. April 15 is the deadline for most people to file their individual income tax returns and pay any tax owed. During its processing, the IRS checks for mathematical accuracy on your tax return. When processing is complete, if you owe any tax, penalty, or interest, you will receive a bill.
Penalty for Failure to Timely File Return: If a taxpayer is required to file an income or excise tax return and fails to timely do so, a late filing penalty may be assessed. The penalty is 5% of the amount of unpaid tax per month (or partial month) the return is late, up to a maximum of 25%. A minimum penalty of $135 may apply for returns over 60 days late. The minimum penalty is the lesser of $135 or 100% of the tax due on the return. 
The maximum amount of this penalty is 25% of your unpaid taxes. If you file your tax return more than 60 days late, the minimum failure-to-file penalty will be 100% of your unpaid taxes or $135, whichever is smaller. The maximum amount you will owe for filing late will be 25% of your unpaid taxes. If you file more than 60 days late, your minimum failure-to-file penalty will be 100% of your unpaid taxes or $135 (whichever is smaller).
Penalty for Failure to Pay Tax by the Due Date. The late payment penalty applies to any portion of federal tax that is unpaid as of the payment due date. For each month or part of a month that the tax remains unpaid, the IRS imposes a failure-to-pay penalty of half of one percent (0.5%). The late payment penalty cannot exceed 25% of the net amount of the tax due. The IRS may waive the penalty if the taxpayer can show there was a reasonable cause for the late payment. (Internal Revenue Code section 6651 .).
1 The penalty for filing late is normally 5 percent of the unpaid taxes for each month or part of a month that a tax return is late. 2  That penalty starts accruing the day after the tax filing due date and will not exceed 25 percent of your unpaid taxes. 1 That penalty starts accruing the day after the tax filing due date and will not exceed 25 percent of your unpaid taxes. 2  If you do not pay your taxes by the tax deadline, you normally will face a failure-to-pay penalty of ½ of 1
1 If you owe tax and don't file on time, there is a penalty for not filing on time. 2  The failure to file penalty is usually five percent of the tax owed for each month, or part of a month that your return is late, up to five months. April 15 is the deadline for most people to file their individual income tax returns and pay any tax owed. During its processing, the IRS checks for mathematical accuracy on your tax return. When processing is complete, if you owe any tax, penalty, or interest, you will receive a bill.