Sports medicine is the branch of healthcare specializing in the treatment and prevention of athletic injuries. Students can prepare for entry-level employment through an Associate of Science or Bachelor of Science degree program. Enrollees take courses, such as kinesiology and sports nutrition.
If you are highly organized and enjoy administrative tasks, you may want to consider earning an associate's degree in medical coding. This degree program can qualify you to become a registered health information technician.
Herbal medicine -- also called botanical medicine or phytomedicine -- refers to using a plant's seeds, berries, roots, leaves, bark, or flowers for medicinal purposes.
Bachelor's degree graduates may choose to pursue further training through a medical school or master's degree in the field. Programs may also prepare students for careers in advanced sports medicine, such as a medical practitioner.
Clinical laboratory sciences (also known as medical technology) is a biology/chemistry-based bachelor's degree that prepares students for exciting, challenging and dynamic careers in places such as hospital labs and clinics, forensic labs, veterinary clinics, industrial research labs and molecular biotechnology labs.
Undergraduate students pursing training in sports medicine may consider earning an Associate of Science (A.S.) or Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Sports Medicine. Students may also gain similar training in other programs such as athletic training, exercise science or kinesiology.
With a degree in this field, you could work as a medical coder, which is also sometimes called a medical coding specialist. As a medical coder, you would be responsible for assigning codes often used for insurance purposes to patient medical records.
Associate's degrees in sports medicine are offered through certain community colleges. Students must generally commit two years to earning an associate's degree although, on a part-time basis, it can take three or more years.
… The degree in veterinary medicine is a 4 year degree with a specific set of courses that must be completed. The class names will vary from college to college, but you can find a list of the curriculum listed on the college/university websites that offer degree program.
With a master’s degree youmay be able to teach at a college or university, especially ifcoupled with practical experience. However, these opportu-nities are limited. In higher education, it is customary tohire those with a terminal degree, such as a Ph.D., which isfour to five years beyond the undergraduate level.