Native American Meaning: The name Takoda is a Native American baby name. In Native American the meaning of the name Takoda is: Friend to everyone. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth. People with this name are excellent at analyzing, understanding, and learning
Takoda is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ta-ko-da. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2867 in baby name popularity for boys with 41 occurrences. It ranked 11750 in popular baby names for girls with 9 occurrences. View the Takoda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Takoda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Takoda to other names.
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Takoda and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Takoda and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Takoda is fascinating, learn more about it.
Being the original inhabitants of the North American Continent i.e the original Americans, they ca … nnot become Americanized through some process. What that statement may really be saying is what does it mean to Europeanize a Native American. This refers to a process of loss of the Native American's American culture and identity through indocrination, re-education, and an environment of European cultures and values. The Native American loses their American identity, and adopts the identiy and culture of the Western Europeans. For most of the indigenous peoples of the Americas it has no meaning at all. The word probably derives from the Mohawk place-name kenhta:kenhtà, [ke] at the, meadow although … some people claim it is from A shawnee. word
Takoda /tako-da/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Sioux origin, and the meaning of Takoda is friend to everyone. The root for Dakota. 
The first thing you should know if you are considering Takoda for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Takoda is a boy name. The name Takoda is of Native American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Takoda and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Takoda is fascinating, learn more about it.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Takoda in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Takoda in Nautical Flags page. It ranked 11750 in popular baby names for girls with 9 occurrences. View the Takoda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Takoda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Takoda to other names.
Native American name. In Native American, the name Takoda means-Friend to everyone (Sioux).. Other origins for the name Takoda include-Native American, American.The name Takoda is most often used as a boy name or male name. Native American Name Meaning-Friend to everyone (Sioux). Origin-Native American.
Naming a child in the Native American culture is a sacred event only to be performed by the wisest in the group, the elders. Because of the level of ritual that it is given, Native American names are considered especially significant and powerful. It ranked 11750 in popular baby names for girls with 9 occurrences. View the Takoda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Takoda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Takoda to other names.