While bakers insist room temperature eggs best bind ingredients together, fridge freaks fear they will go off if not chilled. There are two types of people in the world: those who keep their eggs in the fridge and those who think room temperature is best. The company kept two batches of eggs for a fortnight, one at room temperature, the other at a typical fridge temperature of 6c. Samples from both batches were regularly tested for nasties such as E.coli, the superbug staphylococcus aureus, salmonella, listeria and campylobacter.
If you're an American, you probably store eggs in the refrigerator – and wouldn't think of doing it any other way. Yet, the US is one of the only countries where chicken eggs are kept refrigerated. In much of Europe, for instance, eggs are often stored right on the counter, at room temperature. 
On one side are those who think that unless eggs are put in the fridge-which has a plastic rack for the purpose-there is a risk of food poisoning. According to the British Egg Information Service, the only place to keep food cool and avoid temperature fluctuations is the fridge, 'hence the advice on egg packs'. 
Some fear the spread of bacterias such as Salmonella if eggs aren't kept in a fridge or below 20C. But according to the pro-chilling British Egg Information Service: ‘For optimum freshness and food safety, eggs should be kept at a constant temperature below 20 c. The company kept two batches of eggs for a fortnight, one at room temperature, the other at a typical fridge temperature of 6c. Samples from both batches were regularly tested for nasties such as E.coli, the superbug staphylococcus aureus, salmonella, listeria and campylobacter.
To prolong the life of your eggs, don't keep them in the door of the refrigerator, even if that's where the egg holder that came with the fridge is supposed to go. The door is the warmest part of the fridge, and eggs need to be in the coldest part of the fridge instead, preferably in their original carton. 
Scientists crack the age-old argument over whether chilled or room temperature is best. 1  Some believe eggs must be kept in fridge to prevent food poisoning, while others insist room temperature is best. 2  Scientists monitored two batches of eggs over period of two weeks for changes. The company kept two batches of eggs for a fortnight, one at room temperature, the other at a typical fridge temperature of 6c. Samples from both batches were regularly tested for nasties such as E.coli, the superbug staphylococcus aureus, salmonella, listeria and campylobacter.
1 Store eggs in a cool, dry place, ideally in the fridge. 2  Eggs need to be stored at a constant temperature below 20C and in most domestic kitchens, the fridge is the best place to keep them. 3  Store eggs away from other foods. There can be bacteria on the eggshell as well as inside the egg, so take care when handling them. These tips can help avoid the spread of bacteria: 1  Keep eggs away from other foods, both when they are in the shell and after you have cracked them. 2  Be careful not to splash egg on to other foods, worktops or dishes.
Here are some tips to help you store your eggs safely: 1  Store eggs in a cool, dry place, ideally in the fridge. 2  Eggs need to be stored at a constant temperature below 20C and in most domestic kitchens, the fridge is the best place to keep them. 3  Store eggs away from other foods. There can be bacteria on the eggshell as well as inside the egg, so take care when handling them. These tips can help avoid the spread of bacteria: 1  Keep eggs away from other foods, both when they are in the shell and after you have cracked them. 2  Be careful not to splash egg on to other foods, worktops or dishes.
On one side are those who think that unless eggs are put in the fridge — which has a plastic rack for the purpose — there is a risk of food poisoning. According to the British Egg Information Service, the only place to keep food cool and avoid temperature fluctuations is the fridge, ‘hence the advice on egg packs’. The company kept two batches of eggs for a fortnight, one at room temperature, the other at a typical fridge temperature of 6c. Samples from both batches were regularly tested for nasties such as E.coli, the superbug staphylococcus aureus, salmonella, listeria and campylobacter.
Report Abuse. Eggs do need to be refrigerated at a temp of 45 degrees or colder. So maybe stick them in a cooler with ice. But it depends on how long your planning on keeping them out. In bakeries they leave the eggs out so that they get to room temp. because it's better for baking with. 