Eyelid Surgery Cost. 1  Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. Additional costs: 1  In eyelid surgery, the doctor will make an incision in the crease of the upper eyelid, then remove excess skin, tissue and fat. 2  Then, the surgeon will make another cut just below the lashes of the lower eyelid, and will remove excess fat and tissue or redistribute fat to smooth out the eye area.
The average cost of eyelid surgery is $2,874, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Blepharoplasty costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon's cost for eyelid surgery may vary based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, as well as geographic office location. Many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans to help cover blepharoplasty costs, so be sure to ask. Eyelid surgery cost may include:
Eyelid Surgery Fees. When a patient pays for blepharoplasty, the cost is actually a combination of various fees, the most substantial of which is the surgeon’s fee. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, in 2004 the average surgeon’s fee for blepharoplasty was $2,523. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
The total cost for upper and lower blepharoplasty is about $4,000. For the lower lids, the total cost is around $2,500, and upper lid blepharoplasty costs about the same as the lower lid surgery. Eyelid surgery costs tend to be higher in urban areas — like New York City or Dallas — where overhead is more expensive and where surgeons are in greater demand. The national average for plastic surgeon fees for blepharoplasty is $3,528, according to the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Of course, this is just the average. Some surgeons charge less and others charge much more. Anesthesia fees for eyelid surgery can range from $400 to $800 depending on the nature and extent of the procedure, and the facility fee can be up to $1,000
Other factors that may affect eyelid surgery cost include the surgeon's fee as well as the geographic location of his or her practice. Eyelid surgery cost is comprised primarily of anesthesia fees, facility fees and surgeon fees. The total cost can range from $2,000 to $5,000 or higher. Why the big range? Among other variables, the extent of the surgery plays a major role in determining cost. For example, upper and lower lid blepharoplasty costs about twice as much as lower lid blepharoplasty alone.
In comparison to more major forms of cosmetic surgery, blepharoplasty can be done for a relatively low cost. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
On average, lower eyelid surgery cost is about $2,400, while the price of upper eyelid surgery is usually around $2,100. The cost of laser eyelid surgery is typically higher than that of conventional blepharoplasty and can be anywhere between $3,000 and $5,000. 1  RELATED: Find a qualified plastic surgeon in your area. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
1 Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. 2  This includes the anesthesia fee, facility fee and surgeon's fee. Additional costs: 1  In eyelid surgery, the doctor will make an incision in the crease of the upper eyelid, then remove excess skin, tissue and fat. 2  Then, the surgeon will make another cut just below the lashes of the lower eyelid, and will remove excess fat and tissue or redistribute fat to smooth out the eye area.
The cost of eyelid surgery (blepharoplasty) varies based on several factors, including the expertise of the surgeon, extent of the procedure and whether it's done as a standalone surgery or in combination with other procedures, such as a brow lift or injectables. The total cost can range from $2,000 to $5,000 or higher. Why the big range? Among other variables, the extent of the surgery plays a major role in determining cost. For example, upper and lower lid blepharoplasty costs about twice as much as lower lid blepharoplasty alone.