battery. noun. 1. power unit The shavers come complete with batteries. 2. artillery, ordnance, gunnery, gun emplacement, cannonry They stopped beside a battery of abandoned guns. 3. range, lot, collection, variety, selection, array, assortment, gamut Crack is part of a battery of drugs used by addicts. battery-a device that produces electricity; may have several primary or secondary cells arranged in parallel or series. electric battery. A battery-the battery used to heat the filaments of a vacuum tube.
More technically, a higher mAh rating means the (fully-charged) battery can power a device that consumes more power and/or for a longer amount of time before becoming depleted and needing to be re-charged. mAh. Milliamp Hours. A unit for measuring electric power over time. mAh is commonly used to describe the total amount of energy a battery can store at one time. A battery rated for more mAh will power a phone for a longer amount of time, given the same usage pattern. The trade-off is that batteries with more mAh are generally also physically larger and heavier
At common law, an intentional unpermitted act causing harmful or offensive contact with the person of another. Battery is concerned with the right to have one's body left alone by others. Battery is both a tort and a crime. Its essential element, harmful or offensive contact, is the same in both areas of the law. The main distinction between the two categories lies in the penalty imposed. 2. - 1. A battery is the unlawful touching the person of another by the aggressor himself, or any other substance put in motion by him. 1 Saund. 29, b. n. 1; Id. 13 & 14, n. 3.
C battery-battery used to maintain the grid potential in a vacuum tube. electrical device-a device that produces or is powered by electricity. electrode-a conductor used to make electrical contact with some part of a circuit. battery-a device that produces electricity; may have several primary or secondary cells arranged in parallel or series. electric battery. A battery-the battery used to heat the filaments of
Medical Definition of BATTERY. 1. a: a combination of apparatus for producing a single electrical effect b: a group of two or more cells connected together to furnish electric current; also: a single cell that furnishes electric current. noun bat·tery \ˈba-t(ə-)rē\. Tweet. : a device that is placed inside a machine (such as a clock, toy, or car) to supply it with electricity. : a usually large group of similar people, things, or ideas that work together, are used together, etc.
Ampere-hour or AH. The unit of electrical capacity-this tells you how much power the battery will store. Current multiplied by time in hours equals ampere-hours. A current of one amp for one hour would be one amp-hour; a current of 3 amps for 5 hours would be 15 AH. Similar to the gallons per day measure of water. 
Full Definition of BATTERY. 1. a: the act of battering or beating b: an offensive touching or use of force on a person without the person's consent — compare assault 2a. 2. [Middle French batterie, from battre to beat] a: a grouping of artillery pieces for tactical purposes b: the guns of a warship. noun bat·tery \ˈba-t(ə-)rē\. Tweet. : a device that is placed inside a machine (such as a clock, toy, or car) to supply it with electricity. : a usually large group of similar people, things, or ideas that work together, are used together, etc.
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that supplies electric energy to an automobile. An automotive SLI battery (starting, lighting, ignition) is an automotive battery that powers the starter motor, the lights, and the ignition system of a vehicle's engine, mainly in combustion vehicles. 