The Hawaiian Islands cover 6,459 square miles. Hawaii is ranked as the 47th largest of the 50 states ahead of Connecticut, Delaware, and Rhode Island. Kohala is on the northern side of the island. Hualalai is in the west. Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa are toward the center of the island. Kilauea is located on the eastern side of Mauna Loa. Mauna Kea, at 13,796 feet above sea level, is the highest point in the state.
Hawaii is in the tropics, where the length of day and temperature are relatively uniform throughout the year. Hawaii's longest and shortest days are about 13 1/2 hours and 11 hours, respectively, compared with 14 1/2 and 10 hours for Southern California and 15 1/2 hours and 8 1/2 hours for Maine. 
Hawai`i: Hawaii is the largest of the habitable Hawaiian islands and covers 4,038 square miles. This island was formed by five volcanoes, two of which are still active. Kohala is on the northern side of the island. Hualalai is in the west. Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa are toward the center of the island. Kilauea is located on the eastern side of Mauna Loa. Mauna Kea, at 13,796 feet above sea level, is the highest point in the state.
All the islands are bordered by coral reefs and all have coasts that consist in part of cliffs, some of which are 300 to 3,000 feet in height. The mountainous nature of Hawaii is indicated by the fact that 50 percent of the State lies above an elevation of 2,000 feet and 10 percent lies above 7,000 feet. The islands of the State are the eastern-most members of the Hawaiian island Chain. This Chain extends for a distance of 2,000 miles from Kure and Midway Islands at the northwest to the Island of Hawaii at the extreme southeast end. There are six major islands in the State which occupy a narrow zone 430 miles long.
Hawaii is located in the Pacific Ocean to the southwest of the continental U.S., southeast of Japan and northeast of Australia. Hawaii is known for its tropical climate, unique topography and natural environment, as well as its multicultural population. The following is a list of ten geographic facts about Hawaii: 10) Because of Hawaii's isolation and tropical climate it is very biodiverse and there are many endemic plants and animals on the islands. Many of these species are engendered and Hawaii has the highest number of endangered species in the U.S.
The Hawaiian Islands have a total land area of 6,423.4 square miles (16,636.5 km 2). Except for Midway, which is an unincorporated territory of the United States, these islands and islets are administered as the state of Hawaii —the 50th state of the United States of America. 
1 Fortunately, those heading to Europe in the near future can take advantage of the free walking tours that are offe…. 2  Sights to See on Hawaii's Big Island For many, Hawaii is the distant chain of islands that is the United States' presence in the Pacific Ocean. 3  It is a far away and distant vacation land. Arkansas has 6 regions-Delta-River valley-Central-Ouachitas-timberlands-Ozarks I found it on Google images Duh! !D lol.
The area of theses islands is 6,447 square miles. The largest is the island of Hawaii, which is 4,038 square miles. Maui is 729 square miles. Oahu is 608 square miles. Kauai is 553 square miles. The size of kuleana, like the size of ahupua`a, depended on the natural fertility and abundance of the land. and this link: http://www.cr.nps.gov/history/online_boo... Hope this helps.
36 square miles of Hawaii are covered by water. Highest Point. The highest point in Hawaii is Mauna Kea reaching 13,796 feet into the sky. For more information, visit the U.S. Geological Survey's page about Mauna Kea. Kohala is on the northern side of the island. Hualalai is in the west. Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa are toward the center of the island. Kilauea is located on the eastern side of Mauna Loa. Mauna Kea, at 13,796 feet above sea level, is the highest point in the state.
These islands are divided into three groups. 1) The eight main islands which are located to the southeast. The main Hawaiian Island's total coastline is about 750 miles but if you count all of the inlets and bays, the total reaches about 1,052 miles. The size of kuleana, like the size of ahupua`a, depended on the natural fertility and abundance of the land. and this link: http://www.cr.nps.gov/history/online_boo... Hope this helps.