Battle of Gettysburg: Confederate General Richard Ewell’s Failure on the Heights For the second day in a row, Confederate General Richard Ewell inexplicably failed to take the offensive at Gettysburg. 'The fruits of victory, Robert E. Lee lamented, had not been gathered. Battle of Gettysburg: Union General George Stannard and the 2nd Vermont Brigade The first Vermonter to enlist in the war, Union General George Stannard helped turn the tid
The Confederate States of America (CSA or C.S.), commonly referred to as the Confederacy, was a confederation of secessionist American states existing from 1861 to 1865. On March 11, 1861, the Confederate Constitution of seven state signatories— South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas — replaced the February 7 provisional Confederated States constitution with one stating in its preamble a desire for a permanent federal government.
Nearly one-third of the total forces engaged at Gettysburg became casualties. George Gordon Meade’s Army of the Potomac lost 28 percent of the men involved; Robert E. Lee’s Army of Northern Virginia suffered over 37 percent. Of these casualties, 7,058 were fatalities (3,155 Union, 3,903 Confederate). 
The Battle of Gettysburg took place on July 1-3, 1863 in and near the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. This battle was one of the most important battles of the Civil War for the North. Robert E. Lee had invaded the North and was trying to defeat the Union Army once and for all. However, the Union Army held him off and sent him retreating. This was a major turning point in the war. He sent General Pickett, with 12,500 men, on a direct charge at the heart of the Union Army. This famous attack is called Pickett's Charge. Pickett's men were defeated with over half of them injured or killed. General Lee and the Confederate Army retreated.
Edwin Forbes Gettysburg Paintings – Gallery Scenes from the Battle of Gettysburg painted by the reporter and artist Edwin Forbes. Six Weeks in the Saddle with Brig. Gen. John Buford Union Brigadier General John Buford's troopers kept their carbines warm harassing Robert E. Lee's army during the 1863 Gettysburg campaign. Battle of Gettysburg: Union General George Stannard and the 2nd Vermont Brigade The first Vermonter to enlist in the war, Union General George Stannard helped turn the tide at Gettysburg.
Both armies had been badly bloodied. The Army of the Potomac began the battle with 83,289 men. In three days it suffered total losses in killed, wounded and missing of 17,684 men, or 21.2 percent. All the army’s corps except the VI had long casualty lists.
The Civil War was America's bloodiest conflict. The unprecedented violence of battles such as Shiloh, Antietam, Stones River, and Gettysburg shocked citizens and international observers alike. Nearly as many men died in captivity during the Civil War as were killed in the whole of the Vietnam War. Hundreds of thousands died of disease.
The government of the United States (the Union) rejected the claims of secession and considered the Confederacy illegitimate. The American Civil War began with the April 12, 1861 Confederate attack upon Fort Sumter, a Union fort in the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina. On March 11, 1861, the Confederate Constitution of seven state signatories— South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas — replaced the February 7 provisional Confederated States constitution with one stating in its preamble a desire for a permanent federal government.
The 1863 Union siege of Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River. In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg. Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant 's command of all Union armies in 1864. 