Usage notes [edit]. The Irish version of the Irish Constitution is using the term teaghlach when the English version is using the term 'family', which some people argue is a proof that the Irish constitution does not exclude same-gender couples or adopted children from its definition of family founded on marriage. (Article 41). 
One Family has long maintained that the definition of a family as laid down in the Irish Constitution “is no longer valid in today’s society” and is completely “out of touch with reality” as it is defined traditionally through judicial interpretation to mean the family based on marriage.”. Editor’s Note: The UN Human Rights Committee’s examination of Ireland’s human rights record takes place in Geneva on Monday 14 July and Tuesday 15 July.
From an Irish surname which was an Anglicized form of O ó eidirsceoil eidirsceóil meaning descendant of. THE messenger Duane, M. English irish From an, irish Surname an anglicized form Of the GAELIC Surname o ó dubhan DUBHáN . meaning descendant of dubhan dubhán 
The Irish word clann is a borrowing from the Latin planta, meaning a plant, an offshoot, offspring, a single child or children, by extension race or descendants. For instance the O'Daly family were poetically known as Clann Dalaigh, from a remote ancestor called Dalach. 
These family values can be seen in many of the Irish coat of arms and family crest that we have in our database. Your Irish family name is important to us, and displaying your family coat of arms with your Irish surname meaning with its last name origin would set off any d cor.
The Irish surname meaning with its Irish last name origin and family coat of arms like the picture shown here is a great way to show your family lineage. Each Irish surname meaning and Irish last name origin comes from our database of over 700,000 family surnames. With an average of over 130,000 visitors a month, you can image the demand for our family tree services, for example a Irish surname meaning or Irish last name origin. Free pedigree chart if needed. Your Irish family name is important to us, and displaying your family coat of arms with your Irish surname meaning with its last name origin would set off any d cor.
Article 41 of the Constitution recognises the Family “as the natural primary and fundamental unit group of Society”, and as a “moral institution possessing certain inalienable and imprescriptible rights” which are “antecedent and superior to all positive law”. 
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom has considered the position created by the new Constitution ... of the Irish Free State, in future to be described under the Constitution as 'Eire' or 'Ireland' ... The Constitution of Ireland replaced the Constitution of the Irish Free State which had been in effect since the independence of the Irish state from the United Kingdom on 6 December 1922.
Generally speaking, only families based on a marriage between one man and one woman (with or without children) are considered families under the Irish constitution. The Irish constitution devotes Article 41 to matters of the family. Despite this, the exact definition of a family is unclear from the constitution itself. The meaning of the term has instead been decided in various supreme court decisions. The 1966 case of Nicolau v An Bord Uachtala decided that unmarried fathers are not family members, and thus had no rights of adoption or custody. No of course not. To say that all Irish families are big is a huge generalisation.  In the past, the average Irish family had five or more children, because there was no con … traception, and the role of women etc.   Nowadays, the average number of children per family is two.
Anglicized form of the Irish O ó doibhilin meaning descendant Of, doibhilin a given name which may be derived from The gaelic term dobhail meaning. UNLUCKY Doherty. Irish from The IRISH O ó dochartaigh meaning Descendant ... of dochartach Anglicized form of Gaelic Mac Ruaidhri ruaidhrí meaning son OF . RUAIDHRI Ruaidhrí. Mccune irish anglicized FORM OF. MAC Eoghain. Mcdermott irish means SON  ... [of]. DIARMAID More. Mcelligott irish anglicized form Of the Gaelic Name mac uileagoid uileagóid Meaning, son of uileagoid UILEAGóID. a diminutive of uilleag