DirtySamuri said on March 20, 2013 : I’m wondering if the day/night cycle is 8 hours because of vampires and possibly other day/night related character buffs/debuffs. If I chose to be a vampire and am taking damage in sun light. 1 hour of night would make it seem like you where always rushing or waiting.
The Noore. In this video, Paul Sage states that the ESO day-night cycle lasts “about 1/3 of a day”, which means about 8 hours from dawn-to-dawn in the game. If you play 3 or so hours at night after work, that might mean that you spend the entire session in broad daylight, or the dark of night. I’m wondering if the day/night cycle is 8 hours because of vampires and possibly other day/night related character buffs/debuffs. If I chose to be a vampire and am taking damage in sun light. 1 hour of night would make it seem like you where always rushing or waiting.
The first step is to learn the days when you’re most fertile. A woman with a 28-day menstrual cycle, for example, has about 6 days each month when she can conceive – the day one of her ovaries releases an egg, called ovulation, and the 5 days before. Timing sex within that window is key. To figure it out, start charting your menstrual cycle and recording how long it lasts. Day 1 is the first day of your period. Since the length of your cycle can vary slightly from month to month, it’s best to keep track for a few months. Then, subtract 18 days from the length of your shortest cycle: this is the first day you’re likely to be fertile. 
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
The menstrual cycle is from Day 1 of bleeding to Day 1 of the next time of bleeding. Although the average cycle is 28 days, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. Girls usually start having menstrual periods between the ages of 11 and 14. Women usually start to have fewer periods between ages 39 and 51. Women in their 40s and teens may have cycles that are longer or change a lot
Your cycle begins on the first day you have regular bleeding. Spotting doesn’t count. For example, Cycle Day 1 is the first day of your period; Cycle Day 2 is the second day of your period, Cycle Day 3 is the third day of your menstrual flow, and so forth. As an example, create sample menstrual calendar for the month of January.
Ex.= February 2nd. To figure out how long your cycle is, start at cycle day 1 of your last menstrual cycle and begin counting (Cycle day 1,2,3,4 and so forth). The length= the last cycle day before you started bleeding again. Spotting doesn’t count. For example, Cycle Day 1 is the first day of your period; Cycle Day 2 is the second day of your period, Cycle Day 3 is the third day of your menstrual flow, and so forth. As an example, create sample menstrual calendar for the month of January.
The moon takes about 29 earth days to rotate around its axis. (the earth takes 24 hours, which makes one earth day). From this, it follows that one day on the moon equals 29 e … arth days. Daylight on the moon is therefore 14.5 earth days, and the same for the night on the moon. 3 people found this useful
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle.