Mycoplasma genitalium. A species of Mycoplasma that is the smallest free-living organism known. It, like M. hominis, can cause nongonococcal urethritis. 
Mycoplasma Genitalium is a very small parasitic bacterium that can infect both men and women. The Mycoplasma Genitalium bacteria can be passed through sexual contact. The NHS in the UK does not screen for Mycoplasma Genitalium. Very often urethritis that is not caused by either Chlamydia or Gonorrhoea is caused by Mycoplasma Genitalium but is described as Non-Specific Urethritis (NSU) where a specific test has not been conducted.
Mycoplasma genitalium is a small pathogenic bacterium that lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the urinary and genital tracts in humans. Its existence was first reported in 1981, and was eventually identified as new species of Mycoplasma in 1983. Specifically, it causes urethritis (inflammation of the urinary tract) both in men and women, and also cervicitis (inflammation of cervix) and pelvic inflammation in women. Its complete genome sequence was published in 1995.
Source: Diseases Database. Mycoplasma genitalium: species of gram negative bacteria originally isolated from urethral specimens of patients with non-gonoccocal urethritis; in primates it exists in parasitic association with ciliated epithelial cells in the genital and respiratory tracts. Source: CRISP. Mycoplasma genitalium: A species of gram-negative bacteria originally isolated from urethral specimens of patients with non-gonoccocal URETHRITIS. In primates it exists in parasitic association with ciliated EPITHELIAL CELLS in the genital and respiratory tracts. Source: MeSH 2007.
Doctors think the long-term consequences of a mycoplasma genitalium infection may similar to those of more well-known STDs such as gonorrhoea and chlamydia. This is because the early symptoms of mycoplasma genitalium (when there are symptoms) are similar the early signs of these conditions. In women, gonorrhoea and chlamydia (if left untreated) can lead to infertility, ectopic pregnancy and lasting pelvic pain. When diagnosed, mycoplasma genitalium is treated with antibiotics. Patients who are diagnosed with the condition are advised to contact all previous partners with whom they have had unprotected sex and inform them of the diagnosis and the need to go for testing themselves.
Mycoplasma Genitalium is normally very easy to treat with antibiotics. We recommend a 5 day course of Azithromycin to treat Mycoplasma infections but we can also use Doxycycline. It is sometimes necessary for the patient to be prescribed a 14 day course of Doxycycine. The NHS in the UK does not screen for Mycoplasma Genitalium. Very often urethritis that is not caused by either Chlamydia or Gonorrhoea is caused by Mycoplasma Genitalium but is described as Non-Specific Urethritis (NSU) where a specific test has not been conducted.
In 2014, a protein was described called Protein M from M. genitalium. Infection by M. genitalium seems fairly common, can be transmitted between partners during unprotected sexual intercourse, and can be treated with antibiotic. Specifically, it causes urethritis (inflammation of the urinary tract) both in men and women, and also cervicitis (inflammation of cervix) and pelvic inflammation in women. Its complete genome sequence was published in 1995.
Mycoplasma genitalium is a parasitic bacterium with the smallest known genome of any free living bacteria at 580,070 bp long. They are believed to have evolved from gram-positive bacteria through a process of degenerative evolution, leading to the loss of many ancestral genes and the reduction of its genome. [1]. M. genitalium is flask shaped and do not have a cell wall like all mycoplasma species. Lacking a cell wall they have only a plasma membrane, with over two thirds of its mass containing proteins. Virtually all mycoplasma lipids such as phospholipids, glycolipids, and neutral lipids, are located in the cell membrane