Generally athletic pubalgia (Gilmore's groin or sports hernia) is located more laterally (on the side) and proximally (nearest to the midline and point of attachment) and a groin disruption includes more of a range of abnormalities. Athletic pubalgia involves severe musculotendinous injuries (relate to muscles and tendons) that result in chronic groin pain and a dilated superficial inguinal ring.
Sports Hernia (Athletic Pubalgia). A sports hernia is a painful, soft tissue injury that occurs in the groin area. It most often occurs during sports that require sudden changes of direction or intense twisting movements. Although a sports hernia may lead to a traditional, abdominal hernia, it is a different injury. A sports hernia is a strain or tear of any soft tissue (muscle, tendon, ligament) in the lower abdomen or groin area. Because different tissues may be affected and a traditional hernia may not exist, the medical community prefers the term athletic pubalgia to refer to this type of injury
What is Athletic Pubalgia? Athletic pubalgia is often referred to as a sports hernia, groin disruption or Gilmore's groin, it is a common groin injury experienced by athletes. Athletic pubalgia involves severe musculotendinous injuries (relate to muscles and tendons) that result in chronic groin pain and a dilated superficial inguinal ring.
Athletic pubalgia refers to pain around the pubic symphysis and can have different causes, including what has become known as sports hernia or sportman's hernia and osteitis pubis. Athletic pubalgia is a clinical syndrome of chronic lower pelvic and groin pain, usually encountered in athletes. It is either a musculo-tendinous or osseous injury that involves the insertion of abdominal muscles on the pubis and the upper aponeurotic insertion of the adductor muscles. Athletic pubalgia is a diagnosis of exclusion. Other more important causes of groin pain must first be ruled out. The symptoms are usually very nonspecific and include: 1  tenderness on palpation of the medial inguinal floor. 2  tenderness on palpation over the pubic ramus. 3  exacerbated pain with resisted hip adduction.
Athletic pubalgia (AP), also known as groin disruption or sports hernia/sportsman's hernia (SH), has been reported to afflict athletes who participate in sports that entail repetitive twisting and turning while moving (e.g., hurdling, rugby, skiing, soccer, tennis, field hockey and ice hockey). 
Definition/Description. Pubalgia also known as a sports hernia or athletics pubalgia is a chronic groin lesion. Athletes with pubalgia have an imbalance of the adductor and abdominal muscles at the pubis, that leads to an increase of the weakness of the posterior wall of the groin. 
By Scott Kaar, MD. A sports hernia also known as athletic pubalgia, Gilmore’s groin, and slap shot gut, is an uncommon, but often missed cause of groin pain in high level athletes. It is poorly understood and poorly defined in the medical community. 
Summary. Athletic pubalgia is a distinct syndrome of lower abdomen and groin pain that is found predominantly in high-performance athletes. These individuals tend to have recurring pain, more pronounced with certain activities, and which affects athletic performance. Athletic pubalgia is probably a syndrome caused by muscle injury, because muscle disruption, detachment, or attenuation is frequently found, and muscle injury likely leads to failure of the transversalis fascia, with the resultant formation of a bulge in the posterior wall of the inguinal canal.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES Athletic pubalgia, also known as Gilmore's groin, sports/sportsman's hernia, or occult hernia is a condition limited almost exclusively to professional or other high-performance athletes. It is characterized by pain around the abdomen, groin, hip or thigh. 
Athletic pubalgia, also called the sports hernia, hockey hernia, hockey groin, Gilmore's Groin, or groin disruption is a medical condition of the pubic joint affecting athletes. It is a syndrome characterized by chronic groin pain in athletes and a dilated superficial ring of the inguinal canal. Football and ice hockey players are affected most frequently, and both recreational and professional athletes may be affected.