Report Abuse. Please find a private class to take your dog to. Petsmart classes are completely useless! I took a dog of mine to a few and all they were were social gatherings and you don't learn anything. Plus the so-called trainers are just employees that have been promoted and took a two week class on dog obedience. Puppy/beginner was $109, but in that class they gave us a $10 off coupon for the next one, so intermediate was only $99. They also recently changed their program so the classes are 6 weeks now instead of 8 weeks. They don't have potty training classes but they do offer a seminar.
PetSmart Dog and Puppy Training Assessment. We took our own 6 month old puppy, a chow/Lab mix to our local PetSmart dog obedience training class and put them to the test. There were five other puppy’s there with their owners. They ranged in size from a little Chihuahua to a very skittish mixed breed medium-large dog. 
Along with the class, you will receive a free potty training workbook worth $4.99 to really help with training. At only $15, Petsmart Puppy training cost won’t get lower than this, and we couldn’t recommend a better class to start with for any new dog owners. Private Dog Training. Class Offerings. There are a range of classes aimed at training dogs at different ages, and those without any previous levels of training either. Luckily, Petsmart dog training cost are very competitive, and offer great value for money for anybody seeking out training classes for their dogs. Whether it is one class or five, there is something here to help every type of dog owner
1 Group classes at a local community center, dog daycare or pet store usually cost from $40 to $125 or more for four to eight weekly one-hour sessions. 2  Puppy classes usually cost less than adult dog classes or classes specifically geared toward dogs with behavior issues. 1 Amazon has a selection of dog training books starting under $10. 2  Some shelters offer low-cost training, starting at about $35 and up for several weeks of classes. 3  The cost is usually lower for a dog adopted from that shelter. 4  Some boarding training programs offer a discount for a second dog from the same household.
OUR GROOMERS-QUALIFIED TO PAMPER.DEDICATED TO PETS. With annual safety certification and over 400 hours of training, our professional pet stylists are qualified to care for all breeds of dogs and cats. Your pet is in great, caring hands at our salons. With annual safety certification and over 400 hours of training, our professional pet stylists are qualified to care for all breeds of dogs and cats
Dog Training Cost. 1  Group classes at a local community center, dog daycare or pet store usually cost from $40 to $125 or more for four to eight weekly one-hour sessions. 1 Amazon has a selection of dog training books starting under $10. 2  Some shelters offer low-cost training, starting at about $35 and up for several weeks of classes. 3  The cost is usually lower for a dog adopted from that shelter. 4  Some boarding training programs offer a discount for a second dog from the same household.
Petsmart puppy training cost is something any puppy owner should be willing to invest in. A puppy requires a fair amount of training from the offset, and not having any will lead to struggles controlling the dog as it grows. This course is specially tailored for puppies aged 10 weeks to 5 months. Class Offerings. There are a range of classes aimed at training dogs at different ages, and those without any previous levels of training either. Luckily, Petsmart dog training cost are very competitive, and offer great value for money for anybody seeking out training classes for their dogs. Whether it is one class or five, there is something here to help every type of dog owner
Fun, effective & focused on success. There’s nothing like the sense of accomplishment that comes with completing dog training and seeing clear-cut results. At PetSmart, our Accredited Pet Training Instructors teach positive reinforcement techniques in a fun, interactive environment. 