If you earn $30 an hour at the office, chances are you’d like to earn at least $30 an hour from your photography. If you are a full time photographer, you can work backwards from what you need to earn in a year to support your family and your lifestyle.
The long answer depends a lot more on where you personally fit into the photography industry and your local market. In this article I am going to explore the seven critical factors that determine how much should photographers charge per hour, along with an example of how to calculate a reasonable billable rate.
For example, if I want to earn the equivalent of $30 per hour for a 40 hour work week, but I can only bill 20 hours, I have to bill $60 per hour. I am still working 40 hours per week, but only 50% can be billed to a client so my billable rate doubles.
The reality is that all professionals who bill by the hour – such as lawyers, engineers, architects, accountants etc. bill their clients at a minimum two to three times their take home pay rate. For example, if a lawyer earns $60 per hour – they would typically bill at least $120 to $180 per hour.
A photographer can typically charge $150 – $300/hour for shoot time and $100 – $150/hour for post-processing time plus assistant, seamless paper, mileage, parking, tolls, and meals. Again, some photographers charge half their shooting rate for travel time.
1 Depending on how far a photographer travels to cover an event, he or she may charge a travel fee billed by the mile or by the hour. 2  For example, Kevin Gourley in Austin, TX, charges a base travel fee of $45 (up to 20 miles), plus $1 each mile after the first 20.
1 An event photographer's hourly rate typically ranges from $50 to $300. 2  For example, Event Photography of Maine charges $50 per hour for photography sessions (DVD of images included).
Discounts: 1  Depending on how far a photographer travels to cover an event, he or she may charge a travel fee billed by the mile or by the hour. 2  For example, Kevin Gourley in Austin, TX, charges a base travel fee of $45 (up to 20 miles), plus $1 each mile after the first 20.
Lastly, most freelance and independent photographers do not work 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year. This is one reason the going rate is not $25 an hour for a photographer. Some photographers, such as wedding photographers, only work on the weekends.