The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act set out to guide government agencies in their use of Federal funds – particularly by distinguishing between contracts, cooperative agreements and grants. Contracts, the law states, are awarded when a Federal agency is acquiring something – a service, for example.
The conditional grant agreement is like a contract in that it is signed by both parties and contains specific conditions for spending the approved budget.
The Grant Agreement will be generated by the Foundation's staff within four to six weeks of approval of the grant. It will be signed by a representative of the Foundation and sent to the contract signatory designated in the Full Proposal.
Download the sample grant agreement below to better understand the types of requirements that may be associated with the receipt of a grant.
Each Grant Agreement consists of two parts, a narrative describing the general conditions of the grant and a Term Sheet detailing the specific expectations of the grantee and Foundation in regard to the particular grant.
The grant agreement will not contain all the terms that apply to your grant. A stock grant agreement is a form your company uses to grant you an equity award. Grant agreements can be in the form of printed certificates or letters or online documents.
Although grant agreements have standard provisions for all participants, the size of grants and the specific terms can differ among individuals at a company (see a related FAQ on what provisions are negotiable). They also contain terms that are specific to you, such as noncompete provisions.
If you agree to the terms and conditions of this grant agreement, please sign and return this document to Knight Foundation. A self-addressed envelope is enclosed for your convenience. Please keep a copy of the signed document for your grant files.
The Grant Agreement is an EU standard contract defining the basic conditions for the project financing. Apart from these conditions, which are stipulated in the main body of the contract, the Grant Agreement consists of the following Annexes:
1 A new conditional grant agreement is required for each year of the project and it is tied to the approved proposal for that year.