Docusate is basically a detergent that is not absorbed by the body. It encourages the mixture of water and dietary fat within the stool, making the stool softer. It does not hold water like some bulking agents nor does it stimulate the bowel like true laxatives. Casanthranol is a stimulant type of laxative. 
Save. Colace is a stool softener used to treat temporary constipation, making it easier to pass hard stools. Unlike stimulant laxatives, it promotes easier bowel movements by making stools softer, reducing strain and rectal pain associated with constipation. It does not stimulate the gastrointestinal tract. Function. Colace relieves constipation by mixing liquid with the stool, making it softer. When Colace is ingested, it absorbs water from the large intestine and then mixes the water with the stool. This process increases the volume of the stool, stimulating the digestive tract to expel i
What is peri-colace used for. 3. Get help from a doctor now ›. Slight difference: Colace is a stool softener. Pericolace is a stool softener plus a laxative. Treatment for anal fissure and internal hemorrhoid is to keep the stools formed and soft. Drink plenty of water and get plenty of fiber in your diet. Colace is probably better especially when combined with a high fiber diet.
Colace relieves constipation as a result of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a poor diet or an intestinal medical condition. It helps prevent hemorrhoids and rectal tearing that result from straining to pass hard stools. Colace is also used to speed up the rate of passing stools. Function. Colace relieves constipation by mixing liquid with the stool, making it softer. When Colace is ingested, it absorbs water from the large intestine and then mixes the water with the stool. This process increases the volume of the stool, stimulating the digestive tract to expel it
docusate. any of a group of anionic surfactants widely used as emulsifying, wetting, and dispersing agents. docusate calcium an ionic surfactant used as a stool softener. docusate potassium an anionic surfactant used as a stool softener; administered orally. docusate sodium an ionic surfactant used as a stool softener. 
Docusate, also known as docusate salts, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate, and dioctyle calcium sulfosuccinate among others, is a laxative used to treat constipation. It is considered a good choice in children who have hard feces. It is a laxative of the stool softener type and works by allowing more water to be absorbed by the feces. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.
Colace is a stool softener used to treat temporary constipation, making it easier to pass hard stools. Unlike stimulant laxatives, it promotes easier bowel movements by making stools softer, reducing strain and rectal pain associated with constipation. Function. Colace relieves constipation by mixing liquid with the stool, making it softer. When Colace is ingested, it absorbs water from the large intestine and then mixes the water with the stool. This process increases the volume of the stool, stimulating the digestive tract to expel it
Peri-colace. I've never used this product in my own practice, so the following is from the books. Peri-colace is a combination of casanthranol and colace. casanthranol is a stimulant or irritant laxative--it irritates the bowel wall and induces contractions to move the stool along. Colace (docusate) is a stool softener--it just makes the stool softer, arguably easier to pass. If you want to switch to plain colace, you would need to add an irritant laxative to your regimen such as senna or bisacodyl. The stool softener you can take at any time. So if you stick with peri-colace and want to poop in the morning, you should definitely take it at bed time. The strongest formulation of peri-colace contains 100 mg of docusate. Plain docusate comes in 100 mg or 250 mg capsules.
The active ingredients in Peri-Colace ® Tablets are docusate sodium and standardized senna concentrate. These ingredients are used together to help relieve occasional constipation. Docusate sodium works to soften the stool. 1 Ask a doctor before use if you have: 2  Stomach pain. 3  Nausea. 4  Vomiting. 5  Noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over two weeks. 6  Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. 7  These could be signs of a serious condition.