Dental hygienists in the United States must be graduates from a dental hygiene program, with either an associate degree (most common), a certificate, a bachelor's degree or a master's degree from a dental hygienist school that is accredited by the American Dental Association (ADA). Dental hygienists have a specific scope of clinical procedures they provide to their patients. They assess a patient's condition in order to offer patient-specific preventative and educational services to promote and maintain good oral health.
A dental hygienist is a licensed dental professional who is registered with a dental association or regulatory body within their country of practice. They are a primary healthcare professional who works independent of, or alongside dentists and other dental professionals in a team to provide full oral health care. Dental hygienists have a specific scope of clinical procedures they provide to their patients. They assess a patient's condition in order to offer patient-specific preventative and educational services to promote and maintain good oral health.
n. 1. The practice of keeping the mouth, teeth, and gums clean and healthy, as by regular brushing and flossing and preventive dental care. 2. The state of one's oral health, resulting from this practice or its neglect. Also called oral hygiene
Medical Definition of DENTAL HYGIENIST. : a person who assists a dentist especially in cleaning teeth. : a person who works with a dentist and whose job includes cleaning people's teeth.
an oral health care professional authorized to provide clinical and therapeutic services under the supervision of a licensed dentist, including dental prophylaxis, radiography, administration of medications, and dental education at chairside and in the community. In some states, a dental hygienist with additional education may administer local anesthetics and nitrous oxide/oxygen analgesia, place and carve filling materials, conduct additional periodontal procedures, and function as a public health specialist.
dental hygienist a dental health specialist whose primary concern is nonsurgical periodontal therapy, maintenance of dental health, and prevention of oral disease. Patient education in proper brushing and interdental cleaning (such as with floss or a water jet) is also a major responsibility of the dental hygienist. In some states, a dental hygienist with additional education may administer local anesthetics and nitrous oxide/oxygen analgesia, place and carve filling materials, conduct additional periodontal procedures, and function as a public health specialist.
Oral hygiene is the practice of keeping the mouth and teeth clean to prevent dental problems, most commonly, dental cavities, gingivitis, periodontal (gum) diseases and bad breath. There are also oral pathologic conditions in which good oral hygiene is required for healing and regeneration of the oral tissues. These conditions include gingivitis, periodontitis, and dental trauma, such as subluxation, oral cysts, and following wisdom tooth extraction.
Full Definition of DENTAL HYGIENIST. : a licensed dental professional who cleans and examines teeth. See dental hygienist defined for English-language learners. See dental hygienist defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : a person who works with a dentist and whose job includes cleaning people's teeth.
A Practical Definition of Collaborative Practice: [Dentist-dental hygienist] collaborative practice is different from and greater than [dentist-dental hygienist] collaboration. Collaboration is a single, temporal event that can occur intermittently in the day to day practice of health care. 
dental hygienist a dental health specialist whose primary concern is nonsurgical periodontal therapy, maintenance of dental health, and prevention of oral disease. Patient education in proper brushing and interdental cleaning (such as with floss or a water jet) is also a major responsibility of the dental hygienist. hygienist. dental hygienist an auxiliary member of the dental profession, trained in the art of removing calcareous deposits and stains from surfaces of teeth and in providing additional services and information on