A biopsy is a procedure performed to remove tissue or cells from the body for examination under a microscope. A lung biopsy is a procedure in which samples of lung tissue are removed (with a special biopsy needle or during surgery) to determine if lung disease or cancer is present. A lung biopsy may be performed using either a closed or an open method. Closed methods are performed through the skin or through the trachea (windpipe). An open biopsy is performed in the operating room under general anesthesia
In a needle biopsy of lung nodules, imaging techniques such as computed tomography (CT), fluoroscopy, and sometimes ultrasound or MRI are often used to help guide the interventional radiologist's instruments to the site of the abnormal growth. 
A lung needle biopsy is used to gather a piece of lung tissue for testing and examination. It is often used to diagnose an irregular area of tissue in or around the lungs. The technique is also called percutaneous needle aspiration. The first step of a lung needle biopsy is identifying the spot that needs to be tested. This is usually done with a chest X-ray or a CT scan. A healthcare provider will mark your chest where the sample needs to be taken. During the biopsy, you will sit on an exam table.
Lung biopsy is a procedure for obtaining a small sample of lung tissue for examination. The tissue is usually examined under a microscope, and may be sent to a microbiological laboratory for culture. Microscopic examination is performed by a pathologist. Purpose. A lung biopsy is usually performed to determine the cause of abnormalities, such as nodules that appear on chest x rays. It can confirm a diagnosis of cancer, especially if malignant cells are detected in the patient's sputum or bronchial washing.
A lung biopsy may be performed using either a closed or an open method. Closed methods are performed through the skin or through the trachea (windpipe). An open biopsy is performed in the operating room under general anesthesia. The various biopsy procedures include: Needle biopsy. In addition to obtaining tissue for biopsy, therapeutic procedures, such as the removal of a nodule or other tissue lesion may be performed. Open biopsy. After a general anesthetic is given, the doctor makes an incision in the skin on the chest and surgically removes a piece of lung tissue.
Why It Is Done. A lung biopsy is done to: 1  Diagnose certain lung conditions, such as sarcoidosis or pulmonary fibrosis. 2  In rare cases, a lung biopsy may be done for severe pneumonia, especially if the diagnosis is not clear. 3  Diagnose suspected lung cancer. A lung biopsy is done to: 1  Diagnose certain lung conditions, such as sarcoidosis or pulmonary fibrosis. 2  Diagnose suspected lung cancer. 3  Evaluate any abnormalities seen on other tests, such as a chest X-ray or a CT scan.
A lung biopsy is done to: 1  Diagnose certain lung conditions, such as sarcoidosis or pulmonary fibrosis. 2  Diagnose suspected lung cancer. 3  Evaluate any abnormalities seen on other tests, such as a chest X-ray or a CT scan. A lung biopsy removes a small piece of lung tissue which can be looked at under a microscope. The biopsy can be done in four ways. The method used depends on where the sample will be taken from and your overall health. 1  Bronchoscopic biopsy
A lung biopsy is done to: 1  Diagnose certain lung conditions, such as sarcoidosis or pulmonary fibrosis. 2  In rare cases, a lung biopsy may be done for severe pneumonia, especially if the diagnosis is not clear. 3  Diagnose suspected lung cancer. A lung biopsy removes a small piece of lung tissue which can be looked at under a microscope. The biopsy can be done in four ways. The method used depends on where the sample will be taken from and your overall health. 1  Bronchoscopic biopsy