Cold Problems. Anything below 60 degrees Fahrenheit is going to cause problems for your marijuana plants – especially if it continues too long and if it’s during the plant’s flowering phase. This can cause problems with your resulting harvest, so it’s important to pay close attention to the temperature surrounding your plants. That being said, if the temperature gets lower than 40 degrees Fahrenheit, there will be trouble for your plant. Make sure to download my free marijuana grow bible at this link here for more growing tips. Cold temperatures generally cause things to slow down.
Marijuana grown indoors functions better at moderate temperatures between 70 and 75*F (21-23*C) during the light period and a drop of no more than 15*F (9*C) to 60*F (15*C) during the dark period. CO2-enriched plants will produce more at a marginally higher temperature of just under 80*F (27*C). If the temperature drops below 60*F (15*C) during the dark period, plants will grow more slowly and yields will not be as abundant.
My lights-on temperature is 75F. Many marijuana growers believe that having the lights-off temperatures at least 7-10 degrees cooler than lights-on temperatures is more natural for marijuana plants, and could induce purpling in cannabis strains that have a tendency to go purple.
Proper temperature is one highly variable factor. Most books state optimum grow temperature to be 70-80 degrees, but many list extenuating circumstances that allow temperatures to go higher. Assuming genetics is not a factor, plants seem to be able to absorb more light at higher temps, perhaps up to 90 degrees. Less than 21 C (70 F) is too cold for good growth. Low temperatures at night are OK down to about 60 degrees outdoors, then start to effect the growth in a big way. Mid 50s will cause mild shock and 40s will kill your plants with repeated exposure. Keep your plants warm, especially the roots.
The temperature of the cannabis should not be excessively cold or hot. The best temperature range for cannabis is 24 to 30 C (70 to 86 F) when day or when artificial light is on. Temperatures above 31 C and under the temperature of 15.5 C seem to decrease (THC) tetrahydrocannabinol potency and sluggish growth. 
If your grow room feels warm or cold, humid or dry, that is a sign that you may want to look into changing the temperature and/or humidity of your grow area. Generally, cannabis plants prefer temperatures in the 70-80 °F (21-27 °C) range during the day when lights are on. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Temperatures below 70 degrees F are too cold for most Cannabis plants. Ideal temperature for daytime should be 70-80 degrees F. Night temperatures should be kept over 60 degrees F to prevent stress, stimulate hormones and reduce stem elongation. 
Cannabis likes a comfortable room temperature when growing indoors, or a little warmer-not too dry, not too humid. For a lot of indoor growers, that is all you need to worry about. If it feels too hot or too cold for you in your grow area, it’s probably too hot or too cold for your cannabis plants as well. Cannabis plants like about the same temperature as humans do!
Marijuana grown indoors functions better at moderate temperatures between 70 and 75*F (21-23*C) during the light period and a drop of no more than 15*F (9*C) to 60*F (15*C) during the dark period. CO2-enriched plants will produce more at a marginally higher temperature of just under 80*F (27*C). If the temperature drops below 60*F (15*C) during the dark period, plants will grow more slowly and yields will not be as abundant. For outdoor plants, you can cool the air with micro-sprayers that lower the temperature by an average of 20 to 30 degrees during the day. The spray emitted is full of droplets that are 5 microns or less in diameter.
If your grow room feels warm or cold, humid or dry, that is a sign that you may want to look into changing the temperature and/or humidity of your grow area. Generally, cannabis plants prefer temperatures in the 70-85 °F (20-30 °C) range during the day when lights are on. For a lot of indoor growers, that is all you need to worry about. If it feels too hot or too cold for you in your grow area, it’s probably too hot or too cold for your cannabis plants as well. Cannabis plants like about the same temperature as humans do!