The attack on Pearl Harbor was a surprise military strike by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, in the United States Territory of Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941. The attack led to the United States' entry into World War II. The naval vessel where the war ended on September 2, 1945 —the last US Navy battleship ever built, the USS Missouri — is now a museum ship moored in Pearl Harbor, with its bow barely 1,000 feet (300 meters) southwest of the Arizona memorial.
Japan attacks Pearl Harbor. Almost at the same time, Japanese warplanes attack the Philippines and two U.S. islands: Wake and Guam, which are later occupied. Japanese troops invade Malaya and Thailand and seize Shanghai. Later in December Japanese troops invade Burma and Hong Kong. By 1938 Japan occupied much of China and had taken Nanking, longtime capital of China, where Japanese troops killed more than 42,000 civilians. For Europeans, war began in 1939, when Germany invaded Poland.
1 If the US Fleet could be destroyed at anchor in Pearl Harbor with all of its support facilities a time window of 18 to 30 months would be opened to secure Japan's Asian goals: secure the Phillipenes, French Indochina, Burma, China, Borneo, Rabaul, Singape. 1 The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor because they knew America was going to have to enter the Pacific Theatre of WWII sooner or later. 2  America's allies, China etc. were being attacked by the Japanese. 3  The Japanese believed it would be a good idea to try and destroy all of the Aircraft Carriers in the Pacific.
By late 1941, many observers believed that hostilities between the U.S. and Japan were imminent. A Gallup poll just before the attack on Pearl Harbor found that 52% of Americans expected war with Japan, 27% did not, and 21% had no opinion. The naval vessel where the war ended on September 2, 1945 —the last US Navy battleship ever built, the USS Missouri — is now a museum ship moored in Pearl Harbor, with its bow barely 1,000 feet (300 meters) southwest of the Arizona memorial.
Japan intended the attack as a preventive action to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan planned in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States. The naval vessel where the war ended on September 2, 1945 —the last US Navy battleship ever built, the USS Missouri — is now a museum ship moored in Pearl Harbor, with its bow barely 1,000 feet (300 meters) southwest of the Arizona memorial.
1 Japan attacked Pearl Harbor because the U.S. enacted an embargo on all oil supplies to Japan. 2  The reason for the embargo is because Japan was invading China. 3  The U.S. embargo cutoff 90% of Japans resources, which crippled their economy and most importantly military. 1 The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor because they knew America was going to have to enter the Pacific Theatre of WWII sooner or later. 2  America's allies, China etc. were being attacked by the Japanese. 3  The Japanese believed it would be a good idea to try and destroy all of the Aircraft Carriers in the Pacific.
U.S. officials insist the Cowpens remained in international waters at all times. During a visit to Beijing last week, Biden told Chinese President Xi Jinping the United States had deep concerns over its newly declared East China Sea air defense zone and that Washington did not recognize it. 
For Americans, World War II began on December 7, 1941. But war had been going on for years elsewhere. For the Chinese, war began in 1931, when Japan invaded northeastern China, setting up a Japanese state called Manchukuo. By 1938 Japan occupied much of China and had taken Nanking, longtime capital of China, where Japanese troops killed more than 42,000 civilians. For Europeans, war began in 1939, when Germany invaded Poland.
Background of the Axis and Allied powers. As in World War I, the United States, Great Britian, France, and the 47 countries siding with them were known as the Allies. Japan`s attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 brought the United States into the war on the Allied side. The Battle for Leyte Gulf was the biggest naval engagement in history from the standpoint of naval tonnage involved. The battle was a decisive victory for the United States. At the end of the battle, on October 26, Japan had lost three battleships, four carriers, 10 cruisers, and nine destroyers.
December 7, 1941 is remembered as a dark day in the history of American naval fleet and Pearl Harbor. On a fine Sunday morning when the American navy units were busy doing their normal routine work, the surprise attack from Japanese’s navy stunned the world. The Japanese thought that their idea of surprise attack was too powerful that would destroy the American navy and all its hopes. America also wanted Japan to withdraw from north Indo-China. Japanese were eager to take control of Asia but Americans won’t allow it.