Barbera is the most widely grown red wine grape of Italy, and the variety was known to exist in the thirteenth century. It is believed to have originated in Piedmont near Monferrato and then spread through the rest of Italy. Merlot is a major grape variety of the Bordeaux area of South West France and has now been introduced into grape growing regions across Southern France. It is also to be found in U.S.A.  especially California-Chile, Italy and Australia and plantings are increasing generally.
WHITE GRAPE VARIETIES ALBARINO Albarino is a variety of white wine grape originally grown in Galacia (northwest Spain) and Moncao (monçao Northwest), portugal where it is used to make varietal white. Wines albarino has been thought to originate from The alsace region Of. france CARIGNANE Carignane is a grape that originated in Spain and was later transplanted to the New World. Carignane is predominately used in blending with Grenache, Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Mourvedre, and Merlot. This grape is noted for high alcohol, high tannins, and a deep purple color.
Montepulciano. This robust red grape variety is planted throughout central Italy, but it does best in the Abruzzo and Marche regions. There, in wines labeled Montepulciano d’ Abruzzo and Rosso Conero, respectively, it creates plummy, forceful reds with broad, soft tannins. One of Italy’s most compelling white grape varieties, Vermentino is grown up and down Italy, but almost always by the coast (in Liguria, for instance, as well as in Tuscany and Sardinia).
Central Italy is quite a bit simpler than either the north or the south when it comes to grape varieties, especially red grape varieties. Without a doubt, the primary red grape of central Italy is Sangiovese. Sangiovese is the most planted grape variety in Italy overall, red or white. While it is grown in many regions of Italy, most is here in central Italy. The map on the left below shows which regions focus most on Sangiovese. As you can see, the majority of Italy’s Sangiovese is in Tuscany, where two thirds of the vineyards are planted with Sangiovese. Much of the rest is in the neighboring regions of Emilia Romagna, Marche, and Umbria, along with Puglia in the south. The other principal grape variety of central Italy is Montepulciano. Montepulciano is the second most planted red grape variety in Italy and is grown in every region, but its home is the Adriatic coast of central Italy, as shown abov
Sangiovese is considered the workhorse grape of central Italy, producing everything from everyday drinking to premium wines in a variety of styles-from red still wines, to rosato to sweet passito, semi-sparkling frizzante and the dessert wine Vin Santo. Sangiovese is becoming increasingly popular as a red wine grape in Australia, having been introduced by the CSIRO in the late 1960s. For many years, this single clone (H6V9) imported from the University of California-Davis, was the only available clone for Australian winemakers.
Sangiovese. Until relatively recently Sangiovese, Italy's most widely planted vine variety, was a grape in the wilderness. And whenever the name Sangiovese did appear on a label it was far from a guarantee of greatness. Rather the reverse. 
Italian wine is exported around the world and is also extremely popular in Italy: Italians rank fifth on the world wine consumption list by volume with 42 litres per capita consumption. Grapes are grown in almost every region of the country and there are more than one million vineyards under cultivation. In 2005, production was about 20% of the global total, second only to France, which produced 26%. In the same year, Italy's share in dollar value of table wine imports into the U.S. was 32%, Australia's was 24%, and France's was 20%. Along with Australia, Italy's market share has rapidly increased in recent years.
1 Garganega: The main grape variety for wines labeled Soave, this is a dry white wine from the Veneto wine region of Italy. 2  It is popular in northeast Italy around the city of Verona. 3  Currently, there are over 3,500 distinct producers of Soave. 4  Greco di Tufo: Grown on the southwest coast of Italy. In 2005, production was about 20% of the global total, second only to France, which produced 26%. In the same year, Italy's share in dollar value of table wine imports into the U.S. was 32%, Australia's was 24%, and France's was 20%. Along with Australia, Italy's market share has rapidly increased in recent years.