fissure. n. 1. any long narrow cleft or crack, esp in a rock. 2. a weakness or flaw indicating impending disruption or discord: fissures in a decaying empire. 3. (Anatomy) anatomy a narrow split or groove that divides an organ such as the brain, lung, or liver into lobes. See also sulcus. 4. (Medicine) a small unnatural crack in the skin or mucous membrane, as between the toes or at the anus. 5. hilum, hilus - (anatomy) a depression or fissure where vessels or nerves or ducts enter a bodily organ; the hilus of the kidney. anatomy, general anatomy-the branch of morphology that deals with the structure of animals.
1 a weakness or flaw indicating impending disruption or discord ⇒ ■ fissures in a decaying empire. ( 2 anatomy) a narrow split or groove that divides an organ such as the brain, lung, or liver into lobes. 3  See also sulcus. 4  a small unnatural crack in the skin or mucous membrane, as between the toes or at the anus. 
Problem. An anal fissure (see the images below) is a painful linear tear or crack in the distal anal canal, which, in the short term, usually involves only the epithelium and, in the long term, involves the full thickness of the anal mucosa. Acute anal fissure. Anal fissure. 
Full Definition of FISSURE. 1. : a narrow opening or crack of considerable length and depth usually occurring from some breaking or parting. 2. a: a natural cleft between body parts or in the substance of an organ b: a break or slit in tissue usually at the junction of skin and mucous membrane
(December 2009). In anatomy, a fissure (Latin fissura, plural fissurae) is a groove, natural division, deep furrow, elongated cleft, or tear in various parts of the body also generally called a sulcus, or in the brain a sulcus. 1 Longitudinal fissure: found in the lower surface of the liver, also a fissure that separates the right and left hemispheres of the cerebrum. 2  Portal fissure: found in the under-surface of the liver. 3  Umbilical fissure: found in front
fissure of round ligament one on the visceral surface of the liver, lodging the round ligament in the adult. sylvian fissure (fissure of Sylvius) one extending laterally between the temporal and frontal lobes, and turning posteriorly between the temporal and parietal lobes. transverse fissure. 1. porta hepatis. 1. porta hepatis. 2. the transverse cerebral fissure between the diencephalon and the cerebral hemispheres; called also fissure of Bichat. zygal fissure any of the fissures on the cerebral cortex that consist of two branches connected by a stem.
fissure of Rolando central sulcus of cerebrum. sphenooccipital fissure the fissure between the basilar part of the occipital bone and the sphenoid bone. sylvian fissure, fissure of Sylvius one extending laterally between the temporal and frontal lobes, and turning posteriorly between the temporal and parietal lobes. 1. porta hepatis. 2. the transverse cerebral fissure between the diencephalon and the cerebral hemispheres; called also fissure of Bichat. zygal fissure any of the fissures on the cerebral cortex that consist of two branches connected by a stem.
Fissure: A cleft or groove. A fissure can be normal or abnormal. A fissure in the cerebral cortex is a normal feature. It is a deep fold that involves the entire thickness of the brain wall. A fissure in the anus is abnormal. It is a painful crack in the edge of the anus and is very painful. Also called an anal fissure or fissure in ano.
3 a lineal fault on a bony surface that occurs during the development of a part, such as a fissure in the enamel of a tooth. A fissure is usually deeper than a sulcus, but in the terminology of anatomy fissure and sulcus are often used interchangeably. Also called fissura. fissured, adj. Dermatology A groove, cleft, or sulcus, which may or may not be normal. 1. porta hepatis. 2. the transverse cerebral fissure between the diencephalon and the cerebral hemispheres; called also fissure of Bichat. zygal fissure any of the fissures on the cerebral cortex that consist of two branches connected by a stem.