Paradigms provide a starting place to help understand what is being witnessed in day-to-day life and in experiments. If you imagine that paradigms are like lenses in a pair of eyeglasses, there are several different lens styles worn by sociologists and symbolic interactionism is one of them. Symbolic interactionism tends to focus on the language and symbols that help us give meaning to the experiences in our life. They notice that as we interact with the world, we change the way we behave based on the meaning we give social interaction
Symbolic Interactionism. all communication is symbolic and based upon interaction and meaning. History and Orientation. Symbolic Interactionism, formulated by Blumer (1969) is the process of interaction in the formation of meanings for individuals. The inspiration for this theory came from Dewey (1981), which believed that human beings are best understood in a practical, interactive relation to their environment. 
Herbert Blumer, a student and interpreter of Mead, coined the term symbolic interactionism and put forward an influential summary of the perspective: people act toward things based on the meaning those things have for them, and these meanings are derived from social interaction and modified through interpretation. Symbolic interactionism is often related and connected with social structure. This concept suggests that symbolic interactionism is a construction of people’s social reality. It also implies that from a realistic point of view, the interpretations that are being made will not make much difference.
(January 2008). In sociology, interactionism is a theoretical perspective that derives social processes (such as conflict, cooperation, identity formation) from human interaction. It is the study of how individuals act within society. 
Symbolic interactionism is a school of thought in sociology that explains social behavior in terms of how people interact with each other via symbols; in this view, social structures are best understood in terms of such individual interactions. Symbolic interactionism was developed by thinkers such George Herbert Mead and Herbert Blumer in the 20th century. Mead believed that one's self develops through soci
Symbolic interaction theory analyzes society by addressing the subjective meanings that people impose on objects, events, and behaviors. Subjective meanings are given primacy because it is believed that people behave based on what they believe and not just on what is objectively true. Some fundamental aspects of our social experience and identities, like race and gender, can be understood through the symbolic interactionist lens. Having no biological bases at all, both race and gender are social constructs that function based on what we believe to be true about people, given what they look like.
Symbolic Interactionism. Symbolic interactionism is a sociological perspective on self and society based on the ideas of George H. Mead (1934), Charles H. Cooley (1902), W. I. Thomas (1931), and other pragmatists associated, primarily, with the University of Chicago in the early twentieth century. symbolic interactionism. A Dictionary of Sociology | 1998 |. © A Dictionary of Sociology 1998, originally published by Oxford University Press 1998. symbolic interactionism A leading American social psychological theory which focuses upon the ways in which meanings emerge through interaction.
Symbolic interactionism is a sociological perspective that is influential in many areas of the sociological discipline. It is particularly important in microsociology and social psychology. Symbolic interactionism is derived from American pragmatism and particularly from the work of George Herbert Mead. Symbolic interactionism is often related and connected with social structure. This concept suggests that symbolic interactionism is a construction of people’s social reality. It also implies that from a realistic point of view, the interpretations that are being made will not make much difference.
Photo Credit: Rich Kids of Instagram Tumblr. Symbolic interaction theory, or symbolic interactionism, is one of the most important perspectives in the field of sociology, providing a key theoretical foundation for much of the research conducted by sociologists. 
symbolic interactionism. (noun) The theory that society is possible because of the shared meanings and social patterns created during social interactions. Audio Pronunciation: (sym·bo·lic in·ter·act·ion·ism). Download Audio Pronunciation: symbolic interactionism.mp3. Usage Notes: 1  Herbert Blumer (1900–1986) is credited with coining the ter