In e-mail marketing, the acquisition cost or cost of acquisition is the actual cost of generating one single lead, new subscriber or customer. The acquisition cost is usually determined by dividing the total cost of a single e-mail marketing campaign by the number of leads, subscribers or customers. 
As its title would suggest, subscriber acquisition cost is a metric that is primarily used by companies that offer some sort of subscription based service, like telecommunications companies or cable television providers. Subscriber Acquisition Cost, or SAC, is the amount of money a company spends for each new subscriber they gain.
The Company recorded impairment charges for deferred subscriber acquisition costs totaling $9.6 million, $7.7 million, and $7.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. These charges are included in cost of revenues. Substantially all deferred subscriber acquisition costs consist of incremental sales compensation and fringe benefits and referral fees paid which are directly related to successful subscriber acquisition efforts. The amount of deferred commissions is based on the percentage of successful sales to total sales efforts.
Customer Acquisition Cost is the cost associated in convincing a customer to buy a product/service. This cost is incurred by the organization to convince a potential customer. This cost is inclusive of the product cost as well as the cost involved in research, marketing, and accessibility costs. This is an important business metric. It plays a major role in calculating the value of the customer to the company and the resulting return on investment (ROI) of acquisition. At some point, a given customer acquisition strategy will no longer be beneficial-this means that the financial rate of return that can be expected to accompany new customers is surpassed by the cost of acquiring those customers in the first place.
Compiled Interpretation Interpretation 1042 Subscriber Acquisition Costs in the Telecommunications Industry This compiled UIG Interpretation applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. Early application is permitted. Nature of Subscriber Acquisition Costs 16 The criteria for the recognition of assets set out in paragraphs 5(b) and (c) are likely to be satisfied only in relation to a limited range of costs incurred in obtaining subscribers.
Subscriber acquisition cost. Subscriber acquisition cost (SAC) is the average cost of signing up a new customer. It is most frequently used by mobile telecoms companies. The customer acquisition cost of mobile companies is complicated by the number of costs involved. Mobile telecoms companies frequently pay incentives to retailers who bring in customers for their networks.
DEFINITION of 'Acquisition Cost'. 1. The cost that a company recognizes on its books for property or equipment after adjusting for discounts, incentives, closing costs and other necessary expenditures, but before sales taxes. 2. BREAKING DOWN 'Acquisition Cost'. 1. Acquisition costs recognize more realistic costs on a company's financial statements. The acquisition cost of property and equipment recognizes any discounts or additional costs that the company will experience. 2.
Customer acquisition cost is the cost associated with convincing a consumer to buy your product or service, including research, marketing, and advertising costs. 
2. The cost of a business to acquire a new customer. The company recognizes costs, including marketing and incentives, to introduce new customers to the company's products and services. The customer acquisition cost is calculated by dividing total acquisition costs by total new customers over a set period of time. BREAKING DOWN 'Acquisition Cost'. 1. Acquisition costs recognize more realistic costs on a company's financial statements. The acquisition cost of property and equipment recognizes any discounts or additional costs that the company will experience. 2.