Average Starting Salary. College graduates with bachelor's degrees had an average starting salary of $48,288 in 2010, according to the fall 2010 salary survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employers. This compared with an average starting salary of $48,633 for the class of 2009. Petroleum engineering was the college major with the highest starting salary, according to the PayScale 2010-11 College Salary Report. Graduates with this bachelor's degree earned a median starting salary of $93,000.
The average starting salary for individuals with a master's degree depends on their field of study, among other factors. Keep reading to learn about some of the average starting salaries for graduates of master's degree programs in such fields as business, engineering, computer science and the humanities. The average starting salary for master's degree graduates can vary greatly based off of several factors, including the type of degree earned. For example, a computer science program graduate typically earns more than someone who graduates from a sociology program, even though they both hold a master's degree.
We've seen a steady increase in the average starting salary for bachelor's degree graduates over the past two years, indicating improvement in the job market for college graduates, says Marilyn Mackes, executive director of NACE, which includes both on-campus career counselors as well as job recruiters at employers. Computer science majors were a close second to their engineering classmates with an average salary of $59,221. The salary averages are only for those graduates who found jobs in their fields of study, not for those who have taken any job. Related: Choice of college degree can cost you millions.
It was the best year-over-year rise in starting salary since the class of 2008. The typical salary ranges from $36,988 for humanities and social sciences graduates to $61,913 for those who emerged with an engineering degree. Computer science majors were a close second to their engineering classmates with an average salary of $59,221. The salary averages are only for those graduates who found jobs in their fields of study, not for those who have taken any job. Related: Choice of college degree can cost you millions.
Starting Salaries Up 1.2 Percent for Class of 2014 Grads The average starting salary for new college graduates earning bachelor’s degrees has increased 1.2 percent over last year, according to NACE’s April 2014 Salary Survey. Engineering Dominates List of Top-Paid Majors for Class of 2013 Grads Seven of the 10 top-paid majors for Class of 2013 bachelor’s degree graduates are engineering majors, according to NACE’s January 2014 Salary Survey—the final report on starting salaries for the college Class of 2013.
In North Carolina, students who borrowed to attend Duke University's Fuqua School of Business, ranked No. 16, left school with more debt than they are likely to earn in salary. The average starting salary for Duke graduates is $114,109 and the average debt $115, 201. The chart below shows the average debt and debt-to-salary ratio for the 10 MBA programs where 2014 graduates earned the highest starting salaries. Schools that didn’t submit the average debt of 2014 graduates to U.S. News in an annual survey were excluded from the chart.
New college graduates have a median starting salary of $45,478, according to the National Association of Colleges and Employers. The data show the value of a college education. Graduates with these degrees have a median income of $38,604. On the other hand, two more specialized degrees yield much higher salaries. Graduates with business degrees have median starting salaries of $49,807. Graduates with degrees in engineering have median starting salaries of $64,891. These numbers are for bachelors and not higher degrees. The survey, however, does not explain why a college student would major in liberal arts at all
Average College Graduate Salaries. The average salary for college graduate jobs is $46,000. Average college graduate salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. 