Weather in Tenerife in May. Home to some of Europe’s most popular, buzzing holiday resorts – including Playa de las Americas, Los Gigantes and Los Cristianos – the Canary Island of Tenerife has “eternal spring” weather, and May is no exception when it comes to idyllic holiday conditions in Tenerife. May 30 each year is a bank holiday in Tenerife – Canaries Day celebrates local culture and the founding of the Canary Islands autonomous parliament in 1983. What to pack. To stay cool and comfortable on your Tenerife holiday in May pack plenty of summer clothes, and your swimsuit if you plan to catch a tan.
Sea Temperature. 20°C (68°F) in May. The average maximum daytime temperature in Tenerife in May is a warm 24°C (75°F), while the average minimum night-time temperature is a comfortable 16°C (61°F). On average 5 mm (0.2 inches) of rain normally falls in Tenerife during May with rain falling on 3 days of the month
Below is the typical weather in Tenerife in May including day-time maximum and night-time minimum temperatures, monthly rainfall figures and the average number of daily hours of sunshine & daylight and sea temperature. The average maximum daytime temperature in Tenerife in May is a warm 24°C (75°F), while the average minimum night-time temperature is a comfortable 16°C (61°F).
The weather and temperature can vary greatly between the north and the south of the island. In the north of Tenerife, such as Puerto de la Cruz, the weather is usually cooler and cloudier than it is in the south, such as in Los Gigantes and Playa de Las Americas. Taking this into consideration, if you want to do a lot of sunbathing during your holiday, you’re best off visiting Tenerife south in May. Because of the island’s warm climate year-round, the average sea temperature for the waters surrounding Tenerife is a mild 20°C in May. Although this temperature isn’t as high as it is in June and July, the sea in May is certainly warm enough for swimming.
This report describes the typical weather at the Tenerife South Airport (Reina Sofia) (Sofía, Tenerife) spain weather station over the course of an Average. May it is based on the historical records from 1984 to. 2012 earlier records are either unavailable or. unreliable 
In the south of Tenerife in May, the daily average temperatures increase as the month progresses, starting off at 20°C in the first week and jumping up to 21°C and then 22°C in the second week. This is followed by a fluctuation between 21°C and 22°C throughout the month, ending at 21°C on May 31 st. Because of the island’s warm climate year-round, the average sea temperature for the waters surrounding Tenerife is a mild 20°C in May. Although this temperature isn’t as high as it is in June and July, the sea in May is certainly warm enough for swimming.
Tenerife Weather by Month. Select a month from the list below to see the Tenerife weather for a particular month. The monthly weather averages are the best indication of conditions in each month and are based on long-term (30 year) climate statistics. The average maximum daytime temperature in Tenerife in May is a warm 24°C (75°F), while the average minimum night-time temperature is a comfortable 16°C (61°F).
The weather may be a little different in local areas – for instance up on the mountain slopes (cooler) and in the north of the island (wetter), but in general the weather on this little landmass is as good as it gets anywhere on earth. May 30 each year is a bank holiday in Tenerife – Canaries Day celebrates local culture and the founding of the Canary Islands autonomous parliament in 1983. What to pack. To stay cool and comfortable on your Tenerife holiday in May pack plenty of summer clothes, and your swimsuit if you plan to catch a tan.
Check the Weather in Tenerife in May before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in May and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. The Tenerife may weather guide shown below is for Playa de las Americas. 
Averages for Tenerife south in May. Weather lowdown. May in spring time is the last of the wet months where you would be unfortunate to see any rain on your holiday. The monthly average rainfall is just 1mm falling on 1 day in the month. This has dropped from the December high of 35mm falling over 5 to 7 days. 