I also believe that integrity is the ability to not judge someone else because of their beliefs. I may disagree with you, we can discuss it with civility, and as long as you can respect my beliefs we can be friends and have a beer. If you can't respect me and discuss it with civility, then we's a fighting.
The Wikipedia page about integrity is useful here. It defines the word this way: a concept of consistency of actions, values, methods, measures, principles, expectations, and outcomes. In ethics, integrity is regarded as the honesty and truthfulness or accuracy of one's actions.
My Personal definition / opinion of integrity is what insight my moral character consists of being. Honesty, Standing by the principles I believe in. Ethically that guide my actions as leading a Christian life essential and a sound conscience of the thoughts that make up my everyday decisions in life.
This is an example of how and organization can exercise integrity. It is important to note that a set of core values at an organization is a set of values that everyone can agree upon and rally behind. Make sure you research your department and know the core values and the mission statement.
Best Answer: Integrity. . One of the words they pretended to teach us in the Army. Integrity to me is not only having a belief, not only having principals, but being able to voice them and face opposition, and fighting for your beliefs.
Integrity is something that you have through the choices you make. It means always doing what your inner voice tells you is right....even when you can rationalize a thousand other reasons, for doing the opposite.
Definition: Integrity is one of the fundamental values that employers seek in the employees that they hire. It is the hallmark of a person who demonstrates sound moral and ethical principles at work. A person who has integrity lives his or her values in relationships with coworkers, customers, and stakeholders.
It is the mission of the University of Oklahoma to create an academic culture that fosters student integrity both in and out of the classroom. Resources found throughout this website can help you to understand this mission, as well as guide you through the academic integrity system.