Once you come into the BAU, there is a training process that includes classroom training and working with an experienced Agent-Profiler. This training period lasts for approximately 2 to 3 years. In other words, it takes a long time to become a fully functioning FBI Profiler. 
A: If you want to become an FBI agent you should be a U.S citizen and at least 23 years of age. Educational requirements include having a four year bachelor degree from an accredited university or college. A: If you are interested in becoming an FBI agent, you will need to get the right training and qualifications. Upon completion of your high school education, you can enroll in a bachelor degree program.
A: To become an FBI agent, you must get apply for training at the FBI agency. Having a bachelor degree in criminal justice is the minimum qualification you need for a career as an FBI agent. Salary. According to payscale.com, the median salary for an fbi agent is $63,276. Salaries are based upon a General Schedule Pay Scale (GS). Typically, FBI agents start of at the GS-10 level and gradually move up on the scale.
How to Become an FBI Agent. Working for the Federal Bureau of Investigation is not only a prestigious position but noble. The FBI is one of the six agencies represented by the Justice Department and enforces federal laws. Keep reading for steps to apply and be a federal agent. Make sure you meet the minimum requirements for application. 1  You must be under 37 years of age when you're hired but at least 23 years of age. 2  Have a driver's license in a US state.
A: To become a FBI agent, you need to be between the age of 23 and 37. These requirements are set by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You need to have at least a bachelor level degree in a relevant field. The next step is completing an FBI training program. A: If you are interested in becoming an FBI agent, you will need to get the right training and qualifications. Upon completion of your high school education, you can enroll in a bachelor degree program.
1 You must be under 37 years of age when you're hired but at least 23 years of age. 2  Have a driver's license in a US state. 3  Have a minimum of a Bachelors degree from an accredited four year university. 4  Be physically able to complete the training and execute the duties. Make sure you meet the minimum requirements for application. 1 
After earning your degree, the first step towards becoming an FBI special agent is to complete the online application. The process could take as few six months or as long as several years. The special agent selection system is based on the applicant’s competitiveness in the pool of candidates. A: If you are interested in becoming an FBI agent, you will need to get the right training and qualifications. Upon completion of your high school education, you can enroll in a bachelor degree program.
A: It will take you 4-5 years to become an FBI special agent. After completing a four year undergraduate degree, preferably in a relevant subject such as criminal justice, you may apply to the agency. A: If you are interested in becoming an FBI agent, you will need to get the right training and qualifications. Upon completion of your high school education, you can enroll in a bachelor degree program.