Seaweed is the common name for countless species of marine plants and algae that grow in the ocean as well as in rivers, lakes, and other water bodies. Kelp forest in the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary and National Park. Some seaweeds are microscopic, such as the phytoplankton that live suspended in the water column and provide the base for most marine food chains. Some are enormous, like the giant kelp that grow in abundant “forests” and tower like underwater redwoods from their roots at the bottom of the sea
There are two major aquatic or water biomes, the marine biome and the freshwater biome. The marine biome is primarily made up of the saltwater oceans. It is the largest biome on planet Earth and covers around 70% of the Earth's surface. Go here to learn more about the world's different oceans. 
Many types of animals eat algae in freshwater. Snails, fish, bivalves and even birds are all common algae eaters. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Seaweed Salad with Sesame Seaweed salad is often found at Chinese restaurants. 2  It's loved by many for its big flavor and unique texture. Streams and Rivers The temperature is cooler at the source than it is at the mouth Ponds and Lakes Temperature varies in ponds and lakes seasonally. During the summer, t … he temperature can range from 4° C near the bottom to 22° C at the top.
Some of Earth's aquatic biomes are freshwater. Streams, rivers, and lakes are made of fresh water. Most plants and animals need freshwater to live. Most freshwater is frozen, though. It is in ice caps and icebergs. Most plants and animals cannot use the frozen water. Aquatic means taking place in or on water. The aquatic biome is all the water on Earth. It is the largest biome on our planet. Berkeley's Biomes group divides the aquatic biome into two main groups. They are marine and freshwater. The difference between these two groups is the amount of salt in the water. Marine water contains a lot of salt. Most of Earth's aquatic biomes are marine
The flora in the pelagic zone include surface seaweeds. The fauna include many species of fish and some mammals, such as whales and dolphins. Many feed on the abundant plankton. The benthic zone is the area below the pelagic zone, but does not include the very deepest parts of the ocean (see abyssal zone below). 
Well-defined seasons with a distinct winter characterize this forest biome. Moderate climate and a growing season. trees are distinguished by broad leaves that are lost annually and include such species as oak, hickory, beech, hemlock, maple, basswood, cottonwood, elm, willow, and spring-flowering herbs. 
A biome is a geographical area that is very large in size. Each of these geographical areas has certain groups of animals and plants that are present within it. They are able to thrive there due to their ability to adapt in that particular type of environment. The geographic layout of a particular area is going to affect the biomes that are found there. The vegetation is important to explore. What is fascinating is discovering the types of adaptations that a living plant or animal goes though in order to continue thriving in a given biome.
PLANTS: Plants and algae are important to freshwater biomes because they provide oxygen through photosynthesis, and food for animals in this biome. Yum, delicious algae. In fact, that slimy scum you see on the surface of a pond or lake is lunch for many of your favorite aquatic animals, like turtles. There are a variety of fish, birds, insects, amphibians, and crustaceans that make freshwater biomes their home. One important freshwater animal in the United States is the trout. Many people love to fish for, and eat trout. Trout live in both streams and rivers.
Animals Many animals are found in the oceans of the world. Some of the marine animals are the hundreds of species of fish, snakelike eels, crabs, lobsters, shrimp, sea anemones, dolphins and manatees. Other sea animals are sea urchins that are spiney and feed on seaweed, whales such as the beluga, white, killer, and the humpback also live here. Whales sing songs as their communication link between each other. Sharks are also found in oceans of the world. Sharks have five gill slits on each side of the hea