Electronic ‘nose’ invented to scan for pesticides in food. By Tim Sandle Jul 2, 2013 in Environment. An electronic sensor has been developed to identify pesticides in food. The device uses a nano-sensor array that can detect small quantities of harmful airborne substances that can emanate from food. In addition, a prototype of the instrument can ‘smell’ pesticides, biological weapons, gas leaks, and other harmful scents. Currently, the nose is four-by-seven inches, but there are plans to shrink it down to the size of a credit card.
If you are ambitious to find a new science, measure a smell. — Alexander Graham Bell, 1914. An electronic nose was tuned to the perceptual axis of odorant pleasantness, i.e., an axis ranging from very pleasant (e.g., rose) to very unpleasant (e.g., skunk). Bio-electronic noses use olfactory receptors-proteins cloned from biological organisms, e.g. humans, that bind to specific odor molecules. One group has developed a bio-electronic nose that mimics the signaling systems used by the human nose to perceive odors at a very high sensitivity: femtomolar concentrations.
From Mind to Market: The Electronic Nose. Nosang Myung’s invention — the Electronic Nose — can detect dangerous chemicals in the air, so humans can be saved by the smell. By Ted B. Kissell. Nosang Vincent Myung has been a chemical and environmental engineering professor at UCR for 10 years. But it was at his previous position, at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, that he learned the most important lesson on presenting his research.
An electronic nose is a device intended to detect odors or flavors. Over the last decade, electronic sensing or e-sensing technologies have undergone important developments from a technical and commercial point of view. Bio-electronic noses use olfactory receptors-proteins cloned from biological organisms, e.g. humans, that bind to specific odor molecules. One group has developed a bio-electronic nose that mimics the signaling systems used by the human nose to perceive odors at a very high sensitivity: femtomolar concentrations.
The first electronic device ever invented is the relay, a remote switch controlled by electricity that was invented in 1835 by Joseph Henry, an American scientist, although it is also claimed that the English inventor Edward Davy certainly invented the electric relay in his electric telegraph c.1835. It made modern telegraphy possible and evolved into the repeater-thus the relay-a remote controlled switch, was in effect the first (Electronic) device, though not anything involving crystals, diodes, vacuum tubes etc. The first invented Relay was used as part of his telegraph system circa 1844.
The British Journal of Cancer has just recognized the potential of the “electronic nose” – developed by Dr. Hossam Haick and publicized in recent years – for detecting at an early stage four types of cancer: lung, breast, prostate and colon. 
One example of a toxin is the metal mercury. In addition, a prototype of the instrument can ‘smell’ pesticides, biological weapons, gas leaks, and other harmful scents. Currently, the nose is four-by-seven inches, but there are plans to shrink it down to the size of a credit card.
Cyrano Sciences was founded in 1997, 9 years after the concept of an “electronic nose” based on using multiple semi-selective sensors combined with electronic computation was first proposed by Gardner and Bartlett. Bio-electronic noses use olfactory receptors-proteins cloned from biological organisms, e.g. humans, that bind to specific odor molecules. One group has developed a bio-electronic nose that mimics the signaling systems used by the human nose to perceive odors at a very high sensitivity: femtomolar concentrations.
From Uncyclopedia, the content-free encyclopedia. Dr Christopher Walton demonstrating his electronic nose. The electronic nose is a device created by Dr Christopher Walton of Dursley, West Lincolnshire. It was conceived after the loss of his own nose in a house fire in 1973. 