Some diseases caused by viruses are poliomyelitis, influenza, measles caused by rubeola virus, chikenguniya caused by chikanguniya virus, chickenpox caused by varicella zoster … virus, AIDS caused by human immunodeficiency virus, and the common cold.
Some diseases caused by viruses are poliomyelitis, influenza, measles caused by rubeola virus, chikenguniya caused by chikanguniya virus, chickenpox caused by varicella zoster … virus, AIDS caused by human immunodeficiency virus, and the common cold.
There are many diseases caused by viruses. Some are-chickenpox, measles, influenza, rabies, AIDS, colds, the flu or polio. Rhinovirus (the common cold), Influenza A & B, R … otavirus, HIV, and so many, many more.
1 Smallpox: Smallpox is a serious, contagious, and sometimes fatal infectious disease caused by the variola virus. 2  Historically, smallpox had a mortality rate of as much as 30 percent. 3  In the Americas, it killed as much as 90 percent of the indigenous population after contact with Europeans introduced the disease.
1 West Nile virus can cause a fatal neurological disease in humans. 2  However, approximately 80% of people who are infected will not show any symptoms. 3  West Nile virus is mainly transmitted to people through the bites of infected mosquitoes. 4  The virus can cause severe disease and death in horses.
1 Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne. 2  Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms.
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis.
Infectious diseases are illnesses caused by the presence and activity of one or more pathogenic agents including viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular parasites and abnormal proteins called prions.