Fever and Skin rash. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms fever and skin rash including Viral pharyngitis, Gastroenteritis, and Phlebitis. There are 86 conditions associated with fever and skin rash. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. 1  Viral pharyngitis. 
A viral rash is typically caused due to two types of viral infections. They include infection of the skin caused by a virus, and other types of infections which are caused due to a combination of bacterial and viral infections. The two most common types of viral skin infections are chickenpox and measles. 1 When the skin rashes occur along with these two common symptoms, then it is most likely to point to an infection of the body by viruses, and that the rash is most likely to be a viral rash. 2  A majority of patients are also likely to experience other symptoms such as abdominal pain, and muscle aches and pains.
1 Patients affected by the rash generally tend to experience it along with fever and headaches. 2  When the skin rashes occur along with these two common symptoms, then it is most likely to point to an infection of the body by viruses, and that the rash is most likely to be a viral rash. 1 When the skin rashes occur along with these two common symptoms, then it is most likely to point to an infection of the body by viruses, and that the rash is most likely to be a viral rash. 2  A majority of patients are also likely to experience other symptoms such as abdominal pain, and muscle aches and pains.
12. 0. 45. Many viral infections can cause a rash in addition to other symptoms. Rashes are very common with viral infections, especially in young children. It is very important to make sure the rash is not part of a serious infection-eg, meningococcal infection. Many viruses can cause a rash in addition to other symptoms such as fever and cough. Many of these rashes are 'nonspecific'. This means the rash is not specific or characteristic enough to identify the virus that is causing the rash.
Symptoms include skin blisters that can appear anywhere on the body, fever or stomach pain. Chlamydia infection – A sexually transmitted bacterial infection that causes inflammation of and pain in the penis, vagina, ovaries, cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes and/or anus. West Nile Virus – A viral infection transmitted by mosquitoes. The symptoms of West Nile Virus include body aches, headaches, fever, swollen glands and rash. The virus also may target the brain, with potential life-threatening consequences.
Body aches or pains, Fever, Headache and Skin rash. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms body aches or pains, fever, headache and skin rash including Viral syndrome, Lyme disease, and Influenza (flu) adults. There are 137 conditions associated with body aches or pains, fever, headache and skin rash. 
Measles – A viral infection of the skin and respiratory system. Symptoms of measles include high fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, runny nose, cough, red eyes, white spots in mouth and throat and a rash on the head that spreads to other areas of the body. West Nile Virus – A viral infection transmitted by mosquitoes. The symptoms of West Nile Virus include body aches, headaches, fever, swollen glands and rash. The virus also may target the brain, with potential life-threatening consequences.
These viral infections may show generalised symptoms, but may target specific organs. Headaches, body aches and a skin rash characterise most of these viral fevers. They may affect any age group, and are seen world-wide. They require only symptomatic treatment. Some are highly contagious. Most of them are not dangerous and self-limited, but some can progress rapidly leading to death. Inflammation of the pharynx, a running nose, nasal congestion, headache, redness of the eyes, cough, muscle and joint pains and a skin rash could be present. The fatigue and body pain could be disproportionate to the level of fever, and lymph glands may swell up.
The most common symptoms of chickenpox are rash,fever, cough, headache and loss of appetite. The rash occurs as scattered red spots andthen forms itchy blisters in several successive crops. Theyare found on the scalp and body, and then spread to theface, arms, and legs. 