A narwhal [ Monodon monoceros ] is a mammal that rarely is found south of 65 degrees north latitude. It has two teeth, from one of which a frontwards projecting tusk grows through the mouth if the narwhal is male. It gives birth to live young. It favors a specialized diet of cod, halibut, shrimp, and squid. It dives after food in shallower waters in summer, and deeper waters in winter.
The narwhal, or narwhale (Monodon monoceros), is a medium-sized toothed whale that possesses a large tusk from a protruding canine tooth. It lives year-round in the Arctic waters around Greenland, Canada, and Russia. It is one of two living species of whale in the Monodontidae family, along with the beluga whale. In the winter, the male narwhals occasionally dive up to 1,500 metres (4,900 feet) in depth, with dives lasting up to 25 minutes. Narwhals, like most toothed whales, communicate with clicks, whistles, and knocks. Narwhals can live up to 50 years.
Size relative to a bus: The narwhal is the unicorn of the sea, a pale-colored porpoise found in Arctic coastal waters and rivers. These legendary animals have two teeth. In males, the more prominent tooth grows into a swordlike, spiral tusk up to 8.8 feet (2.7 meters) long. Females sometimes grow a small tusk of their own, but it does not become as prominent as the male's. Narwhals are related to bottlenose dolphins, belugas, harbor porpoises, and orcas. Like some other porpoises, they travel in groups and feed on fish, shrimp, squid, and other aquatic fare.
No. Narwhals -- whales -- do not live in tropical climates. They live in the Arctic Ocean Near Greenland and off the coast of Canada. It has two teeth, from one of which a frontwards projecting tusk grows through the mouth if the narwhal is male. It gives birth to live young. It favors a specialized diet of cod, halibut, shrimp, and squid. It dives after food in shallower waters in summer, and deeper waters in winter.
The narwhal is a medium-sized toothed whale that lives year-round in the frigid arctic north between Canada and GreenlandArctic. They prefer temperatures that range from about … -40 to +32 degrees F, and winter temperatures of below -58 degrees F. 
The narwhal is an odontocete or toothed whale, but unlike all other toothed whales it has no teeth in its mouth. Instead, the male develops a long straight tooth (or tusk) that protrudes 2-3 m out of the upper left jaw. The narwhal’s neck is not as flexible as a beluga. Male narwhals can reach a length of 5 meters (16 feet) and weigh up to 1,800 kg (4000 lbs). Females are slightly smaller, reaching a length of 4 meters (13 feet) and 1,000 kg (2200 lbs).
Often dubbed the unicorns of the sea, narwhals are strange and beautiful creatures with long tusks protruding from their heads. Members of the population of more than 80,000 can weigh up to 4,200 pounds and grow as long as 17 feet in length. Check out some common questions about these near-threatened whales. The narwhal tusk—most commonly found on males—is actually an enlarged tooth with sensory capability and up to 10 million nerve endings inside. Some narwhals have up to two tusks, while others have none. The spiraled tusk juts from the head and can grow as long at 10 feet.
The narwhal is found predominantly in the Atlantic and Russian areas of the Arctic Ocean. Individuals are commonly recorded in the northern part of Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Baffin Bay; off the east coast of Greenland; and in a strip running east from the northern end of Greenland round to eastern Russia (170° East). In the winter, the male narwhals occasionally dive up to 1,500 metres (4,900 feet) in depth, with dives lasting up to 25 minutes. Narwhals, like most toothed whales, communicate with clicks, whistles, and knocks. Narwhals can live up to 50 years.
The narwhal (Monodon monoceros) is famous for the long ivory tusk which spirals counter-clockwise several feet forward from its head. The tusk is actually the whale's upper left canine tooth. Male narwhals commonly have a single tusk though may also have two tusks or less commonly no tusk present. Females often have no tusk though may present with one tusk and occasionally two tusks
Like the beluga, narwhals are medium-sized whales. For both sexes, excluding the male's tusk, the total body size can range from 3.95 to 5.5 metres (13.0 to 18.0 feet); the males are slightly larger than the females. The average weight of an adult narwhal is 800 to 1,600 kilograms (1,800 to 3,500 pounds). In the winter, the male narwhals occasionally dive up to 1,500 metres (4,900 feet) in depth, with dives lasting up to 25 minutes. Narwhals, like most toothed whales, communicate with clicks, whistles, and knocks. Narwhals can live up to 50 years.