BRAND NAME: Zanaflex. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Tizanidine is a skeletal muscle relaxant. It works on alpha2 receptors in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and blocks nerve impulses from reaching muscles which produces muscle relaxation. The FDA approved tizanidine in November 1996
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Zanaflex® (tizanidine hydrochloride) is a central alpha2-adrenergic agonist. Tizanidine HCl is a white to off-white, fine crystalline powder, which is odorless or with a faint characteristic odor. Tizanidine is slightly soluble in water and methanol; solubility in water decreases as the pH increases. Zanaflex® tablets contain the active ingredient, tizanidine hydrochloride (4.58 mg equivalent to 4 mg tizanidine base), and the inactive ingredients, colloidal silicon dioxide, stearic acid, microcrystalline cellulose and anhydrous lactose.
Tizanidine is a central alpha agonist used to manage spasticity (unusual tightness, stiffness, or rigidity of muscles). Tizanidine is the therapeutically equivalent generic of brand name Zanaflex. 
Generic Name: Tizanidine. Generic for Zanaflex* (Tizanidine) is an oral medication used to treat muscle spasms caused by multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injury. Tizanidine is a short-acting muscle relaxant that temporarily relaxes the muscle tone and treats muscle tightness and cramping. If any side effects of Generic for Zanaflex* develop or change in intensity, the doctor should be informed as soon as possible. Generic for Zanaflex* can cause side effects such as dry mouth, constipation, dizziness, stomach pain, diarrhea, sweating, and skin rash. This is not a complete list of all side effects. Do concur with your doctor and follow his directions completely when you are taking Generic for Zanaflex*
An AB rating means that the FDA has determined that a generic medication is equivalent to a brand-name medication. All generic Zanaflex tablets currently available have an AB rating, which means they are considered equivalent to the brand-name version. A number of companies make generic Zanaflex tablets, including Sandoz, Alphapharm, and Apotex Corporation. Zanaflex ® (tizanidine hydrochloride) is a prescription medication used to treat spasticity. It belongs to a group of drugs known as alpha-2 adrenergic agonists.
Drug Tizanidine. The generic Tizanidine combination is manufactured by 218 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. Please also note that Medindia's database currently has 269 Brands of Generics of Tizanidine listed
Drug Tizanidine. The generic Tizanidine is manufactured by 7 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. Please also note that Medindia's database currently has 9 Brands of Generics of Tizanidine listed. 
Brand-name Zanaflex tablets are no longer available in the 2-mg strength. Zanaflex capsules (2 mg, 4 mg, and 6 mg) are not available in generic form. They are still protected by a patent that expires in November 2021. A number of companies make generic Zanaflex tablets, including Sandoz, Alphapharm, and Apotex Corporation. Zanaflex ® (tizanidine hydrochloride) is a prescription medication used to treat spasticity. It belongs to a group of drugs known as alpha-2 adrenergic agonists.
Brand-name Zanaflex capsules are protected by a patent, so no generic capsules are available at this time. Zanaflex ® (tizanidine hydrochloride) is a prescription medication used to treat spasticity. It belongs to a group of drugs known as alpha-2 adrenergic agonists. A number of companies make generic Zanaflex tablets, including Sandoz, Alphapharm, and Apotex Corporation