This report describes the typical weather at the El Paso International Airport (El Paso, Texas, United States) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. El Paso, Texas has a cold desert climate. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by shrublands (88%), grasslands (5%), forests (5%), and built-up areas (3%).
El Paso, TX Weather. El Paso, TX climate is hot during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 80's and cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 40's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 22 degrees Fahrenheit, and moderate during winter with an average difference of 25 degrees Fahrenheit. The annual average precipitation at El Paso is 9.43 Inches. Rainfall in is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year. The wettest month of the year is August with an average rainfall of 1.75 Inche
Texas Weather. El Paso, TX climate is hot during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 80's and cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 40's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 22 degrees Fahrenheit, and moderate during winter with an average difference of 25 degrees Fahrenheit. The annual average precipitation at El Paso is 9.43 Inches. Rainfall in is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year. The wettest month of the year is August with an average rainfall of 1.75 Inche
The El Paso, TX pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds. The El Paso, TX pollution index is 9.1% less than the Texas average and 17.9% less than the national average. The El Paso, TX air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The El Paso, TX air quality index is 2.7% less than the Texas average and 2.6% greater than the national average.
El Paso, Texas, gets 8 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 6 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 48. On average, there are 297 sunny days per year in El Paso, Texas. The July high is around 95 degrees. 
Home: Climate Graphs: Texas : El Paso. El Paso's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 32.9째F. In June, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 95.3째F. The driest month in El Paso is April with 0.23 inches of precipitation, and with 1.75 inches August is the wettest month.
Climate for El Paso, Texas. El Paso's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 32.9째F. In June, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 95.3째F. The driest month in El Paso is April with 0.23 inches of precipitation, and with 1.75 inches August is the wettest month.
0.5. The highest average temperature in El Paso is June at 84.2 degrees. The coldest average temperature in El Paso is December at 46.1 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in El Paso occurs in August with 3.1 inches. The El Paso weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The El Paso, TX air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The El Paso, TX air quality index is 2.7% less than the Texas average and 2.6% greater than the national average.