In a one-cup serving of fruit salad including pineapple, strawberries, grapes, and cantaloupe, there are approximately 64 calories. Individually, in a one-cup measurement each … , pineapple has 82 calories, cantaloupe has 60 calories, strawberries have 49 calories, and one cup of grapes has 62 calories. 1 10 calories in each ounce, or 28 grams, of cantaloupe melon. 2  35 calories in 1 average slice a -- 1/8th slice taken from a large size 6.5 diameter whole melon.
Health benefits of Cantaloupe. Wonderfully delicious with rich flavor, muskmelons are very low in calories (100 g fruit has just 34 calories) and fats. Nonetheless, the fruit is rich in numerous health promoting poly-phenolic plant derived compounds, vitamins, and minerals that are absolute for optimum health.
1 In a 3.2 oz wedge from a small sized cantaloupe including the skin/rind, there are 19 calories. 2  In a 4 oz wedge from a medium sized cantaloupe including the skin/rind, there are 23 calories. 3  In a 5.9 oz wedge from a large sized cantaloupe including the skin/rind, there are 35 calories. Cantaloupes, just like any other fruit, can come in all different sizes, so it is natural for people to think that the number of calories a cantaloupe contains will vary depending on the size of the fruit. In order to be as close as possible we have broken down the sizes of a cantaloupe down for you.
Composition. While cantaloupes are low in calories, per calorie, they have a high amount of sugar. One medium cantaloupe contains 45 g carbohydrate, 43 of which are sugars. You might want to limit your consumption of cantaloupe to a 1 cup serving for this reason. One cup of cantaloupe contains 53 calories and 12 g sugars. 
1 150 calories in a small cantaloupe melon (4.25 diameter). 2  180 calories in a medium or average size cantaloupe melon (5 diameter). 3  227 calories in a large cantaloupe melon (6.5 diameter). 4  53-55 calories in a cup of diced cantaloupe melon. 1 10 calories in each ounce, or 28 grams, of cantaloupe melon. 2  35 calories in 1 average slice a -- 1/8th slice taken from a large size 6.5 diameter whole melon.
1 A whole cantaloupe that weighs 38.2oz (19.5oz edible) and has an approximate 5 inch diameter is adjudged to be a medium sized cantaloupe, and there are 188 calories in these cantaloupes. Cantaloupes, just like any other fruit, can come in all different sizes, so it is natural for people to think that the number of calories a cantaloupe contains will vary depending on the size of the fruit. In order to be as close as possible we have broken down the sizes of a cantaloupe down for you.
I know calories. I mean, I’ve worked for HMR for 25 years, so I better know calories! But recently, some calorie information really struck me in a new way. Melons, like honeydew, watermelon and cantaloupe, are only 10 calories an ounce. That is an amazingly low number of calories per ounce… and compared to other fruit, the only lower items are tomatoes and lemons! A cup of cantaloupe weighs about six ounces.
Calories in a small cantaloupe. 1  A whole cantaloupe that weighs 30.5oz (15.6oz edible) and has an approximate 4.25 inch diameter is adjudged to be a small cantaloupe, and there are 150 calories in these cantaloupes. Cantaloupes, just like any other fruit, can come in all different sizes, so it is natural for people to think that the number of calories a cantaloupe contains will vary depending on the size of the fruit. In order to be as close as possible we have broken down the sizes of a cantaloupe down for you.
1 A whole cantaloupe that weighs 30.5oz (15.6oz edible) and has an approximate 4.25 inch diameter is adjudged to be a small cantaloupe, and there are 150 calories in these cantaloupes. Cantaloupes, just like any other fruit, can come in all different sizes, so it is natural for people to think that the number of calories a cantaloupe contains will vary depending on the size of the fruit. In order to be as close as possible we have broken down the sizes of a cantaloupe down for you.