The federal Department of Labor's website says that you can expect your first unemployment check two or three weeks after you apply, as long as you submit all of the required information, and no follow-up is necessary. In some states, there is a waiting period (one week is typical) between the time you become unemployed and when you are eligible for benefits. This means you won't receive any unemployment compensation for the first week you are out of work.
Your First Check. If you complete your claim application correctly the first time and there are no eligibility issues for the agency to sort out, you should receive your first unemployment check within a few weeks or so after you file. You should file your claim for unemployment benefits as soon as you lose your job, but you might not receive your first check for at least a few weeks. Talk to an Employment Lawyer.
If there is any question about your eligibility for unemployment benefits, you will be scheduled for a telephone interview with a claims examiner. The claims examiner will call you at the scheduled time. 
1 43% - How long does it take to receive a decision from unemployment after a phone interview? 2  73% - How long after your unemployment phone interview do you wait for a decision? 3  80% - How long after a telephone interview for edd before i get a decision? 1 73% - How long after your unemployment phone interview do you wait for a decision? 2  80% - How long after a telephone interview for edd before i get a decision? 3  71% - How long after claims examiners interview will i get the decision?
After You've Filed. You should receive your claim materials within 10 days of filing your application for UI benefits. If there are any questions about your eligibility, Department staff will call employers as well as claimants to resolve eligibility issues. 
9. 1. If your claim is accepted you will normally receive your unemployment check within 2 - 3 weeks. If your claim is contested by your employer you can expect to wait a lot longer. Remember, the first week is an unpaid week as well. 1 73% - How long after your unemployment phone interview do you wait for a decision? 2  80% - How long after a telephone interview for edd before i get a decision? 3  71% - How long after claims examiners interview will i get the decision?
The minimum amount of benefits for an individual is $51 a week, and the maximum is $418 per week. Claimants with non-working spouses can receive up to $498 per week, and up to $569 a week with dependent children. However, your benefits depend on your unique circumstances. 1  See the Table of Weekly Benefit Amounts (WBA)​ (Spanish).
RE: How long does it take to know if your unemployment claim was approved? And how long to get a check? How long does it take to know if your unemployment claim was approved? And how long to get a check? I filed for unemployment benefits on 7/25/10. I lost my job on 6/18/2010 and got severance pay through 6/30/10.