Shikoku is the smallest of Japan's main islands with a total area of 7,260 square miles (18,800 sq km). This area is made up of main island as well as the small islets surrounding it. It is located to the south of Honshu and to the east of Kyushu and has a population of 4,414,955 (2005 estimate) (map). Its capital is Tokyo and it has a population of 126,475,664 people (July 2011 estimate). Japan covers an area of 145,914 square miles (377,915 sq km) that is spread out over its more than 6,500 islands. Four main islands make up Japan however and they are where its main population centers are located.
The Japanese archipelago consists of thousands of islands, but the Japan of world maps -- the bow-shaped country in the Pacific curling around the east coast of continental Asia -- is made up of four main islands: Hokkaido, Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku. Honshu. When you look at a map of Japan, you can see the divides between its four main land masses. Honshu is central, with Tokyo in the central part of the island. The main island is also home Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto and Nagoya, and the majority of Japan's population lives here. Most international flights to Japan arrive through Tokyo or Osaka, so Honshu is the most frequently visited island, partly by default
Japan is an island nation located in eastern Asia to the east of China, Russia, North Korea and South Korea. Its capital is Tokyo and it has a population of 126,475,664 people (July 2011 estimate). Japan covers an area of 145,914 square miles (377,915 sq km) that is spread out over its more than 6,500 islands. Four main islands make up Japan however and they are where its main population centers are located. The main islands of Japan are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu and Shikoku. The following is a list of these islands and some brief information about each. All information was obtained from Wikipedia.org
Honshu is the largest island and the Japanese core area which includes Tokyo and Osaka-Kyoto. Honshu is the world's seventh largest island. Shikoku and Kyushu are in the south (Kyushu is in the extreme southwest and Shikoku is to its east). Besides these four islands, Japan includes 2,000 additional smaller islands. 
The four biggest islands are Honshu, Hokkaido, Shikoku, and Kyushu, and there are about 6,000 smaller islands there. Japan is separated from the Asian continent by the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea. Honshu, which means 'Mainland' in the Japanese language, is the biggest island. Japan (日本, Nippon) is a country in Asia. It has many islands. Four of them are big, and the biggest is the 7th largest island in the world. This island is called Honshu.
Five tiny uninhabited islands slumber in the Pacific Ocean a short distance from Taiwan, China, and Japan. The Japanese call them the Senkaku Islands. The Chinese call them the Diaoyu Islands. Japan controls the islands, but China wants them. Japan took control of the islands, via the treaty, when it forced China, which lost the war, to cede Taiwan to Japan—and in China’s view, the islands are part of Taiwan. When Taiwan was returned to China after World War II, the islands should have gone back with it.
The four largest are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and Shikoku, which make up about ninety-seven percent of Japan's land area. Japan's population of 126 million is the world's tenth largest. Approximately 9.1 million people live in Tokyo, the capital city of Japan, which is the second largest city proper in the OECD. Located in the Pacific Ocean, it lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, the East China Sea, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south.
Alan Taylor. Aoshima Island is one of about a dozen cat islands around Japan, small places where there are significantly more feline residents than people. In Aoshima more than a hundred cats prowl the island, curling up in abandoned houses or strutting about in the quiet fishing village