Definition: A shortened form of a word or phrase, such as Jan. for January. The abbreviated form of the word abbreviation is abbr .--or, less commonly, abbrv. or abbrev. In American English, many abbreviations are followed by a period (Dr., Ms.). 
The contraction of you are is you're. An abbreviation is a shortened form often followed by a period. A contraction follows a spoken form of a word pair by omitting one or m … ore letters (e.g. you've, he's, won't). + 14 others found this useful. AbbreviationAn abbreviation is a way to shorten a word to save space. For example Ave. stands for Avenue and Apt. stands for apartment. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis sho … rt) is a shorter form of a word. More particularly, an abbreviation is a letter or group of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to represent them for the sake of
Example of Latin text with abbreviations. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning short) is a shortened form of a word or phrase. It consists of a group of letters taken from the word or phrase. For example, the word abbreviation can itself be represented by the abbreviation abbr. , abbrv. or abbrev. In French, the period only follows an abbreviation if the last letter in the abbreviation is not the last letter of its antecedent: M. is the abbreviation for monsieur while Mme is that for madame.
A contraction is an abbreviation, but an abbreviation is not necessarily a contraction. Acronyms and initialisms are regarded as subsets of abbreviations (e.g. by the Council of Science Editors). In French, the period only follows an abbreviation if the last letter in the abbreviation is not the last letter of its antecedent: M. is the abbreviation for monsieur while Mme is that for madame.
An abbreviation (from Latin brevis sho … rt) is a shorter form of a word. More particularly, an abbreviation is a letter or group of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to represent them for the sake of. For example, the word abbreviation can be abbreviated as abbr. or abbrev.. An abbreviation is a shortened form often followed by a period. A contraction follows a spoken form of a word pair by omitting one or m … ore letters (e.g. you've, he's, won't).
abbreviation. n. 1. a shortened or contracted form of a word or phrase used in place of the whole. 2. the process or result of abbreviating. 1. a shortened form of a word or phrase used to represent the whole, as Dr. for Doctor, U.S. for United States, NW for Northwest, ab. for about, ft. for foot, or lb. for pound. 2. an act or result of abbreviating; reduction in length, duration, etc.; abridgment.
The contraction of you are is you're. An abbreviation is a shortened form often followed by a period. A contraction follows a spoken form of a word pair by omitting one or m … ore letters (e.g. you've, he's, won't). + 14 others found this useful. Anthony Robinson. Gd He
Noun. 1. abbreviation-a shortened form of a word or phrase. descriptor, form, signifier, word form-the phonological or orthographic sound or appearance of a word that can be used to describe or identify something; the inflected forms of a word can be represented by a stem and a list of inflections to be attached. 1. a shortened form of a word or phrase used to represent the whole, as Dr. for Doctor, U.S. for United States, NW for Northwest, ab. for about, ft. for foot, or lb. for pound. 2. an act or result of abbreviating; reduction in length, duration, etc.; abridgment.