Image caption Tank Museum curator David Willey said the Tiger was a truly fearsome machine. A World War Two Tiger tank-thought to be the last of its type in working order-is being loaned to the makers of the latest Brad Pitt film.
This is the Sherman tank used in the film for the titular tank Fury. Fury is supposed to represent the M4A3E8 variant and with the HVSS system and a 76mm M1A1C gun which comes with a muzzle brake to further distinguish it from other Shermans. Fury is a 2014 World War II film starring Brad Pitt as a US Army tank commander fighting during the closing months of the war in Europe.
It’s almost time to feel the Fury in cinemas -- and in World of Tanks! This upcoming movie from Sony Pictures follows a group of battle-hardened tankers during the closing stages of the European Theater of World War II. 
Fury, the World War II tank movie written and directed by David Ayer and starring Brad Pitt, arrives in theaters October 17. 
The M4A3E8 Fury is an American tier 6 premium medium tank. M4A3E8 Fury—sergeant Wardaddy's tank from the movie Fury. Special premium version of the standard M4A3E8 Sherman. Nicknamed as the Easy-Eight or E8, this tank is a quicker, slightly better armored version of the M4 Sherman. It also has an upgraded 76mm gun with an improved rate or fire and better accuracy. 
Fury is a 2014 American-British war film written and directed by David Ayer. The film stars Brad Pitt, Shia LaBeouf, Logan Lerman, Michael Pena, peña And Jon. Bernthal the film PORTRAYS us tank crews In Nazi germany during the final days Of World WAR. ii A platoon of four tanks, led by Fury, receives orders to hold a vital crossroads, protecting a clear path to supply trains and a camp full of nurses and rear-echelon troops (the map shows Emmerthal south of Hameln, where the railway from the Ruhr district to Hanover crosses the Weser river).
Fury is both the name of the movie and an M4 Sherman tank that’s home to a dysfunctional family of US Army soldiers. To set the stage, it’s April of 1945 – the last month of the War in Europe — and Hitler’s armies have been shattered on the Western front. Wardaddy eventually leads Fury through a multi-tank battle with a German Tiger tank, and later to a final showdown at a crossroads that, like every crossroads in every war movie ever made, simply must be held at all costs.
Fury is a 2014 American-British war film written and directed by David Ayer. The film stars Brad Pitt, Shia LaBeouf, Logan Lerman, Michael Pena, peña And Jon. bernthal A platoon of four tanks, led by Fury, receives orders to hold a vital crossroads, protecting a clear path to supply trains and a camp full of nurses and rear-echelon troops (the map shows Emmerthal south of Hameln, where the railway from the Ruhr district to Hanover crosses the Weser river).
Fury is a fictional film about a tank crew during the final days of the war in Europe. Ayer was influenced by the service of veterans in his family and by reading books such as Belton Y. Cooper's Death Traps about American armored warfare in World War II. A platoon of four tanks, led by Fury, receives orders to hold a vital crossroads, protecting a clear path to supply trains and a camp full of nurses and rear-echelon troops (the map shows Emmerthal south of Hameln, where the railway from the Ruhr district to Hanover crosses the Weser river).