The eggs will hatch in four weeks. You may also use a broody chicken hen, such as a silkie hen, to sit on your fertile guineafowl eggs and hatch them. Additionally, use an artificial, mechanical incubator to hatch the guinea eggs. If you bought guinea fowl eggs from a poultry hatchery, and the eggs were shipped to you, allow the guinea eggs to settle before incubating. Set the guineafowl eggs in the incubator and incubate for 28 days. Turn the eggs repeatedly while incubating, up until three days right before the eggs are set to hatch (e.g. day 23-24). Turn the eggs by hand, or use an automatic egg turner in your incubator.
Note that these are chicken eggs that hatch in 21 days. Guinea eggs are slower to develop, hatching in 26-28 days. The chicken egg on the right is candled at 10 days. Chicks develop and hatch in 21 days, whereas keets take 26-28 days. Humidity is a constant 60%. Raise to 80% the last 3 days of incubation, which would be on day 23 for guinea eggs. In most home incubators for hobbyists, this is accomplished by adding water to the second water trough in the bottom of the incubator.
The correct humidity for hatching Guinea Fowl eggs is 65% until day 25 and then rising it to 80% until day 28. You can raise humidity by adding water in the water troughs at the bottom of the incubator. You need to be sure that the water troughs are filled with water at all times. Keep ventilation holes open. When the guinea fowl eggs start to pip, allow 24-48 hours for the hatch to finish. Most guinea fowl eggs will hatch within a day or so, but sometimes weaker guinea fowl chicks (keets) may hatch a day or two later. Don’t remove the keets from the incubator until they are dry.
The Eggs. 1  Before incubation guinea fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. 2  When storing guinea fowl eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 18-20 degrees Celsius or 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Make sure the stored guinea fowl eggs are turned daily before they are incubated. 1
The most obvious thing to know is how long the eggs are going to be in the incubator. Keeping track of the days is essential as you will have to remember when you should stop turning the eggs, raise humidity, and so on. Guinea eggs hatch after 26-28 days in the incubator. In incubation, best results usually come from the eggs being incubated on their sides; but guinea (and chicken) eggs usually hatch equally well when incubated in a more upright position. 
Guinea Fowl Hatching Tips. Place eggs in incubator with the small end facing down. The incubation period for a guinea fowl egg to hatch is 28 days. The length of the incubation period can vary between 26 and 30 days, if the temperature or humidity is off a bit in the incubator. When the guinea fowl eggs start to pip, allow 24-48 hours for the hatch to finish. Most guinea fowl eggs will hatch within a day or so, but sometimes weaker guinea fowl chicks (keets) may hatch a day or two later. Don’t remove the keets from the incubator until they are dry.
The incubation period for guinea eggs is 26 to 28 days. The eggs may be incubated under: 1  bantam setting hens (10 to 15 eggs) or. 2  chicken setting hens (25 to 30 eggs) or. Eggs. Guinea hatching eggs are shipped fresh (not over three days old) via Priority Mail. Because of conditions beyond our control during incubation and shipping, we are unable to guarantee hatchability of eggs. See postage and handling chart for amount to include with your order.
The eggs in the following pictures are chicken eggs. Chicks develop and hatch in 21 days, whereas keets take 26-28 days. Humidity is a constant 60%. Raise to 80% the last 3 days of incubation, which would be on day 23 for guinea eggs. In most home incubators for hobbyists, this is accomplished by adding water to the second water trough in the bottom of the incubator.
We recommend an automatic turner for 12 or more eggs. Incubation Time: Guinea Hatching Eggs take 27-29 days to hatch. Temperature/Humidity: Guinea Hatching Eggs will hatch best at 99.5 degrees F, decreasing to 98.5 degrees F during the final three days of incubation. Humidity should be kept at 65% until day 25, when it should be raised to 80% until the keets hatch.
1 Guinea fowl eggs take 28 days to hatch. 2  In the wild they will usually sit on about 12 eggs per clutch. 3  You may decide, if you can get any of the eggs that you leave half under your guinea hen and put half in the incubator or under a broody hen. 4  I have read that in the wild guinea fowl make great parents. 1 Before incubation guinea fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. 2  When storing guinea fowl eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 18-20 degrees Celsius or 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Make sure the stored guinea fowl eggs are turned daily before they are incubated.