glucose. glucose. Amylose and cellulose are both linear polymers of glucose units, but the glycosidic linkages between the glucose units differ. The linkages in amylose are α-1,4-glycosidic linkages, while the linkages in cellulose they are β-1,4-glycosidic linkages. [Your opinion is important to us. 
In: Human and Animal Interaction. Starch, glycogen and cellulose are all polymers of. glucose. . They differ in the type of glucose present and the bonds which link thr glucose monomers together. Starch and glycogen are made from. alpha-glucose. . 
They range in structure from linear to highly branched. Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen, and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin. Polysaccharides are often quite heterogeneous, containing slight modifications of the repeating unit. 
Plants synthesize two types of polysaccharides, starch and cellulose. The glycosidic bonds between glucose units in plant starch are similar to those in animal glycogen. Accordingly, starch molecules are structurally similar, forming compact coils, and play a similar role in energy storage for plants. Plants synthesize a structural polysaccharide called cellulose. Although cellulose is made with glucose, the glycosidic linkages between glucose monomers are different from the bonds in glycogen and starch. This unique bond structure causes cellulose chains to form linear flat strands instead of coils. The flat cellulose strands are able to form tightly packed bundle
Cellulose serves a very different purpose in nature to starch and glycogen. It makes up the cell walls in plant cells. These are much tougher than cell membranes. This toughness is due to the arrangement of glucose units in the polymer chain and the hydrogen-bonding between neighbouring chains. They are often called sugars. Other carbohydrate molecules are very large (polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose). Carbohydrates are: 1  a source of energy for the body e.g. glucose and a store of energy, e.g. starch in plants. 2  building blocks for polysaccharides (giant carbohydrates), e.g. cellulose in plants and glycogen in the human body. 3  components of other molecules eg DNA, RNA, glycolipids, glycoproteins, ATP
Cellulose-The Difference Between Cellulose and Starch. Starch and cellulose are two very similar polymers. In fact, they are both made from the same monomer, glucose, and have the same glucose-based repeat units. There is only one difference. In starch, all the glucose repeat units are oriented in the same direction. 