Emissions testing. In Washington State some vehicles need to get an emissions test. Washington State contracts with Applus+ Technologies, Inc. to provide vehicle emission testing. Some additional businesses are authorized to test your vehicle. 1 If you want to know which vehicles need an emission test (model year and kinds of vehicles that never need emissions tests) or where testing is required visit the Applus+ website. 2  Military personnel: Federal law requires your vehicle to be tested regardless of where it’s registered if you drive 60 days or more a year:
1 Remember, not all states in the United States require this testing. 2  On average, the cost to have an emission test done is going to vary anywhere from $10 to $30. 3  Emission testing centers are available all throughout the country and your city may have a lot of centers. 1 You should not overfill the tank with gas and the tires should be inflated before you have the test performed. 2  The price for the test in this center can range anywhere from $15 to $25. 3  If your car fails the testing the first time, there are emission testing centers that offer the retest for free.
1 If you are in Colorado, AirCareColorado.com can provide emission testing for your car. 2  You should not overfill the tank with gas and the tires should be inflated before you have the test performed. 3  The price for the test in this center can range anywhere from $15 to $25. 1 You should not overfill the tank with gas and the tires should be inflated before you have the test performed. 2  The price for the test in this center can range anywhere from $15 to $25. 3  If your car fails the testing the first time, there are emission testing centers that offer the retest for free.
1 You will have to undergo this procedure or else you will not be able to have your vehicle registered for use. 2  Remember, not all states in the United States require this testing. 3  On average, the cost to have an emission test done is going to vary anywhere from $10 to $30. 1 You should not overfill the tank with gas and the tires should be inflated before you have the test performed. 2  The price for the test in this center can range anywhere from $15 to $25. 3  If your car fails the testing the first time, there are emission testing centers that offer the retest for free.
The price of an inspection and/or emissions test is set by the individual shop performing the service, and therefore can vary pretty wildly, with some shops charging upwards of $100. Many shops will offer a $25 Inspection just to then hit you with an additional $35 charge for the emissions test, or some similar pricing scheme. (What's the difference inspection and emissions? ) At Tires Etc, our $39.99 price includes both the Inspection and the Emissions Test!
1 If you need an emissions test you'll be stopped and told you need to get a test. 2  If you want to know which vehicles need an emission test (model year and kinds of vehicles that never need emissions tests) or where testing is required visit the Applus+ website. 1 If you want to know which vehicles need an emission test (model year and kinds of vehicles that never need emissions tests) or where testing is required visit the Applus+ website. 2  Military personnel: Federal law requires your vehicle to be tested regardless of where it’s registered if you drive 60 days or more a year:
The three most recent model year vehicles are exempt from emissions testing each year. For registration in 2015, this includes all 2013 and newer model year vehicles. Additionally, vehicles that are 25 model years or older are exempt from emissions testing. This includes 1990 or older model year vehicles. If you are late renewing your registration for your birthday in 2014, your vehicle will be tested according to the 2015 rules. 
1 On average, the cost to have an emission test done is going to vary anywhere from $10 to $30. 2  Emission testing centers are available all throughout the country and your city may have a lot of centers. 1 You should not overfill the tank with gas and the tires should be inflated before you have the test performed. 2  The price for the test in this center can range anywhere from $15 to $25. 3  If your car fails the testing the first time, there are emission testing centers that offer the retest for free.