More About Puffins ... The puffin is an auk (or alcid) of the genus Fratercula with a brightly colored beak in the breeding season. These are pelagic seabirds that feed primarily by diving. They breed in large colonies, nesting in crevices or burrows.
Puffin Crossings use traffic lights to stop vehicle traffic, allowing pedestrians to cross. Pedestrians push a button at the side of the road, and wait for a signal to cross-this is from a standing red man to a walking green man. A beeping sound is usually heard when the walking green man is shown. Puffin crossings are a modern crossing design which have the pedestrian demand button and pedestrian signal (green/red man) in the same place, on a pole at the near side of the road. Puffin crossings are similar to Pelican crossings, which are much older in design and no longer installed in Bristol. Pelican crossings have the pedestrian signal at the opposite side of the road; do not have any pedestrian sensors; and have a flashing light phase at the end of the crossing time.
Winter must be a strange time for puffins: floating in the Atlantic Sea and saying nothing at all. I first heard this weird mechanical sound, like the whirring of a petrol-powered lawn mower, with the volume turned down real low. At the time, I was standing beside the Puffin Cam, so I thought it was just that.hey are generally noiseless birds, except when breeding. And no, that doesn’t mean I was listening in on them doing the dirty to make more cute puffins (and oh my, baby puffins are just so – *sigh*). When they are ready to breed they start making noises, i.e. throughout the summer.
Weeeeeeeee... flying puffins... This is a page about the Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica). There are other species of puffin that live in the Pacific Ocean, but this is about my buddies, the Atlantic Puffins.
Close footage of puffins on Skomer island in South West Wales. This film ends with the strange sound of a puffin in it's burrow. 1  Pets & Animals. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Puffins make loud growling calls usually from underground which sounds like a muffled chainsaw. The chicks peep for food from parents. But the sound has to have something to travel in. A gas or a liquid or a solid is a medium, and … the sound will travel in them (or will be conducted through them). But something must move to supply that mechanical energy that will create (will become) a sound. There are countless examples.
The Atlantic puffin is a species of seabird in the order Charadriiformes. It is in the auk family, Alcidae, which includes the guillemots, typical auks, murrelets, auklets, puffins and the razorbill.
Puffins belong to the Alcidae (Auk) family of seabirds. There are 4 species of puffins. They are: a) Atlantic Puffin: The Atlantic Puffin (formerly Common Puffin) lives in the North Atlantic. It is the smallest of the puffins and is readily separated from the similar Horned Puffin by the steel-blue triangle at the base of its beak. 
Sound is mechanical energy, and anything that exhibits movement can make sound. But the sound has to have something to travel in. A gas or a liquid or a solid is a medium, and … the sound will travel in them (or will be conducted through them). But something must move to supply that mechanical energy that will create (will become) a sound. There are countless examples. Pluck the string on an instrument