Glucophage XR is approved for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Glucophage XR ® (metformin ER, Glumetza ® , Fortamet ®) is a prescription medication licensed to treat type 2 diabetes (also known as non-insulin-dependent diabetes or adult-onset diabetes).
Glucophage is available in two forms: regular tablets and extended-release tablets called Glucophage XR. There are also generic versions of Glucophage that are available in a variety of strengths. Glucophage should be taken by mouth, usually twice a day with food.
Glucophage and Glucophage XR (metformin hydrochloride) are oral antihyperglycemic drugs used to treat type 2 diabetes. Glucophage is available as tablets while Glucophage XR is available as extended-release tablets. Less serious side effects include headache or muscle pain, weakness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, gas, or stomach pain. This is not a complete list of side effects, and others may occur.
Glucophage XR (metformin ER) is a biguanide used to treat type II diabetes. It helps control blood sugar in combination with diet and exercise. Metformin is widely considered the first-line treatment for adult onset diabetes because it rarely causes hypoglycemia and can help with weight loss.
System Components and Performance– GLUCOPHAGE XR comprises a dual hydrophilic polymer matrix system. Metformin hydrochloride is combined with a drug release controlling polymer to form an inner phase, which is then incorporated as discrete particles into an external phase of a second polymer.
System Components and Performance-GLUCOPHAGE XR comprises a dual hydrophilic polymer matrix system. Metformin hydrochloride is combined with a drug release controlling polymer to form an inner phase, which is then incorporated as discrete particles into an external phase of a second polymer.
Uses. Metformin is used with a proper diet and exercise program and possibly with other medications to control high blood sugar. It is used in patients with type 2 diabetes. Controlling high blood sugar helps prevent kidney damage, blindness, nerve problems, loss of limbs, and sexual function problems.
The usual starting dose of GLUCOPHAGE XR (metformin hydrochloride) Extended-Release Tablets is 500 mg once daily with the evening meal. Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly, up to a maximum of 20
A: Metformin (brand name: Glucophage) is used to help control blood sugar levels in patients with type 2 diabetes. It is available by several manufacturers as a generic drug. All generic drugs have the same dosage, intended use, effects, side effects, route of administration, and strength as the brand name drug.