The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe. An adult human's brain weighs between 1300 and 1400 grams (about 3 pounds). A sheep's brain weighs about 140 grams.     Given that the density of both brains is about t … he same, we can safely say that the cerebral hemisphere is much larger in humans. 1 person found this useful.
The cerebrum is a large part of the brain containing the cerebral cortex (of the two cerebral hemispheres), as well as several subcortical structures, including the hippocampus, basal ganglia, and olfactory bulb. In humans, the cerebrum is the superior-most region of the central nervous system. 
3. The human cerebrum with its larger size and greater number of convolutions is more complex and thus able to carry on more complex functions. 4. The human cerebellum is divided in the midline (vermis) into two hemispheres, whereas the sheep cerebellum is not divided. 
The relative size of the cerebral hemispheres are much bigger in humans than in sheep, though sheeps brain share many a similar quality to those of humans in the hemisphere as … pect. An adult human's brain weighs between 1300 and 1400 grams (about 3 pounds). A sheep's brain weighs about 140 grams.     Given that the density of both brains is about t … he same, we can safely say that the cerebral hemisphere is much larger in humans. 1 person found this useful.
The human brain has the largest cerebellum. The human brain is divided into two hemispheres while the sheep brain is not. Further, the human brain is again divided into four lobes based on function and such lobes are not seen on a sheep brain. Speaking of the function of the brain, the human brain has a broader capacity to function than a sheep brain. A sheep is a mammal of whom the structure and function of the brain is similar to a human brain. Compared to the human cortex-the outer layer of the brain-, the sheep brain has a smaller cortex.
The relative size of the cerebral hemispheres are much bigger in humans than in sheep, though sheeps brain share many a similar quality to those of humans in the hemisphere as … pect. An adult human's brain weighs between 1300 and 1400 grams (about 3 pounds). A sheep's brain weighs about 140 grams.     Given that the density of both brains is about t … he same, we can safely say that the cerebral hemisphere is much larger in humans.
Human Brain 6.2. 1. The cerebellum of the sheep lies behind the cerebral hemispheres. (The human cerebellum lies beneath the posterior parts of the cerebral hemispheres; this change in position is due to the greater development of the cephalic flexure and to the enormous growth of the cerebral hemispheres. 2. You are responsible for identifying the following structures in sheep brain specimens & corresponding structures in the human brain plates shown in red. Correct spelling matters. A. Cerebral hemispheres-dorsal and lateral surfaces-Human Brain 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.6. 1. The longitudinal fissure separates the two hemispheres.
The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe. An adult human's brain weighs between 1300 and 1400 grams (about 3 pounds). A sheep's brain weighs about 140 grams.     Given that the density of both brains is about t … he same, we can safely say that the cerebral hemisphere is much larger in humans.
The vertebrate cerebrum (brain) is formed by two cerebral hemispheres that are separated by a groove, the medial longitudinal fissure. The brain can thus be described as being divided into left and right cerebral hemispheres. Cerebral hemispheres of a human embryo at 8 weeks. The best evidence of lateralization for one specific ability is language. Both of the major areas involved in language skills, Broca's area and Wernicke's area, are in the left hemisphere.