The Health Benefits of Chili Peppers-Especially Jalapeno Peppers! Chili peppers are extremely healthy for you, and should be included in your regular diet. Here's why. Chili Peppers Fight Migraine Headaches and Sinus Headaches. Studies show that chili peppers can provide pain relief for migraine and sinus headaches.
Jalapenos are a variety of chili pepper. Although small in size at just 2 to 4 inches long, the jalapeno pepper packs a nutritional punch, with notable amounts of two important vitamins. Jalapenos are just one variety of chili pepper, a nightshade vegetable well known for a hot and pungent flavor. These little peppers derive their heat from a natural plant compound called capsaicin, which offers powerful health benefits. They also have less than a gram each of protein and fat and just 0.91 gram of carbohydrates in a serving, making them a good choice for low-carb diets. Like other peppers, jalapenos are a rich source of vitamin C, with almost 17 milligrams in a small pepper. That is equal to 18 percent of the recommended daily allowance for men and 23 percent for women
Jalapeno peppers are more than a zesty bite of heat sitting on top of your taco or enchilada -- they are a small but potent nutritional powerhouse, providing a variety of essential vitamins and minerals in each serving. Jalapeno peppers are low-fat, low-calorie and contain no cholesterol or saturated fat. Every serving of jalapeno pepper is rich in a chemical compound that may help decrease the risk of medical problems ranging from chronic sinus infections to certain types of cancer. Between 2 and 2.5 grams of the jalapeno pepper's carbohydrate content is provided by dietary fiber. This amount supplies 8 percent of the recommended daily allowance of fiber.
Jalapeno peppers health benefits There are several health benefits of jalapenos. From fighting cancer to providing vitamins and folate and providing pain relief, jalapenos are a nutritious and healthy vegetable and have plenty of health effects. Jalapeno facts: A lot of people wonder if jalapeno is a fruit or vegetable. Jalapeno peppers, along with many other peppers, are low in purine and are great inclusions in diet for arthritis and gout patients. Capsaicin, the ingredient that causes the heat in peppers, is also being used in treatments for pain.
Jalapenos are a moderately hot pepper. Photo Credit moodboard/moodboard/Getty Images. Jalapeno peppers provide more than a kick of flavor to your nachos and tacos. These small, fiery green peppers provide multiple vitamins, minerals and antioxidants to support a healthy body. Jalapenos may also help you manage your weight. With 109 mg of vitamin C, one jalapeno provides more than a day’s worth of this important nutrient. Vitamin C is essential to healthy tissue repair, and it acts as an antioxidant to help with immunity and to fight the effects of aging.
Jalapeno peppers nutrition facts. Jalapeno peppers are one of the favored varieties of chili peppers used in the North American cuisine, especially in the Southern states, where Tex-Mex cuisine is popular. Just as in other chili peppers, jalapenos too originated in the Mexico. 
Carbohydrates. A 1-cup, 90-gram serving of raw, sliced jalapeno peppers contains approximately 5 grams of total carbohydrates, or 2 percent of the amount of carbohydrates that the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends daily for a healthy adult following a 2,000-calorie diet. Between 2 and 2.5 grams of the jalapeno pepper's carbohydrate content is provided by dietary fiber. This amount supplies 8 percent of the recommended daily allowance of fiber.
Vitamins. With 109 mg of vitamin C, one jalapeno provides more than a day’s worth of this important nutrient. Vitamin C is essential to healthy tissue repair, and it acts as an antioxidant to help with immunity and to fight the effects of aging. One jalapeno also provides 6.4 micrograms of vitamin K and 530 international units of vitamin A. Jalapenos are also a minor source of vitamin E and most of the B complex of v