No, Wet & Forget Outdoor is a gentle product and will not etch the glass in windows. However, Wet & Forget Outdoor may leave a residue on the glass. After the Wet & Forget Outdoor has dried, you can wash the glass portion of the window with glass cleaner to remove any residue. Wet & Forget Outdoor can be stored in the original bottle as a concentrate or as a dilution in your garden sprayer. The product will not deteriorate after being diluted nor damage your garden sprayer. Always keep the cap tightly fastened and the product out of the reach of children.
Wet & Forget Outdoor does the hard work, So you don't have to. Wet & Forget Outdoor is the easiest way to eliminate outdoor mold, mildew, moss, lichen and algae. Wet & Forget Outdoor requires no scrubbing, no rinsing and no pressure washing. Simply apply to any exterior surface and let Wet & Forget Outdoor do the work for you! Wet & Forget Outdoor goes to work with the wind and rain to gently eliminate unsightly growths over time. Wet & Forget Outdoor is non-caustic, non-acidic and contains no bleach.
For more information visit http://wetandforget.com. Wet & Forget is an EPA registered outdoor cleaner for moss, mold, mildew and algae. Simply apply Wet And Forget to any exterior surface and let mother nature do the work for you. Wet & Forget is safe for your deck, roof, siding, cement, pool, awnings, any exterior surface.
Wet & Forget is the easiest way to remove moss, remove mold, remove mildew and remove algae from any exterior surface. For example moss on roofs, mildew on siding, mold on driveways, algae on pool decks or any other exterior application. Simply spray and forget. There’s no rinsing, no scrubbing or powerwashing. Wet & Forget is the only product you’ll need to solve all your outdoor moss, mold, mildew and algae issues. Not only is it non-caustic and non-acidic, it’s also safe for all outdoor surfaces. Wet & Forget is easy to use. Simply apply with a garden sprayer, then sit back and let Mother Nature do the rest.
We’ve gotten an abundance of inquiries over the past few months from eager Wet & Forget users who aren’t exactly sure how to apply the moss, mold, mildew and algae stain remover to their outdoor surfaces. 
Moss, Mold, Mildew and Algae Stain Remover is the easy, 1-step solution to removing outdoor moss, mold, mildew and algae. No scrubbing, rinsing or power washing required. This EPA registered product is non-caustic, non-acidic and contains no bleach. Wet and Forget is safe for all outdoor surfaces. 
Moss, Mold, Mildew and Algae Stain Remover is the easy, 1-step solution to removing outdoor moss, mold, mildew and algae. No scrubbing, rinsing or power washing required. This EPA registered product is non-caustic, non-acidic and contains no bleach. Wet and Forget is safe to use on all outdoor surfaces. 
Wet & Forget Outdoor is a 1 step moss, mold, mildew, algae, stain remover that removes the growth as well as the stains left behind. Just spray and walk away, there’s no scrubbing and no rinsing. No Bleach! Wet & Forget is a gentle product that works with the wind and the rain to clean your surface over time. Wet & Forget is the only product you’ll need to solve all your outdoor moss, mold, mildew and algae issues. Not only is it non-caustic and non-acidic, it’s also safe for all outdoor surfaces. Wet & Forget is easy to use. Simply apply with a garden sprayer, then sit back and let Mother Nature do the rest.
Watch these Wet & Forget videos for more information about the ultimate moss, mold, mildew, algae, and lichen remover. Wet & Forget is safe to use on any exterior surface just spray and forget about it. Clean outside surfaces such as your deck, siding, awning, brick, brick pavers, roof, outdoor furniture and more. Wet And Forget Shower cleans and prevents soap scum, grime, and cleans mold and mildew stains with no scrubbing. Wet And Forget Indoor disinfects and kills mold and mildew inside your home. Miss Muffet's Revenge kills spiders for up to 12 months inside and around the exterior of