Simply put, Quantum Biofeedback assists health practitioners to find energetic imbalances. It is applied through the use of a device called the SCIO or INDIGO (latest upgrade); an incredibly accurate system based on the science of Quantum Physics. Quantum Biofeedback is totally non-invasive. The SCIO or INDIGO requires only 5 comfortable straps that wrap around your wrists, ankles and forehead. A quick three-minute test is performed energetically and the results are fed into the computer software.
Quantum Biofeedback helps clients learn how to reduce these electrical frequencies and thus reduce their levels of stress and pain. This is done through a process of relaxing deep within and letting go of the attachments to these thoughts and feelings that are at the root of their stress and pain. HOME. Quantum Biofeedback is an FDA registered bio-energetic device that measures your reactions to various stresses in your mind/body and feeds back to you what you need for balance and well being.
The function of Quantum Biofeedback is similar to that of a virus-scan on a computer. It finds the energetic imbalances of stressors such as viruses, nutritional imbalances, allergies, abnormalities, and food sensitivities by calculating the biological reactivity and resonance in your body. Quantum Biofeedback is totally non-invasive. The SCIO or INDIGO requires only 5 comfortable straps that wrap around your wrists, ankles and forehead. A quick three-minute test is performed energetically and the results are fed into the computer software.
By restoring electromagnetic harmony, quantum biofeedback allows your body to do what it does best: heal itself. Too many people are walking around at suboptimal health because they do not understand that their energy is out of alignment. If you or someone you know is suffering from impaired brain function, low cognition, low-functioning memory, depression, anxiety or attention deficit hyperactive disorder, quantum biofeedback may be the safe, non-invasive, non-medication therapy you are looking for.
From RationalWiki. Quantum biofeedback is a repackaging of biofeedback (a phenomenon that actually works) to encompass such respected New Age medical concepts as chakras, acupuncture meridians, energy-fields and the EM smog from modern living. But it is quantum. The idea of quantum biofeedback was invented by William Nelson, who fled from the US after lawsuits related to his false claims of healing the sick with his fake device. It appears he is now operating from Budapest marketing machines that do not cure diseases as claimed and can even be dangerous.
Quantum Biofeedback Therapy and How it Works. Quantum Biofeedback stimulates the body’s immune and energy systems in order to promote energy flow, while releasing stress previously caused by imbalanced frequencies. Quantum Biofeedback scans the client’s body looking for everything from viruses, deficiencies, weaknesses, allergies, abnormalities and food sensitivities. It reports on the biological reactivity and resonance in your body and indicates needs, dysfunctions and vulnerabilities.
Simply put. Quantum Biofeedback is a device used by health practitioners to assist in finding energetic stresses occurring in humans and animals. The function of Quantum Biofeedback is similar to that of a virus scan on a computer. It finds the energetic imbalances of the stressors such as viruses, nutritional imbalances, allergies, and food sensitivities by calculating the biological reactivity and resonance in the body
Quantum biofeedback is a completely safe, non-drug treatment that, when paired with proper nutritional support, behavioral therapy and lifestyle changes, can help people who are suffering from the long-term effects of elevated stress. If you or someone you know is suffering from impaired brain function, low cognition, low-functioning memory, depression, anxiety or attention deficit hyperactive disorder, quantum biofeedback may be the safe, non-invasive, non-medication therapy you are looking for.