Here we focus on autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, which is attributable to mutations in the PKD1 and PKD2 genes and which is characterized by perturbations of renal epithelial cell growth control, fluid transport, and morphogenesis. The mechanisms that connect the underlying genetic defects to disease pathogenesis are poorly understood, but their exploration is shedding new light on interesting cell biological processes and suggesting novel therapeutic targets.
The cell biology of polycystic kidney disease. Chapin HC, Caplan MJ. Polycystic kidney disease is a common genetic disorder in which fluid-filled cysts displace normal renal tubules. The mechanisms that connect the underlying genetic defects to disease pathogenesis are poorly understood, but their exploration is shedding new light on interesting cell biological processes and suggesting novel therapeutic targets.
2.i. Gene mutations in autosomes. (a) Autosomal Dominant Inheritance (b) Autosomal Recessive Inheritance. Autosomal Dominant Inheritance: Diseases that have autosomal dominant inheritance affect individuals who have only one defective copy of the gene (from either parent). 1 The defective gene responsible for HD is called Huntingtin and is located on the short (p) arm of chromosome 4 (4p). 2  The gene contains a repeated CAG sequence near the 5’end. 3  The mechanism that causes neuronal cell death in Huntington's disease may involve a hyperactive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor.
The modes of inheritance are autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, and X-linked. To simplify the discussion of these different forms, the trait used in the following text will be a hereditary disease. However, of the latter, two-thirds will be heterozygous like their parents, and one-third will be homozygous for the normal gene and thus cannot pass on the trait. An autosomal recessive trait or disease may occur in individuals of both sexes.
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene in question is located on one of the autosomes. These are numbered pairs of chromosomes, 1 through 22. Autosomes do not affect an offspring's gender. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait or disorder. 
Autosomal dominant. One mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent (illustration). Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family. Huntington disease, neurofibromatosis type 1. Autosomal recessive. Two mutated copies of the gene are present in each cell when a person has an autosomal recessive disorder. X-linked dominant disorders are caused by mutations in genes on the X chromosome. Females are more frequently affected than males, and the chance of passing on an X-linked dominant disorder differs between men (illustration) and women
Usually, the disease does not occur in the offspring of unaffected individuals. Rarely, an autosomal-dominant mutation does not cause disease, perhaps because of the effects from other genes. Such a mutation is said to be incompletely penetrant (Figure 2). However, of the latter, two-thirds will be heterozygous like their parents, and one-third will be homozygous for the normal gene and thus cannot pass on the trait. An autosomal recessive trait or disease may occur in individuals of both sexes.
Examples of Autosomal Dominant Disorder. Huntington's disease (HD). 1  Autosomal Dominant disorder which affects the central Nervous System (CNS). 2  Patients with HD suffer involuntary movements such as twitching of the limbs and face and have slurred speech. 1 The defective gene responsible for HD is called Huntingtin and is located on the short (p) arm of chromosome 4 (4p). 2  The gene contains a repeated CAG sequence near the 5’end. 3  The mechanism that causes neuronal cell death in Huntington's disease may involve a hyperactive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor.
A genetic disease is due to a faulty gene or group of genes. While not all gene defects cause disease, many do. New genetic diseases are discovered every month; as of 2001, there are estimated to be approximately 1,100 genetic diseases. Disease can also be caused by chromosome abnormalities rather than gene defects. Down syndrome is due to having three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the normal two copies. It is likely the extra protein from the extra gene copies lead directly to the disease symptoms, but this is not yet clear.
(October 2008). A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. The chance a child will inherit the mutated gene is 50%. Autosomal dominant conditions sometimes have reduced penetrance, which means although only one mutated copy is needed, not all individuals who inherit that mutation go on to develop the disease.