A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Dendrites receive information from other neurons. A dendrite is a short branched extension of a nerve cell where impulses received from other cells at synapses are transmitted … to the cell body. 7 people found this useful. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/Which_part_of_the_neuron_receives_signals_from_other_cells_and_is_also_the_main_metabolic_region_of_the_neuron#ixzz2JFmjESKg. 2
1 A chemical that is released into the synaptic cleft from the axon terminal of a sending neuron, crosses a synapse, and binds to appropriate receptor sites on the dendrites or cell body of a receiving neuron, influencing the cell either to fire or not to fire. 2  Receptors. 1 Glial cells. 2  Cells that help to make the brain more efficient by holding neurons together, removing waste products such as dead neurons, making the myelin coating for the axons, and performing other manufacturing, nourishing, and cleanup tasks.
The human brain is made up of billions of neurons. Each has a cell body, an axon, and many dendrites. The cell body contains a nucleus, which controls much of the cell’s activities. The cell body also contains other structures, called organelles, that perform specific tasks. They receive messages from the axons of other neurons. Each neuron is connected to thousands of other nerve cells through its axon and dendrites. Groups of neurons in the brain have special jobs.
Dendrites also branch out from the cell body. They receive messages from the axons of other neurons. Each neuron is connected to thousands of other nerve cells through its axon and dendrites. Groups of neurons in the brain have special jobs. For example, some are involved with thinking, learning, and memor
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Neuron is the main cell of the Nervous System. It is an electrical excitable cell that is responsible for the transmision of the nerve impulse. With it, they process (in the brain, ganglia and spinal cord) and transmit information. A human brain has 100.000 millions of neurons. The other type of cell is glia, which protects the former. Neurons have three main parts: 1  Cell body or Soma: it is the main part of the cell, the one that makes all metabolism and functions. 2  It is very similar to other body cells, except for the difference that neurons do not replicate. 3  Axon: it is the longest and most important part of the neuron, it transmit the impulse
5. Mitochondrium-this is the part of the cell responsible for the supply of energy in the form of ATP (adenosine triphosphate). Neurons need an enormous amount of energy. The brain is one of the most metabolically active tissues in the body. In man, for example, the brain uses 40 ml of oxygen per minute. It is from here that the electrical firing known as an action potential usually occurs. 5. Nerve Ending (Presynaptic Terminals) Synapses are the junctions formed with other nerve cells where the presynaptic terminal of one cell comes into 'contact' with the postsynaptic membrane of another.