Check your alarm manual. You may be able to set the system to protect the outer perimeter (windows and doors) without setting the infrareds inside. After all, once a burglar has set off a door or window sensor, it doesn't really matter if he's set off an interior infrared. Some ADT alarms have a MOTION OFF button you can press when arming the system, or a button lable SHUNT on other systems. Call your alarm company to ask them.
You should be able to shunt your alarm, which means turning off the motion sensors, and relying on the door and window sensors for security. Some ADT alarms have a MOTION OFF button you can press when arming the system, or a button lable SHUNT on other systems. Call your alarm company to ask them. This command is only temporary-- you can use the alarm regularly whenever you wish. This is what we do, since we have a dog
Not fully closing doors and windows before setting the alarm can prompt the system to go off. Also, faulty or loose contacts on your windows or doors can trigger false alarms. In fact, any external elements that get in through loose cracks on doors or windows, like rain or wind, can set off alarms. 
How a Home Security System Works. When your home security system's alarm sounds, it could mean one of many things. You could have an intruder in your home, or you could have a fire, a flood, or a carbon monoxide leak. You also could have simply forgotten to disarm the system
But whether it's an emergency or a false alarm, a triggered alarm system can be stressful and unpleasant. Understanding how your system works and what happens when an alarm is triggered can help you stay calm during a real emergency. When your home security system's alarm sounds, it could mean one of many things. You could have an intruder in your home, or you could have a fire, a flood, or a carbon monoxide leak.
For example: If you have a door contact, a pet may be able to open or move the door enough to set off the device if the door is not completely closed. When it comes to door or window contacts, you should make sure the door or window is secure before you activate your alarm system. However, alarm systems can be designed to accommodate households with pets, greatly reducing the likelihood of pet-triggered alarms. Motion sensors are possibly the most well-known device in the alarm industry, but present the greatest challenge when it comes to designing a pet-friendly
Your alarm system sounds when one of your sensors is triggered or you manually set off the alarm through your control panel or key fob remote. Depending on how your system is set up, one of two things will happen-either a high-decibel alarm will sound or a silent alarm will be sent to your ADT monitoring station. When your home security system's alarm sounds, it could mean one of many things. You could have an intruder in your home, or you could have a fire, a flood, or a carbon monoxide leak.
It’s true; alarm systems can be set-off by pets. However, alarm systems can be designed to accommodate households with pets, greatly reducing the likelihood of pet-triggered alarms. Motion sensors are possibly the most well-known device in the alarm industry, but present the greatest challenge when it comes to designing a pet-friendly alarm system.
A car alarm is an electronic device installed in a vehicle in an attempt to discourage theft of the vehicle itself, its contents, or both. Like OEM alarms, aftermarket systems are usually armed and disarmed via remote. Usually they do not have provisions for external disarming from the key cylinder, but will typically have an override switch mounted in a hidden location.
These motion detectors have good technology that can be adjusted to avoid pet-triggered alarms based on the size of the animals in your home. If a device is adjusted properly, it is unlikely that it will be set-off by a pet. However, alarm systems can be designed to accommodate households with pets, greatly reducing the likelihood of pet-triggered alarms. Motion sensors are possibly the most well-known device in the alarm industry, but present the greatest challenge when it comes to designing a pet-friendly alarm system.