Lysosome. A digestive structure found within virtually all types of animal cells. Lysosome sizes, microscopic appearances, and other properties vary among different cell types and circumstances owing, in part, to differences in their functions and states. Each lysosome is bounded by a membrane and contains several dozen different species of digestive enzymes, each of which can sever particular chemical bonds found in natural materials. Most lysosomal enzymes function best in an acid environment.
Your posts are moderated. TYPES OF LYSOSOMES (1) Primary Lysosomes or storage granules or protolysosome-The primary lysosomes are smaller in size, they contain hydrolytic enzyme in the form of granules. It contains Acid Hydrolases in inactive form. 
Photo by: chrisharvey. Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that function as the stomachs of eukaryotic cells. They contain about fifty different enzymes that break down all types of biological molecules including proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, and carbohydrates. All of the digestive. enzymes found in the lysosome require an acidic environment to function properly and are called acid hydrolases. The low pH of the lysosome is maintained by membrane proteins that pump protons (H + ions) from the cytosol into the lysosome. Three routes to degradation in lysosomes.
Lysosomes The main function of these microscopic organelles is to serve as digestion compartments for cellular materials that have exceeded their lifetime or are otherwise no longer useful. In this regard, the lysosomes recycle the cell's organic material in a process known as autophagy. This is because white blood cells must digest more material than most other types of cells in their quest to battle bacteria, viruses, and other foreign intruders. Several human diseases are caused by lysosome enzyme disorders that interfere with cellular digestion.
1 Lysosomes are the main sites of digestion, that is the break-down of structures, within cells. 2  There are, however, some circumstances (diseases/conditions) in which lysosomes begin to 'break-down' living cells-not just useless parts of cells or potentially harmful structures. A lysosome is a type of membrane-bound organelle that is present in animal cells. Ranging in diameter from approx. 50nm to 1 μm § , lysosomes have a single outer membrane consisting of a phospholipid bilayer and contain acid hydrolases which are enzymes capable of breaking-down macromolecules.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The two types of lysosomes are Peroxisomes which is a vesicle containing oxidases and catalase. It's located by the smooth ER of the animal cell. The second type of lysosme is the Proteasome which is a tiny barrel-shaped structure that contain proteases. Lysosomes are distributed among different types of eukaryotic cells  by their level of nutrients. Cells processing a high quantity of  larger nutrients will generally have m … ore lysosomes than other  cells.