Sebastian County is a county located in the U.S. state of Arkansas. As of the 2010 census, the population was 125,744, making it the fourth-most populous county in Arkansas. The county has two county seats, Greenwood and Fort Smith. Sebastian County is part of the Fort Smith, AR-OK Metropolitan Statistical Area. Sebastian County is Arkansas's 56th county, formed on January 6, 1851, and named for William K. Sebastian, United States Senator from Arkansas.
The City of Sebastian, Florida is located in Indian River County approximately midway through the east coast of the Florida Peninsula between Melbourne and Vero Beach in an area known as the Treasure Coast. The City of Sebastian was first incorporated as the Town of Sebastian in 1924. Current population is approximately 22,000. The City has seen rapid growth in the past several years and it is anticipated to continue.
In 2010, the population recorded by the U.S. Census Bureau was 21,929. Sebastian is a principal city of the Sebastian− Vero Beach Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Indian River County.
The county was named for William K. Sebastian, a U.S. senator, judge and state senator when the county was formed in 1851. Economically, Sebastian County is diversified with manufacturing, service industries, timber, beef cattle and dairy production as well as vegetable crops like spinach and turnip greens. Sebastian County is Arkansas’ smallest county in terms of square miles – 529 – but the fourth largest in terms of population (121,766). Located in the state’s northwest region and the Arkansas River Valley, one of its two county seats is Fort Smith (population 84,375) ranking below only Little Rock in city population. Greenwood (population 8,482) is the second county seat. (U.S. Census Bureau estimated 2007 figures)
Click here to learn more about how to download eBooks from us. The North Indian River County Library is located in beautiful Sebastian along Florida's east coast. Our collection includes all the newest books, magazines, newspapers, music, videos and more! We also provide access to the Internet through WiFi and many publicly available PCs for our patrons. 
Sebastian County. Sebastian County was formed on January 6, 1851, from parts of Crawford, Scott and Polk counties and was named for William K. Sebastian, a Judge, State Senator and U.S. Senator from Arkansas. The landscape of Sebastian County is rolling farmlands, forested ridges, isolated mountains and lakes. The county seats are Fort Smith and Greenwood. The economic base is strong and diversified with manufacturing, service industries, timber, agriculture (beef, dairy, spinach, turnip greens).
Sebastian is a city in Indian River County, State of Florida, United States. Sebastian is a principal city of the Sebastian− Vero Beach Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Indian River County.
Agriculture is an important enterprise in Sebastian County, Arkansas. The University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service has a wealth of information on all aspects of agriculture in Arkansas as well as many services available to livestock producers. Let the Sebastian County Extension staff help you increase cow/calf production with seven key farm management practices. These practices include cow-calf budgets, forage testing, soil testing, cow herd performance, enrolling steers in Steer Feed-out Program, pasture inventories, and completing production calendars.