They’ll also want you to ensure the hardware is actually faulty before you send it back. RMA simply stands for “Return Merchandise Authorization.” You’ll need an RMA number before you send your defective product back and have it fixed or replaced. Geeks generally refer to this as “RMA’ing” a piece of hardware. 
If your refund request is approved, Cisco Meraki will email you an RMA number. In order for the refund to be accepted and processed, Meraki must receive the hardware you are returning no later than 30 days following the date the RMA number is issued. If you purchased through a Cisco Meraki reseller, your refund will be issued by that reseller. If you purchased directly from Cisco Meraki, we will issue a refund, typically within 15 days of receiving the return. (If you paid by credit card we will credit the original credit card.
During the warranty period, AT&T is responsible for obtaining a Return Material Authorization (“RMA”) on behalf of the Customer when no SMARTnet Services are in effect. After the warranty period expires, Customer is responsible for contacting Cisco directly to obtain an RMA for any returns. In the event Customer purchases SMARTnet effective immediately upon receipt of the Purchased Equipment, the Customer contacts Cisco directly to obtain the RMA via the Cisco TAC.
Hi, If you have contract for yuour devices with cisco then you may request an RMA and faxing it to your Customer Specialist. Additionally, a softcopy of this form can be provided so that you may e-Mail it to your Customer Specialist or to cisco-sa-customer-service@cisco.com. 
E-mail) by either Cisco or AT&T in the event of any incomplete RMA shipments. . For all RMAs inside the US and Canada, Cisco will provide the prepaid shipping label, however it is the responsibility of the Customer to contact the carrier to arrange pick up of the Equipment for return. After the warranty period expires, Customer is responsible for contacting Cisco directly to obtain an RMA for any returns. In the event Customer purchases SMARTnet effective immediately upon receipt of the Purchased Equipment, the Customer contacts Cisco directly to obtain the RMA via the Cisco TAC.
Cisco recommends customers use the Cisco POWR tool to schedule a service RMA return. However, Cisco will continue to supply prepaid waybills for US Service returns as an alternative for sites without Web or printer access. Place the defective unit in the packaging of the replacement part or in a box that allows 5 cm's of space around the part and fill up this space with material that protects the unit against damages during transportation. Cisco prefers that you ship every defective unit in each own box if they are not assembled.
The Return Merchandize Authorization (RMA) department is in charge of processes concerning returns, refunds, replacement, and warranty. Prior to contacting the RMA department, it is recommended to do the following: 1  Read about Warranty Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) by clicking here. 
If your RMA request is approved, Cisco Meraki will email you an RMA number and a return shipping label free of charge. We will ship replacement units within five business days of receiving your defective units. If no trouble is found, we will contact you before taking further action. To request a refund, please complete our RMA request form. If your refund request is approved, Cisco Meraki will email you an RMA number. In order for the refund to be accepted and processed, Meraki must receive the hardware you are returning no later than 30 days following the date the RMA number is issued.
No, POWR simply requires you have a valid, RMA (an 'open' RMA means that the RMA must have lines to be returned and is currently open in SVO). Please note that accessing POWR via a Cisco.com account provides access to additional tool capabilities. Place the defective unit in the packaging of the replacement part or in a box that allows 5 cm's of space around the part and fill up this space with material that protects the unit against damages during transportation. Cisco prefers that you ship every defective unit in each own box if they are not assembled.
As a courtesy, Cisco pays for Service RMA returns. You need not provide an account number to schedule a pickup using the Cisco POWR tool. The Cisco account number is programmed into the tool so that the carrier directly bills Cisco for the freight. Place the defective unit in the packaging of the replacement part or in a box that allows 5 cm's of space around the part and fill up this space with material that protects the unit against damages during transportation. Cisco prefers that you ship every defective unit in each own box if they are not assembled.