Carbohydrates, such as sugar and starch, for example, are readily broken down into glucose, the body’s principal energy source. Glucose can be used immediately as fuel, or can be sent to the liver and muscles and stored as glycogen. During exercise, muscle glycogen is converted back into glucose, which only the muscle fibers can use as fuel. 
Muscle glycogen is converted into glucose by muscle cells, and liver glycogen converts to glucose for use throughout the body including the central nervous system. Glycogen is the analogue of starch, a glucose polymer that functions as energy storage in plants. Glycogen in muscle, liver, and fat cells is stored in a hydrated form, composed of three or four parts of water per part of glycogen associated with 0.45 millimoles of potassium per gram of glycogen.
The main cells that store fat in the triglyceride form are called adipocytes, or simply fat cells. White adipose cells store fat for use as energy, whereas brown adipose tissue is merely used to create heat and is not relevant as an energy store. Synthesis of Fat. As well as storing fat straight from food, the liver makes additional fats from carbohydrates and from proteins. The reason the body makes these extra fats is so the energy can be easily stored in fat cells. This is why a low-fat diet doesn't necessarily mean a weight-loss diet.
Carbohydrates are used by the body in three different ways. They are immediately used as fuel, stored as glycogen, or stored as fat. There are 3 types of carbohydrate: Monosaccharides, Disaccharides, and Polysaccharides. Monosaccharides are simple sugars like fructose and glucose, made up of a single molecule. Glycogen Stores in the Body. Glycogen is stored by the body in either the liver or the muscles. Glycogen in the liver is easily broken down into single glucose molecules and delivered directly to the blood stream. The blood then delivers the glucose to where it is needed most, usually the brain or muscles.
Glucose can be stored in the liver, muscles, or it can be converted to fat and stored in adipose tissue, otherwise known as fat cells. The body will fill up the liver and muscle reserves first. When those are full it will convert excess glucose to fat and store it in the adipose tissue. Carbohydrates: Typically known as carbs, this nutrient.s basic building block is a sugar molecule. Carbohydrates are the body.s main source of energy and provide 4 calories for every one gram. It is recommended that 55-60% of a daily diet should consist of carbohydrates.
Glycogen is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. In humans, the most glycogen is found in the liver (10% of the liver mass), whereas muscles only contain a relatively low amount of glycogen (1% of the muscle mass). In addition, small amounts of glycogen are found in certain glial cells in the brain. Under certain conditions, between meals for instance, liver glycogen is an important source of blood glucose. Muscle cell glycogen appears to be only for local use. Glycogen is the primary glucose (energy) storage mechanism. It is stored in the form of granules in the cytosol which is where glycolysis takes place.
Report Abuse. The basic answer would be that glucose from food is stored in liver and muscle cells as glycogen. The most common sources of energy from food are carbohydrates, fats and lipids, and amino acids. Carbohydrates are broken down to glucose and then stored in the liver and muscles as glycogen. Fats and lipids are stored in adipocytes, fat cells. Amino acids are used to make more proteins. Cells can only use energy in the form of ATP. They use the energy stored in these molecules to make more ATP when needed. Glycogen must be broken back to glucose for cellular respiration in order to make more ATP.
Glycogen forms an energy reserve that can be quickly mobilized to meet a sudden need for glucose, but one that is less compact than the energy reserves of triglycerides (lipids). In the liver, glycogen can compose from 5 to 6% of its fresh weight (100–120 g in an adult). Only the glycogen stored in the liver can be made accessible to other organs. In the muscles, glycogen is found in a low concentration (1-2% of the muscle mass). Glycogen in muscle, liver, and fat cells is stored in a hydrated form, composed of three or four parts of water per part of glycogen associated with 0.45 millimoles of potassium per gram of glycogen.