Your domain host is the Internet hosting service that stores the records you need to update when you set up Google Apps. These DNS records control where you receive your email, your web addresses, and settings for your domain. In rare cases, your domain host is not your domain registrar (where you purchased your domain). You can find information about your domain host by looking up your domain’s name servers. 1  Go to the whois lookup page provided by ICANN, a non-profit organization that compiles domain information.
A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet. Domain names are formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System (DNS). Any name registered in the DNS is a domain name. Domain names can also be thought of as a location where certain information or activities can be found. Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific naming and addressing purposes. The right to use a domain name is delegated by domain name registrars, which are accredited by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the organization charged with overseeing the name and number systems of
When setting up your first website it’s not uncommon to get confused between domain name registration and web hosting. Your domain name is the name of your site or your url (www.mynewcompany.com) and can be purchased by going to a domain name registrar. Domain names usually range from about $10 to $50/year depending on the extension. (.ca are more expensive than .com.). 
When a domain name is purchased, it and the domain server that will host the site is registered with ICANN (Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers), who in turn ensures that anyone who types in the domain is directed to the correct server. Domain Hosting. Domain hosting, also known as website hosting or DNS hosting, can best be described this way: if a website is a home, and a web address is the street address, then a domain host is the land a home sits on.
Domain names are used to identify one or more IP addresses. For example, the domain name microsoft.com represents about a dozen IP addresses. Domain names are used in URLs to identify particular Web pages. For example, in the URL http://www.pcwebopedia.com/index.html, the domain name is pcwebopedia.com. Every domain name has a suffix that indicates which top level domain (TLD) it belongs to. There are only a limited number of such domains. For example: Because the Internet is based on IP addresses, not domain names, every Web server requires a Domain Name System (DNS) server to translate domain names into
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web. The scope of web hosting services varies greatly. The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol (FTP) or a Web interface. The files are usually delivered to the Web as is or with minimal processing.
When you have a site visitor, they use your domain name to view your website. As simple as it seems, there is a process that occurs from the time that the site visitor types in your domain and presses enter. The web-hosting or server is much like the space that you rent out to have your business in. It's merely the space itself. It does not include furnishings like shelves for your products, just as the web-hosting account doesn't include a site for you to sell your products.
When a site visitor enters your domain name into a browser, the domain is then translated into your server IP address, then the server sends that user your site files, which their browser represents to them as a typical web-page.You can see that, without each of these 3 elements, you won't really have a web-site. The web-hosting or server is much like the space that you rent out to have your business in. It's merely the space itself. It does not include furnishings like shelves for your products, just as the web-hosting account doesn't include a site for you to sell your products.
A domain name consists of, at least, a top-level and a second-level domain. A top-level domain (TLD) is the part of the domain name located to the right of the dot (.). The most common TLDs are .com, .net, and .org. Many domains, also called extensions, can be registered by anyone, like .com, .net, and .org. A second-level domain (SLD) is the portion of the domain name that is located immediately to the left of the dot and domain name extension. For example, the SLD in coolexample.com is coolexample. A domain name, like www.coolexample.com, is a lot like a street address for a house or business. Let's use the White House as an example. The street address, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, is an exact location — like an IP address.