Chestnut trees can grow in a range of climates and can be started from either seed or seedling. For best results, choose a variety that is blight-resistant and adapted to your climate region. Chestnut trees grow best when grown in direct sunlight. For best results, choose a location that receives six or more hours of direct sunlight each days during the growing season.
Chinese chestnut (Castanea mollissima) – Although some consider these nuts inferior in quality to those of the American chestnut, the tree is blight resistant and will grow to 40 feet tall producing good tasting nuts. Chinese chestnuts are hardy in USDA zone 4 and widely adapted across the country. Chestnut burrs (fruits) contain the chestnut seeds or nuts that we love to eat. Chestnut blight is a fungus from Asia that spread throughout the eastern U.S. one hundred years ago, killing most wild chestnut trees in its wake.
Planting and growing chestnut trees is a rewarding challenge. As with growing anything, there are some tips and tricks to growing chestnut trees. The goal of the Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Chestnut Foundation (PA-TACF) is to restore the American chestnut (Castanea dentata) to the forests of the mid-Atlantic. To do this, we must plant a lot of trees!
Chestnut trees are of moderate growth rate (for the Chinese chestnut tree) to fast-growing for American and European species. Their mature heights vary from the smallest species of chinkapins, often shrubby, to the giant of past American forests, C. dentata that could reach 60 m. The chestnut group is a genus (Castanea) of eight or nine species of deciduous trees and shrubs in the beech family Fagaceae, native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere.
The American chestnut, Castanea dentata, is a large, monoecious deciduous tree of the beech family native to eastern North America. Before the species was devastated by the chestnut blight, a fungal disease, it was one of the most important forest trees throughout its range. The total number of chestnut trees in eastern North America was estimated at over three billion, and 25% of the trees in the Appalachian Mountains were American chestnut. The number of large surviving over 60 cm (24 in) in diameter within the tree's former range is probably fewer than 100.
Growing a Horse Chestnut Tree. The most important factor when growing a horse chestnut tree is location. Horse chestnuts thrive in USDA plant hardiness zones 3-8 in areas having full sun and well-drained, but moist, humus-rich soil. These trees do not tolerate excessively dry conditions. 
Post-harvest Necessities. The easiest part of growing chestnuts is growing the trees and harvesting the nuts. More deliberate attention is needed to get those nuts into condition for eating. You need three things: avoidance of chestnut weevils, correct curing, and suitable storage. Choosing a Chestnut Species. The most common edible chestnut species are the American chestnut (Castanea dentata), Chinese chestnut (C. mollissima), Japanese chestnut (C. crenata) and European chestnut (C. sativa). Chinese chestnuts are generally hardy to Zone 5, but some are hardy to Zone 3.
Overview. If you are considering growing a chestnut tree, the task is probably easier than you think. They are relatively hardy trees and do not require a lot of specialized care. Chestnut trees grow best in the eastern regions of the United States. Chestnut fruit is round and spiny, with the nut encased inside. Chestnut trees grow three times quicker than oak trees and should start bearing nuts around the fourth year. If you are looking for an easy tree to grow that isn't too large, try your hand at a chestnut tree