Celiac disease is a digestive disease that damages the small intestine and interferes with absorption of nutrients from food. People who have celiac disease cannot tolerate gluten, a protein in wheat, rye, and barley. Gluten is found mainly in foods but may also be found in everyday products such as medicines, vitamins, and lip balms. The inability to digest and absorb proteins called gluten found in wheat, rye, and barley. Celiac disease causes damage to the lining of the small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients. Also called celiac sprue, gluten intolerance, and nontropical sprue.
Coeliac disease is a permanent, autoimmune disorder caused by an intolerance to gluten which is found in wheat, barley, rye and oats. Coeliac disease (pronounced see-lee-ak) is a permanent intestinal intolerance to dietary gluten. In coeliac disease the cells lining the small bowel (intestine) are damaged and inflamed. This causes flattening of the tiny, finger like projections, called villi, which line the inside of the bowel. Coeliac disease is treated by a life-long gluten free diet. By specifically removing the cause of the disease, this treatment allows all abnormalities, including the lining of the small bowel to recover completely.
The symptoms of coeliac disease vary from person to person and can range from very mild to severe. Symptoms of eating gluten, or being ‘glutened’, include diarrhoea, stomach pains and lethargy. The reaction is not the same as an allergic reaction and does not cause anaphylactic shock. 
It can occur at any age. Coeliac disease is caused by a reaction of the gut to gluten. Gluten is part of certain foods-mainly foods made from wheat, barley and rye. Various symptoms can develop including tummy (abdominal) pains, tiredness and weight loss. Symptoms go if you do not eat any foods that contain gluten. Coeliac disease is a condition that causes inflammation in the lining of part of the gut (the small intestine). Coeliac disease is not a food allergy or a food intoleranc
Globally coeliac disease affects between 1 in 100 and 1 in 170 people; rates do, however, vary between different regions of the world from as few as 1 in 300 to as many as 1 in 40. The majority of the proteins in food responsible for the immune reaction in coeliac disease are the prolamins. These are storage proteins rich in proline (prol-) and glutamine (-amin) that dissolve in alcohols and are resistant to proteases and peptidases of the gut.
Coeliac disease isn't an allergy or an intolerance to gluten. In cases of coeliac disease, the immune system mistakes substances found inside gluten as a threat to the body and attacks them. This damages the surface of the small bowel (intestines), disrupting the body's ability to absorb nutrients from food. Coeliac disease is a common digestive condition where a person has an adverse reaction to gluten. Eating foods containing gluten can trigger a range of symptoms, such as: 1  diarrhoea, which may smell particularly unpleasant. 2  bloating and flatulence (passing wind). 3  abdominal pain. 4  weight loss.
The term coeliac is derived from the Greek κοιλιακός (koiliakos, koiliakós) abdominal and was introduced in the 19th century in a translation of what is generally regarded as an Ancient greek description of the disease By aretaeus Of. cappadocia The majority of the proteins in food responsible for the immune reaction in coeliac disease are the prolamins. These are storage proteins rich in proline (prol-) and glutamine (-amin) that dissolve in alcohols and are resistant to proteases and peptidases of the gut.
In people with coeliac disease (pronounced ‘seel-ee-ak’ and spelt celiac in some countries) the immune system reacts abnormally to gluten (a protein found in wheat, rye, barley and oats), causing small bowel damage. 