Medications for vomiting and nausea, like Phenergan, should not be used to treat most cases of vomiting in children and adolescents. In these age groups, only prolonged cases of vomiting with clear, known causes should be treated with this medication. Phenergan (promethazine) is commonly used for treating nausea and vomiting. Phenergan ® (promethazine hydrochloride) is a prescription medication commonly used to treat nausea and vomiting, although it is approved for other uses as well. In particular, the drug is approved to prevent and treat nausea and vomiting associated with surgery and certain types of anesthesia
Other ways to minimize chemotherapy nausea: 1  If you are vomiting, stop eating. 2  Avoid caffeine and smoking. 3  Suck on hard candy, popsicles, or ice during chemotherapy. 4  Take the medications for nausea and vomiting as prescribed by your doctor. 5  Notify your nurse or doctor if you feel nauseated during chemotherapy. Drugs that may be prescribed by your doctor: When suffering from nausea caused by chemotherapy treatments, your doctor may prescribe drugs such as Emend (aprepitant), Zofran (ondansetron), Kytril (granisetron), Anzemet (dolasetron), or Aloxi (palonosetron).
The anti-nausea/vomiting medicines (anti-emetics) may be given by mouth or into a vein, or both. If you have nausea or vomiting, be sure to tell your doctor so that it can be treated. Anti-nausea/vomiting medicines There are many different anti-nausea/vomiting (anti-emetic) medicines. Anti-nausea/vomiting medicine used with chemo treatment No one drug can prevent or control chemo-related nausea and vomiting 100% of the time. This is because chemo drugs act on the body in different ways and each person responds to chemotherapy and the anti-nausea/vomiting (anti-emetic) drugs differently.
Unfortunately, certain chemotherapy drugs can cause nausea and vomiting. Luckily, there are many drugs that your doctor can prescribe to prevent, lessen, or relieve the nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy. These medications are called anti-nausea drugs or anti-emetics. Drugs that may be prescribed by your doctor: When suffering from nausea caused by chemotherapy treatments, your doctor may prescribe drugs such as Emend (aprepitant), Zofran (ondansetron), Kytril (granisetron), Anzemet (dolasetron), or Aloxi (palonosetron).
Most people undergoing chemotherapy receive anti-nausea (anti-emetic) medications to prevent nausea and vomiting. These drugs, given alone or in combination, can be taken in pill form or administered through a vein in your arm. Your doctor advises which to use based on the treatment you're receiving. Medications used to prevent nausea and vomiting include: 1  Alprazolam (Niravam, Xanax). 2  Aprepitant (Emend). 3  Dexamethasone.
Drugs used to treat nausea and vomiting are called antiemetics. Many types of antiemetics can decrease the severity of nausea, although most require a medical evaluation and prescription. Medicines available over-the-counter are mainly recommended for use in motion sickness and for cases of mild nausea. 
Top Nausea Medication Believed Safe for Pregnant Women. Great news for morning sickness sufferers! It seems that top-of-the-line anti-nausea medication Zofran, used to treat post-surgery and chemotherapy nausea, can be taken safely by pregnant women. Researchers in Denmark reviewed 600,000 cases in which the medication, also called Odansetron, was given to pregnant women. 
Chemotherapy and radiation are the most common treatment culprits. But other factors can cause nausea and vomiting. Examples of other factors include anesthetics, pain medications, emotional distress, or a tumor in the abdomen, gut, or brain. Treating Nausea and Vomiting. A combination of medications usually works best for treating nausea and vomiting. When in the hospital, medications are often given intravenously. You may have a port or central line inserted into your body to receive chemotherapy.