In general, trademarks are in place to prevent a business from using a business name that is likely to be confused with a competing business. If you choose a name for your business that is a little too similar to the name of a competing business, that business may accuse you of infringing on its trademark rights. On the Internet-The internet is a great place to start searching for unregistered trademarked business names that are the same as, or similar to, the business name that you have picked out. Search engines, like Google or Bing, can provide you with a wealth of information.
Dispute Resolution. If another business is using the same or similar business name, trademark, or domain name as your business you can begin by sending them a cease-and-desist letter. If the violation continues you can initiate legal action. How your business is structured determines the degree of name protection. Whether or not you have any right to ask someone else who is using the same business name that you're using to stop using it depends on what level of name protection you have, so to speak. And that depends on how you've legally structured your business for the most part
Question: While doing an Internet search, I found that another site is using my company name. It is a construction company and is using the name for a construction product. I have a software development company. 
While the most reliable way to protect your business name is to register your small business's name as a service mark or trademark, you may still be able to seek protection for a business name that is not registered, regardless of the size of your company. If another company alleges that they were using a business name before you were, you will have to prove that you were in fact the first to use it. The best way to do this will be to produce records of any product labels and advertising demonstrating when you began using the name.
If you are planning on operating your business as a corporation, LLC or limited partnership, you need to check with your state's filing office to see if the name that you are planning on using is already in use by another corporation, LLC or limited partnership. On the Internet-The internet is a great place to start searching for unregistered trademarked business names that are the same as, or similar to, the business name that you have picked out. Search engines, like Google or Bing, can provide you with a wealth of information.
When you incorporate your business provincially, that business name is reserved for your use in that province. Note, though, that I say in that province. Someone in another province (or elsewhere) could still register and use that name if they wished. How your business is structured determines the degree of name protection. Whether or not you have any right to ask someone else who is using the same business name that you're using to stop using it depends on what level of name protection you have, so to speak. And that depends on how you've legally structured your business for the most part
Subtitle: In many cases, you can use a name for your small business that someone else is using. Just because someone else is using your small business name, does not mean that you can’t use it. The other name must meet two tests: Important Tip There are strategies that you can use with your small business and its marketing to be able to use a name someone else is using. 1  The use of other name must be popular and. 2  The use of the name by both businesses must be confusing to the public.
If another business uses a name that is identical or very similar to yours, customers may be easily confused, and the use of your company's name by another company may therefore violate the laws of unfair competition. If another company alleges that they were using a business name before you were, you will have to prove that you were in fact the first to use it. The best way to do this will be to produce records of any product labels and advertising demonstrating when you began using the name.