Stomach. The stomach is a muscular, J-shaped organ in the abdomen. Part of the digestive system, the stomach stores and digests food through gastric juices and a specialized churning action created by folds on its inside. The stomach is located in the upper-left area of the abdomen below the liver and next to the spleen. It’s main function is store and breakdown foods and liquids that we consume before those contents travel to other organs to be further digested. When the stomach is empty, the inside has small folds called rugae.
The. Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc the human stomach is Roughly-j shaped and is located in the upper left side of the. Abdomen the stomach of an adult is about 10 (inches 25) centimeters long and can easily expand to hold about a (quart a) liter of. food The. Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc the human stomach is Roughly-j shaped and is located in the upper left side of the. Abdomen the stomach of an adult is about 10 (inches 25) centimeters long and can easily expand to hold about a (quart a) liter of. Food the wall of the stomach is composed of four. layers
Stomach Location. Stomach is a muscular bag forming the most distensible part of the Human Digestive System. The regions occupied by stomach are epigastric, umbilical and hypochondriac regions. It lies between the esophagus and the duodenum on the upper-left portion of the abdominal cavity. 
The stomach lies between the esophagus and the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. Lying behind the stomach is the pancreas. A large double fold of visceral peritoneum called the greater omentum hangs down from the greater curvature of the stomach.
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestive system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in many animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects (mid-gut), and molluscs. It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. Lying behind the stomach is the pancreas. A large double fold of visceral peritoneum called the greater omentum hangs down from the greater curvature of the stomach.
The human stomach is roughly J-shaped and is located in the upper left side of the abdomen. The stomach of an adult is about 10 inches (25 centimeters) long and can easily expand to hold about a quart (a liter) of food. The wall of the stomach is composed of four layers. The. Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc the human stomach is Roughly-j shaped and is located in the upper left side of the. Abdomen the stomach of an adult is about 10 (inches 25) centimeters long and can easily expand to hold about a (quart a) liter of. Food the wall of the stomach is composed of four. layers
The stomach is an organ of digestion. It has a saclike shape and is located between the esophagus and the intestines. Almost every animal has a stomach. The human stomach is a muscular, elastic, pear-shaped bag, lying crosswise in the abdominal cavity beneath the diaphragm. It changes size and shape according to is position of the body and the amount of food inside. The stomach is about 12 inches (30.5 cm) long and is 6 inches. (15.2 cm) wide at its widest point
All rights reserved. The stomach is a muscular organ located on the left side of the upper abdomen. The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food. 
In most vertebrates, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called proteases and gastric acid to aid in food digestion, through smooth muscular contractions before sending partially digested food (chyme) to the small intestines. It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. Lying behind the stomach is the pancreas. A large double fold of visceral peritoneum called the greater omentum hangs down from the greater curvature of the stomach.