The main airport is Muscat International Airport around 25 km (16 mi) from the city's business district of Ruwi and 15 to 20 km from the main residential localities of Al-Khuwair, Madinat Al Sultan Qaboos, Shati Al-Qurm and Al-Qurm. Muttrah, with the Muscat Harbour, Corniche, and Mina Qaboos is located in the north-eastern coastline of the city, adjacent to the Gulf of Oman. Other coastal districts of Muscat include Darsait, Mina Al Fahal, Ras Al Hamar, Al Qurum Heights, Al Khuwair and Al Seeb.
The ports and harbors located in Oman are shown on the map below. Ports are color coded by size. Click on the port icons for a thumbnail view of the port. Use the Port Index link on the left side menu to view an alphabetical list of the ports in Oman. To view just those ports with container liner service, follow the Shipping – by Map menu links
Photos & videos of Port of Muscat, Oman. Calculate distance to any other port more. From: Port of Muscat, Oman. To: look for a city or a country, suggestions will show up as you type. Suggestions (popular ports): Guaiba Island Terminal, Brazil. 
Muscat-a port on the Gulf of Oman and capital of the sultanate of Oman. capital of Oman, Masqat. Muscat and Oman, Oman, Sultanate of Oman-a strategically located monarchy on the southern and eastern coasts of the Arabian Peninsula; the economy is dominated by oil.
Muscat Governorate. Muscat Governorate is considered the pulsating heart of Oman. It is linked to Port Sultan Qaboos by Muttrah Corniche where the visitor to Muscat can view the wonderful variety of nature: golden beaches, mountainous heights, and golden sand dunes (Bawshar Sands).
Port of Muscat: An Overview. The problem with a lot of the ports featured on a typical Arabian Gulf cruise is that they're pretty similar. Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Bahrain, for example, are all shining skyscrapers and shopping malls, glittering temples to excess. But Muscat, the capital of Oman, stands for completely different values: tradition, history, restraint. Although the country is far from lagging economically, it is more ...
Port Services Corporation (S.A.O.G) is Oman's most experienced port operator managing the premier multi-purpose port at Muscat in the Sultanate of Oman. PSQ is the gateway of the nation to the International Markets with shipping connectivity to the premier ports in the world. Read more... 
Muscat (Arabic: مسقط, Masqaṭ) is the capital of Oman. It is also the seat of government and largest city in the Governorate of Muscat. According to the National Centre for Statistics and Information (NCSI), the total population of Muscat Governorate reached 1.28 million as of May 2015. Muttrah, with the Muscat Harbour, Corniche, and Mina Qaboos is located in the north-eastern coastline of the city, adjacent to the Gulf of Oman. Other coastal districts of Muscat include Darsait, Mina Al Fahal, Ras Al Hamar, Al Qurum Heights, Al Khuwair and Al Seeb.
Muscat. n. 1. (Placename) the capital of the Sultanate of Oman, a port on the Gulf of Oman: a Portuguese port from the early 16th century; controlled by Persia (1650-1741). Pop: 689 000 (2005 est). Muscat and Oman, Oman, Sultanate of Oman-a strategically located monarchy on the southern and eastern coasts of the Arabian Peninsula; the economy is dominated by oil.