Accounting can be described as a way to communicate the financial health of a business or an organization to any and all interested parties. It is a way of assessing the assets, liabilities and cash flow, or the future of an entity for all current and future investors. It is the lifeblood of a business and all types of business have basic information that is recorded to get that job done. Recommended Online Accounting Degree Programs.
Learn Basic Accounting Lesson. Accounting Introduction. Quite simply, accounting is a language: a language that provides information about the financial position of an organization. When you study accounting you are essentially learning this specialized language. 
An accountant is a practitioner of accounting or accountancy, which is the measurement, disclosure or provision of assurance about financial information that helps managers, investors, tax authorities and others make decisions about allocating resources. 
Accounting is an information science used to collect, classify, and manipulate financial data for organizations and individuals. Accounting is instrumental within organizations as a means of determining financial stability. Accountants are responsible for determining an organization’s overall wealth, profitability, and liquidity.
Accounting is the recording of financial transactions of a business or organization. It also includes the process of summarizing, analyzing and reporting these transactions in financial statements. DEFINITION of 'Accounting'. The systematic and comprehensive recording of financial transactions pertaining to a business. Accounting also refers to the process of summarizing, analyzing and reporting these transaction
Accounting, which has been called the language of business, measures the results of an organization's economic activities and conveys this information to a variety of users including investors, creditors, management, and regulators. Practitioners of accounting are known as accountants. Accounting can be divided into several fields including financial accounting, management accounting, auditing, and tax accounting. Accounting information systems are designed to support accounting functions and related activities.
The primary objective of financial accounting is the preparation of financial statements-including the balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement-that encapsulates the company's operating performance over a particular period, and financial position at a specific point in time. The key difference between financial and managerial accounting is that financial accounting is aimed at providing information to parties outside the organization, whereas managerial accounting information is aimed at helping managers within the organization make decisions.
Accounting is vital to a strong company, keeping track of the business's finances and its continued profitability. Without accounting, a business owner would not know what money was coming in or going out, or how to plan for the future. 
Accounting is an information science used to collect, classify, and manipulate financial data for organizations and individuals. Accounting is instrumental within organizations as a means of determining financial stability. 