The monomers of proteins are 20 different amino acids. Amino acids are made of a central carbon bonded to four groups: hydrogen (-H),amino group (-NH2),carboxyl group (-COOH) … ,and some side chain symbolized by R. 9 people found this useful. Answered. In Biology. The monomers of proteins are 20 different amino acids. Amino acids make peptides which in turn make polypeptides which make proteins.
Each protein molecule are made up of anywhere from tens to hundreds of amino acids. The amino acids are linked by a peptide bonds and create a change called a polypeptide chain DNA would be a polymer of nucleic acids, each of which is linked by a phosphodiester bond; Each nucleotide would be a monomer. DNA is a polymer made up of nucleotide monomers carbohydrates are polymers made of sugars carbs are also called polysaccharides saccharides means sugar ie. many sugar proteins are composed of one or more polypeptide strands which are folded into a complex 3d structure
Natural monomers [edit]. Amino acids are natural monomers that polymerize at ribosomes to form proteins. Nucleotides, monomers found in the cell nucleus, polymerize to form nucleic acids – DNA and RNA. Glucose monomers can polymerize to form starches, glycogen or cellulose; xylose monomers can polymerise to form xylan.
A protein is a natural polymer made up of amino acid monomers  joined together by peptide bonds. A peptide bond is a covalent bond  formed by a carbon molecule and a nitroge … n molecule. Answered. In Plastics and Polymers. Amino Acids are the monomers of proteins. There are 20 kinds of amino acids. 22 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Judy Olmsted. 78,719 Contributions. Retired college science professor. Member of Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor Society. Member of the American Chemical Society (ACS).
Glucose is an example of a monosaccharide. Glycerol and fatty acids are the monomers that make up lipids. Nucleotides are the monomers that make up nucleic acids. Amino acids are the monomers that make up proteins. Amino acids are the monomers of proteins. They have a positively-charged amino group on one side and a negatively-charged carboxyl group on the other. Attached to the central carbon is a variable group called the 'R' group.
Amino Acids. Amino acids are the monomers of proteins. They have a positively-charged amino group on one side and a negatively-charged carboxyl group on the other. Attached to the central carbon is a variable group called the 'R' group. This group is different for each amino acid. There are 20 amino acids in human cell
A monomer (/ˈmɒnəmər/ MON-ə-mər) (mono- , one + -mer, part) is a molecule that may bind chemically to other molecules to form a polymer. The term monomeric protein may also be used to describe one of the proteins making up a multiprotein complex. Nucleotides, monomers found in the cell nucleus, polymerize to form nucleic acids – DNA and RNA. Glucose monomers can polymerize to form starches, glycogen or cellulose; xylose monomers can polymerise to form xylan.
Best Answer: alex your a dumbass He was asking what specific monomers and polymers are proteins made of. A polymer is a general word for a long chain of molecules joined together by the same type of bond A monomer is a single molecule that can be linked to similar molecules by the same type of bonding to form a polymer. DNA is a polymer made up of nucleotide monomers carbohydrates are polymers made of sugars carbs are also called polysaccharides saccharides means sugar ie. many sugar proteins are composed of one or more polypeptide strands which are folded into a complex 3d structure