Answer: A dictionary definition of happiness is a state of well-being, a pleasurable or satisfying experience. The definition of the word rejoice, from which our word joy comes, is to feel great delight, to welcome or to be glad. Depending on the translation, the Bible uses the words happy and happiness about 30 times, while joy and rejoice appear over 300 times.
2. In the Old Testament: Besides joy in a general sense, as the response of the mind to any pleasurable event or state (1 Kings 1:40; Esther 8:17, etc.), joy as a religious emotion is very frequently referred to in the Old Testament. The element of joy in religion is still more prominent in the New Testament. It is the appropriate response of the believer to the good tidings of great joy which constitute the gospel (Luke 2:10). In the four Gospels, especially Luke, this element is conspicuous. It is seen in the canticles of Luke 1 and 2
Joy Defined. Joy isn’t like happiness which is based upon happenings or whether things are going well or not. No, joy remains even amidst the suffering. Joy is not happiness. Joy is an emotion that’s acquired by the anticipation, acquisition or even the expectation of something great or wonderful.
Fundamental to the Old Testament understanding of joy are God's Acts in history, themost important of which is Israel's deliverance from Egypt (Exod 18:9-11).Israel's return from the Babylonian exile (Jer 31:1-19) toJerusalem is above the highest joy (Psalm 137:6). The element of joy in religion is still more prominent in the New Testament. It is the appropriate response of the believer to the good tidings of great joy which constitute the gospel (Luke 2:10). In the four Gospels, especially Luke, this element is conspicuous. It is seen in the canticles of Luke 1 and 2
(1 Thessalonians 5:16). The Bible uses the word joy (Greek and Hebrew) to communicate a positive human condition that can be either a feeling or an action. In this passage the Greek uses the word “joy” in the action sense. Choosing the action of joy. God did not stutter – always means always.
Joy. Webster's dictionary definition: 1) to experience great pleasure or delight: REJOICE, 2) the emotion evoked by well-being, success, or good fortune or by the prospect of possessing what one desires: DELIGHT. Hebrew dictionary definition: 8057. There are many ways to define joy. Joy isn't just a smile or a laugh. Joy is something that is deep within and doesn't leave quickly. When we have the joy of the Lord, we'll know it and so will others.
The happy state that results from knowing and serving God. A number of Greek and Hebrew words are used in the Bible to convey the ideas of joy and rejoicing. We have the same situation in English with such nearly synonymous words as joy, happiness, pleasure, delight, gladness, merriment, felicity, and enjoyment. The words joy and rejoice are the words used most often to translate the Hebrew and Greek words into English. Joy is found over 150 times in the Bible. If such words as “joyous” and “joyful” are included, the number comes to over 200. The verb rejoice appears well over 200 times.
Christian joy is a good feeling in the soul, produced by the Holy Spirit, as he causes us to see the beauty of Christ in the Word and in the world. As we begin this series on joy in the letter of Paul to the Philippians, it seemed good to me that we should probably begin with a definition of joy. 
Joy is a state of mind and an orientation of the heart. It is a settled state of contentment, confidence and hope. It is something or someone that provides a source of happiness. It appears 88 times in the Old Testament in 22 books; 57 times in the New Testament in 18 books.^ [1] ^. There are many ways to define joy. Joy isn't just a smile or a laugh. Joy is something that is deep within and doesn't leave quickly. When we have the joy of the Lord, we'll know it and so will others.