10 Most Beautiful Fjords of the World. Last updated on January 21, 2014 in Landscapes 8 Comments. A fjord is a long, narrow arm of the sea with steep sides, carved by glacial activity. Many people consider fjords the very symbol of Norway. This country contains some of the longest, deepest, and most beautiful fjords in the world. In a survey conducted by National Geographic Traveler Magazine the famous fjords of Norway were selected as the number one unspoiled travel spot from a list of 115 destinations around the world.
The current members are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and the UK. The establishment of the European Union expanded the political scope of the European Economic Community, especially in the area of foreign and security policy, and provided for the creation of a central European bank and the adoption of a common currency, the euro.
Formerly known as the European Economic Community, the European Union's member states are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. The establishment of the European Union expanded the political scope of the European Economic Community, especially in the area of foreign and security policy, and provided for the creation of a central European bank and the adoption of a common currency, the euro.
The Fjord horse or Norwegian Fjord Horse is a relatively small but very strong horse breed from the mountainous regions of Western Norway. It is an agile breed of light draught horse build. All Fjord horses are dun in colour, with five variations in shade recognised in the breed standard. One of the world's oldest breeds, it has been used for hundreds of years as a farm horse in Norway, and in modern times is popular for its generally good temperament. It is used both as a harness horse and under saddle. The Fjord horse has a distinct appearance. The breed's conformation differs from many other breeds in that it is a blend of draught horse muscling and bone, with smaller size and greater agility. It has a strong, arched neck, sturdy legs and good feet, and a compact, muscular body.
Some images used in this set are licensed under the Creative Commons through Flickr.com. Click to see the original works with their full license. “ 1 fjord” image. “ 2 loess” image. “ 3 north Atlantic drift” image. “ 4 polders” image. “ 5 dikes” image. “ 6 navigable” image. 
The Naeroeyfjord nærøyfjord is considered to be the wildest and most beautiful branch of The, sognefjord the largest fjord In. Norway The naeroeyfjord nærøyfjord is 17 km long and the narrowest point is only 250. Metres wide the Passage through naeroeyfjord nærøyfjord is one of the most dramatic Fjord. trips in europe This country contains some of the longest, deepest, and most beautiful fjords in the world. In a survey conducted by National Geographic Traveler Magazine the famous fjords of Norway were selected as the number one unspoiled travel spot from a list of 115 destinations around
Most of Western Europe was aligned with the United States through membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), while the Eastern countries were aligned with the Soviet Union in the Warsaw Pact. Europe: The Cold War (Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)). At the end of World War II, the armies of the Soviet Union liberated the countries of central and eastern Europe from Nazi rule. Determined to maintain control of the region, the Soviet Union installed communist governments in those countries. The Cold War was a long conflict between the United ...
The Naeroeyfjord nærøyfjord is considered to be the wildest and most beautiful branch of The, sognefjord the largest fjord In. Norway The naeroeyfjord nærøyfjord is 17 km long and the narrowest point is only 250. Metres wide the Passage through naeroeyfjord nærøyfjord is one of the most dramatic Fjord. Trips in: Europe See. also norway guide This country contains some of the longest, deepest, and most beautiful fjords in the world. In a survey conducted by National Geographic Traveler Magazine the famous fjords of Norway were selected as the number one unspoiled travel spot from a list of 115 destinations around
In the Danish language any inlet is called a fjord, but none of the fjords of Denmark may be considered a fjord in the geological sense. Limfjord in English terminology is a sound, since it separates the North Jutlandic Island (Vendsyssel-Thy) from the rest of Jutland. Ringkoebing Ringkøbing fjord on the western coast Of jutland is a. Lagoon the long narrow fjords Of'denmark S Baltic sea coast like The German foerden förden were dug by ice moving from the sea, upon land while fjords in the geological sense were dug by ice moving from the mountains down to. the sea