Individuals with type 2 von Willebrand disease have normal levels of VWF, but there are defects in the factor’s function and structure. Type 2 is divided into subtypes depending on severity. 
Background. Von Willebrand disease (vWD) is a common, inherited, genetically and clinically heterogeneous hemorrhagic disorder caused by a deficiency or dysfunction of the protein termed von Willebrand factor (vWF). Consequently, defective vWF interaction between platelets and the vessel wall impairs primary hemostasis. 
Type 2. In type 2 VWD, the von Willebrand factor doesn't work well. Type 2 is divided into subtypes: 2A, 2B, 2M, and 2N. Different gene mutations (changes) cause each type, and each is treated differently. Thus, it's important to know the exact type of VWD that you have. Von Willebrand factor also carries clotting factor VIII (8), another important protein that helps your blood clot. Factor VIII is the protein that's missing or doesn't work well in people who have hemophilia, another bleeding disorder.
Summary. Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is a common inherited bleeding disorder in the general population affecting males and females equally. There are three main types of VWD (VWD type 1, VWD type 2, and VWD type 3) each with differing degrees of severity and inheritance patterns. Unlike hemophilia which is characterized by joint bleeding, VWD is typically characterized by mucocutaneous bleeding.
Quantitative (types 1 and 3) or qualitative defect of VWF (type 2) cause von Willebrand disease (VWD), the most frequent autosomal inherited bleeding disorder. Almost all cases identified by epidemiological investigations are type 1, and no data are available for type 2. Type 2 von Willebrand disease (VWD) includes a wide range of qualitative abnormalities of von Willebrand factor structure and function resulting in a variable bleeding tendency.
Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is a genetic disorder caused by missing or defective von Willebrand factor (VWF), a clotting protein. VWF binds factor VIII, a key clotting protein, and platelets in blood vessel walls, which help form a platelet plug during the clotting process. 1 People with type 1 VWD have a quantitative deficiency of VWF. Levels of VWF in the blood range from 20%-50% of normal. 2  The symptoms are usually mild. 3  Type 2 VWD is found in 15%-30% of patients. 4  People with type 2 VWD have a qualitative deficiency in their VWF.
Deficiency of VWF causes von Willebrand disease (VWD), a bleeding disorder of variable severity that is divided into several subtypes. The absence of VWF (VWD type 3) and many qualitative defects (VWD type 2) are straightforward to diagnose. Von Willebrand disease (VWD) type 1 is reported to be common but frequently is difficult to diagnose. Many people have nonspecific mild bleeding symptoms, von Willebrand factor (VWF) levels display low heritability, and low VWF levels (15% to 50% of normal) are weak risk factors for bleeding.
Although there are many different types of bleeding disorders, here you will find information on hemophilia A (factor VIII deficiency), hemophilia B (factor IX deficiency), von Willebrand disease, and rare factor deficiencies including I, II, V, VII, X, XI, XII and XIII. 
Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is a bleeding disorder. It affects your blood's ability to clot. If your blood doesn't clot, you can have heavy, hard-to-stop bleeding after an injury. The bleeding can damage your internal organs. Rarely, the bleeding may even cause death. Von Willebrand factor also carries clotting factor VIII (8), another important protein that helps your blood clot. Factor VIII is the protein that's missing or doesn't work well in people who have hemophilia, another