There are a few groups of chordates that do not possess a backbone (these organisms are not vertebrates and are instead referred to as invertebrate chordates). The animal classes that are vertebrates include: 1  Jawless fish (Class Agnatha). 2  Armored fish (Class Placodermi) - extinct. 3  Cartilaginous fish (Class Chondrichthyes). 4  Bony fish (Class Osteichthyes). 5  Amphibians (Class Amphibia). 6  Reptiles (Class Reptilia). 7  Birds (Class Aves). 8  Mammals (Class Mammalia). Invertebrates are a broad collection of animal groups (they do not belong to a single subphylum like the vertebrates) all of which lack a backbone. Some (not all) of the animal groups that are invertebrates include: 1  Sponges (Phylum Porifera). 2  Jellyfish, hydras, sea anemones, corals (Phylum Cnidaria).
Answer #1   Humans eat narwhals. Polar bears, sharks, killer whales and walruses eat them too!   Answer #2 by Shabootaqay   Orca whales are the narwhals' greatest nat … ural predators. Narwhals avoid the orcas by staying in the cracks between glaciers in the winter. Answer #3   Eskimos, killer whales, and polar bears.   polar bear Polar bears, orcas, and Greenland sharks have been known to hunt narwhals, but their biggest predator is man. Polar bears and Walruses.
Invertebrate means without a spinal column (no vertebrae). An invertebrate animal does not have a backbone, for example mollusks, worms, and insects. Scientists to this day do not have much information at all about the narwhal. Answer #3 They are the unicorns of the ocean! I think you mean 'narwhal' well basically a narwhal is just a type of whale that has a horn.
No, a narwhal isn't an invertebrate. Instead, it has a backbone. It belongs to the Chordate phylum, which has mostly vertebrate members. It also belongs to the class of Mammals, which all have backbones. Scientists to this day do not have much information at all about the narwhal. Answer #3 They are the unicorns of the ocean! I think you mean 'narwhal' well basically a narwhal is just a type of whale that has a horn.
The narwhal, or narwhale (Monodon monoceros), is a medium-sized toothed whale that possesses a large tusk from a protruding canine tooth. It lives year-round in the Arctic waters around Greenland, Canada, and Russia. It is one of two living species of whale in the Monodontidae family, along with the beluga whale. Like the beluga, narwhals are medium-sized whales. For both sexes, excluding the male's tusk, the total body size can range from 3.95 to 5.5 metres (13.0 to 18.0 feet); the males are slightly larger than the females. The average weight of an adult narwhal is 800 to 1,600 kilograms (1,800 to 3,500 pounds).
Still, there are communities in Norway and such that rely on narwhal meat, sinew, blubber, and tusk to survive.   Answer #3   Eskimos, killer whales, and polar bears.   polar bear Polar bears, orcas, and Greenland sharks have been known to hunt narwhals, but their biggest predator is man. Scientists to this day do not have much information at all about the narwhal. Answer #3 They are the unicorns of the ocean! I think you mean 'narwhal' well basically a narwhal is just a type of whale that has a horn.
Polar bears, sharks, killer whales and walruses eat them too!   Answer #2 by Shabootaqay   Orca whales are the narwhals' greatest nat … ural predators. Narwhals avoid the orcas by staying in the cracks between glaciers in the winter. Scientists to this day do not have much information at all about the narwhal. Answer #3 They are the unicorns of the ocean! I think you mean 'narwhal' well basically a narwhal is just a type of whale that has a horn.
In Vertebrates. An animal of a large group distinguished by the possession of a  backbone or spinal column, including mammals, birds, reptiles,  amphibians, and fishes.   A vertebrate i … s an animal that are a backbone, which affects its  body shape. Answer #3   Eskimos, killer whales, and polar bears.   polar bear Polar bears, orcas, and Greenland sharks have been known to hunt narwhals, but their biggest predator is man. Polar bears and Walruses.