The name of a Greek saint and queens of Russia and Spain, Sofia is the elegant choice of several celebs; Lisa Remini, Felicity Huffman and William H. Macy all named their daughters Sofia. The Sofia, vs. Sophia, spelling is widely used throughout Europe, in Italy, Spain, and throughout Scandinavia and Eastern Europe. Sofia is the Number One girls' name in Italy and in the Top Ten in Chile, Denmark, and Spain.
Sofia is simply a spelling variation of the more popular Sophia. The name Sophia comes from the Greek word sophos which means wisdom. The usage of the name Sophia/Sofia for girls dates way back to the Greek and Roman traditions of the 4th century and was often bestowed for its moral qualities. Popularity of the Name Sofia. The increased usage of the spelling “Sofia” mimics the rising popularity of the more common form of the name Sophia. Sofia was rarely used until the 1990’s and, in 2003; it finally hit the Top 100.
Origin of the name Sofia: A borrowing from the Greek, Sophia is directly derived from sophia (wisdom, skill). The name has been in common use in England since the 17th century, when it was bestowed upon the infant daughter of James I. 
Greek Meaning: The name Sofia is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Sofia is: Wise. Spanish Meaning: The name Sofia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Sofia is: Wise. American Meaning: The name Sofia is an American baby name.
Sophia /so-phia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced so-FEE-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Sophia is wisdom. Used in English-speaking countries since the 17th century. The famous Isatanbul mosque Hagia Sofia was once a Christian church. Sophie is the French form. 
About the name Sophia. The meaning of the name Sophia: Wisdom. The origin of the name Sophia: Greek. People who like the name Sophia also like: Olivia, Isabella, Ava, Emma, Charlotte, Chloe, Grace. Noah, Liam, Ethan, Lucas, Jacob, Oliver, Benjamin. Notes: Sophia is a name with Greek origins. The meaning of the name Sophia is wisdom. There are many variations of the spelling of Sophia throughout the world, but the most common American alternate spelling is Sofia. Other alternate spellings include Sofiya and Sofea. Sophia is one of the most popular girl's name in the western world. 
Meaning of Sofia. Greek name. In Greek, the name Sofia means-lover of wisdom. Other origins for the name Sofia include-Greek, Spanish.The name Sofia is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-lover of wisdom. Origin-Greece.
Sofia is a very popular first name for women (#765 out of 4276, Top 18%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#25076 out of 150436, Top 17%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Sofia for girls. Sofia reached its peak rank of #12 in the U.S. in the year 2014. Sofia /so-fia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced so-FEE_ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Sofia is wisdom. Spanish, Italian, and Scandinavian form of Sophia
The name Sofia is of Spanish origin, and it means Wisdom . It's a name commonly given to girls. Sofia Vergara is an actress, comedian, model, television host and producer with the most prominent portion of their career being from 1995 to present. 