In India, some politicians use the the words Hindu and Hindutva with communal overtones either to promote or oppose some ideology or party. To the rest of the world, Hindu and Hinduism refer to a set of people belonging to definite religious system. The fact is that the BOTH the words Hindu and India have foreign origin. The word Hindu is neither a Sanskrit word nor is this word found in any of the native dialects and languages of India. It should be noted that Hindu is NOT a religious word at all. There is no reference of the word hindu in the Ancient Vedic Scriptures. It is said that the Persians used to refer to the Indus river as Sindhu. Indus is a major river which flows partly in India and partly in Pakistan. 
The word Hindu is a secular word and literally translated it means Indian and the word Hinduism denotes any religion or religions that are practiced by the multitude of people living in the land beyond the river Indus. In today's India, the word Hindu is most misunderstood and misused. Interestingly the word Hindu came into existence because of mispronunciation of a Sanskrit word by the ancient Persians some 3000 to 4000 years ago. The word Hindu is not a Sanskrit word. It is not found in any of the thousands of native dialects and languages of India. Neither it is a religious word. It is a secular word whose origin is rooted in the language of the ancient Persians, who supposedly shared some common ancestry with the ancient Indians
Hindu Symbols. As Hinduism is the oldest religion on the earth, it has more numbers of symbols than other religions. Each Hindu symbol has a different meaning and is used on different occasions. Hinduism symbols are also used as body tattoos in the Western countries as well as in India. Hinduism signs and symbols are very popular in India and are also known as Indian symbols. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Scitrs. Confidence votes 412. The word Hindu came from the word Sindhu which meant those who lived on the other side of the Indus river. The Persian pronounced the Sindhu as Hindus, and all people living on the other side of the river Sindhu were called by them as Hindus. Hindu means one who believes in the Hindu Dharma and Philosophy as enunciated in Vedas, Upnishadas, Gita and other Hindu scriptures profess … ing beliefs, principles, precepts, idealogy and practices of Hinduism.
A sense of Hindu identity and the term Hindu appears in some texts dated between the 13th-and 18th-century in Sanskrit and regional languages. The 14th-and 18th-century Indian poets such as Vidyapati, Kabir and Eknath used the phrase Hindu dharma (Hinduism) and contrasted it with Turaka dharma (Islam). The actual term 'hindu' first occurs, states Gavin Flood, as a Persian geographical term for the people who lived beyond the river Indus (Sanskrit: Sindhu), more specifically in the 6th-century BCE inscription of Darius I. The Punjab region, called Sapta Sindhava in the Vedas, is called Hapta Hindu in Zend Avesta.
In Hinduism it means 'duty', 'virtue', 'morality', even 'religion' and it refers to the power which upholds the universe and society. Hindus generally believe that dharma was revealed in the Vedas although a more common word there for 'universal law' or 'righteousness' is rita. 
In Hinduism, Om (also spelled Aum) is a Hindu sacred sound that is considered the greatest of all mantras. The syllable Om is composed of the three sounds a-u-m (in Sanskrit, the vowels a and u combine to become o) and the symbol's threefold nature is central to its meaning. It represent several important triads: 
There are various Hindu symbol which includes th Aum.   AUM (ॐ):  Thus Om mystically embodies the essence of the entire universe. This meaning is further deepene … d by the Indian philosophical belief that God first created sound and the universe arose from it. The auspicious symbol of the swastika is very commonly used in Hindu art, architecture and decoration. It can be seen on temples, houses, doorways, clothing, cars, and even cakes. It is usually a major part of the decoration for festivals and special ceremonies like weddings.
The word Hindu is derived from the Indo-Aryan and Sanskrit Sanskrit word Sindhu, which means a large body of water, covering river, ocean. It was used as the name of the Indus river and also referred to its tributaries. The actual term 'hindu' first occurs, states Gavin Flood, as a Persian geographical term for the people who lived beyond the river Indus (Sanskrit: Sindhu), more specifically in the 6th-century BCE inscription of Darius I. The Punjab region, called Sapta Sindhava in the Vedas, is called Hapta Hindu in Zend Avesta.