Net realizable value is generally equal to the selling price of the inventory goods less the selling costs (completion and disposal).It is expected sales price less selling costs (e.g. repair and disposal costs).In formula: NRV is part of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) that apply to valuing inventory, so as to not overstate or understate the value of inventory goods.
Net Realizable Value. Definition: Net realizable value is the estimated selling price of inventory, minus its estimated cost of completion and any estimated cost to complete its sale. Thus, it is the net amount realized from the sale of inventory. Net realizable value does not necessarily equal fair value. Net realizable value is one of the valuations used in the lower of cost or market rule, which is designed to keep an business from overstating the value of its inventory. Copyright 2015, All Rights Reserved.
1. Selling price of an asset less the expenses incurred in the sales transaction, and in bringing the asset to the saleable state. This is the maximum amount in ' lower of cost or market value ' rule applied to inventory valuation.
The net asset value of an asset or investment if it were sold, less the estimated cost of the sale and the amount the seller would have to spend to bring the asset or investment to a state where it can be sold. The NRV is used in GAAP accounting rules to ensure that the value of an asset or investment is not overstated. 
Net realizable value (NRV) is a method of evaluating an asset 's worth when held in inventory, in the field of accounting. NRV is part of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) that apply to valuing inventory, so as to not overstate or understate the value of inventory goods.
BREAKING DOWN 'Net Realizable Value-NRV'. Net realizable value is a commonly used method of evaluating an asset's worth in the field of inventory accounting. NRV is part of GAAP rules that apply to valuing inventory, so as to not overstate or understate the value of inventory goods. The value of an asset that can be realized by a company or entity upon the sale of the asset, less a reasonable prediction of the costs associated with either the eventual sale or the disposal of the asset in question. Next Up.
The net realizable value is the return that you would expect to get on an item after the item has been sold and the cost of selling that item has been subtracted. The NRV, as it also known, is calculated by subtracting any expenses that were incurred getting an item ready for sale from the sales price. We already know that the NRV of the rod and reels is $116 each. We also know that the market ceiling is the same as the NRV and the market floor is $74. Since the current market price is lower than the market floor, we would have to use the market floor price of $74 to value the inventory.
Now the good's NRV will be $100-$20-$60=$20. In this year's income statement, since the NRV ($20) is less than the cost of the good ($25), the NRV will get recorded as the Cost of Ending Inventory. To do so, an inventory write down of $25-$20=$5 is done, and hence a decrease of $5 in this year's income statement. NRV is part of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) that apply to valuing inventory, so as to not overstate or understate the value of inventory goods.