From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Microbial corrosion, also called bacterial corrosion, bio-corrosion, microbiologically influenced corrosion, or microbially induced corrosion (MIC), is corrosion caused or promoted by microorganisms, usually chemoautotrophs. It can apply to both metals and non-metallic materials. Bacterial corrosion may appear in form of pitting corrosion, for example in pipelines of the oil and gas industry. Anaerobic corrosion is evident as layers of metal sulfides and hydrogen sulfide smell.
Industrial Impact. Microbiologically influenced corrosion usually occurs in aqueous environments such as water treatment and sewage plants, but is also common in other sectors of the economy, from oil and gas production systems to underground pipelines and chemical processing plants[11]. Mechanism. Corrosion, the oxidation of metal, requires the simultaneous reduction of another chemical. MIC usually takes place in stagnant water, and either dissolved oxygen or hydrogen is reduced in order for the process to proceed[1].
Rusting, the formation of iron oxides, is a well-known example of electrochemical corrosion. This type of damage typically produces oxide (s) or salt (s) of the original metal, and results in a distinctive orange colouration. Many structural alloys corrode merely from exposure to moisture in air, but the process can be strongly affected by exposure to certain substances. Corrosion can be concentrated locally to form a pit or crack, or it can extend across a wide area more or less uniformly corroding the surface.
Microbial Corrosion. Microbial corrosion (also called microbiologically-influenced corrosion or MIC) is corrosion that is caused by the presence and activities of microbes. This corrosion can take many forms and can be controlled by biocides or by conventional corrosion control methods. In addition to the use of corrosion resistant alloys, control of MIC involves the use of biocides and cleaning methods that remove deposits from metal surfaces. Bacteria are very small, and it is often very difficult to get a metal system smooth enough and clean enough to prevent MIC.
Metal dusting is a catastrophic form of corrosion that occurs when susceptible materials are exposed to environments with high carbon activities, such as synthesis gas and other high-CO environments. The corrosion manifests itself as a break-up of bulk metal to metal powder. Many structural alloys corrode merely from exposure to moisture in air, but the process can be strongly affected by exposure to certain substances. Corrosion can be concentrated locally to form a pit or crack, or it can extend across a wide area more or less uniformly corroding the surface.
MIC is the acronym for “Microbally Influenced Corrosion”. It refers to the possibility that microorganisms are involved in the deterioration of metallic (as well as non-metallic) materials. MIC is not a new corrosion mechanism but it integrates the role of microorganisms in corrosion processes. A suitable definition of MIC, which has been developed in task group 1, is the following: Microbially Influenced Corrrosion (MIC) refers to the influence of microorganisms on the kinetics of corrosion processes of metals, caused by microorganisms adhering to the interfaces (usually called biofilms).
Microbiologically influenced corrosion (MIC) is the degradation of materials, usually metal, due to the activity of microorganisms. It is also known as biocorrosion and this form of corrosion mostly takes place underneath biofilms, which consist of colonies of microorganisms attached to a surface[1]. MIC applies not only to metals but also to non-metallic surfaces such as concrete and can result in severe industry losses[1]. Mechanism. Corrosion, the oxidation of metal, requires the simultaneous reduction of another chemical. MIC usually takes place in stagnant water, and either dissolved oxygen or hydrogen is reduced in order for the process to proceed[1].
Bacterial colonies and deposits can form concentration cells, causing and enhancing galvanic corrosion. [1] . Bacterial corrosion may appear in form of pitting corrosion, for example in pipelines of the oil and gas industry. Anaerobic corrosion is evident as layers of metal sulfides and hydrogen sulfide smell.
For example, zinc is often used as a sacrificial anode for steel structures. Galvanic corrosion is of major interest to the marine industry and also anywhere water (containing salts) contacts pipes or metal structures. Many structural alloys corrode merely from exposure to moisture in air, but the process can be strongly affected by exposure to certain substances. Corrosion can be concentrated locally to form a pit or crack, or it can extend across a wide area more or less uniformly corroding the surface.