This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Hypoperfusion state, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 1  5 diseases that are very common. 2  4 diseases that are common. 3  1 disease that is uncommon. 
1. a sudden disturbance of mental equilibrium. 2. a condition of acute peripheral circulatory failure due to derangement of circulatory control or loss of circulating fluid. It is marked by hypotension and coldness of the skin, and often by tachycardia and anxiety. Untreated shock can be fatal. Called also circulatory collapse. Hypovolemic (Low-Volume) Shock. This is a common type that happens when blood or plasma is lost in such quantities that the remaining blood cannot fill the circulatory system despite constriction of the blood vessels.
Beginning with the next sign, hypotension, the body is no longer able to maintain perfusion, and the shock condition is now “decompensated.” SHOCK. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. A. Hypoperfusion (shock) is the inadequate perfusion of body tissues, resulting inadequate supply of oxygen and nutrients to the body tissues. E. Generally the signs and symptoms of hypovolemic shock occur in the following order. 1. Compensated Shock. • Weakness & lightheadedness –caused by decreased blood volume. 
1 Cool, clammy, and mottled skin (cutis marmorata) due to vasoconstriction and subsequent hypoperfusion of the skin. 2  Distended jugular veins due to increased jugular venous pressure. 3  Oliguria (low urine output) due to inadequate blood flow to the kidneys if the condition persists. Because of this, it may lead to cardiac arrest (or circulatory arrest), which is an abrupt stopping of cardiac pump function. Cardiogenic shock is defined by sustained low blood pressure with tissue hypoperfusion despite adequate left ventricular filling pressure. Signs of tissue hypoperfusion include oliguria. Treatment of cardiogenic shock depends on the cause. If due to a heart attack attempts to opening the arteries to the heart may help
Overview of Ischemic Nephropathy. Ischemic nephropathy occurs when there is inadequate blood flow (hypoperfusion) to the kidneys. Hypoperfusion manifests as a progressive loss of kidney function and kidney atrophy (shrinkage). Renal failure results when this process damages both kidneys. 
Shock, which is associated with a dangerously low blood pressure, can be produced by factors that attack the strength of the heart as a pump, decrease the volume of the blood in the system, or permit the blood vessels to increase in diameter. Types of Circulatory Shock. Hypovolemic (Low-Volume) Shock. This is a common type that happens when blood or plasma is lost in such quantities that the remaining blood cannot fill the circulatory system despite constriction of the blood vessels.
Should that number increase, so does suspicion of an underlying state of shock. Blood pressure alone may not be a reliable sign for shock, as there are times when a person is in circulatory shock but has a stable blood pressure. Circulatory shock is not related to the emotional state of shock. Circulatory shock is a life-threatening medical emergency and one of the most common causes of death for critically ill people. Shock can have a variety of effects, all with similar outcomes, but all relate to a problem with the body's circulatory system
Ischemia can also occur in the arteries of the brain, where blockages can lead to a stroke. About 80-85% of all strokes are ischemic. Most blockages in the cerebral arteries are due to a blood clot, often in an artery narrowed by plaque. Sometimes, a blood clot in the heart or aorta travels to a cerebral artery. Atherosclerosis is the cause of most coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease — A narrowing or blockage, due to atherosclerosis, of the arteries that provide oxygen and nutrients to the heart. When blood flow is cut-off, the result is a heart attack.