Cyclones are called cyclones in Australia. They are the equivalent of hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean, and typhoons in the Western Pacific and China Sea. (It is not a wi … lly-willy as some will report.).
Cyclones in Australia. Cyclones are very common in the northern region of Australia. Perth, the coast of Western Australia, the coast of the Northern Territory, most of Queensland and the coast of northern New South Wales are the areas that are most susceptible to cyclones.
Cyclones mostly occur in areas with warm waters and a temperate climate (refer to Topic 1, Chapter 3). Places that are located near the equator experience the largest and most fierce cyclones. Northern Australia, South-East Asia and many Pacific islands experien
Cyclones form and occur in a variety of areas around the world. Cyclone is the generic term for cyclones, typhoons and hurricanes. Cyclones develop in the warm seas near the equator, but do not cross the equator.
The Western Australian and Northern Territory coasts, as well as the Queensland coast, are the usual places that cyclones occur. About six cyclones happen in Australia every year. By far the most famous cyclone in Australia is Cyclone Tracy, which hit Darwin in the Northern Territory on Christmas Eve 1974.
Cyclone tracks in Australia: 1907-2005. In an average season, tropical cyclones are mostly experienced in northwest Australia between Exmouth and Broome in Western Australia and in northeast Queensland between Port Douglas and Maryborough.
The reason cyclones occur at this time is because these are Australia's warmest months, and cyclones need warm sea temperatures of 26.5 degrees Celsius or higher to form.
The summer months are the most common time for cyclones. In Australia this is between November and April. This season is also referred to as cyclone season. Summer is the time of the year when it is hotter and the sun evaporates a lot more warm water from the sea, which is how cyclones begin.
The coast between Broome and Exmouth in WA is the most cyclone-prone part of Australia's coastline, and the region most prone to severe cyclone impacts. Since 1910 there have been 49 cyclones that have caused gale-force winds at Port Hedland.