ADH (continued). Increased blood volume prevents the release of ADH. As a result, the kidneys retain less water, which dilutes the urine and increases urine output. As fluid leaves the body, blood volume decreases and serum osmolality increases.
Regulates Blood Volume The urinary system regulates blood volume by: 1) releasing renin, a hormone that after a series of reactions eventually restricts salt and water loss at the kidneys. 2) adjusting the volume of water lost in the urine. 1  Regulates RBC Production. 2  If oxygen levels in the blood are low, the kidneys release erythropoietin, a hormone that stimulates the hemocytoblasts (stem cells in the bone marrow) to increase red blood cell formation. 
There has to be a balance between the amount of water gained (from your diet though drinks and food and the water produced by cellular respiration) and the amount of water lost by the body (in sweating, evaporation, faeces and urine). This is achieved by the action of the hormone ADH (anti-diuretic hormone). 
Answers. Best Answer: Aldosterone is a hormone that causes the tubules of the kidneys to retain sodium and water. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone (mineralocorticoid family). It acts on the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney to cause the conservation of sodium, secretion of potassium, increased water retention, and increased blood pressure. The overall effect of aldosterone is to increase reabsorption of ions and water in the kidney. Vasopressin or antidiuretic hormone (ADH), is a hormone found in most mammals.. Vasopressin is a peptide hormone.
Direct control of water excretion in the kidneys is exercised by vasopressin, or anti-diuretic hormone (ADH), a peptide hormone secreted by the hypothalamus. ADH causes the insertion of water channels into the membranes of cells lining the collecting ducts, allowing water reabsorption to occur. 
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH), also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone that helps regulate water balance in the body by controlling the amount of water the kidneys reabsorb while they are filtering wastes out of the blood. This test measures the amount of ADH in the blood. ADH is normally released by the pituitary in response to sensors that detect an increase in blood osmolality (number of dissolved particles in the blood) or decrease in blood volume. The kidneys respond to ADH by conserving water and producing urine that is more concentrated.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The 3 hormones that are produced to regulate urine are Aldosterone, AHD (antidiuretic hormone), and ANH (atrial natriuretic hormone). The Aldosterone is released when the blood pressure of the kidney is low. Aldosterones main purpose is to retain sodium and water or the reabsoption of salt. It is secreted by the adrenal cortex (adrenal glands). Antidiuretic hormone is a peptide hormone and is made by the hypothalamus gland it regulates the body's retention of water.
ADH (Antidiuretic Hormone). The brain and kidneys regulate the amount of water excreted by the body. When the blood volume is low, the concentration of solutes in the blood is high. When the hypothalamus senses this low blood volume and increased serum osmolality it synthesizes ADH, a small peptide molecule. As a result, the kidneys retain less water, which dilutes the urine and increases urine output. As fluid leaves the body, blood volume decreases and serum osmolality increases.
Antidiuretic hormone, also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone produced by the hypothalamus in the brain and stored in the posterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. ADH helps regulate water balance in the body. 