Immunoglobulin A (IgA, also referred to as sIgA) is an antibody that plays a critical role in mucosal immunity. More IgA is produced in mucosal linings than all other types of antibody combined; between three and five grams are secreted into the intestinal lumen each day.
A test for quantitative immunoglobulins (Igs) is used to detect an excess or deficiency in the three major classes of immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM).
Selective immunoglobulin A deficiency (SIgAD) is a primary immunodeficiency disease and is the most common of the primary antibody deficiencies. IgAD is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4 + and CD8 + T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts.
1 IgM. 2  IgM antibodies are the largest antibody. 3  They are found in blood and lymph fluid and are the first type of antibody made in response to an infection. 4  They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 5  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 6  IgE.
1 IgM antibodies are the largest antibody. 2  They are found in blood and lymph fluid and are the first type of antibody made in response to an infection. 3  They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 4  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body.
This test is ordered when a person has symptoms of an immunoglobulin deficiency such as recurrent infections, especially of the respiratory tract (sinus, lungs) or gastrointestinal tract (stomach, intestines), and/or chronic diarrhea.
Selective IgA Deficiency is defined as a primary immunodeficiency characterized by an undetectable level of immunoglobulin A (IgA) in the blood and secretions but no other immunoglobulin deficiencies. There are five types (classes) of immunoglobulins or antibodies in the blood: IgG, IgA, IgM, IgD and IgE.
IgA. Immunoglobulin A (IgA, also referred to as sIgA) is an antibody that plays a critical role in mucosal immunity. More IgA is produced in mucosal linings than all other types of antibody combined; between three and five grams are secreted into the intestinal lumen each day.