lux-Computer Definition. A unit of measurement of the light intensity on a surface area. Lux differs from lumens.. The lux rating will decrease the farther away it is measured from the light source, but the lumen rating will remain the same. One lux is equal to the illumination of a surface one meter away from a single candle; technically, one lumen per square meter. Whereas a lumen measures light intensity in all directions from a light source, lux measures the intensity in a specific location from the source. See lumen and candela. 1  Link/Cite. 2  Home.
A lux meter is a device for measuring brightness, specifically, the intensity with which the brightness appears to the human eye. This is different than measurements of the actual light energy produced by or reflected from an object or light source. A lux meter works by using a photo cell to capture light. The meter then converts this light to an electrical current, and measuring this current allows the device to calculate the lux value of the light it captured. Ad. The most common use of this type of meter is in photography and video filming.
Lux | lx. the SI unit of illuminance and luminous emittance, measuring luminous flux per unit area. It's equal to one lumen per square metre. In photometry, this is used as a measure of the intensity, as perceived by the human eye, of light that hits or passes ... en​.wikipedia​.org​/wiki​/Lux.
A lux meter for measuring illuminances in work places. The lux (symbol: lx) is the SI unit of illuminance and luminous emittance, measuring luminous flux per unit area. It is equal to one lumen per square metre. In photometry, this is used as a measure of the intensity, as perceived by the human eye, of light that hits or passes through a surface. A flux of 1000 lumens, concentrated into an area of one square metre, lights up that square metre with an illuminance of 1000 lux. However, the same 1000 lumens, spread out over ten square metres, produces a dimmer illuminance of only 100 lux.
Definition of LUX. : a unit of illumination equal to the direct illumination on a surface that is everywhere one meter from a uniform point source of one candle intensity or equal to one lumen per square meter. See lux defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. lux. noun \ˈləks\. plural lux or lux·es. : a unit of illumination equal to the direct illumination on a surface that is everywhere one meter from a uniform point source of one candle intensity or equal to one lumen per square meter—called also meter-candle.
A unit of luminous flux is known as a lux (lx). It is equal to one lumen per square meter and lux values directly correlate to brightness in consideration of distance, orientation, and environment. One lumen is the true visible light irradiance of a source—it is equivalent to one candela per three-dimensional angle measured, or one candela per steradian. 
For monochromatic light of this wavelength, the amount of illuminance for a given amount of irradiance is maximum: 683.002 lux per W/m 2; the irradiance needed to make one lux at this wavelength is about 1.464 mW /m 2. Other wavelengths of visible light produce fewer lux per watt-per-meter-squared. A flux of 1000 lumens, concentrated into an area of one square metre, lights up that square metre with an illuminance of 1000 lux. However, the same 1000 lumens, spread out over ten square metres, produces a dimmer illuminance of only 100 lux.
In other words, light intensity. We use lux to measure the amount of light output in a given area, where one lux is equal to one lumen per square meter. Lux is a great measurement for determining what we see as the brightness of a beam. 
The lux (symbolized lx) is the unit of illuminance in the International System of Units (SI). It is defined in terms of lumen s per meter squared (lm/m 2). Reduced to SI base units, one lux is equal to 0.00146 kilogram per second cubed (1.46 x 10 -3 kg / s 3). A frequency of 540 THz corresponds to a wavelength of about 555 nanometer s (nm), which is in the middle of the visible-light spectrum. The lux is a small unit. An alternative unit is the watt per meter squared (W / m 2). To obtain lux when the illuminance in watts per meter squared is known, multiply by 683.