1 Lights left on too long. 2  Aquarium in a location with direct sunlight. 3  Overfeeding the fish water changes. 4  Using water with high nutrients. 5  Reduce Lighting – Don't place the tank where there is direct sunlight, for even part of the day. 6  Sunlight can, and will, promote algae growth. 1 Clean It Up-If you see algae beginning to grow on the glass, rocks, or other hard surfaces of the tank, remove it. 2  Scrape the glass, remove rocks and scrub them, and vacuum the gravel when you perform water changes. 3  Keep Live Plants – Live plants will use many of the nutrients that algae thrive upon.
Like plants, all species of algae need light, water and nutrients to grow. Since an aquarium provides the water, we re left with two factors that you can control to prevent the rapid accumulation of algae. These are: the amount of light the aquarium receives; and the levels of nutrients dissolved in the water. Phosphates may be controlled by using phosphate-removal media in an external filter or by using reverse osmosis water for the aquarium. Cleaner Tanks Grow Algae Faster! This is a difficult concept to understand. It is important to remember that algae growth is a natural, normal process in any aquarium.
Algae grows in every healthy aquarium, no matter how well, or how often the tank is cleaned. There is absolutely no safe way to completely prevent or stop the growth of algae. Once it starts to grow in an aquarium, it does so very rapidly. A small patch of algae can triple in size in a few days. Phosphates may be controlled by using phosphate-removal media in an external filter or by using reverse osmosis water for the aquarium. Cleaner Tanks Grow Algae Faster! This is a difficult concept to understand. It is important to remember that algae growth is a natural, normal process in any aquarium.
This video shows how to get rid of hair algae in a saltwater aquarium. Make sure to start with 0 tds water before mixing your salt. Keep feeding under control. Maintain 0 nitrates and phosphates, Kh of 7-11, Calcium of 400-450ppm, & Magnesium of 1300-1500ppm. Remove as much algae as possible, perform 10% water changes. 
If an excess of any are available, algae will grow like wildfire, just like weeds growing in a garden. Obviously you can't do without water in your aquarium, but you can control the amount of light and nutrients are in the water. Here are the common reasons for algae overgrowth. 1  Lights left on too long. 2  Aquarium in a location with direct sunlight. 1 Clean It Up-If you see algae beginning to grow on the glass, rocks, or other hard surfaces of the tank, remove it. 2  Scrape the glass, remove rocks and scrub them, and vacuum the gravel when you perform water changes. 3  Keep Live Plants – Live plants will use many of the nutrients that algae thrive upon.
Red and brown algae are also common in new tanks, when the aquarium is not yet ecologically balanced. These types of algae are also quite common in saltwater fish-only tanks when the coral decorations are cleaned on a regular basis. The small round green dots that form on the sides of a tank are not algae. Phosphates may be controlled by using phosphate-removal media in an external filter or by using reverse osmosis water for the aquarium. Cleaner Tanks Grow Algae Faster! This is a difficult concept to understand. It is important to remember that algae growth is a natural, normal process in any aquarium.
If you leave a few rocks or pieces of coral in a tank with a good growth of algae on them, that algae will consume nutrients in the water, which helps to control new growth. The best way to illustrate this principle is to take a look at the two types of aquariums that are rarely plagued with heavy algae growth. Phosphates may be controlled by using phosphate-removal media in an external filter or by using reverse osmosis water for the aquarium. Cleaner Tanks Grow Algae Faster! This is a difficult concept to understand. It is important to remember that algae growth is a natural, normal process in any aquarium.
To help control algae, follow these simple steps: 1  Scrub the sides of the tank as needed to remove algae, scrub immediately before water changes, so that free floating algae can be removed with the dirty water. 2  Additional free floating algae will be removed by your mechanical filtration. 1 This can remove free floating algae, but will also remove phosphates and Nitrates that contribute to algae growth. 2  Make sure that the tank receives no direct sunlight. 3  Direct sunlight, even for a short time or only on part of the tank will encourage algae growth, especially where the light hits the tank.
1 Make sure that any additives you are using in the tank do not contain phosphates or Nitrates, there is enough phosphate in your tap water, and any fish in your tank should provide sufficient Nitrates. 2  Keep your tank population under control. 1 This can remove free floating algae, but will also remove phosphates and Nitrates that contribute to algae growth. 2  Make sure that the tank receives no direct sunlight. 3  Direct sunlight, even for a short time or only on part of the tank will encourage algae growth, especially where the light hits the tank.
The more plants in your aquarium, the less chance algae has of taking over. Plants compete directly with algae for light and nutrients, and most often win if given proper conditions. #8 - Stock with Algae-Hungry Catfish. Put some fish in your community to work on cleanup duty. 