2. Work with a therapist. If social anxiety is stopping you from doing things you want or need to do, or you haven’t had much success with self-help, seek professional help. Find a therapist who specializes in anxiety disorders. You can start your search here. 3. Practice deep breathing every day.
Social anxiety disorder (social phobia) is a persistent and overwhelming fear of social situations. It's one of the most common anxiety disorders. Social anxiety disorder is much more than shyness. It can be intense fear and anxiety over simple everyday activities, such as shopping or speaking on the phone. As with many mental health conditions, social anxiety disorder is most probably the result of a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Anxiety disorders often run in families, so you're more likely to have social anxiety disorder if a close family member is affected.
Social anxiety is the fear of social situations that involve interaction with other people. You could say social anxiety is the fear and anxiety of being negatively judged and evaluated by other people. Social anxiety treatment must include an active behavioral therapy group, where members can work on their anxiety hierarchies in the group, and later, in real-life situations with other group members. Social anxiety is a fully treatable condition and can be overcome with effective therapy, work, and patience.
Social anxiety disorder is a chronic mental health condition, but treatment such as psychological counseling, medication and learning coping skills can help you gain confidence and improve your ability to interact with others. 1  Symptoms. 
1 At first you may feel uncomfortable while addressing the feared situations, but it is an important part of your recovery. 2  Several types of cognitive-behavioral therapy are used to treat social anxiety disorder, including: 3  Exposure therapy. 1 Several types of cognitive-behavioral therapy are used to treat social anxiety disorder, including: 2  Exposure therapy. 3  You will be guided by a professional counselor to imagine you are facing the feared situation until you no longer fear it, such as eating in public.
Anxiety disorders are treatable, and the vast majority of people with an anxiety disorder can be helped with professional care. Success of treatment varies. Some may respond to treatment after a few weeks or months, while others may need more than a year. 
Anxiety disorders in teenagers are serious mental health problems. An anxiety disorder affects how a young person thinks, feels and behaves. It’s important to seek professional help if you see any of the warning signs of anxiety disorders in your child. But professional help for an anxiety disorder is vital to your child’s healthy development. Finding treatment options for your child shows your child that you care and sends the message that your child isn’t alone. Most anxiety disorders respond well to treatment, particularly if the disorders are treated early.
People who have social anxiety disorder often have depression also. They may also have alcohol or substance abuse problems. Your doctor may ask you certain questions to see whether you might be drinking too much or abusing drugs. Social anxiety disorder often goes undetected for years before treatment is sought. 1 Several types of cognitive-behavioral therapy are used to treat social anxiety disorder, including: 2  Exposure therapy. 3  You will be guided by a professional counselor to imagine you are facing the feared situation until you no longer fear it, such as eating in public.
Initial treatment of social anxiety disorder is based on how bad your emotional and physical symptoms are and how able you are to function in daily activities. 1 Several types of cognitive-behavioral therapy are used to treat social anxiety disorder, including: 2  Exposure therapy. 3  You will be guided by a professional counselor to imagine you are facing the feared situation until you no longer fear it, such as eating in public.
Types of counseling most often used to treat social anxiety disorder include: 1  Cognitive-behavioral therapyCognitive-behavioral therapy, which helps you identify anxieties and the situations that provoke the anxiety. 2  Exposure therapy. 3  Social skills training. 4  Cognitive restructuring. 1 Several types of cognitive-behavioral therapy are used to treat social anxiety disorder, including: 2  Exposure therapy. 3  You will be guided by a professional counselor to imagine you are facing the feared situation until you no longer fear it, such as eating in public.