Qatar (pronounced KAH-ter) occupies a small peninsula that extends into the Persian Gulf from the east side of the Arabian Peninsula. Saudi Arabia is to the west and the United Arab Emirates to the south. The country is mainly barren. Constitutional monarchy. Qatar permitted the international forces to use Qatar as a base during the 1991 Persian Gulf War. A border dispute erupted with Saudi Arabia that was settled in Dec. 1992. A territorial dispute with Bahrain over the Hawar Islands remains unresolved, however.
1 Economy: Qatar is one of the wealthiest countries in the region because of oil; the government has encouraged diversification. 2  International: Qatar is gaining in regional influence. 3  It owns the influential satellite TV station Al-Jazeera and won the bid to host the 2022 Football World Cup. Image caption Qatar has developed into one of the wealthiest countries of the region. Press freedom was extended and the Qatari satellite TV station Al-Jazeera has become one of the most important broadcasters in the Arab world.
A country of eastern Arabia on a peninsula in the southwest Persian Gulf. A traditional monarchy, it was a British protectorate from 1916 until 1971, when it became independent. Oil was first produced commercially in 1949, and its production still dominates Qatar's economy. Doha is the capital and the largest city. Qatar-a peninsula extending northward from the Arabian mainland into the Persian Gulf. Katar Peninsula, Qatar Peninsula, Katar. Arabia, Arabian Peninsula-a peninsula between the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf; strategically important for its oil resources.
Doha (Arabic: الدوحة ‎, ad-Dawḥa or ad-Dōḥa, literally in MSA : the big tree, locally: rounded bays) is the capital city and most populous city of the State of Qatar. Doha has a population of 900,545 within the city proper. The city is located on the coast of the Persian Gulf in the east of the country. It is Qatar's fastest growing city, with over 60% of the nation's population living in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, and it is also the economic center of the country.
Home Earth Continents Asia Qatar. Destination Qatar, a virtual travel guide to the Kingdom in the Gulf Region. This page aims to give you a broad overview of Qatar's art, culture, people, environment, geography, history, economy and government. Qatar is a member state of the League of Arab States. Official Name: Dawlat Qatar short form: Qatar int'l long form: State of Qatar note: closest approximation of the native pronunciation falls between cutter and gutter, but not like guitar.
Qatar, a former pearl-fishing centre and once one of the poorest Gulf states, is now one of the richest countries in the region, thanks to the exploitation of large oil and gas fields since the 1940s. Image caption Qatar has developed into one of the wealthiest countries of the region. Press freedom was extended and the Qatari satellite TV station Al-Jazeera has become one of the most important broadcasters in the Arab world.
The country has the highest per capita income in the world. Qatar is an influential player in the Arab world, supporting several rebel groups during the Arab Spring both financially and through its globally expanding media group, Al Jazeera Media Network. In 2014, Qatar's relations with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates came to a boiling point over the Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood and extremist groups in Syria. This culminated in the three aforementioned countries withdrawing their ambassadors from Qatar in March 2014.
Qatar is a male absolute monarchy and its head of state is Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. After Saudi Arabia, Qatar is the most conservative society in the Gulf Cooperation Council as most Qataris adhere to the strict Wahhabi interpretation of Islam. Sharia law is the main source of Qatari legislation according to Qatar's Constitution. In 2014, Qatar's relations with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates came to a boiling point over the Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood and extremist groups in Syria. This culminated in the three aforementioned countries withdrawing their ambassadors from Qatar in March 2014.
Fact Sheet. More information about Qatar is available on the Qatar Page and from other Department of State publications and other sources listed at the end of this fact sheet. Qatar maintains an embassy in the United States at 2555 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037 (tel. 202-274-1600). More information about Qatar is available from the Department of State and other sources, some of which are listed here: Department of State Qatar Country Page. Department of State Key Officers List.
It was officially declared as the country's capital in 1971, when Qatar gained independence. As the commercial capital of Qatar and one of the emergent financial centers in the Middle East, Doha is considered a world city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network. The city is located on the coast of the Persian Gulf in the east of the country. It is Qatar's fastest growing city, with over 60% of the nation's population living in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, and it is also the economic center