A bite by the tsetse fly is often painful and can develop into a red sore, also called a chancre. Fever, severe headaches, irritability, extreme fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, and aching muscles and joints are common symptoms of sleeping sickness. Some people develop a skin rash. A person will get East African trypanosomiasis if he or she is bitten by a tsetse fly infected with the Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense parasite. The proportion of tsetse flies that are infected with this parasite is low. The tsetse fly is found only in rural Africa.
Medical Definition of TSETSE FLY. : any of several dipteran flies of the genus Glossina that occur in sub-Saharan Africa and include vectors of human and animal trypanosomes (as those causing sleeping sickness and nagana)—called also tsetse. Full Definition of TSETSE FLY. : any of several dipteran flies (genus Glossina) that occur in Africa south of the Sahara and include vectors of human and animal trypanosomes —called also tsetse — compare sleeping sickness. See tsetse fly defined for English-language learners. See tsetse fly defined for kids.
African trypanosomiasis, also called African sleeping sickness, is a parasitic disease spread by the tsetse fly. Symptoms include fatigue, high fever, headaches, and muscle aches. 
Sleeping sickness is most commonly spread through the bite of an infected tsetse fly. Even in areas where the disease occurs, only a small percentage of flies are generally infected. 1  Tsetse flies are the size of a honey bee and are grey-brown. Symptoms usually appear months or even years after the bite from an infected tsetse fly. Symptoms of T. b. gambiense infection are often non-specific, such as: 1  fever. 2  headache and muscle aches. 3  itchiness. 4  swelling of the face. 5  swollen lymph nodes.
African Trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is caused by microscopic parasites of the species Trypanosoma brucei. It is transmitted by the tsetse fly (Glossina species), which is found only in rural Africa. Although the infection is not found in the United States, historically, it has been a serious public health problem in some regions of sub-Saharan Africa.
tsetse fly (tsĕt´sē) , name for any of several bloodsucking African flies of the genus Glossina, and in the same family as the housefly. The larva of the tsetse fly develops inside the body of the mother until it is ready to pupate in the soil. A number of the 21 species can transmit to humans the trypanosomes that cause the Gambian and Rhodesian forms of African sleeping sickness (see trypanosomiasis). 
There are two types of African trypanosomiasis (also called sleeping sickness); each is named for the region of Africa in which they were found historically. East African trypanosomiasis is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, which is carried by the tsetse fly. A person will get East African trypanosomiasis if he or she is bitten by a tsetse fly infected with the Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense parasite. The proportion of tsetse flies that are infected with this parasite is low. The tsetse fly is found only in rural Africa.
African trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness is a parasitic disease of humans and other animals. It is caused by protozoa of the species Trypanosoma brucei. There are two types that infect humans, Trypanosoma brucei gambiense (T.b.g) and Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense (T.b.r.). T.b.g causes over 98% of reported cases. Both are usually transmitted by the bite of an infected tsetse fly and are most common in rural areas. Initially, in the first stage of the disease, there are fevers, headaches, itchiness, and joint pains. This begins one to three weeks after the bite.
African trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is a disease spread by an infected tsetse fly, found in rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Symptoms usually appear months or even years after the bite from an infected tsetse fly. Symptoms of T. b. gambiense infection are often non-specific, such as: 1  fever. 2  headache and muscle aches. 3  itchiness. 4  swelling of the face. 5  swollen lymph nodes.
Trypanosomiasis is transmitted to man and animals by a blood sucking insect, the tsetse fly. Tsetse flies include all the species in the genus Glossina. While tsetse flies resemble house flies, having a similar size ranging from 8 to 17 mm, two anatomical characteristics make them easily distinguishable while resting. 