What is Concrete: Concrete & Cement Defined. Contrary to popular belief, concrete and cement are not the same thing; cement is actually just a component of concrete. Concrete is made up of three basic components: water, aggregate (rock, sand, or gravel) and Portland cement. Cement, usually in powder form, acts as a binding agent when mixed with water and aggregates. Portland Cement-The cement and water form a paste that coats the aggregate and sand in the mix. The paste hardens and binds the aggregates and sand together. Water-Water is needed to chemically react with the cement (hydration) and too provide workability with the concrete.
SEDIMENTARY ROCKS. Sedimentary rocks are made of particles of sediments such as sand and clay, or the skeletons and shells of sea creatures. When layers of loose sediment are buried and pressed down under more layers, the particles slowly cement together and lithify (form rock). The Earth is covered in a layer of solid rock called the crust. Rocks are either SEDIMENTARY, IGNEOUS, or METAMORPHIC. Almost all rocks made of minerals, but different rocks contain different mixtures of minerals. Granite, for example, consists of quartz, feldspar, and mica.
Concrete, mortar and grouts are all mixtures of Portland cement, water, and aggregates (sand, and in the case of concrete: gravel.). Concrete is used for structural purposes, and it's primary role is to support a load. The ideal concrete is a solid, monolithic block of rock with no cement at all. 
Made from limestone or chalk and clay, cement provides the adhesive component in concrete and mortar. It binds the other components-aggregate and sand-together and dries to a very hard finish. The most common form of cement is Portland Grey but there is a lighter variation called Portland White. 
Sandstone Rock-cut tombs (Kokhim) in Petra, Jordan. Sandstone (sometimes known as arenite) is a clastic sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand-sized minerals or rock grains. Most sandstone is composed of quartz and/or feldspar because these are the most common minerals in the Earth's crust. Like sand, sandstone may be any color, but the most common colors are: tan, brown, yellow, red, grey, pink, white, and black. Since sandstone beds often form highly visible cliffs and other topographic features, certain colors of sandstone have been strongly identified with certain regions.
They are all made from natural rocks: Cement comes from ground up rock called limestone, concrete usually has sand or small pebbles in it, asphalt has crushed rock mixed with tar, and brick is made from baked mud. 
A cement is a binder, a substance that sets and hardens and can bind other materials together. The word cement can be traced back to the Roman term opus caementicium, used to describe masonry resembling modern concrete that was made from crushed rock with burnt lime as binder. The most important uses of cement are as a component in the production of mortar in masonry, and of concrete, a combination of cement and an aggregate to form a strong building material.
1. Combine dry ingredients for mortar mix. Mix 3 parts sand with 1 part portland cement. Add all the ingredients to a wheelbarrow or concrete mixer, depending on the size of rock you are creating and amount of mortar you are mixing. 1  You can reduce the sand, and add 1 part peat moss to create a more porous artificial rock.
Consult the following links to explore the different types of concrete and cement that are available: Making your own concrete requires time and effort, but it can save you money. To make standard concrete, mix 1 part Portland cement, 1.5 parts gravel, 1 part sand with .5 parts water. Use water that is clean and free from acid, alkaline, sulfate and oil. Test consistency by using the back of a shovel to create a smooth surface. 
Concrete Sand. Concrete sand is and aggregate sand usually composed of either gneiss, trap rock, limestone or granite. Usually it is crushed at the quarry and then washed through a screen to ensure that there are no large pieces of rocks left in it. 