Discipleship, on the other hand, meant helping someone who was already a believer walk out the life of faith. The word “discipleship” brought to my mind a small group Bible study, a conversation across the table with another woman, or an accountability group. And I knew which one I preferred. As a result, the discipleship I offered others contained a lot of good information but lacked the transforming power that can only come from the gospel. (I was also, simply, a coward.). I am beginning to see that evangelism and discipleship are not all that different.
Key to the mission of the Church is not “evangelism” but discipleship. We are not to evangelize and colonize the world, but to influence our neighbors, co-workers, and relatives in such a way that they pattern their life and lifestyle after Jesus. 
Another key difference in Evangelism & Discipleship is not just preach Jesus for Salvation but to share and apply the teachings of the Bible to the everyday real life issues-showing how Bible or God sees and solve the issues of lives. The third difference, not clear in the title itself, is in the message of Grace-the completed work of Christ gives us the ability the live the life that we should. We are saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ for good works to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. We are to live out the Christ within us.
It’s the way disciples are made. So there is not much of a difference between discipleship and evangelism after all. If I’m walking to the rhythm of the gospel in my life and talking about that with other people, I am making disciples. As a result, the discipleship I offered others contained a lot of good information but lacked the transforming power that can only come from the gospel. (I was also, simply, a coward.). I am beginning to see that evangelism and discipleship are not all that different.
I didn't know there is a difference between discipleship and evangelism. The disciples were sent out to carry the good news (evangel), albeit a somewhat different gospel as the one we preach today, but never the less. 
Evangelism is proclaiming the Good News of Jesus Christ to the lost. The “lost” are those people who do not believe in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. They are like lost sheep, which a good shepherd seeks and brings to safety (Matt. 18:12). The goal of evangelism is to win converts. Consider the relationship of evangelism and discipleship with missions. Christian missions involve proclaiming the Gospel across cultures. So a missionary spreads the Gospel to a people group or culture different from his own. Evangelism and discipleship are the processes by which mission work is accomplished. Evangelism and discipleship also occur within one’s own culture, so not all evangelism and discipleship falls within the context of mission
Evangelism and discipleship are linked together. Evangelism results in converts, and converts are trained to become disciples. Disciples evangelize to reach more converts, who are trained to become disciples. So evangelism leads to disciples and disciples evangelize until the Gospel is spread throughout the world. Consider the relationship of evangelism and discipleship with missions. Christian missions involve proclaiming the Gospel across cultures. So a missionary spreads the Gospel to a people group or culture different from his own. Evangelism and discipleship are the processes by which mission work is accomplished. Evangelism and discipleship also occur within one’s own culture, so not all evangelism and discipleship falls within the context of missions
An unbeliever becomes a believer, a disciple. When that same believer wants to “grow spiritually,” she does not suddenly employ other means. She does the same thing over and over… confesses her sin, turns from it, and receives forgiveness. This is the beautiful rhythm of the gospel. As a result, the discipleship I offered others contained a lot of good information but lacked the transforming power that can only come from the gospel. (I was also, simply, a coward.). I am beginning to see that evangelism and discipleship are not all that different.