Gaddafi was killed for one reason… His tons of gold…Period. No. No. No. Not the gold, not the oil; They killed Gaddafi because of the Green Book. The first place NATO bombed was the University of the Third Universal Theory. 32 pages of brilliance and the biggest threat to power holders everywhere. • Under Gaddafi, Libya has now attained the highest standard of living in Africa. • Gaddafi put up a communications satellite—the first in Africa —to bring the continent of Africa into the 21st century of technology.
Muammar Gaddafi, the deposed leader of Libya, died on 20 October 2011 during the Battle of Sirte. Gaddafi was found hiding in a culvert west of Sirte and captured by National Transitional Council forces. He was killed shortly afterwards. The de facto head of state, said, Our forces' resistance to Gaddafi ended well, with the help of God.. He declared Libya to be liberated at a ceremony in Benghazi on 23 October, three days after Gaddafi's death.
Gaddafi's death was a landmark, but three years later, it cannot be convincingly called a good one. On Oct. 20, 2014, Libya is as much of a mess as ever. In a confusing, chaotic situation, fighting is split among Arab nationalists, Islamists, regional militias and more. 
Gaddafi bled to death from his wounds a half-hour later, he said. Fighters said he died in the ambulance en route to Misrata, 120 miles from Sirte. Abdel-Jalil Abdel-Aziz, a doctor who accompanied the body in the ambulance and examined it, said Gaddafi died from two bullet wounds – to the head and chest. There were confusing reports of Gaddafi's capture and death, and questions remained over exactly how he was killed. Arab broadcasters showed graphic images of the balding, goateed Gaddafi – wounded, with a bloodied face and shirt – but alive.
Longtime dictator of Libya, Muammar Gaddafi, has been killed following the capture of his hometown of Sirte. [CLICK HERE FOR LIVE UPDATES]. There were confusing reports of Gaddafi's capture and death, and questions remained over exactly how he was killed. Arab broadcasters showed graphic images of the balding, goateed Gaddafi – wounded, with a bloodied face and shirt – but alive.
Immediately after Gaddafi's death, NATO released a statement denying it knew beforehand that Gaddafi was traveling in the convoy it struck. Admiral James G. Stavridis, NATO's top officer, said the death of Gaddafi meant that NATO would likely wind down its operations in Libya. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the NATO secretary-general, said NATO would terminate [its] mission in coordination with the United Nations and the National Transitional Council. The de facto head of state, said, Our forces' resistance to Gaddafi ended well, with the help of God.. He declared Libya to be liberated at a ceremony in Benghazi on 23 October, three days after Gaddafi's death.
Muammar Gaddafi: The former dictator was killed on 20 October 2011, after being tracked down in his hometown of Sirte. Colonel Gaddafi was eventually captured and killed by rebel fighters in his hometown of Sirte in October 2011. The son of former dictator Colonel Muammar Gaddafi has been sentenced to death by a court in Libya. Saif al Islam Gaddafi, who was not present at the ruling, was convicted during a mass trial in Tripoli of murder and inciting genocide during the country's 2011 uprising.
Gaddafi was killed for making alliance with many African nations, giving USA fear... Gaddafi was killed as he ruled well but oppressed some class of people in Libya... Gaddafi was killed as people felt bored after 42 years.. Source(s): I am not from LIbya... Such a shame that gaddafi was hunted down like a dog and killed. Gaddafi was a good and upright man who loved children. A man who was completely innocent of wrongdoing.
Col. Gaddafi has been killed in Libya according the the National Transitional Council. After several weeks of searching, Col. Gaddafi was captured in his birthplace, Sirte. Sirte is about 360 km (220 miles) east of Tripoli. The colonel was captured wounded with severe injuries in both legs. Unfortunate, the Col. could not make it and is pronounced dead today in Libya.