Most recently, the Iraq War has displaced the regional Assyrian community, as its people have faced ethnic and religious persecution at the hands of Islamic extremists and Arab and Kurdish nationalists. A total of 550,000 Assyrians live in Europe. Large Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities can be found in Germany, Sweden, the USA, and Australia. The largest Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities are those of Soedertaelje, Södertälje, chicago And. detroit
The Assyrians (Syriac: ܐܫܘܪܝܐ), also known as Chaldeans, Syriacs, and Arameans (see names of Syriac Christians) are an ethnic group whose origins lie in ancient Near East. They speak, read, and write distinct dialects of Neo-Aramaic. A total of 550,000 Assyrians live in Europe. Large Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities can be found in Germany, Sweden, the USA, and Australia. The largest Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities are those of Soedertaelje, Södertälje, chicago And. detroit
The Assyrian areas in the Middle East from which modern-day Assyrians have their origins are the Urmia region in Iran, the Hakkari Mountains in Turkey extending from the Iran border into southeastern Turkey, northern Iraq and Northeast Syria, all of which was the Assyrian heartland for the last several centuries. Participation in the Assyrian Heritage DNA Project by many Assyrians will raise our visibility as a significant Middle Eastern ethnic group that continues to thrive in the twenty-first century. Every national or heritage group represents a mixture of many different peoples going back over tens of thousands of years.
Assyrian Forums. Assyrians — a historical summary The Assyrians of today are the indigenous Aramaic-speaking descendants of the ancient Assyrian people, one of the earliest civilizations emerging in the Middle East, and have a history spanning over 6760 years. Assyrians are not Arabian or Arabs, we are not Kurdish, our religion is not Islam
Unlike these groups, Assyrians are Christians and have their own language (Assyrian Neo-Aramaic). The heart of the Assyrian empire was located in the northern part of ancient Mesopotamia,present day northern Iraq, southeastern Turkey, northeastern Syria, and northwestern Iran. Simply put, the modern-day Assyrians are Semitic people, and the direct descendants of the ancient Assyrian and Babylonian people, including their predecessors the Akkadians and Sumerians, and have a history spanning over 6760 years.
The Assyrian homeland encompasses what was once the core of the Assyrian Empire of antiquity and are now the areas of northern Iraq, northwestern Iran, southeastern Turkey and northeastern Syria, although there are Assyrian communities all over the Middle East, especially Lebanon. Although uniting the children of one nation through their ancestral language, the term Syriac-speaking also allows much space for them to divide themselves into Assyrians, Chaldeans, Aramaeans, Syriacs, Syrians, Maronites, and the list goes on. It does not allow for one national designation for one people.
Today that ancient territory is part of several nations: part of Iraq, Lebanon, Israel, Turkey, Syria and Iran. They are indigenous to, and have traditionally lived all over what is now Iraq, Syria, Iran, and Turkey. A total of 550,000 Assyrians live in Europe. Large Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities can be found in Germany, Sweden, the USA, and Australia. The largest Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities are those of Soedertaelje, Södertälje, chicago And. detroit
Many have migrated to the Caucasus, North America, Australia and Europe during the past century or so. Diaspora and refugee communities are based in Europe (particularly Sweden, Germany, Netherlands, and France), North America, New Zealand, Lebanon, Armenia, Georgia, southern Russia, Israel, Azerbaijan and Jordan. A total of 550,000 Assyrians live in Europe. Large Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities can be found in Germany, Sweden, the USA, and Australia. The largest Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac diaspora communities are those of Soedertaelje, Södertälje, chicago And. detroit
The Assyrians of today are the indigenous Aramaic-speaking descendants of the ancient Assyrian people, one of the earliest civilizations emerging in the Middle East, and have a history spanning over 6750 years. Assyrians are not Arabian, we are not Kurdish, our religion is not Islam. Although the Assyrian empire ended in 612 B.C., history is replete with recorded details of the continuous presence of the Assyrian people till the present time. January 2, 1915 The Holocaust Continues Plundering, massacres and destruction of seventy of Urmia's villages in the plains.
The following is a list of notable Assyrian people, it includes persons who are from (or whose ancestry is from) the Mesopotamian Syriac-Aramaic speaking populations originating in Iraq, north western Iran, north eastern Syria and south eastern Turkey. 