A windlass is a type of winch used on boats and ships to drop and hoist anchors. Manual windlasses come with a handle that is turned to wind up the rope or chain to which the anchor is attached. We recommend a power windlass, which can pull up the anchor with the press of a button. Free Fall windlasses drop the anchor by releasing the line, which can be faster than powering it down.
1 Windlass can be used to raise water from a well. 2  The oldest description of a well windlass, a rotating wooden rod installed across the mouth of a well, is found in Isidore of Seville 's (c. 560–636) Origenes (XX, 15, 1-3). 3  Windlass have also been used in gold mining. 1 A windlass would be constructed above a shaft which allowed heavy buckets to be hauled up to the surface. 2  This process would be used until the shaft got below 40 metres deep when the windlass would be replaced by a 'whip' or a 'whim' .
1 Windlass have also been used in gold mining. 2  A windlass would be constructed above a shaft which allowed heavy buckets to be hauled up to the surface. 3  This process would be used until the shaft got below 40 metres deep when the windlass would be replaced by a 'whip' or a 'whim' . 1 A windlass would be constructed above a shaft which allowed heavy buckets to be hauled up to the surface. 2
The windlass is an apparatus for moving heavy weights. Typically, a windlass consists of a horizontal cylinder (barrel), which is rotated by the turn of a crank or belt. A winch is affixed to one or both ends, and a cable or rope is wound around the winch, pulling a weight attached to the opposite end. 1 A windlass would be constructed above a shaft which allowed heavy buckets to be hauled up to the surface. 2  This process would be used until the shaft got below 40 metres deep when the windlass would be replaced by a 'whip' or a 'whim' .
A windlass is a machine used on ships that is used to let-out and heave-up equipment such as for example a ship's anchor or a fishing trawl. An anchor windlass is a machine that restrains and manipulates the anchor chain on a boat, allowing the anchor to be raised and lowered by means of chain cable. A trawl windlass is a similar machine that restrains or manipulates the trawl on a commercial fishing vessel. The trawl is a sort of big fishing net that is wound on the windlass. The fishermen either let-out the trawl or heaves-up the trawl during fishing operations. A brake is provided for control and a windlass is usually powered by an electric or hydraulic motor operating via a gear train
The task of a windlass is to reduce the effort that is required to lower or raise the anchor and rode of your boat. This can be achieved with your boat’s electrical power or by a supplemental advantage to your physical power. The reasons you should acquire an anchor windlass on our boat is Safety and Utility. The task of a boat windlass is to reduce the effort that is required to lower or raise the anchor and rode of your boat. When the size of a boat increases, so does inevitably the size and weight of the anchor becomes bigger, which apparently cannot be weighted by hand. This is where an anchor windlass takes over
The noun WINDLASS has 1 sense: 1. lifting device consisting of a horizontal cylinder turned by a crank on which a cable or rope winds. Familiarity information: WINDLASS used as a noun is very rare. 
Noun. 1. windlass-lifting device consisting of a horizontal cylinder turned by a crank on which a cable or rope winds. winch. capstan-a windlass rotated in a horizontal plane around a vertical axis; used on ships for weighing anchor or raising heavy sails. n. Any of numerous hauling or lifting machines consisting essentially of a horizontal cylinder turned by a crank or a motor so that a line attached to the load is wound around the cylinder. tr.v. wind·lassed, wind·lass·ing, wind·lass·es. To raise with a windlass.