The Bassoon. Another member of the woodwind family that uses a double reed is the bassoon. Like the oboe, the modern bassoon can be made from wood or plastic. However, it is much larger than the oboe, so it is able to play much lower. Instruments of the woodwind family are used today in orchestras and bands and can be heard in several different types of music, from classical to jazz. Woodwind instruments work by blowing air (or wind) into the instrument, which causes the air in the instrument to vibrate.
The woodwind family includes a number of instruments, many of them popular with school band musicians. Members of the woodwind family include: the clarinet; the oboe; the bassoon; the flute; the recorder; the piccolo and the bagpipes. One of the first things a new musician learns is that instruments are categorized by family. That is, instruments with similar features are grouped together in a family of instruments similar to them. Families of musical instruments may look similar, or they may produce sound in a similar fashion. Musical families include percussion, brass, woodwind and string
The term covers instruments which belong to the families of the bassoon, clarinet, flute and oboe. The flute, which is not made of wood, is termed a woodwind. The saxophone, when it is used in the orchestra, is also called a woodwind. Brass Family Worksheet 6 Which of the following instruments do not belong to the family of brass instruments. Cross them out. French horn Trumpet CornetSaxophone Metallophone TubaEnglish horn Trombone EuphoniumBugle Guitar Sousaphone Oboe Hunting horn Cymbals Make your own list
The Oboe. The oboe is also a member of the woodwind family. It is usually made from wood but can also be made from plastic. Sound is created in the oboe by blowing air into a double reed at the top of the instrument. Instruments of the woodwind family are used today in orchestras and bands and can be heard in several different types of music, from classical to jazz. Woodwind instruments work by blowing air (or wind) into the instrument, which causes the air in the instrument to vibrate.
Some woodwind instruments have a reed that has two parts called a double reed. Instruments like the oboe and the bassoon use a double reed. In this case, both reeds vibrate and tend to create a nasal sound. There's also one woodwind which uses just the 'wind' part-it's the flute. The flute does not have a reed. 
The oboe is a woodwind instrument that requires three pieces to assemble, and uses a reed, that can be purchased in different strengths. I wouldn't consider this for anyone … who hates or dislikes high pitched or screeching sounds..but if you become a good player, it alctually makes some pretty good music. The Baritone oboe is the largest in the oboe family. Though if you mean in the double reed family it's the contrabasson. An oboist couldn't play the contrabassoon, but he coul … d play the baritone oboe.
What family does the oboe belong to? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What did your experiencing making Fishing Without Nets teach you as a person and as a director? What family does the element holmium belong to? What are members of the oboe family? To what family does Romeo belong? The Baritone oboe is the largest in the oboe family. Though if you mean in the double reed family it's the contrabasson. An oboist couldn't play the contrabassoon, but he coul … d play the baritone oboe.
Oboes /ˈoʊboʊ/ OH-boh are a family of double reed woodwind musical instruments. The most common oboe plays in the treble or soprano range. Oboes are usually made of wood, but there are also oboes made of synthetic materials. A soprano oboe measures roughly 65 cm (25 1⁄2 in) long, with metal keys, a conical bore and a flared bell. This oboe was developed further in the 19th century by the Triebert family of Paris. Using the Boehm flute as a source of ideas for key work, Guillaume Triebert and his sons, Charles and Frederic, devised a series of increasingly complex yet functional key systems.
When the term oboe is used alone, it is generally taken to mean the standard treble instrument rather than other instruments of the family, such as the cor anglais (English horn) or the oboe d'amore. This oboe was developed further in the 19th century by the Triebert family of Paris. Using the Boehm flute as a source of ideas for key work, Guillaume Triebert and his sons, Charles and Frederic, devised a series of increasingly complex yet functional key systems.