Usage. The words principle and principal are pronounced in the same way but they do not have the same meaning. Principle is normally used as a noun meaning ‘a fundamental basis of a system of thought or belief’, as in this is one of the basic principles of democracy. Principal, on the other hand, is normally an adjective meaning ‘main or most important’, as in one of the country’s principal cities. Principal can also be a noun, where it is used to refer to the most senior or most important person in an organization or other group: the deputy principal.
The key principles when planning a programme are: 1  Specificity – training must be matched to the needs of the sporting activity to improve fitness in the body parts the sport uses. 2  Overload-fitness can only be improved by training more than you normally do. The best training programmes are built on principles of specificity, overload, progression and reversibility. You can also use the FITT acronym to help remember the key things to consider when tailoring programmes for individual sporting goals. It stands for; Frequency, Intensity, Time and Type.
Training should be matched to an individual's needs. By using the principles of training as a framework we can plan a personal training programme that uses scientific principles to improve performance, skill, game ability and physical fitness. The best training programmes are built on principles of specificity, overload, progression and reversibility. You can also use the FITT acronym to help remember the key things to consider when tailoring programmes for individual sporting goals. It stands for; Frequency, Intensity, Time and Type.
The Reversibility Principle in Sports Training. The length of the detraining period and the training status of the athlete dictate how much performance is lost. Detraining occurs within a relatively short time period after an athlete ceases to train. In short, If you don't use it, you lose it. (1) While rest periods are necessary for recovery, extended rest intervals reduce physical fitness. The physiological effects of fitness training diminish over time, causing the body to revert back to its pretraining condition.
Using the FITT principle, the best type of exercise to tax or improve the cardiovascular system should be continuous in nature and make use of large muscle groups. Examples include running, walking, swimming, dancing, cycling, aerobics classes, circuit training, cycling etc. Again, intensity has a say and particularly grueling strength sessions may last as little as 20 - 30 minutes. Perhaps the most important principle of training (that ironically doesn't have it's own letter in the FITT principle) is rest.
In planning a programme, use the FITT principles to add the detail: 1  Frequency-decide how often to train. 2  Intensity-choose how hard to train. 3  Time-decide for how long [how long: If you are studying the AQA specification this is known as 'duration'. 4  Type-decide which methods of training to use. The best training programmes are built on principles of specificity, overload, progression and reversibility. You can also use the FITT acronym to help remember the key things to consider when tailoring programmes for individual sporting goals. It stands for; Frequency, Intensity, Time and Type.
Think of The FITT principle as a set of rules that must be adhered to in order to benefit from any form of fitness training program. These rules relate to the Frequency, Intensity, Type and Time (FITT) of exercise... Again, intensity has a say and particularly grueling strength sessions may last as little as 20 - 30 minutes. Perhaps the most important principle of training (that ironically doesn't have it's own letter in the FITT principle) is rest.
The Reversibility Principle dictates that athletes lose the beneficial effects of training when they stop working out. Conversely, it also means that detraining effects can be reversed when athletes resume training. In short, If you don't use it, you lose it. (1) While rest periods are necessary for recovery, extended rest intervals reduce physical fitness. The physiological effects of fitness training diminish over time, causing the body to revert back to its pretraining condition.
Getting the best out of your training requires a little planning. The best training programmes are built on principles of specificity, overload, progression and reversibility. You can also use the FITT acronym to help remember the key things to consider when tailoring programmes for individual sporting goals. It stands for; Frequency, Intensity, Time and Type.
The Overload Principle is a basic sports fitness training concept. It means that in order to improve, athletes must continually work harder as they their bodies adjust to existing workouts. Overloading also plays a role in skill learning. 