A critical element of programquality is the environment, both the physical andemotional aspects. The environment strongly affectsstaff, children’s, and parents’ interactions with eachother, and adults’ ability to create an atmospherewhere children’s growth and development issupported. 
Child abuse refers to any form of physical, psychological, social, emotional or sexual maltreatment of a child whereby the survival, safety, self-esteem, growth and development of the child are endangered. There are four main types of child abuse: neglect, emotional, physical and sexual. A child may display signs indicated in the following text, however this is not conclusive evidence that abuse is taking place.
the family is in need of information or. assistance. When a family fails to use information and resources, and the child’s health or safety is at risk, then child welfare intervention may be required. In addition, many States provide an exception to the definition of neglect for parents who choose not to seek medical care for their children due to religious beliefs. In addition to working to prevent a child. from experiencing abuse or neglect, it is important to recognize high-risk situations and the signs and symptoms of maltreatment. If you do suspect a child is being harmed, reporting your suspicions may protect him or her and get help for the family.
If you suspect child neglect is occurring, first report it to the local child protective services agency (often called “social services” or “human services”) in your county or state. Professionals who work with children are required by law to report reasonable suspicion of abuse and neglect. Emotional/Psychological neglect includes actions such as engaging in chronic or extreme spousal abuse in the child’s presence, allowing a child to use drugs or alcohol, refusing or failing to provide needed psychological care, constantly belittling the child and withholding affection.
“We want you to know that whatever you are thinking and feeling, you are welcome here.” Emotional safety means feeling accepted; it is the sense that one is safe from emotional attack or harm. Most survivors have probably felt emotionally unsafe or had their sense of “being all right” taken away. Let’s take the time to sort things out together and then decide which thing you want to work on first.” Trauma may affect a person’s ability to find emotional balance. Survivors may experience a flood of feelings and worries that make it difficult to make decisions, follow plans, and tend to responsibilities.
The most common caretaker in parenting is the biological parent(s) of the child in question, although others may be an older sibling, a grandparent, a legal guardian, aunt, uncle or other family member, or a family friend. Governments and society may have a role in child-rearing as well. 
Providing for the emotional safety of survivors is an important part of our work as DV advocates. * Jeanne King, PhD, Emotional Abuse: The Lack of Emotional Safety as an Internal Indicator in Abusive Relationships, http://www.preventabusiverelationships.com/articles/emotional_safety.php. Let’s take the time to sort things out together and then decide which thing you want to work on first.” Trauma may affect a person’s ability to find emotional balance. Survivors may experience a flood of feelings and worries that make it difficult to make decisions, follow plans, and tend to responsibilities.
Sexual abuse occurs when an adult, stronger child or adolescent uses their power or authority to involve a child in sexual activity. Sexual abuse can be physical, verbal or emotional and can include: 1  kissing or holding a child in a sexual manner. 2  exposing a sexual body part to a child. 3  having sexual relations with a child under 16 years of age. 4  talking in a sexually explicit way that is not age or developmentally appropriate. , it does not matter how much a child is harmed, but whether a child: 1  has suffered harm, is suffering harm, or is at risk of suffering harm. 2  does not have a parent able and willing to protect them from harm.
Emotional safety may seem more difficult to achieve because it is harder to measure. One definition of emotional safety is “a feeling that your inner most thoughts, feelings and experience are, and will be, honored as one honors themselves. Let’s take the time to sort things out together and then decide which thing you want to work on first.” Trauma may affect a person’s ability to find emotional balance. Survivors may experience a flood of feelings and worries that make it difficult to make decisions, follow plans, and tend to responsibilities.