The name Lily is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily (after the flower). Pure. English Meaning: The name Lily is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily flower. Pure. The flower lily is a symbol of innocence; purity and beauty. Greek Meaning: The name Lily is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. Hebrew Meaning: The name Lily is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. American Meaning: The name Lily is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lily is: Lil
English Meaning: The name Lilly is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lilly is: The flower lily is a symbol of innocence; purity and beauty. American Meaning: The name Lilly is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lilly is: The flower lily is a symbol of innocence; purity and beauty. 
Notes: Lily is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Lily is lily flower. Two common variations of the name Lily are Lilly and Lillie. Nicknames include Lee, Lil, and Lee Lee. Famous people with the name Lily include singer Lily Allen and actress/comedienne Lily Tomlin
The name Lily is #11 on the list of top 100 cool baby girl names in the baby name book Cool Names by Pamela Redmond Satran and Linda Rosenkrantz. Lily can also be a nickname for Elizabeth. Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II, was called Lilibeth as a child. Queen Elizabeth II was called Lilibet as her child pet name. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Lily is a baby girl name. The name Lily comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Lily is: Lily flower. Pure. The flower lily is a symbol of innocence; purity and beauty.
Lily is a feminine given name directly derived from lily, the flower. The popularity of the name increased steadily in most English-speaking countries during the late 20th century. In the United States, Lily became one of the top-100 names for newborn girls in 2002 and reached a rank of 18 by 2009. 
Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Lily and corresponding names. Prominent varying forms of Lily (#27 in 2014) are Elizabeth (#14 in 2014) , Lillian (#25) , Liliana (#119) , Lilly (#124) , Lila (#183) , Lilian (#506) , Lillie (#512) , Rosa (#608) , Lilia (#925) , Lilla and Lilyan. Lily is a very popular first name for women (#652 out of 4276, Top 15%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#71372 out of 150436, Top 47%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Lily for girls.