Syringomyelia is a rare disorder in which a cyst forms within your spinal cord. As the cyst, which is called a syrinx, expands and lengthens over time, it compresses and damages part of your spinal cord from its center outward. Damage to the spinal cord caused by a syrinx can cause symptoms like progressive pain, stiffness, and weakness in the back, shoulders, arms, and legs. Individuals with the disorder might lose the ability to feel cold and pain normally. Symptoms of the disorder are caused by the pressure the syrinx puts on the spinal cord and the damage that follows. The symptoms may include: 1  progressive weakness and pain in back, shoulders, arms, or legs. 2  inability to feel hot or cold normally.
by Clare Rusbridge BVMS DipECVN MRCVS. Syringomyelia is a condition whereby fluid filled cavities develop within the spinal cord. Some refer to SM as 'neck scratcher's disease' because scratching in the air near the neck is a common sign. Syringomyelia can occur from any blockage in the subarachnoid space (space containing CSF around the brain and spinal cord). However, the most common cause is the cerebellum within the foramen magnum (i.e. the back of the brain poking though the hole at the back of the skull).
Syringomyelia /sɪˌrɪŋɡɵmaɪˈiːliə/ is a generic term referring to a disorder in which a cyst or cavity forms within the spinal cord. This cyst, called a syrinx, can expand and elongate over time, destroying the spinal cord. Syringomyelia may also cause a loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especially in the hands. The disorder generally leads to a cape-like loss of pain and temperature sensation along the back and arms. Each patient experiences a different combination of symptoms
The second major form of syringomyelia occurs as a complication of trauma, meningitis, hemorrhage, a tumor, or arachnoiditis. Here, the syrinx or cyst develops in a segment of the spinal cord damaged by one of these conditions. Surgery is usually recommended for individuals with syringomyelia. The type of surgery and its location depend on the type of syringomyelia. In Chiari malformation, the main goal of surgery is to provide more space at the base of the skull and upper neck, without entering the brain or spinal cord.
Syringomyelia causes a wide variety of neuropathic symptoms due to damage of the spinal cord. Patients may experience severe chronic pain, abnormal sensations and loss of sensation particularly in the hands. Some patients experience paralysis or paresis temporarily or permanently. Syringomyelia may also cause a loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especially in the hands. The disorder generally leads to a cape-like loss of pain and temperature sensation along the back and arms. Each patient experiences a different combination of symptoms
(Pronunciation). Syringomyelia, often referred to as SM, is a chronic disorder involving the spinal cord. The condition occurs when cerebrospinal fluid (normally found outside of the spinal cord and brain) enters the interior of the spinal cord, forming a cavity known as a syrinx. Not all patients with Chiari malformations will develop a syrinx, however. SM can also occur as a complication of trauma, meningitis, tumor, arachnoiditis, or a tethered spinal cord. In these cases the syrinx forms in the section of the spinal cord damaged by these conditions.
Syringomyelia (sear-IN-go-my-EEL-ya) is a disorder in which a cyst forms within the spinal cord. This cyst, called a syrinx, expands and elongates over time, destroying the center of the spinal cord. Since the spinal cord connects the brain to nerves in the extremities, this damage results in pain, weakness, and stiffness in the back, shoulders, arms, or legs. Syringomyelia may occur as a complication of trauma, meningitis, hemorrhage, a tumor, or arachnoiditis. Symptoms may appear months or even years after the initial injury, starting with pain, weakness, and sensory impairment originating at the site of trauma.
Syringomyelia is a condition characterized by a fluid-filled cavity or cyst known as a syrinx that forms within the spinal cord. Syringomyelia is a chronic condition and a syrinx can expand over time compressing or destroying the surrounding nerve tissue. 
Syringomyelia can develop as a complication of trauma, meningitis, hemorrhage, a tumor, or arachoiditis. Arachoiditis is a progressive inflammatory disorder that affects the arachoid or middle membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Symptoms of the disorder are caused by the pressure the syrinx puts on the spinal cord and the damage that follows. The symptoms may include: 1  progressive weakness and pain in back, shoulders, arms, or legs. 2  inability to feel hot or cold normally.