Many sedatives and hypnotics are GABA agonists. Glutamic acid, also known as glutamate, is an amino acid and is the most common neurotransmitter in the body. 80% of the brain's neurons release glutamate. Glutamate’s most vital function as a neurotransmitter is in cognitive activities like memory and learning. Medications for insomnia and hypersomnia usually act on neural systems and affect, in some manner, neurotransmitters. Sleep aids tend to work on the GABA receptors in the brain, or melatonin receptors.
Serotonin Function * wilipedia. Serotonin plays an important role as a neurotransmitter in the modulation of anger, aggression, body temperature, mood, sleep, human sexuality, appetite, and metabolism, as well as stimulating vomiting.Serotonin has broad activities and has been implicated in neurological diseases. 1
Many of melatonin's biological effects in animals are produced through activation of melatonin receptors, while others are due to its role as a pervasive and powerful antioxidant, with a particular role in the protection of nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. In animals, melatonin is involved in the entrainment (synchronization) of the circadian rhythms of physiological functions including sleep timing, blood pressure regulation, seasonal reproduction and many others.
The pineal gland or epiphysis synthesizes and secretes melatonin, a structurally simple hormone that communicates information about environmental lighting to various parts of the body. Ultimately, melatonin has the ability to entrain biological rhythms and has important effects on reproductive function of many animals. The light-transducing ability of the pineal gland has led some to call the pineal the third eye.
Melatonin is a neuromodulator that is synthesized by retinal photoreceptors during the dark period under the control of a circadian pacemaker. It diffuses to other cells in the retina and binds to specific G-protein-coupled receptors to modify their activity. 
It is the hormone produced by the pineal gland that also acts as a neurotransmitter. It basically controls the sleep-wake cycle. It is also associated with controlling mood and sexual behavior. The production of melatonin is dependent on light. 
Today we’ll talk about natural melatonin cycles, how melatonin relates to health, and also how melatonin is taken as a supplement. Your Natural Melatonin Cycle. Melatonin is a hormone produced by the pineal gland. It also acts as a neurotransmitter. In dim light conditions melatonin levels will start to rise about 2 hours before your habitual bedtime, and peak about 2 hours afterwards. This increase is partly responsible for tired feelings before bedtime. 
Photo Credit Design Pics/Design Pics/Getty Images. Serotonin and melatonin are both hormones that regulate various human functions such as sleep, appetite and mood. Serotonin, which is produced in the body, is known as a neurotransmitter; this means it is responsible for sending messages between nerve cells. 
Melatonin is a widely occurring neurotransmitter-like compound derived primarily from the pineal gland. It is also produced in a number of other areas, for example the gastrointestinal tract. Once labeled as a master hormone, it has been found to be involved in numerous aspects of biological and physiologic regulation. 
The precursor to melatonin is serotonin, a neurotransmitter that itself is derived from the amino acid tryptophan. Within the pineal gland, serotonin is acetylated and then methylated to yield melatonin. Synthesis and secretion of melatonin is dramatically affected by light exposure to the eyes. Ultimately, melatonin has the ability to entrain biological rhythms and has important effects on reproductive function of many animals. The light-transducing ability of the pineal gland has led some to call the pineal the third eye.