lithosphere. (lĭth`əsfēr') , brittle uppermost shell of the earth, broken into a number of tectonic plates. The lithosphere consists of the heavy oceanic and lighter continental crusts, and the uppermost portion of the mantle mantle,portion of the earth's interior lying beneath the crust and above the core. Lithosphere. the outer sphere of the “solid” earth, including the earth’s crust and the upper layer of the mantle (substratum). The lower boundary of the lithosphere runs above the asthenosphere. Until the 1960’s “lithosphere” was a synonym for the earth’s crust.
Oceanic lithosphere consists mainly of mafic crust and ultramafic mantle (peridotite) and is denser than continental lithosphere, for which the mantle is associated with crust made of felsic rocks. 1 Oceanic lithosphere, which is associated with oceanic crust and exists in the ocean basins (mean density of about 2.9 grams per cubic centimeter). 2  Continental lithosphere, which is associated with continental crust (mean density of about 2.7
Oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of an oceanic tectonic plate. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together comprise an oceanic plate. The plates of the Earth together are referred to as the lithosphere. Oceanic crust is the result of erupted mantle material originating from below the plate, cooled and in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. 
Oceanic lithosphere is typically about 50–140 km thick (but beneath the mid-ocean ridges is no thicker than the crust), while continental lithosphere has a range in thickness from about 40 km to perhaps 280 km; the upper ~30 to ~50 km of typical continental lithosphere is crust. 1 Oceanic lithosphere, which is associated with oceanic crust and exists in the ocean basins (mean density of about 2.9 grams per cubic centimeter). 2  Continental lithosphere, which is associated with continental crust (mean density of about 2.7
: the solid part of a celestial body (as the earth); specifically: the outer part of the solid earth composed of rock essentially like that exposed at the surface, consisting of the crust and outermost layer of the mantle, and usually considered to be about 60 miles (100 kilometers) in thickness. 
Definition and introduction. The continental lithosphere consists of the continental crust and, typically, some nonconvecting part of the underlying upper mantle (Figure 1). In plate tectonics terms, the continental lithosphere is part of the rigid outer rind of the Earth, which is segmented into several major plates. The cold lithosphere lies atop a hotter, more mobile (low strength) asthenosphere.
noun. The rigid outer part of the earth, consisting of the crust and upper mantle: the lithosphere comprises a number of plates [mass noun]: continental lithosphere has a lower mean density than oceanic lithosphere. More example sentences. 1 An alternative to an active mantle thermal anomaly is greater stretching of the mantle lithosphere than the crust. 2  We attribute base level changes to the influence of the proto-Iceland mantle plume beneath the lithosphere, providing support until continental break-up west of the Faroe Islands.
Noun. 1. lithosphere-the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle. geosphere. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. crust, Earth's crust-the outer layer of the Earth
Earth's lithosphere includes the crust and the uppermost mantle, which constitute the hard and rigid outer layer of the Earth. The lithosphere is subdivided into tectonic plates. 1 Oceanic lithosphere, which is associated with oceanic crust and exists in the ocean basins (mean density of about 2.9 grams per cubic centimeter). 2  Continental lithosphere, which is associated with continental crust (mean density of about 2.7