1 Limb (anatomy) , an appendage of a human or animal. 2  Limb Music, a record label. 3  Limb, in astronomy, the apparent border or edge of the disk of a celestial body (star, planet, etc.), as in lunar limb, limb darkening, atmospheric limb sounding, etc. 4  See also: horizon. 1 Limb, in a measuring instrument, the graduated edge of a circle or arc. 2  Limb, in botany, the border or upper spreading part of a sympetallous corolla, or of a petal or sepal. 3  Limbs, in archery, the upper and lower working parts of the bow, also see recurve bow.
A limb (from the Old English lim), or extremity, is a jointed, or prehensile (as octopus arms or new world monkey tails), appendage of the human or other animal body. In the human body, the upper and lower limbs are commonly called the arms and the legs. Most animals use limbs for locomotion, such as walking, running, or climbing. Some animals can use their front limbs (or upper limbs in humans) to carry and manipulate objects.
Limb can refer to: 1  Limb (anatomy) , an appendage of a human or animal. 2  Limb Music, a record label. 3  Limb, in astronomy, the apparent border or edge of the disk of a celestial body (star, planet, etc.), as in lunar limb, limb darkening, atmospheric limb sounding, etc. 4  See also: horizon. 1 Limb, in a measuring instrument, the graduated edge of a circle or arc. 2  Limb, in botany, the border or upper spreading part of a sympetallous corolla, or of a petal or sepal. 3  Limbs, in archery, the upper and lower working parts of the bow, also see recurve bow.
limb. 1. member or extremity; one of the paired appendages of the body used in locomotion or grasping; in humans, an arm or leg with all its parts. 2. a structure or part resembling an arm or leg. anacrotic limb ascending l. (2). phantom limb the sensation, after amputation of a limb, that the absent part is still present; there may also be paresthesias, transient aches, and intermittent or continuous pain perceived as originating in the absent limb. residual limb stump.
limb. 1. one of the paired appendages of the body used in locomotion and grasping; see arm and leg. Called also member, membrum, and extremity. 2. a structure or part resembling an arm or leg. anacrotic limb ascending limb (def. 2). artificial limb a replacement for a missing limb; see also prosthesis. lower limb the limb of the body extending from the gluteal region to the foot; it is specialized for weight-bearing and locomotion. See also leg. pectoral limb the arm (upper limb), or a homologous part. pelvic limb the leg (low
Definition of LIMB. 1. a: one of the projecting paired appendages (as wings) of an animal body used especially for movement and grasping but sometimes modified into sensory or sexual organs b: a leg or arm of a human being. 2. : a large primary branch of a tree. 3. : an active member or agent. Definition of LIMB for Kids. 1. : any of the paired parts (as an arm, wing, or leg) of an animal that stick out from the body and are used mostly in moving and grasping. 2. : a large branch of a tree. — limbed \ˈlimd\ adjective.
limb 1. n. 1. One of the larger branches of a tree. 2. One of the jointed appendages of an animal, such as an arm, leg, wing, or flipper, used for locomotion or grasping. 3. 2. limb-any of the main branches arising from the trunk or a bough of a tree. tree branch. tree-a tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a distinct elevated crown; includes both gymnosperms and angiosperms.
limb. 1. one of the paired appendages of the body used in locomotion and grasping; see arm and leg. Called also member, membrum, and extremity. 2. a structure or part resembling an arm or leg. anacrotic limb ascending limb (def. 2). artificial limb a replacement for a missing limb; see also prosthesis. phantom limb the sensation, after amputation of a limb, that the absent part is still present; there may also be paresthesias, transient aches, and intermittent or continuous pain perceived as originating in the absent limb. residual limb stump.