You can polish off the stains from your teeth by using a safe home remedy. Do not use peroxide solutions that dentists use for your oral wounds as that is a professional job. You can create a nice toothpaste-like gel for removing stains from your teeth by mixing baking soda with a little bit of hydrogen peroxide. These will get scrubbed off as you brush your teeth. Baking soda removes all the stains from the teeth without causing any harm to the tooth enamel. You can keep brushing until the stains are completely removed. Use Peroxide Toothpaste Use a peroxide prophy paste available at your local pharmacy.
The baking soda will remove stains on your teeth while the hydrogen peroxide whitens. To help remove teeth stains with baking soda and hydrogen peroxide follow these steps: 1  To begin the removal of your teeth stains, pour a small amount of baking soda in a small dish. 2  You will need to dip your toothbrush in it so do not put too much in the bowl. 3  Add a small amount of hydrogen peroxide to the baking soda. Whitening their teeth also makes people feel more confident about themselves. To help remove your teeth stains at home, with whitening strips, follow these simple steps: 1  First, begin by doing your research. 2  There are many products on the market and many different types of teeth stains.
Instructions. Mix 1/2 tsp. of baking soda and 1/4 tsp. of peroxide in a bowl to form a paste. If the paste is too dry, add a couple more drops of peroxide. Apply the peroxide and baking soda paste to your teeth using a clean fingertip. Allow the paste to sit on your teeth for 15 minutes. The paste will stay there as long as you don't talk, eat, drink or swallow. Rinse the baking soda and peroxide paste off your teeth using your toothbrush and plain water
Braces are of several kinds. Invisalign braces will not stain your teeth at all. In case you have other kinds of braces you can do everything in your might to keep the stains under control by maintaining a severe check on your teeth hygiene. Brush, floss and mouth wash everyday religiously. 
Use Bakin Soda. Use baking soda for removing stains. Dip your toothbrush into a box of baking soda and wet it with water. Brush your teeth to remove the nooks and cranies from the mouth. These will get scrubbed off as you brush your teeth. Baking soda removes all the stains from the teeth without causing any harm to the tooth enamel. You can keep brushing until the stains are completely removed. Use Peroxide Toothpaste Use a peroxide prophy paste available at your local pharmacy.
Answers. Best Answer: It is very hard to remove curry stains from the elastic ligatures on your braces. The elastic ligatures are the little rubber bands on each bracket. You can try brushing with a whitening toothpaste but it want get rid of the stain completely. 
For a few weeks after the removal of your braces, you should wash your teeth more thoroughly than before. This will help in removing the stains that have developed. Always brush your teeth every after meal in the morning, lunch time and dinner. Actually, you should also brush your teeth if you eat snacks in between. Rub some baking soda. Baking soda is known to be a tough stain remover. You can use baking soda for stain on clothes and other fabrics, stain on furniture and walls and even stain on your teeth. You can just create a paste out of water and baking soda.
This is a nice way to remove your teeth stains from braces. Of course, strawberries are yummy so you do not need to endure foul taste on your mouth. You can just get a piece of strawberry and cut it in half. Use these parts to rub and remove the stains on your teeth. Then gargle with mouthwash or water. Rub some baking soda. Baking soda is known to be a tough stain remover. You can use baking soda for stain on clothes and other fabrics, stain on furniture and walls and even stain on your teeth. You can just create a paste out of water and baking soda.
Teeth stains from braces are actually very common. If you wear braces, it is quite hard to clean your teeth and the braces itself. SO if you fail to thoroughly clean your teeth before when you were wearing braces, these teeth stains might surface once those wires have been removed. But do not fret just yet. Rub some baking soda. Baking soda is known to be a tough stain remover. You can use baking soda for stain on clothes and other fabrics, stain on furniture and walls and even stain on your teeth. You can just create a paste out of water and baking soda.