Hurricane Camille was a Hurricane the was a category 5 int the Gulf of Mexico. It first hit Cuba then went to the United States of America and ended up leaving off of Virginia … after it hit Louisianna, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentuckey, and West Virginia. It ended up in the Atlantic Ocean. Answered. A minimum pressure of 26.84 inches was reported in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, which makes Camille the second most intense hurricane of record to hit the United States.
Hurricane Camille was the third and strongest tropical cyclone and second hurricane during the 1969 Atlantic hurricane season. The hurricane weakened as it progressed inland, and within 14 hours of moving ashore, Camille weakened to tropical storm status. About 12 hours later, it weakened to tropical depression status, by which time it began a turn to the north and northeast.
Camille was the second strongest U.S. landfalling hurricane in recorded history in terms of atmospheric pressure, second only to the Labor Day Hurricane in 1935. The storm formed on 14 August and rapidly deepened. It scraped the western edge of Cuba at Category 2 intensity. The hurricane weakened as it progressed inland, and within 14 hours of moving ashore, Camille weakened to tropical storm status. About 12 hours later, it weakened to tropical depression status, by which time it began a turn to the north and northeast.
Hurricane Camille was the third and strongest tropical cyclone and second hurricane during the 1969 Atlantic hurricane season. It smashed into the Mississippi Gulf Coast on the night of August 17, 1969, and carved a path of destruction until the early hours of 18 August. 
On August 17, 1969, Hurricane Camille roared out of the Gulf of Mexico and smashed into Mississippi's twenty-six miles of coastline. Winds were clocked at more than 200 miles per hour, tidal waves surged to nearly 35 feet, and the barometric pressure of 26.85 inches neared an all-time low. 
What is hurricane camille? Hurricane Camille was a Hurricane the was a category 5 int the Gulf of Mexico. It first hit Cuba then went to the United States of America and ended up leaving off of Virginia … after it hit Louisianna, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentuckey, and West Virginia. A minimum pressure of 26.84 inches was reported in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, which makes Camille the second most intense hurricane of record to hit the United States.
This powerful, deadly, and destructive hurricane formed just west of the Cayman Islands on August 14. It rapidly intensified and by the time it reached western Cuba the next day it was a Category 3 hurricane. Camille tracked north-northwestward across the Gulf of Mexico and became a Category 5 hurricane on August 16. The hurricane maintained this intensity until it made landfall along the Mississippi coast late on the 17th
Introduction Thirty years ago, Hurricane Camille struck the United States Gulf Coast with an unprecedented fury. Camille, a Saffir/Simpson Category 5 storm, was the strongest storm to directly strike the United States in the twentieth century. After wreaking havoc along the Gulf Coast, Camille's remnants deposited a tremendous amount of rain in the Appalachian Mountains of Virginia and West Virginia, causing further damage. Hurricane Camille caused incredible damage to the buildings and structures along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, particularly to the waterfront areas of Hancock, Harrison, and Jackson Counties. Damage in the Mississippi Delta area was caused primarily by high water from the Gulf of Mexico.
A look back at Hurricane Camille. Hurricane Camille, the USA's second strongest 20th century hurricane, hit the Gulf Coast in 1969. Camille became a hurricane on Aug. 15, 1969 south of Cuba and began quickly growing that night as it moved into the Gulf of Mexico. 
Hurricane Camille, one of the most powerful and costly hurricanes on record, made landfall on the coast of Mississippi 45 years ago. Camille is one of only three known hurricanes to make landfall in the U.S. as a Category 5 storm; Camille killed 259 people and caused nearly $9.2 billion (2014 USD) in damages. 