Body mass index, or BMI, is a way to help you figure out if you are at a healthy weight for your height. BMI is a number based on your weight and height. In general, the higher the number, the more body fat a person has.
If your BMI value is below 18.5 then it is indicating that you are underweight for what is considered standard for your height and weight. This does not necessarily mean you are underweight, but it means you should consider the possibility.
Underweight: Your BMI is less than 18.5. Healthy weight: Your BMI is 18.5 to 24.9. Overweight: Your BMI is 25 to 29.9. Obese: Your BMI is 30 or higher. The chart below shows examples of body mass indexes. The figure at which your height corresponds with your weight is your body mass index.
A normal BMI will fall between numbers ranging from of 18.5 to 24.9. Your BMI should be somewhere in the normal target. If your BMI value is lower, then you may be underweight. If your BMI is higher, then you may be overweight or even obese.
Calculate your BMI. You'll need to know your height in inches and your weight in pounds. Divide your weight by your height squared. Multiply that number by 703. An adult who is 5'6 tall and weighs 160 lb. has a BMI of 25.8. You could use an online BMI calculator to do the equation for you.
Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to adult men and women. 1  Enter your weight and height using standard or metric measures. 2  Select Compute BMI and your BMI will appear below.
Any BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 is considered normal. A BMI under 18.5 is categorized as underweight. You are considered overweight if your BMI is between 25 and 29.9. If your BMI is 30 to 39.9, you are obese. Any BMI over 40 is classified as morbidly obese. These categories are for adults over 20 years of age. There are other ranges for children and teenagers, divided by gender.
Your BMI is a good indicator of the fat content in your body’s composition. (However, it is not the same as measuring your body fat percentage.) Fat has an important role, but not having enough fat or having too much fat can lead to many health issues.