DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T).
Other types of mutations delete or insert small segments of DNA within the ATP7B gene or introduce a stop signal in the gene's instructions for making copper-transporting ATPase 2. As a result, no protein is produced, or an abnormally small protein is made. 
This short film is designed to help. Here we discuss a basic definition of a gene, show what a gene looks like, what it is that genes actually code for, and the basic idea behind Genetically Modified Organisms. Fruit flies share about 50% their genes with humans comes from NASA and NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information). http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/... http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/artic... Hope you liked the video, more are in the works.
formed changes. This leads to either a different protein, or an inactive protein. Now that we know what DNA is, this is where the recombinant comes in. Recombinant DNA is the general name for taking a piece of one DNA, and and combining it with another strand of DNA. Thus, the name recombinant! Recombinant DNA is also sometimes referred to as chimera.
DNA sequencing is the process of determining the precise order of nucleotides within a DNA molecule. It includes any method or technology that is used to determine the order of the four bases— adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine —in a strand of DNA. 
Additional Resources for you to Explore. Deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, is a nucleic acid containing the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms (with the exception of RNA viruses). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA.
Chimps and humans share 96% of their DNA comes from National Geographic: http://news.nationalgeographic.com/ne... Fruit flies share about 50% their genes with humans comes from NASA and NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information). http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/... http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/artic... Hope you liked the video, more are in the works.
This short film is designed to help. Here we discuss a basic definition of a gene, show what a gene looks like, what it is that genes actually code for, and the basic idea behind Genetically Modified Organisms. 