Fast Facts. 1  Gestational diabetes is a kind of diabetes that can happen during pregnancy. 2  Gestational diabetes is treated by controlling blood sugar. 3  Insulin and two kinds of diabetes pills can lower blood sugar for women with gestational diabetes. 4  Many women who have gestational diabetes get type 2 diabetes later in life. Fast Facts. 1  Gestational diabetes is a kind of diabetes that can happen during pregnancy. 2  It usually goes away after delivery. 3  Gestational diabetes is treated by controlling blood sugar. 4  Some women can do this with a special diet for diabetes and staying active. 5  Other women will need insulin shots or diabetes pills.
Definition. Gestational diabetes develops during pregnancy (gestation). Like other types of diabetes, gestational diabetes affects how your cells use sugar (glucose). Gestational diabetes causes high blood sugar that can affect your pregnancy and your baby's health. Any pregnancy complication is concerning, but there's good news
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. Any disease that causes extensive damage to the pancreas may lead to diabetes (for example, chronic pancreatitis and cystic fibrosis). Diseases associated with excessive secretion of insulin-antagonistic hormones can cause diabetes (which is typically resolved once the hormone excess is removed).
A person with diabetes has a condition in which the quantity of glucose in the blood is too elevated (hyperglycemia). This is because the body either does not produce enough insulin, produces no insulin, or has cells that do not respond properly to the insulin the pancreas produces. 1 Gestational Diabetes-this type affects females during pregnancy. 2  The most common diabetes symptoms include frequent urination, intense thirst and hunger, weight gain, unusual weight loss, fatigue, cuts and bruises that do not heal, male sexual dysfunction, numbness and tingling in hands and feet.
The blood sugar disorder, known as gestational diabetes, was linked to a moderately increased risk for an autism spectrum disorder in a study of more than 320,000 U.S. children, said study researcher Anny Xiang, director of statistical research at Kaiser Permanente Southern California. 
Diabetes (diabetes mellitus) is classed as a metabolism disorder. Metabolism refers to the way our bodies use digested food for energy and growth. Most of what we eat is broken down into glucose. Glucose is a form of sugar in the blood-it is the principal source of fuel for our bodies. 1 Gestational Diabetes-this type affects females during pregnancy. 2  The most common diabetes symptoms include frequent urination, intense thirst and hunger, weight gain, unusual weight loss, fatigue, cuts and bruises that do not heal, male sexual dysfunction, numbness and tingling in hands and feet.
Gestational diabetes is a form of diabetes that occurs for the first time when a woman is pregnant. This type of diabetes is caused by a change in the way a woman's body responds to the hormone insulin during her pregnancy. This change results in elevated levels of blood sugar, also known as blood glucose. Gestational diabetes affects an estimated 18 percent of women during pregnancy.
Gestational Diabetes. Gestational diabetes is a condition characterized by high blood glucose (sugar) levels that are discovered during pregnancy. It is defined as carbohydrate intolerance. About 3 percent to 5 percent of all pregnant women in the U.S. are diagnosed with gestational diabetes. To screen for gestational diabetes, you will take a test called the oral glucose tolerance test. This test involves quickly drinking a sweetened liquid, which contains 50g of glucose. The body absorbs this glucose rapidly, causing blood sugar levels to rise within 30-60 minutes.
This signal is revealed by gestational diabetes, a condition of elevated blood sugar during pregnancy.”. At the start of the study, researchers measured risk factors for heart disease before pregnancy among 898 women, 18 to 30 years old, who later had one or more births. 1 Pregnant women may face an increased risk of early heart disease if they develop gestational diabetes. 2  Early screening and intervention is important to identify later heart disease risk for these mothers, researchers said.