Cartilaginous joints are connected entirely by cartilage (fibrocartilage or hyaline). Cartilaginous joints allow more movement between bones than a fibrous joint but less than the highly mobile synovial joint. Cartilaginous joints also forms the growth regions of immature long bones and the intervertebral discs of the spinal column
1.Primary cartilaginous joints(= synchondroses): A plate of hyaline cartilage connects the bones at the joint. Only hyaline cartilage is involved, and the joints are immoveable. An example is the cartilaginous epiphyseal plate which separates the epiphysis from the diaphysis in long bones during growth. 2.Secondary cartilaginous joints(= symphyses). It involves both hyaline and fibrocartilage. The articular surface of each bone is covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, and fibrocartilage unites these two layers.
1 Also known as primary cartilaginous joints, they only involve hyaline cartilage. 2  The joints can be immovable (synarthroses) or slightly movable (amphiarthroses). 3  The joint between the diaphysis and epiphysis of a growing long bone is a synchondrosis. 4  This is interesting in that it is a temporary joint with no movement. 
A cartilaginous joint is a joint where cartilage connects the bones. Cartilage is a tough but flexible connective tissue that comes in three types: hyaline (also called articular), elastic and fibrocartilage. 
Define cartilaginous joints : Cartilaginous joints are connections between bones that are held tightly together by cartilage-specifically either hyaline cartilage or fibrocartilage. The definition of a cartilaginous joint is clearer with information about how cartilaginous joints compare with the other types of joints.  Cartilaginous joints  is 1 of the. : 1  Fibrous joints-held together by fibrous connective tissue. 2  Cartilaginous joints-held together by cartilage tissue. 3  Synovial joints-include a synovial cavity surrounded by a fibrous capsule.
Cartilaginous joints: In this type of joints there is a piece of cartilage between the bones which hold the bones together and makes a joint. Cartilaginous joints are further divided into the following subtypes; 1  Primary cartilaginous joints: (synchondrosis): In this subtype the bones are united by a plate of hyaline cartilage so that the joint is immovable and strong. 
bicondylar joint a condylar joint with a meniscus between the articular surfaces, as in the temporomandibular joint. cartilaginous joint a type of synarthrosis in which the bones are united by cartilage, providing slight flexible movement; the two types are synchondrosis and symphysis. composite joint (compound joint) a type of synovial joint in which more than two bones are involved. cartilaginous. consisting of, or of the nature of, cartilage. cartilaginous joint. the bones of the joint are joined together by fibrocartilage or hyaline
Cartilaginous joints which have layers of hyaline cartilage between the adjoining bones are known as sychondroses joints. Many of these joints are only temporary and are typically found in the growth areas on bodies which have not yet fully developed. Joints which allow limited movement or respond to twisting and compression by permitting “give” to prevent injury are typically cartilaginous joints. These joints are separately classified in two individual groups, the symphyses and the sychondroses.