The hermit crab has a soft under-body which it protects by carrying a shell on its back. The shell of the hermit crab is not its own, but one that belonged to another animal. As hermit crabs grow, they continue to find larger shells to accomodate their increasing size. Hermit crabs are omnivorous animals that eat pretty much anything they can find in the surrounding water. It is thought that hermit crabs often hide amongst other animals such as sea anemones as a form of natural protection. After mating, the female hermit crab carries large numbers of eggs in a mass that is attached to her abdomen.
Common hermit crab biology. In Britain, small hermit crabs are a common feature of the shore, where they frequently adopt the shells of edible periwinkles (Littorina littorea), flat periwinkles (Littorina obtusata) and dog whelks (Nucella lapidus). In deeper water, the shells of the whelk (Buccinum) are often occupied. Occasionally, if two hermit crabs meet, one will attempt to 'steal' the other's shell by forcibly evicting the current owner. The common hermit crab is an omnivorous scavenger, and can also obtain food by filtering organic particles from the water.
There are more than 500 different species of hermit crab found in marine habitats all around the world. Although hermit crabs do venture into deeper waters,they are more commonly found in coastal waters where there is more food and places to hide. It is thought that hermit crabs often hide amongst other animals such as sea anemones as a form of natural protection. After mating, the female hermit crab carries large numbers of eggs in a mass that is attached to her abdomen.
The hermit crab is a small sized crustacean, that is found in ocean waters worldwide.Despite its snail-like appearance the hermit crab is related to crabs, although they are not that closely related as the hermit crab is not a true crab. It is thought that hermit crabs often hide amongst other animals such as sea anemones as a form of natural protection. After mating, the female hermit crab carries large numbers of eggs in a mass that is attached to her abdomen.
Despite the common name, hermit crabs are related more closely to lobsters than to crabs. They lack a hard carapace, and adopt the empty shells of gastropod molluscs (such as whelks), carrying them around and swapping them for a larger shell as they grow. In deeper water, the shells of the whelk (Buccinum) are often occupied. Occasionally, if two hermit crabs meet, one will attempt to 'steal' the other's shell by forcibly evicting the current owner. The common hermit crab is an omnivorous scavenger, and can also obtain food by filtering organic particles from the water.
A hermit crab is a part of a superfamily; it itself is a category and not a species. The most specific we can get to is order: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Arthropoda Cla … ss: Malacostraca Order: Decapoda. 2 people found this useful. The term crab is  also used to describe other creatures with superficial similarities  to true crabs, e.g., crustaceans like the hermit crab or horseshoe  crab. There is also a parasite called a crab louse; body lice are  informally referred to as crabs.
Outside its shell, the soft, curved abdomen of hermit crabs, such as Pagurus bernhardus, is vulnerable. Most species have long, spirally curved abdomens, which are soft, unlike the hard, calcified abdomens seen in related crustaceans. Hermit crab species range in size and shape, from species with a carapace only a few millimetres long to Coenobita brevimanus, which can live 12–70 years and can approach the size of a coconut.
Coral Banded Shrimp vs Hermit Crabs. The hermit crabs were trying to steal food from the coral banded shrimp. In a reef tank, size does not always matter. 1  Pets & Animals. 2  Standard YouTube License. 3  YouTube Video Editor. 4  View attributions. 
Hermit crabs are decapod crustaceans of the superfamily Paguroidea. Most of the 1100 species possess an asymmetrical abdomen which is concealed in an empty gastropod shell carried around by the hermit crab. Hermit crab species range in size and shape, from species with a carapace only a few millimetres long to Coenobita brevimanus, which can live 12–70 years and can approach the size of a coconut.