The contract management plan is an input/output document that outlines the method in which a specific contract will be administered and executed. Contract management plans, as with most elements of the effective management of projects, should in fact be implemented as early in the life cycle of a project as possible. In the event circumstance change, it may be possible to modify a contract management plan with the agreement of all parties. A contract management plan is a subsection of the projects main project management plan. This term is defined in the 3rd edition of the PMBOK but not in the 4th
A meeting should be held with the department that is doing the contract management work and those impacted by the contract management process. At the meeting, the reason for contract management should be explained along with the fact that the program is fully endorsed by senior management. Plan. A comprehensive plan should be developed to implement a contract management system that ensures that all affected departments in an organization focus on delivering a cost-effective approach to managing contracts.
Contract Management Plan. This template is sourced from the Victorian Government Purchasing Board as a guide to assist staff in undertaking contract management for the provision of goods and services to UTAS. It is recommended that a plan be developed for all contracts in excess of $100,000 cost over the life of the contract.
A Contract Management Plan (CMP) is one of the primary tools the Government can use to make sure that a program achieves everything it wants and that it gets what it is paying for from a contractual perspective. When done properly, the Contract Management Plan specifies all of the parameters related to government oversight and managing contractor performance. It spells out the specifics of executing this particular statement of work.
A contract management plan enables the contract manager to: 1  develop a good understanding of the contract, and the responsibilities of the parties involved; and. The level of detail included in a contract management plan will vary, depending on the nature of the goods or services being purchased. The majority of the information needed to complete the contract management plan will be located in the contract (including the specifications and the contractor's tender documentation).
The contract management plan should be developed by the contract manager, who preferably will have also been involved in the planning stages of the purchase. This page has been developed by the Department of Treasury and Finance. The level of detail included in a contract management plan will vary, depending on the nature of the goods or services being purchased. The majority of the information needed to complete the contract management plan will be located in the contract (including the specifications and the contractor's tender documentation).
The contract management plan is a living document. Its development should commence during the procurement planning stage, and it should be reviewed and updated throughout the procurement process and the life of the contract. At the procurement planning stage, consideration needs to be given to: The level of detail included in a contract management plan will vary, depending on the nature of the goods or services being purchased. The majority of the information needed to complete the contract management plan will be located in the contract (including the specifications and the contractor's tender documentation).
Contract management or contract administration is the management of contracts made with customers, vendors, partners, or employees. The personnel involved in Contract Administration required to negotiate, support and manage effective contracts are expensive to train and retain. 1 A sales contract is a contract between a company (the seller) and a customer where the company agrees to sell products and/or services and the customer in return is obligated to pay for the product/services bought.