What is the mean size of the stomach of an adult? The average length of an adult’s stomach is 25 centimeters or 10 inches. This organ can hold up to 4.2 quarts or 4 liters of food. On the other hand, this body part has normally holds 1.5 liters of fluid. There are different factors that affect stomach volume.
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestive system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in many animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects (mid-gut), and molluscs. Depending on the quantity and contents of the meal, the stomach will digest the food into chyme anywhere between forty minutes and a few hours. The average human stomach can comfortably hold about a litre of food. Gastric juice in the stomach also contains pepsinogen.
From the Textbooks of Anatomy: According to Ross the capacity of the average stomach varies from 1-2 liters and the normal weight range is from 125-175 grams. 
The average human testicle size is 12 cubic cm to 30 cubic cm.   2 inches in length 1-1.5 inches in height 0.8 inches in width The average size of a testicle in … an adult is 18-20 ml. Which corresponds to 12-30 cm. Answer   the average forehead size of a human is roughly between 6 and 10 centimetres though this can vary widely. If someone has a large forehead it does not necessarily … mean they have a large head overall, sometimes it means that their hairline is further up their head.
The average length of the small intestine in an adult human male is 6.9 m (22 ft 8 in), and 7.1 m (23 ft 4 in) in an adult female. It can vary greatly, from as short as 4.6 m (15 ft) to as long as 9.8 m (32 ft). 
Answer by Betty0320 (734). The average stomach holds 1 to 1.5 liters. Initially, the human stomach is about as big as a closed fist, but it can expand to a much larger size. It will shrink back to normal after a time. add a comment. It is a muscular organ and size varies according to the stature of the body.Normally it is the size of a hand stretching full when filled with food and returns to narmal after digestion.Here I assume the intestinal tract as stomach.Too big a size is dangerous.
An average human stomach is about the size of a closed adult fist. It can expand, of course, to hold approximately a quart or more of food. 
Almost every animal has a stomach. The human stomach is a muscular, elastic, pear-shaped bag, lying crosswise in the abdominal cavity beneath the diaphragm. It changes size and shape according to is position of the body and the amount of food inside. The stomach is about 12 inches (30.5 cm) long and is 6 inches. (15.2 cm) wide at its widest point. The stomach's capacity is about 1 qt (0.94 liters) in an adult. Food enters the stomach from the esophagus.
Answer   The average human brain weighs three pounds (1.36 kilograms). The average female brain capacity is 79.3 cubic inches, slightly smaller than the male … brain of 88.5 cubic inches. The largest human brains may be twice those of average size, but size has no relevance to brain performance. Answer   the average forehead size of a human is roughly between 6 and 10 centimetres though this can vary widely. If someone has a large forehead it does not necessarily … mean they have a large head overall, sometimes it means that their hairline is further up their head.