Green candles are bullish, red are bearish, and blue is neutral. The color-coding of the candles are based upon where each candle closes: above the 34 period EMA high is green, below the 34 period EMA low is red, and between the 34 period EMA high and 34 period EMA low is blue. Download GRaB Candles Indicator. Posted by Phe Ca at 4:10 AM. 
Version 2. This package contains the 34EMA Wave indicator and GRaB Candle PaintBar studies as developed and used by Raghee Horner. This package contains the 34EMA Wave indicator and GRaB Candle PaintBar studies as developed and used by Raghee Horner. What's New.
The 34EMA Wave and GRaB Candles are not a method in and of themselves necessarily. It is first and foremost a pair of indicators that will help you decide what strategy to use (e.g. trend following, breakout/breakdown, fading highs/lows). - trendlines, support, and resistance. In other words most chart observations that I would use for a potential trade are done in the lookback...focusing on what I find is the most relevant data for that time frame. GRaB Candles are an extension of my 34EMA Wave and are simply a visual tool. I use them to determine the momentum and organization of a market trend. They are also a nice tool to use for traders looking at multiple charts and screens
There are many other people who are using my 34EMA Wave and GRaB Candles and/or renamed variations of the 34EMA Wave and I am flattered and honored and privileged to have been an inspiration or a teacher at some point to them even if I have never met them. - trendlines, support, and resistance. In other words most chart observations that I would use for a potential trade are done in the lookback...focusing on what I find is the most relevant data for that time frame. GRaB Candles are an extension of my 34EMA Wave and are simply a visual tool. I use them to determine the momentum and organization of a market trend. They are also a nice tool to use for traders looking at multiple charts and screens
July 7, 2014 Version: 2. By: Robert Tonkavich. The GRaB Candles when viewed on multiple time frame charts (Daily, 240,60, 30, 15, & 5) in a TradeStation workspace help provide clarity to where movement is and where the trend is in relation to both short term and longer term. This package contains the 34EMA Wave indicator and GRaB Candle PaintBar studies as developed and used by Raghee Horner. This package contains the 34EMA Wave indicator and GRaB Candle PaintBar studies as developed and used by Raghee Horner. What's New.
Rules strategy GRaB Candles Forex System. 1  Open Long, when the candle turns green, and the indicator CCI_Woodies_Lnx_v6 should be blue. 2  Open Short, when the candle turns red while CCI_Woodies_Lnx_v6 indicator should be red. 3  Exit when the price will return to the channel MA. GRaB Candles Forex System is designed for trading in any currency pairs and timeframes M15 or higher. After installing the system on chart, you will see green, red and blue candles. Hence the name of the system-G reen R ed and B lue (GRaB) . Each color indicates the direction of prices:
Notes on MT4 Installation: Please contact your broker for assistance with set up or installation of these tools. After unzipping the files (I use WINRAR), I put the GRaB Candles Long, GRaB Candles Short, GRaB Candles Range in the indicators folder. A common error is not unzipping the files first before putting them in the indicators folder. Also the GRaB will occasionally cause a shadow set of candles on the chart. 
Queen Cleopiptra's 34EMA Wave and GRaB candles. I'm going to post an on-going discussion of the guidelines of my two indicators, the 34EMA Wave and GRaB (Green Red and Blue) candles. Now if you'd come down a couple of years earlier...lol. Anyways, nice to have someone of your calibre putting in a contribution here. Originally Posted by Queen Cleopiptra. I'm going to post an on-going discussion of the guidelines of my two indicators, the 34EMA Wave and GRaB ( G reen R ed a nd B 