Hebrew Meaning: The name Ana is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Ana is: Grace. American Meaning: The name Ana is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ana is: Grace. Maori Meaning: The name Ana is a Maori baby name. In Maori the meaning of the name Ana is: Serene. Spanish Meaning: The name Ana is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Ana is: Grace; favor..
[ 2 syll. a-nan, an-an ] The baby boy name Anan is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is EY-NahN (English) †. Anan is used predominantly in the Akan language, and its origin is African-Akan and African-Ga. From African-Akan roots, its meaning is fourth-born child. Anan is a variant of the name Annan. Anan is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Anan include Aimen, Aimon, Aymen, Aymon, Enan, Enen, Engin (Turkish), Enion, Ensign, Enian, and Enyon.
Anan. Anan is a city located in Tokushima, Japan. The city was founded on May 1, 1958. As of 2008, the city has an estimated population of 76,723 and the density of 275 persons per km². 
Annan is a rare first name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#30161 out of 150436, Top 20%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Annan for boys. Annan has yet to be recorded in the list so far. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). 
Anan meaning. For a meaning of the name Anan, Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names and NOBSE Study Bible Name List both read A Cloud, but better would be Cloudy, or even Obscure. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |. The word ענן ('anan) is used as a verb once, in Genesis 9:14, where it means to bring clouds. A feminine noun עננה ('ananah) occurs once too, in Job 3:5, where it also means cloud.
ענן I. The word ענן ('anan) means cloud when it's a noun, or cloudy when it's an adjective. It should be distinguished from the word עב ('ab), meaning cloud, as עב ('ab) usually denotes a single cloud, where ענן ('anan) usually denotes a mass or overcast screen of cloud. The word ענן ('anan) is used as a verb once, in Genesis 9:14, where it means to bring clouds. A feminine noun עננה ('ananah) occurs once too, in Job 3:5, where it also means cloud.
Anan is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced A-nan. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. It ranked 9630 in popular baby names for boys with 7 occurrences. View the Anan Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Anan has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Anan to other names. Variants of the name Anan include Anani.
Anand is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced A-nand. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3431 in baby name popularity for boys with 31 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Anand Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Anand has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Anand to other names. The name Ananda is a form of Anand.
What does Anan mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Anan is of African Akan origin. The meaning of Anan is fourth born child. It is also of Hebrew origin, where its meaning is of the clouds. It ranked 9630 in popular baby names for boys with 7 occurrences. View the Anan Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Anan has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Anan to other names. Variants of the name Anan include Anani.