Tuhfatal-Ikhwaan bi Ajwibah Muhimmah tata’allaq bi Arkaan al-Islam (question no. 10). In the answer to question no. 62839 you will find important information on waswasah and the remedy for it. In the answer to question no. 25778 we have described the remedy for one who is worried about waswaas and passing thoughts. So these waswaas may come from the jinn or from the sons of Adam (human beings). See question no. 59931. What happens to a Muslim regarding his wudoo and prayer, where he does not know how many times he washed during wudoo or how many rak’ahs (units of prayer) he did in prayer, comes from the Shaytaan.
“He was asked about the problem of waswasah (insinuating whispers from the Shaytan), and whether there is a remedy for it. He replied by saying that there is an effective remedy for it, which is to ignore them completely, no matter how frequently they may come to mind. “Verily, he [the Shaytan] has no power over those who believe and put their trust only in their Lord (Allah)”. [al-Nahl 16:99]. It is worth quoting here what Ibn Hajar al-Haythami (may Allah have mercy on him) said about dealing with waswasah in his book al-Fataawa al-Fiqhiyyah al-Kubra, 1/149.
This book is an abridged translation of the original work in Arabic titled Dham al-Muwaswiseen wat-Tahdheere minal Waswasah by Imam Muwafaq Deen bin Qudaama al-Maqdisi al-Hanbali. 
62839: Remedy for Whispers from Shaytan. Because I am suffering from waswasah (whispers from the Shaytan), sometimes I do not answer my wife when she tries to speak to me, because of this waswasah or because I believe she is the cause of this waswasah. “Verily, he [the Shaytan] has no power over those who believe and put their trust only in their Lord (Allah)”. [al-Nahl 16:99]. It is worth quoting here what Ibn Hajar al-Haythami (may Allah have mercy on him) said about dealing with waswasah in his book al-Fataawa al-Fiqhiyyah al-Kubra, 1/149.
It is worth quoting here what Ibn Hajar al-Haythami (may Allah have mercy on him) said about dealing with waswasah in his book al-Fataawa al-Fiqhiyyah al-Kubra (1/149). This is what he said: “He was asked about the problem of waswasah (insinuating whispers from the Shaitan), and whether there is a remedy for it. So, Allah has made it clear to mankind that Satan is their enemy and Satan’s goal is to divert mankind from the goal that Allah established for them, which is to follow and worship Allah by obeying His commands.
We ask Allah to take away the waswasah that you are suffering and to increase us and you in faith, righteousness and piety. And Allah knows best. Not answering your wife does not count as a talaaq, neither does speaking to her angrily. “Verily, he [the Shaytan] has no power over those who believe and put their trust only in their Lord (Allah)”. [al-Nahl 16:99]. It is worth quoting here what Ibn Hajar al-Haythami (may Allah have mercy on him) said about dealing with waswasah in his book al-Fataawa al-Fiqhiyyah al-Kubra, 1/149.
Abu Haazim made a comparison between the waswasah caused by the nafs and that caused by the Shaytaan, and said: Whatever your nafs hates for your nafs is from the Shaytan, so seek refuge with Allah from it. So these waswaas may come from the jinn or from the sons of Adam (human beings). See question no. 59931. What happens to a Muslim regarding his wudoo and prayer, where he does not know how many times he washed during wudoo or how many rak’ahs (units of prayer) he did in prayer, comes from the Shaytaan.
In Islam, such unwanted thoughts are called wasawis (plural of waswasah), which are whispered into the minds and hearts of people by Shaitan (Satan). These wasawis play a significant role in many mental disorders that involve anxiety and cognitive distortions. 
Praise be to Allah. Firstly: The waswaas which people experience is not all of the same type or degree, either in terms of the type of sickness or in terms of its source and effect. So these waswaas may come from the jinn or from the sons of Adam (human beings). See question no. 59931. What happens to a Muslim regarding his wudoo and prayer, where he does not know how many times he washed during wudoo or how many rak’ahs (units of prayer) he did in prayer, comes from the Shaytaan.