Despite the relatively protected location of the olfactory bulb in the human brain (which is on the bottom of the brain), many common ailments can effect the olfactory bulb, such as upper-respiratory tract infections, head trauma, and nasal or sinus diseases.
The olfactory bulb is a part of the limbic system. Within the brain, the bulb is located in the forebrain, though in humans it sits at the bottom while in other vertebrates it sits at the very front. A bony structure called the cribiform plate cradles and protects it, and separates it from the nasal cavity.
The olfactory nerve (a cranial nerve-therefore located in the cranium of the brain), then passes the message to the olfactory bulb, which is the inferior (bottom) part of the brain. This section of the brain can discriminate between different odors and arouse higher areas of the brain based on the odor that it detects.
The olfactory nerve is the cranial nerve located closest to the front of the brain, and is therefore called cranial nerve I.. This nerve is responsible for the sense of smell, which is particularly important in other animals but somewhat less so in humans. One byproduct of the sense of smell,...
Most Emailed Articles. &quot;Big Five&quot; Personality Quiz. Anatomy of the Brain Olfactory Bulb Function: Relays Sensory Signals to the Olfactory Tract Sense of Smell Location: The olfactory bulb is located in the limbic region of the brain.
The olfactory bulb (bulbus olfactorius) is a neural structure of the vertebrate forebrain involved in olfaction, or the sense of smell.
The olfactory bulb is one of the structures of the limbic system and a very ancient part of the brain. As mentioned in the previous description of the olfactory process, the information captured by the sense of smell goes from the olfactory bulb to other structures of the limbic system.
1 The olfactory bulbs has sensory receptors that are actually part of the brain which send messages directly to: 2  The most primitive brain centers where they influence emotions and memories (limbic system structures), and. “ 3 Higher” centers where they modify conscious thought (neo-cortex).
The olfactory bulb is a structure found in the brains of vertebrates that processes information about odors, and is a key part of the neural system responsible for the sense of smell. Cells located in the nose that process odor input send signals directly to the olfactory bulb.