In architecture, a cupola /ˈkjuːpələ/ is a small, most often dome-like, structure on top of a building. Often used to provide a lookout or to admit light and air, it usually crowns a larger roof or dome. The chhatri, seen in Indian architecture, fits the definition of a cupola when it is used atop a larger structure. Cupolas often appear as small buildings in their own right. They often serve as a belfry, belvedere, or roof lantern above a main roof. In other cases they may crown a spire, tower, or turret.
A cupola or cupola furnace is a melting device used in foundries that can be used to melt cast iron, ni-resist iron and some bronzes. The cupola can be made almost any practical size. The size of a cupola is expressed in diameters and can range from 1.5 to 13 feet (0.5 to 4.0 m). The overall shape is cylindrical and the equipment is arranged vertically, usually supported by four legs.
The Cupola. The fact is, you don't just take any old Cupola and stick it up on the roof of your barn..... no way, Ray! Too small a Cupola on a big barn, or too big a Cupola on a small barn, and it's gonna look real dumb!! When you order the Cupola with your barn plans on the price/order page of the web site, we'll send you the right size Cupola plans for the size barn your going to build! The 28 inch wide by 48 inch tall Cupola fits on the 16' wide Baby Barn, from 20' to 30' in length.
A domed roof or ceiling. b. A small structure surmounting a roof. The word cupola comes from the Latin meaning little cupo or little dome, and originally referred to the small domes atop cathedrals which allowed light to enter the sanctuary. 
Full Definition of CUPOLA. 1. a: a rounded vault resting on a usually circular base and forming a roof or a ceiling b: a small structure built on top of a roof. 2. : a vertical cylindrical furnace for melting iron in the foundry that has tuyeres and tapping spouts near the bottom. 3. 
A cupola-style caboose with an angel seat above. The cupola is a development during the Renaissance of the oculus, an ancient device found in Roman architecture, but being weatherproof was superior for the wetter climates of northern Europe. The chhatri, seen in Indian architecture, fits the definition of a cupola when it is used atop a larger structure. Cupolas often appear as small buildings in their own right. They often serve as a belfry, belvedere, or roof lantern above a main roof. In other cases they may crown a spire, tower, or turret.
Definition: A cupola is an ornamental structure placed on the top of a larger roof or dome. In some cases, the entire main roof of a tower or spire can be a cupola. More frequently, however, the cupola is a smaller structure that sets on top of the main roof. 
A cupola is a small tower or dome-like feature projecting from the top of a barn roof. Ranging from large and ornate to small and simple, cupolas typically have three parts: the base, the vents and the cap. 