The production of maltose is based on the hydrolysis of starch, compound by glucose units α(1→4) and α(1→6) linked, meaning that the carbon number 1 is linked by a glycosidic bond to the carbon number 4 or 6 of the other glucose. Maltose is the second member of an important biochemical series of glucose chains. Maltose is the disaccharide produced when amylase breaks down starch. It is found in germinating seeds such as barley as they break down their starch stores to use for food. It is also produced when glucose is caramelized.
An inoculum from a pure culture is transferred aseptically to a sterile tube of phenol red maltose broth. The inoculated tube is incubated at 35-37 C for 24 hours and the results are determined. A positive test consists of a color change from red to yellow, indicating a p H change to acidic. Several media are available for this. Most commonly used is phenol red maltose broth. The medium is a nutrient broth to which 0.5-1.0% maltose is added. The p H indicator phenol red is red at neutral p H but turns yellow at p H H.
Disaccharides. Disaccharides are compounds that contain a bond between carbon(1) of one sugar and a hydroxyl group at any position on the other sugar. Disaccharides are sugars containing two hexose units, such as sucrose in cane sugar, maltose in malt sugar and lactose in milk sugar. 
Principle. Patterns of acid production from the carbohydrates-glucose, maltose, lactose, sucrose, (and fructose) - are used to identify Neisseria and related species. In contrast to most bacteria which produce acid by a fermentative pathway, Neisseria spp. produce acid by an oxidative pathway
In our experiment we tested the fermentation of yeast with five different types of sugars. We tested fructose, sucrose, lactose, maltose and glucose as a control. We are trying to find out which type of sugar will ferment with yeast and produce the most CO 2. We are doing this to figure out which sugar gives the living thing (the yeast) the most energy.
Maltose (/ˈmɔːltoʊs/ or /ˈmɔːltoʊz/), also known as maltobiose or malt sugar, is a disaccharide formed from two units of glucose joined with an α(1→4) bond, formed from a condensation reaction. The isomer isomaltose has two glucose molecules linked through an α(1→6) bond. Maltose is the second member of an important biochemical series of glucose chains. Maltose is the disaccharide produced when amylase breaks down starch. It is found in germinating seeds such as barley as they break down their starch stores to use for food. It is also produced when glucose is caramelized.
The Carbohydrate Fermentation test uses Phenol Red Broth to test for the fermentation of different sugars. It is one of the fermentation tests, others include the Methyl Red test and the Voges-Proskauer test. Different people use different sugars, but glucose, sucrose, lactose, and mannitol are often studied. One inoculates bacteria into each tube, if the strain of bacteria ferments that sugar, an acid will build up, changing the color of Phenol Red.