Congressman David Wilmot first introduced the proviso in the United States House of Representatives on August 8, 1846, as a rider on a $2,000,000 appropriations bill intended for the final negotiations to resolve the Mexican–American War (this was only three months into the two-year war). The Wilmot Proviso proposed an American law to ban slavery in any territory acquired from Mexico in the Mexican War. The conflict over the proviso was one of the major events leading to the American Civil War
David Wilmot, the author of Wilmot Proviso. The Wilmot Proviso was a proposal, never adopted, for Congress to forbid the expansion of slavery into the Southwest, especially New Mexico. It inflamed sectional tensions and helped cause the American Civil War. It was W. L. Yancey's answer to the Wilmot Proviso and popular sovereignty. The Alabama Platform demanded congressional protection of slavery in the Mexican cession. Rejected by the national Democrats in 1848, the anti-Wilmot Alabama platform was adopted by a majority of the Democratic Convention at Charleston in 1860.
Wilmot introduced a rider to that measure, which was derived from the Northwest Ordinance, barring slavery from any territory acquired from Mexico. The bill containing the Wilmot Proviso passed the House in 1846 but the Senate failed to take any action on it. Passed again by the House in 1847, the proviso was defeated largely by the opposition of Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina. The Wilmot Proviso would have prevented slavery's expansion into any of this new territory. The House of Representatives approved the appropriations bill and, as a result, the proviso on August 8, 1846, but the Senate adjourned befor
Wilmot Proviso The Wilmot Proviso was introduced on August 8, 1846, in the United States House of Representatives as a rider on a $2 million appropriations bill intended for the final negotiations to resolve the Mexican-American War. 
If the Wilmot Proviso had been passed, then any territories gained from Mexico would automatically be a free state. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Pros and Cons: Congress and Super Pac Super PAC (Political Action Committees) is a PAC to which corporations, unions and other organizations can donate freely. 
Dispute over whether any Mexican territory that America won during the Mexican War should be free or a slave territory. A representative named David Wilmot introduced an amendment stating that any territory acquired from Mexico would be free. This amendment passed the House twice, but failed to ever pass in Senate. The Wilmot Proviso, as it became known as, became a symbol of how intense dispute over slavery was in the U.S.   . 
If the Wilmot Proviso had been passed, then any territories gained from Mexico would automatically be a free state. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. The Wilmot Proviso was designed to outlaw slavery in territories  acquired from the War of Mexico. One of the effects was a political  party that became dedicated to stoppin … g the spread of slavery.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Wilmot Proviso, first suggested in 1846 and attached to many bills but never passed, would have outlawed slavery in any U.S. territory gained from the Mexican Cession following the recently begun Mexican-American War. The proviso was named for Congressman David Wilmot of Pennsylvania. The Free Soil Party formed in support of the Wilmot Proviso, and their platform of Free Soil was later adopted by the Republican Party.
Travel and History Blog. Share. David Wilmot, whose name is associated with the Wilmot Proviso, was born Bethany, Pennsylvania, in 1814 and took up the practice of law in Towanda. He served as as a Democratic member of Congress from 1845 to 1851. The Wilmot Proviso would have prevented slavery's expansion into any of this new territory. The House of Representatives approved the appropriations bill and, as a result, the proviso on August 8, 1846, but the Senate adjourned befor