1 MST3.07.GE8.08: Students use the Pythagorean Theorem to determine the unknown length of a side of a right triangle. 2  MST3.07.NO6.15: Students recognize and state the value of the square root of a perfect square (up to 225). Activity Goals: 1  Given two legs of a right triangle, students will use the Pythagorean Theorem to find the unknown length of the hypotenuse using a calculator. 2  Given a leg and the hypotenuse of a right triangle, students will use the Pythagorean Theorem to find the length of the unknown leg,
One of the more famous mathematical formulas is [tex]a^2+b^2=c^2[/tex], which is known as the Pythagorean Theorem. The theorem states that the hypotenuse of a right triangle can be easily calculated from the lengths of the sides. The hypotenuse is the longest side of a right triangle. If you're given the lengths of the two sides it is easy to find the hypotenuse. 
If you are given the lengths of two sides and the measure of an angle opposite one of those sides, you can use the law of sines to find the other opposite angle. The measure of the third angle can be easily found using the fact that the sum of the angles of a triangle is 180º. 
In the left triangle, the measure of the hypotenuse is missing. Use the Pythagorean theorem to solve for the missing length. Replace the variables in the theorem with the values of the known sides. 48 2 + 14 2 = c 2. Square the measures and add them together. The length of the missing side, c, which is the hypotenuse, is 50. The triangle on the right is missing the bottom length, but you do have the length of the hypotenuse. It doesn't matter whether you call the missing length a or b
Ad. 2. Assign the variables a, b, and c to the sides of your triangle. In the Pythagorean Theorem, the variables a and b refer to the sides that meet in a right angle, while the variable c refers to the hypotenuse-the longest side which is always opposite the right angle. The distance between your two points is the hypotenuse of the triangle whose two sides you've just defined. Use the Pythagorean Theorem as you normally would to find the hypotenuse, setting a as the length of your first side and b as the length of the second.
Determine which side(s) of the triangle you are solving for. The Pythagorean Theorem allows mathematicians to find the length of any one of a right triangle's sides as long as they know the lengths of the other two sides. Determine which of your sides has an unknown length-a, b, and/or c. The distance between your two points is the hypotenuse of the triangle whose two sides you've just defined. Use the Pythagorean Theorem as you normally would to find the hypotenuse, setting a as the length of your first side and b as the length of the second.
4. Use the Pythagorean Theorem to solve for the hypotenuse. The distance between your two points is the hypotenuse of the triangle whose two sides you've just defined. Use the Pythagorean Theorem as you normally would to find the hypotenuse, setting a as the length of your first side and b as the length of the second.
SSA  is when we know two sides and an angle that is not the angle between the sides. To solve an SSA triangle. 1  use The Law of Sines first to calculate one of the other two angles; 2  then use the three angles add to 180° to find the other angle; 3  finally use The Law of Sines again to find the unknown side.
By Mary Jane Sterling from Trigonometry For Dummies, 2nd Edition. The Pythagorean theorem states that a 2 + b 2 = c 2 in a right triangle where c is the longest side. You can use this equation to figure out the length of one side if you have the lengths of the other two. The figure shows two right triangles that are each missing one side's measure. The length of the missing side, c, which is the hypotenuse, is 50. The triangle on the right is missing the bottom length, but you do have the length of the hypotenuse. It doesn't matter whether you call the missing length a or b. Replace the variables in the theorem with the values of the known sides.
NYS Standards: 1  MST3.07.GE8.08: Students use the Pythagorean Theorem to determine the unknown length of a side of a right triangle. 2  MST3.07.NO6.15: Students recognize and state the value of the square root of a perfect square (up to 225). Activity Goals: 1  Given two legs of a right triangle, students will use the Pythagorean Theorem to find the unknown length of the hypotenuse using a calculator. 2  Given a leg and the hypotenuse of a right triangle, students will use the Pythagorean Theorem to find the length of the unknown leg,