To replace a cover page created in an earlier version of Word, you must delete the first cover page manually, and then add a cover page with a design from the Word gallery. To delete a cover page inserted with Word, click the Insert tab, click Cover pages in the Pages group, and then click Remove Current Cover Page. Add a cover page. Microsoft Word offers a gallery of convenient predesigned cover pages. Choose a cover page and replace the sample text with your own. On the Insert tab, in the Pages group, click Cover Page. Click a cover page layout from the gallery of options. After you insert a cover page, you can replace the sample text with your own text by clicking to select an area of the cover page, such as the title, and typing your text. Note. If you insert another cover page in the document, the new cover page will replace the first cover page you inserted
On the Insert tab, in the Pages group, click Cover Page. Click a cover page layout from the gallery of options. After you insert a cover page, you can replace the sample text with your own text by clicking to select an area of the cover page, such as the title, and typing your text. Just by the way... If you insert another cover page in the document, the new cover page will replace the first cover page you inserted. To delete a cover page inserted with Word, click the Insert tab, click Cover pages in the Pages group, and then click Remove Current Cover Page. http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/word-help/add-a-cover-page-HA010368884.aspx. share | improve this answer. answered May 15 '11 at 17:43.
Head over to the “Insert” ribbon and you’ll find that Microsoft Office gives some cover pages that you can use. Although, normally a cover page appears in the first page, Word lets you place the cover page anywhere in the document. If you don’t like any of these cover pages, you can always create a custom one. Let’s begin by opening a blank document, and make it pretty. Give it a good background color and put a great picture. Put as many document property as you want. When you are done, select all the components on the cover page (CTRL + A), and save it into the gallery. Give it the appropriate name and save it. You should see your new cover page appears inside the cover page gallery.
1) Click on the “insert” on the ribbon, where you can find some sample cover pages that you can use in your document. 2)Usually, a cover page appears at the beginning of your document. But Word 2010 allows you to place cover page anywhere around in your document. 3)However, if you don’t like to use available cover pages in your document, so you can create your own custom cover page. 
You have plenty of options: author name, title, abstract. Put as many document property as you want. When you are done, select all the components on the cover page (CTRL + A), and save it into the gallery. Give it the appropriate name and save it. You should see your new cover page appears inside the cover page gallery.
How to Add a Background to a Single Page in Word. Whether you just want to create a cover page or have one page with a background while all other pages are blank this tutorial will show you how. Microsoft Word does come with the option to add a Cover Page using templates supplied in the software.
In the Pages group, click the Cover Page button. If you don’t see the Pages group or Cover Page button, click the Pages button and then click the Cover Page icon. The Cover Page button displays a fat, fun menu full of various cover-page layouts. Enlarge.
1. Click the Insert tab. In the Pages group, click the Cover Page button. Choose a cover-page layout that titillates you. Click the bracketed text on the cover page. Type the required replacement text. Repeat Steps above until the cover page looks the way you like it. If you don’t see the Pages group or Cover Page button, click the Pages button and then click the Cover Page icon. The Cover Page button displays a fat, fun menu full of various cover-page layouts. Enlarge.
When I insert a cover... show more I need a blank page that I can write on. I can't keep pushing enter because my teacher uses that show/hide thing that tells when we press enter. When I do page break, it doesn't let me write on the blank page, it pushes the words all the way back to the second page. 