Fennel seeds are actually a spice, although the leaves, stalks and roots of the plant are known as a herb. The bulb-like vegetable called fennel, Florence fennel, finocchio or Italian fennel is related to the herb fennel and is similar in taste and flavour, however they are not the same plant. Fennel is extremely popular in Italy where they are often used to make sausages. In India fennel seeds are one of the ingredients of the common spice blend panch poran, which also contains mustard and fenugreek seeds and cumin and are used to flavour curries.
Dried fennel seeds are oval, greenish-or yellowish-brown in color, about 4/10 inch long by 1/10 inch wide, and resemble tiny watermelons. They emit an agreeable, warm, sweet odor, somewhat similar to that of anise. They even have a licorice taste! By far the most common use of fennel is in pizza sauces and toppings. Another important use for fennel is in Italian sausage. Fennel seeds are also used in specialty breads. Fennel seed is the dried fruit of an herb of the parsley family. It is native to Southern Europe and Asia Minor. Fennel has been used for centuries, most often as the plant itself
Fennel seeds are the dried fruit of the fennel plant and herb (Foeniculum vulgare). The plant has feathery leaves, which are used as a herb and it also produces yellow flowers, which when they die, seeds form in clumps, and are collected once they have ripened and hardened. Fennel is extremely popular in Italy where they are often used to make sausages. In India fennel seeds are one of the ingredients of the common spice blend panch poran, which also contains mustard and fenugreek seeds and cumin and are used to flavour curries.
Fennel seed decoction or added as spice in food has been found to increase breast milk secretion in nursing mothers. Fennel water often is used in newborn babies to relieve colic pain and help aid digestion. Fennel seed oil is used to relieve coughs, bronchitis and as massage oil to cure joint pains. In addition to its use as medicinal values, fennel has many health benefiting nutrients, essential compounds, anti-oxidants, dietary fiber, minerals, and vitamins. Fennel seeds indeed contain numerous flavonoid anti-oxidants like kaempferol and quercetin.
Like in caraway, fennel seeds too are rich source of dietary fiber. 100 g seeds provide 39.8 g of fiber. Much of this roughage is metabolically inert insoluble fiber, which helps increase bulk of the food by absorbing water throughout the digestive system and easing constipation prolems. In addition to its use as medicinal values, fennel has many health benefiting nutrients, essential compounds, anti-oxidants, dietary fiber, minerals, and vitamins. Fennel seeds indeed contain numerous flavonoid anti-oxidants like kaempferol and quercetin.
Fennel, or Foeniculum vulgare, is a perennial plant indigenous to the Mediterranean region, but now widespread in many parts of the world. Fennel is a highly aromatic and flavorful herb commonly used in cooking, but it also has medicinal properties. Anethole also provides the flavor and aroma of fennel seeds, which is often described as licorice-or anise-like. In fact, fennel seeds are sometimes mistaken for anise seeds and star anise, which have similar but stronger flavors.
Fennel is a perennial, pleasant-smelling herb with yellow flowers. It is native to the Mediterranean, but is now found throughout the world. Dried fennel seeds are often used in cooking as an anise-flavored spice. But don’t confuse fennel with anise; though they look and taste similar, they are not the same. Fennel’s dried ripe seeds and oil are used to make medicine. Fennel is used for various digestive problems including heartburn, intestinal gas, bloating, loss of appetite, and colic in infant
Fennel seeds can also be used as flavoring or condiment to food, added onto fish and vegetable dishes, as well as cheese spreads. They are also used like caraway seed in flavoring bread, cakes, dough, cheese, and biscuits. In India, fennel seed are a part of “Bengali paanch pooran,” a curry powder. 
Fennel seeds. Pronounce it: feh-nell seeds. A dried seed that comes from the fennel herb, fennel seeds look like cumin seeds, only greener, and have an aniseed flavour and a warm, sweet aroma. They're also used in spice mixes such as Chinese five spice and the Indian panch poran.
Health benefits of fennel seeds. Fennel symbolizes longevity, courage, and strength. In addition to its use as medicinal values, fennel has many health benefiting nutrients, essential compounds, anti-oxidants, dietary fiber, minerals, and vitamins. Fennel seeds indeed contain numerous flavonoid anti-oxidants like kaempferol and quercetin.