Looking to resize file size of a jpg, jpeg or any other image file? This post has a solution for reducing image size for Windows users. The file size of a image file or a picture can be reduced by degrading the quality of the image or by resizing it to other suitable image size.
In this situation, you can use professional partition software to resize hard disk rather repartitioning the hard disk. IM-Magic Partition Resizer Server is such partition software which can work on Windows Server operating system to resize disk partition and reallocate disk space easily. If you want to resize hard disk without relying on partition software on Windows Server 2012, you can use Windows built-in disk management tool, which can also help you perform partition resizing.
PDF to JPG. GIF Maker. The best free online image resizer and optimizer on the Web, crop, resize and optimize your images was never easier. Crop and resize any image to the exact pixels or proportion you specified and reduce the file size significantly without losing quality for FREE, without Photoshop. 1. Upload an image. 
In case it is really large, the Image Resizer software can be helpful to reduce the picture size and in turn picture file size on the disk. Reduce Image and File Size of JPG, JPEG or other Picture Files. Reducing the Image Size will in effect reduce the file size of the image or picture file. This post has a solution for reducing image size for Windows users. The file size of a image file or a picture can be reduced by degrading the quality of the image or by resizing it to other suitable image size.
If you do, or any other reason, then this software is for you! Using this jpg file size reducer and batch image resizer, you can: 1  Select any number of jpg/jpeg images that you want to resize, and automatically reduce the file size in batch. 
Jpeg Resize helps you in editing a large number of image files. They can be resized with high quality, cropped or renamed using a predefined template. Saving is done as JPEG image with configurable compression ratio. You can preview the result before saving to disk. With Jpeg Resize image software, you can create e-mail friendly versions of your images, load them faster, move them easily from folder to folder, edit large numbers of image files/batch image resize and thus save space on your hard drive. 
Windows 2012 R2 Partition Resizing. IM-Magic Partition Resizer Server can also be compatible with Windows Server 2012 R2 to help perform partition resizing when you encounter low disk space problem on any partition. This partition software can not only resize C drive system partition, but also resize data volume. In order to resize hard disk partition with help of IM-Magic Partition Resizer Server, you just need to ensure that there is free space on other partition on the same hard disk. Similar Way to Resize Disk Partition. If you do not want to rely on any partition software, you can perform partition resizing with following methods: 1. Run Diskpart command to extend NTFS data volume on Windows 2003, 2008, 2012. 2.
From Zzornix: This program allows you to quickly resize and/or crop JPEG images. Also allows you to adjust the quality setting. It is very useful for reducing the disk space required for photographs taken by 8 and 10 megapixel (or higher) cameras. It can open some other image file formats and save the pictures as jpegs. 
IM-Magic Partition Resizer Server is third-party partition software, which enables you to resize hard disk when Windows Server system reports low disk space warning message on any partition. With this partition software, you can increase size of C drive without reinstalling system. If you want to resize hard disk without relying on partition software on Windows Server 2012, you can use Windows built-in disk management tool, which can also help you perform partition resizing.
Resize Hard Disk without Partition Software. If you want to resize hard disk without relying on partition software on Windows Server 2012, you can use Windows built-in disk management tool, which can also help you perform partition resizing.