Filing. File your petition for divorce by visiting the clerk of the Dallas County District Court. The clerk will take your petition and provide “file-stamped” copies for your records and to give to your spouse. You will be required to pay a fee for filing your petition as well as fees for any service-related documents.
There are two different divorce packets in Texas: one for a married couple with children and one for married couples without children, and these might require different fees. For example, in Bexar County, the filing fee for divorce without children as of 2012 is $253, and if you do have children, the fee is $304. By contrast, the filing fees for divorce in Dallas County are $260 if you do not have children and $311 if you do.
A divorce in Texas takes 61 days from the date of filing. You pay for only the first set of documents ($69.97) that you need to file with the court to start the divorce process. After 30 days you will pay for ($69.97) and receive the second half of the forms.
To file for divorce in Dallas County, you or your spouse must have been a resident of Texas for six months and of Dallas County for 90 days. There are separate processes for a divorce with children and a divorce with no children.
How to File a Divorce in the Dallas County Courts. To file for a divorce in Dallas County, Texas, at least one party to the divorce must be a resident of Texas for a minimum of six months and a resident of Dallas County for at least 90 days.
The average cost of divorce in the Texas courts is normally between $150 and $300, depending on the county you live in and the services you require. If you are low income, unemployed, or on disability then you can file a Paupers Oath to have your court fees waived.
Take your petition to the office of the Dallas County District Clerk. Go to the File Desk, ask to file your divorce petition and pay the filing fee. Fee information is available on the District Clerk's website (See Resources). Assist the court in serving your spouse with legal notice of your divorce proceedings.