Initially known only as the white kitten with no name (名前のない白い子猫), the official character profiles for Hello Kitty now lists her full name as Kitty White (キティ・ホワイト, Kiti Howaito) , born in the suburbs of London, England, on November 1. Hello Kitty is also the main character at the two Japanese Sanrio theme parks, Harmonyland and the indoor Sanrio Puroland.
Discover and save creative ideas. Party Games Kitty Party Birthday Party Games Fun Party Games Fun Games One Minute Games Kid Parties Balloon Holi Halloween Party Games Diwali For Kids Couple Balloon Party Team Building Games Numbers Paper Cups Locks Coins Baby Shower Parties. 
Atia’s latest obsession is Hello Kitty. She has loads of paraphernalia boasting the white cat’s expressionless face – shirts, skirts, pants, sweaters, socks, panties, purses, hair accessories, nail polish, lip glosses, jewelry, pillows, a comforter and a sleeping bag. When I was younger, I loved all things Hello Kitty too, although the selection wasn't as vast as it is now. So I totally get it, and when it came time to selecting a theme for Atia's 5th birthday party this year, it was a no-brainer.
1 The company aims to cater to the growing needs of nuclear families to celebrate events like weddings, engagements, birthdays, and kitty parties. 2  Moreover, the place offers the much-needed privacy for big families or groups celebrating birthdays and kitty parties. Example sentences. 1  That is why it is going to be difficult for me to break the ice and fall in love with someone, because I am fiercely independent and intelligent and I think even today most men want their wives to sit at home and go to kitty parties.
A Kitty Party in India and Pakistan is a party usually organised by women. Kitty refers to the amount collected at the party. Every member contributing a certain sum of money a month. The kitty is handed over to one member of the group every month. The chit funds operate along similar principles. It is usually held at a specified time each month, by a specific group of
The character's first appearance (on a purse) was introduced in Japan in 1975, and brought to the United States in 1976. The character is a staple of the kawaii segment of Japanese popular culture. By 2010, Sanrio had groomed Hello Kitty into a global marketing phenomenon worth $5 billion a year. By 2014, when Hello Kitty was 40 years old, she was worth about $7 billion a year, all without any advertising. Hello Kitty is also the main character at the two Japanese Sanrio theme parks, Harmonyland and the indoor Sanrio Puroland.
1.1 A pool of money in some gambling card games. Example sentences. 1  Before each new deal the dealer has the option to add more money to the kitty, but must not take anything out of it. 2  Before each deal, each player must pay 1 unit into the pool or kitty. 3  Before the first round, each player puts a stake into a kitty. noun (plural kitties). A pet name or a child’s name for a kitten or cat. Example sentences. 1  For indoor cats, my kitties spend an awful lot of time outside. 2  Choose a time when your home is not too busy and you will have time to devote to your new kitty and your existing cat.
More. The pet name for a cat is a shortening of the earlier word kitten (Late Middle English). Both ultimately go back to chitoun, an Old French pet form of chat ‘cat’. When a successful person is said to scoop the kitty their success has nothing to do with cats, but looks back to the use of kitty in northern English as a word for a prison. noun (plural kitties). A pet name or a child’s name for a kitten or cat. Example sentences. 1  For indoor cats, my kitties spend an awful lot of time outside. 2  Choose a time when your home is not too busy and you will have time to devote to your new kitty and your existing cat.
Report Abuse. Ok, let's just explain what the others are saying. The word kitty has no meaning in Chinese. This is because the standard dialect of Chinese does not have the short 'I' sound (short I as in inside or igloo). If you want to translate the meaning of Kitty, a young cat, then it is rendered as 小猫 (xiaomao) which litterally means small cat. Now the word Kitty can be rendered as a NAME though. This is rendered as 吉蒂 (keti) . But this is only a name so 吉蒂 has no relation to the English meaning of a young cat. 