140 pages on this wiki. The Malevolent Spirit is usually the spirit or soul of an evil person who wanted to harm a person that is weak or wants revenge on the living. Usually they attach themselves to a child, elderly, the sick and injuried because they are easy to manipulate. And another that was trapped inside a dybbuk box. To get rid of an Malevolent Spirit, usually a person or group has to perform an exorcism to order drive the evil spirits away, a similiar way to get rid of demons.
An Evil Spirit From the Lord. What does it mean when the Bible says that an evil spirit was sent by God to torment Saul (reference 1 Samuel 16:14-15 [14] But the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled him. [15] And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. See All... See All... ), the text states that the evil spirit came from the Lord. What we see in these passages follows a pattern. When God removes His protective hand, he often turns the person over to Satan for destruction or to an evil spirit for torment.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by MathTeacherGuy. Confidence votes 11.8K. Malevolent means evil-doing. A malevolent spirit would be a wicked bad ghost. Applied to a living person, this would mean that the person is evil and rotten and mean. 
Spiritual possession is a phenomenon in which a stray being from the Spirit World constantly or temporarily possesses and exerts negative influence on a person living on earth. A person will be possessed by animal spirits if he has a mind that has forgotten human dignity and is like that of an animal. This is because a mind that cannot restrain its greediness, a mind that tries to deceive others, a mind that is crazed for the opposite sex, can be in alignment with animalistic spirits.
“Our fight in this world is not against flesh and blood (human beings), but against principalities, powers, rulers of darkness and spiritual powers in heavenly places” (Ephesians 6:12). The Bible is a difficult book because it came from the infinite to the finite, from the unlimited all powerful God, to limited man. The following is what he wrote.). The Bible is a difficult book because it came from the infinite to the finite, from the unlimited all powerful God, to limited man. Therefore, you cannot understand the Bible as you could understand the writings of Plato and Socrates.
What Are Evil Spirits? The many accounts of evil spirits in Scripture affirm the reality of powerful spiritual forces of wickedness. Evil spirits (also known as demons or devils) are depraved spirits which are familiar with human weaknesses and desires. An example of this is when Jesus cast out the legion of demons from a man and sent them into a herd of pigs (Luke 8:27-35). Both fallen angels and evil spirits serve their master Satan in the kingdom of darkness.
Principalities are the evil spirits ruling countries or states. A principality is the territory or jurisdiction of a prince. One example of a principality is the prince of Persia mentioned in Daniel 10. The angel said to me, Daniel, God loves you. Stand up and listen carefully to what I am going to say. 
A demon, daemon (from Koine Greek δαιμόνιον daimonion), or fiend is a supernatural, often malevolent being prevalent in religion, occultism, literature, fiction, mythology and folklore. Demon Seated by Mikhail Vrubel (1890), an illustration to the Russian romantic poem demon by Mikhail Lermontov. Vrubel views this demon as a spirit, not so much evil as suffering and sorrowing, but in all that a powerful spirit… a majestic spirit.