Description. Mistletoe is a parasitic evergreen plant that lives on trees such as oaks, elms, firs, pines, apples, and elms. The parasitic plant has yellowish flowers; small, yellowish green leaves; and waxy, white berries. There are many species of this plant in the Viscacea and Loranthacea plant families. European mistletoe (Viscum album) and American mistletoe (Phoradendron leucarpum) are used as medical remedies. In addition to Europe and North America, mistletoe is also found in Australia and Korea. Mistletoe berries are poisonous to cats and other small animals.
Mistletoe plants are found throughout the South and are common in Florida. Mistletoe was once believed to have magical and medicinal properties and has long been associated with Christmas celebrations. This plant can infect most hardwoods. Mistletoe is not considered a major threat to trees but can cause some growth loss and damage to branches.
In particular, the Eastern mistletoe native to North America, Phoradendron leucarpum, belongs to a distinct genus of the Santalaceae family. The genus Viscum is not native to North America, but Viscum album has been introduced to California. European mistletoe has smooth-edged, oval, evergreen leaves borne in pairs along the woody stem, and waxy, white berries that it bears in clusters of two to six.
Mistletoe is a parasite in both the Blue Oak (Quercus douglasii) and the Valley Oak (Q. lobata). Our oak mistletoe is Phoradendron villosum, found from California, Arizona, to West Texas. Mistletoe has both male plants that produce only pollen, and female plants (see photo) that produce flowers and fleshy, white seed pods. 
The mistletoe that is commonly used as a Christmas decoration (Phoradendron flavescens) is native to North America and grows as a parasite on trees from New Jersey to Florida. The other type of mistletoe, Viscum album, is of European origin. The Plant : Mistletoe is especially interesting botanically because it is a partial parasite (a hemiparasite). As a parasitic plant, it grows on the branches or trunk of a tree and actually sends out roots that penetrate into the tree and take up nutrients.
1 Mistletoe is a semiparasitic plant that grows on several types of common trees such as apple, oak, pine, and elm. 2  Mistletoe extract has been used since ancient times to treat many ailments (see Question 1). Overview. 1 
Mistletoe is a parasitic evergreen plant that lives on trees such as oaks, elms, firs, pines, apples, and elms. The parasitic plant has yellowish flowers; small, yellowish green leaves; and waxy, white berries. European mistletoe (Viscum album) and American mistletoe (Phoradendron leucarpum) are used as medical remedies. In addition to Europe and North America, mistletoe is also found in Australia and Korea. Mistletoe berries are poisonous to cats and other small animals.
Mistletoe is a semiparasitic plant that grows on several types of trees, including apple, oak, maple, elm, pine, and birch. It has been used for centuries to treat medical conditions such as epilepsy, hypertension, headaches, menopausal symptoms, infertility, arthritis, and rheumatism. Overview. 1  Mistletoe is a semiparasitic plant that grows on several types of common trees such as apple, oak, pine, and elm. 2  Mistletoe extract has been used since ancient times to treat many ailments (see Question 1).
The name mistletoe originally referred to the species Viscum album (European mistletoe, of the family Santalaceae in the order Santalales); it was the only species native to Great Britain and much of Europe. The genus Viscum is not native to North America, but Viscum album has been introduced to California. European mistletoe has smooth-edged, oval, evergreen leaves borne in pairs along the woody stem, and waxy, white berries that it bears in clusters of two to six.