People with Tay-Sachs lack a specific protein (enzyme) called hexosaminidase A. This enzyme deficiency causes a fatty substance, GM2 ganglioside, to build up in the brain. It is this accumulation that causes the symptoms of Tay-Sachs. In addition to classic Tay-Sachs, there are other forms of Hexosaminidase A deficiency that are sometimes referred to as forms of Tay-Sachs. 1  Juvenile Hexosaminidase A deficiency begins with trouble walking (ataxia) and incoordination in early childhood.
The cause of Tay-Sachs disease is a genetic defect (mutation) that is passed from parent to child. This genetic defect is located in the HEXA gene, which is found on chromosome 15. The HEXA gene makes part of an enzyme called beta-hexosaminidase A, which plays a critical role in the nervous system. 
A defective gene on chromosome 15 causes Tay-Sachs disease. This defective gene causes the body to not make a protein called hexosaminidase A. Without this protein, chemicals called gangliosides build up in nerve cells in the brain, destroying brain cells. The disease is hereditary, which means it is passed down through families. Those with the chronic form of Tay-Sachs develop symptoms by the age of 10, but the disease progresses slowly. Symptoms may include slurred speech, muscle cramps, and tremors. Life expectancy varies with this form of the disease, and some individuals have a normal lifespan.
All people have two copies of the Tay-Sachs gene (HEXA). Tay-Sachs occurs when neither of a person's HEXA genes is working properly because of a mutation (harmful change). If a person has one working copy of the HEXA gene and the other copy has a mutation in it, he/she is called a carrier.. In addition to classic Tay-Sachs, there are other forms of Hexosaminidase A deficiency that are sometimes referred to as forms of Tay-Sachs. 1  Juvenile Hexosaminidase A deficiency begins with trouble walking (ataxia) and incoordination in early childhood.
1 Adult/Late-Onset Tay–Sachs disease. 2  A rare form of this disease, known as Adult-Onset or Late-Onset Tay–Sachs disease, usually has its first symptoms during the 30s or 40s. 3  In contrast to the other forms, late-onset Tay–Sachs disease is usually not fatal as the effects can stop progressing. As Tay–Sachs disease is a deficiency of β-hexosaminidase A, by getting a substance that increases its activity, people affected will not be deteriorating as fast or not at all. While for infantile Tay–Sachs disease, there is no β-hexosaminidase A so then the treatment would be ineffective.
Research in the late 20th century demonstrated that Tay–Sachs disease is caused by a genetic mutation in the HEXA gene on (human) chromosome 15. A large number of HEXA mutations have been discovered, and new ones are still being reported. As Tay–Sachs disease is a deficiency of β-hexosaminidase A, by getting a substance that increases its activity, people affected will not be deteriorating as fast or not at all. While for infantile Tay–Sachs disease, there is no β-hexosaminidase A so then the treatment would be ineffective.
In its most common variant (known as infantile Tay–Sachs disease), it causes a progressive deterioration of nerve cells and of mental and physical abilities that begins around six months of age and usually results in death by the age of four. As Tay–Sachs disease is a deficiency of β-hexosaminidase A, by getting a substance that increases its activity, people affected will not be deteriorating as fast or not at all. While for infantile Tay–Sachs disease, there is no β-hexosaminidase A so then the treatment would be ineffective.
Causes of Tay-Sachs disease. Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a genetic mutation in the HEXA gene. This mutation affects the production of an enzyme called Hexosaminidase-A (Hex-A). Enzymes are proteins the body uses for chemical reactions. The Hex-A enzyme plays a vital role in helping to remove a fatty substance called ganglioside from nerve cells. Without the Hex-A enzyme, ganglioside builds up inside these cells and they gradually stop functioning. In most cases of Tay-Sachs disease, this enzyme is completely absent.
Tay-Sachs disease (the most severe form of Hexosaminidase A deficiency) is a progressive, fatal genetic condition that affects the nerve cells in the brain. In addition to classic Tay-Sachs, there are other forms of Hexosaminidase A deficiency that are sometimes referred to as forms of Tay-Sachs. 1  Juvenile Hexosaminidase A deficiency begins with trouble walking (ataxia) and incoordination in early childhood.
Tay-Sachs is a disease of the central nervous system; it is a neurodegenerative disorder. Tay-Sachs most commonly affects infants. In infants, it is a progressive disease that is unfortunately always fatal. Rarely, Tay-Sachs can occur in teens and adults, causing less severe symptoms. Those with the chronic form of Tay-Sachs develop symptoms by the age of 10, but the disease progresses slowly. Symptoms may include slurred speech, muscle cramps, and tremors. Life expectancy varies with this form of the disease, and some individuals have a normal lifespan.