Neutering is the surgical procedure that renders a male or female cat or dog unable to reproduce. In males, the surgery (called castration) entails removal of the testicles, leaving an empty scrotal sac that soon shrinks. The testicles produce sperm and are the primary production site of the hormone testosterone. Behavior that appears to be sexually motivated may be linked to other causes. Mounting by castrated dogs, for example, is usually a sign of dominance behavior. Masturbation, particularly in male cats and dogs, may occur following castration.
Castration or neutering of male dogs is surgical removal of the testicles (orchiectomy). The procedure involves general anesthesia. An incision is made just in front of the scrotal sac and both testicles are removed, leaving the sac intact. A dog’s temperament, training, personality, and ability to do “work” are a result of genetics and upbringing, not its male hormones. Castration does not “calm” an excitable dog, and unless a castrated male dog is overfed or underexercised, there is no reason for it to become fat and lazy.
Examples of hormones that influence behavior include steroid hormones such as testosterone (a common type of androgen), estradiol (a common type of estrogen), progesterone (a common type of progestin), and cortisol (a common type of glucocorticoid) (Table 1). The goal of this module is to introduce you to the topic of hormones and behavior. This field of study is also called behavioral endocrinology, which is the scientific study of the interaction between hormones and behavior.
The only behaviors that will be affected by castration are those that are under the influence of male hormones (see below). A dog’s temperament, training, personality, and ability to do “work” are a result of genetics and upbringing, not its male hormones. Castration does not “calm” an excitable dog, and unless a castrated male dog is overfed or underexercised, there is no reason for it to become fat and lazy.
It also regulates the secretion of luteinising hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. To effect these changes, testosterone is often converted into another androgen called dihydrotestosterone. In women, testosterone is produced by the ovaries and adrenal glands. The majority of testosterone produced in the ovary is converted to the principle female sex hormone, oestradiol. 
The endocrine glands provide the body with chemicals called hormones. Once produced, hormones enter the bloodstream and most (other than prostaglandin) produce an effect elsewhere in the body. Some hormones control the release of other hormones. For example, the pituitary gland located at the base of the brain produces many hormones. These hormones act on other glands such as the adrenal glands and cause them to release their own hormones.
Hormones are chemical messengers released from endocrine glands that travel through the blood system to influence the nervous system to regulate behaviors such as aggression, mating, and parenting of individuals. 1  Aggression. 2  Hormones. 3  Parental behaviors. 4  Sex differences. 5  Sexual behavior. 6  Steroids. The goal of this module is to introduce you to the topic of hormones and behavior. This field of study is also called behavioral endocrinology, which is the scientific study of the interaction between hormones and behavior.
Hyperandrogenism in Dogs. Hyperandrogenism in dogs is a rare syndrome characterized by elevations of masculinizing sex hormones such as testosterone and its derivatives in the blood serum. It is most frequently documented in intact male dogs. 