Even if one of the parents can claim the child, it is often more advantageous (and perfectly legal) for the grandmother or grandfather to claim the child when they have more income. Several factors must be taken into consideration. However, the mother will not be able to claim the child as a dependent or claim other credits for the child. The grandmother can claim the dependent exemption and other child credits if she meets the separate qualifications.
The IRS gives first dibs to a child's parents. If your parent is going to claim your children, both you and their other parent must waive your rights to claim them so someone else can take the deductions instead. No one can claim a child as a dependent unless the child meets certain requirements – he must be a qualifying child. The first rule relates to your child's age. He must be younger than 19, unless he's a full-time college student.
If the parent of the child is the qualifying child of the grandparent, the parent may not take the EITC. If the parent's AGI is higher than the AGI of the grandparent, the grandparent may not claim the child as a qualifying child for the EITC or other child-related benefits. She and the child lived with the client's mother for over half of the year. The father of the child has not been around for more than a year. The grandparent has a higher income than either parent and helps support the child.
It is not illegal per se since the children meet the definition of a qualifying child for both the parent and the grandparent(s). In that case, if only one of the people for whom the child is a qualifying child is the parent, then it is the parent who can claim then as their dependent. Re: Grandparents Claiming Grandkids. llworking, the rules for a Qualifying Child are the same for a parent or a grandparent. I suggest you review IRS Pub. 17 regarding the definition of a Qualifying Child. Table 3-1 on page 26 of the 2008 Pub 17 lists the rules for
If a child lived with each parent the same amount of time during the year, the IRS allows the parent with the higher adjusted gross income (AGI) to claim the child. See Publication 596, Earned Income Credit, or Publication 596 (SP), Credito por Ingreso del Trabajo, for more information on the tiebreaker rules. She and the child lived with the client's mother for over half of the year. The father of the child has not been around for more than a year. The grandparent has a higher income than either parent and helps support
Several requirements tangle up the issue of who can claim a child as a dependent. Some grandparents can claim their grandchildren some of the time, but it's not a universal rule, because multiple factors have to perfectly align to make it possible. In some cases, if the child's parents don't claim the child, the dependent exemption will go to waste – no one else can use it either. No one can claim a child as a dependent unless the child meets certain requirements – he must be a qualifying child. The first rule relates to your child's age. He must be younger than 19, unless he's a full-time college student.
Grandparents have full authority over grandchild. Parents can regain custody if they can prove that the situation that caused them to lose custody has changed and that living with parents is best for the child. Parent consents to grandparents having long-term legal custody. Parent's rights have been terminated. Not considered legal custody. Grandparent has no legal right to make important decisions for the child. With durable power of attorney from the parent, grandparent's custody is strengthened. Power of attorney can be taken away at any time by the parent who granted it.
Qualifying Child. To be considered a qualifying child, your grandchild must be under the age of 19 on the last day of the tax year, or if he's a full-time student, under the age of 24. No age restrictions apply, however, if your grandchild is permanently and totally disabled. 
If the child is a qualifying child of both a parent and a grandparent, the child would be treated as the qualifying child of the parent if both the parent and grandparent claimed the child as a qualifying child for tax-related benefits. She and the child lived with the client's mother for over half of the year. The father of the child has not been around for more than a year. The grandparent has a higher income than either parent and helps support the child.
The IRS imposes rules regarding your children too. No one can claim a child as a dependent unless the child meets certain requirements – he must be a qualifying child. The first rule relates to your child's age. He must be younger than 19, unless he's a full-time college student.