Pain after bowel movement could be indicative of medical conditions such as proctitis, hemorrhoids, anal fissures, inflammatory bowel disease, etc. The symptoms of this condition include soreness in the rectal and anal area, intermittent rectal bleeding, pain during and after bowel movement, diarrhea, discharge from the anal region, etc. Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are placed in the category of inflammatory bowel diseases.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) describes a group of symptoms that include lower stomach pain that may go away after having a bowel movement. Symptoms also include bloating, constipation and/or diarrhea. It is estimated that about 20% of Americans have irritable bowel syndrome. 
Pain during and after bowel movements is one of the common symptoms of anal fissures. An anal fissure is a tear in anoderm, which is a specialized tissue that lines the anal canal. The tear runs from the anus to the anal canal. It could occur in individuals affected by chronic constipation. The symptoms of this condition include soreness in the rectal and anal area, intermittent rectal bleeding, pain during and after bowel movement, diarrhea, discharge from the anal region, etc. Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are placed in the category of inflammatory bowel diseases.
Signs and symptoms of acute intestinal ischemia typically include: 1  Sudden abdominal pain that may range from mild to severe. 2  An urgent need to have a bowel movement. 3  Frequent, forceful bowel movements. 4  Abdominal tenderness or distention. 5  Blood in your stool. 6  Nausea, vomiting. 7  Fever. 8  Mental confusion in older adults. 
1 The passage of hard stool can lead to over-stretching of the area around the anus and rectum. 2  Additionally, more forceful rectal contractions are needed to excrete hard feces from the rectum that may result in severe pain after bowel movements. 3  It is one of the most common causes of abdominal cramps after pooping. Inflammatory bowel diseases include ulcerative colitis and crohn’s disease. 1  Ulcerative colitis is the inflammation of colorectal lining leading to urgency in bowel movements that is often associated with abdominal cramps and bleeding in stool.
It gives rise to abdominal pain, urgency to have a bowel movement, cramping, rectal bleeding, loss of appetite, weight loss, fatigue, etc. Crohn's disease is also characterized by inflammation in the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. The symptoms of this condition include soreness in the rectal and anal area, intermittent rectal bleeding, pain during and after bowel movement, diarrhea, discharge from the anal region, etc. Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are placed in the category of inflammatory bowel diseases.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a collection of symptoms such as cramping, abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, and constipation. People with IBS have some of these symptoms — such as cramping and diarrhea or bloating and constipation — for at least 3 months. IBS can be uncomfortable. 
1 Abdominal pain after bowel movement may occur due to two disorders: Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. 2  Chron’s disease causes spasmodic movement of the intestine, while, on the other side, ulcerative colitis causes the inflammation of the whole intestine lining. 3  Therefore, pain after bowel movement is inevitable. Causes of pain after bowel movement. There are several medical conditions that are among the main causes for the occurrence of this uncomfortable pain, and they include irritable bowel syndrome, proctitis, cholecystitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and hemorrhoids.
One should know that pain after the bowel movement is not a disease, but a symptom of some other disease which should definitely be taken very seriously. This pain is characteristic when the muscles of the gastrointestinal tract and anus are affected by some disease. Causes of pain after bowel movement. There are several medical conditions that are among the main causes for the occurrence of this uncomfortable pain, and they include irritable bowel syndrome, proctitis, cholecystitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and hemorrhoids.