Understanding HDL cholesterol. Cholesterol is a waxy substance that's found in all of your cells and has several useful functions, including helping to build your body's cells. It's carried through your bloodstream attached to proteins. These proteins are called lipoproteins. 1  Low-density lipoproteins. Women. Less than 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L). 60 mg/dL (1.6 mmol/L) or above. If your HDL cholesterol level falls between the at-risk and desirable levels, you should keep trying to increase your HDL level to reduce your risk of heart disease. If you don't know your HDL level, ask your doctor for a baseline cholesterol test.
1 Get active. 2  Physical activity can boost your HDL level. 3  Get at least 30 minutes a day of moderate activity, most days of the week. 4  Lose extra weight. 5  If you're overweight, losing extra pounds can help raise your HDL levels, as well as cut your LDL (bad) cholesterol levels. 6  Choose better fats. 1 Physical activity can boost your HDL level. 2  Get at least 30 minutes a day of moderate activity, most days of the week. 3  Lose extra weight. 4  If you're overweight, losing extra pounds can help raise your HDL levels, as well as cut your LDL (bad) cholesterol levels. 5  Choose better fats.
The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. If your HDL is low, increasing your physical activity can increase it, which may help reduce your LDL level. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. Your total cholesterol level is High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High, too. Working to bring down your total cholesterol decreases your LDL cholesterol level. You can do this by exercising more and eating less food with saturated fats.
The good news about this good cholesterol is that simple lifestyle changes can help boost HDL, reports the June 2008 issue of Harvard Women's Health Watch. HDL removes LDL from artery walls and ferries it to the liver for processing or removal. 
Choosing healthier fats in one's diet can also help increase HDL cholesterol and lower LDL (“bad”) cholesterol. Examples of beneficial dietary changes include eating fish, choosing olive oil instead of vegetable oil or butter, and avoiding whole-fat dairy products or fatty meets like beef or pork. The best way to increase a person's good cholesterol (also known as HDL) is to make certain lifestyle changes. Quitting smoking, losing weight and participating in aerobic exercise all have been shown to increase HDL cholesterol.
Some diet and lifestyle changes help boost HDL cholesterol levels 1  : Get active. 2  Physical activity can boost your HDL level. 3  Get at least 30 minutes a day of moderate activity, most days of the week. 4  Lose extra weight. 1 Physical activity can boost your HDL level. 2  Get at least 30 minutes a day of moderate activity, most days of the week. 3  Lose extra weight. 4  If you're overweight, losing extra pounds can help raise your HDL levels, as well as cut your LDL (bad) cholesterol levels. 5  Choose better fats.
For a change, we actually want to increase something in your body-your HDL levels. HDL is the good kind of cholesterol, the kind that's carried by high-density lipoproteins. You want as high an HDL level as possible-at least greater than 40. The best way to increase a person's good cholesterol (also known as HDL) is to make certain lifestyle changes. Quitting smoking, losing weight and participating in aerobic exercise all have been shown to increase HDL cholesterol.
HDL cholesterol: How to boost your 'good' cholesterol. Although your doctor may have told you to lower your total cholesterol, it's important to raise your high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, which is known as the good cholesterol. Women. Less than 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L). 60 mg/dL (1.6 mmol/L) or above. If your HDL cholesterol level falls between the at-risk and desirable levels, you should keep trying to increase your HDL level to reduce your risk of heart disease. If you don't know your HDL level, ask your doctor for a baseline cholesterol test.