To steam live lobster: Fill pot so that water comes up sides about two inches. Add 2 tablespoons of salt for each quart of water. If you have sea salt-even better. Bring the water to a rolling boil, add seaweed to keep the lobsters out of the water, and put in lobsters, one at a time.
150g softened salted butter. 2 handfuls wild garlic, chopped. Bring the fish stock or salted water to the boil and add the potatoes, carrots, celery and onion. Cook until the potatoes are just tender. Just before you eat, add the langoustines and bring back to the boil. Simmer for 2-3 minutes. Strain the contents of the pan. If you have used fish stock, you can eat it separately, with a dash of Manzanilla sherry. If you have used salted water, discard it.
Fill a stockpot about two-thirds of the way full with water. Add a small amount of salt and bring to a full rolling boil on high heat. Add the frozen langoustines and boil for about 10 to 12 minutes or until the langoustines' shells turn a reddish pink. Remove the langoustines with a slotted spoon and allow to cool for at least 10 minutes. 
Step 2: Prepping and Cooking Lobster Tails. If the lobster tails are frozen, thaw them in the refrigerator. Be sure to plan ahead, as this takes 8 to 10 hours. Uncooked tails have a mottled appearance with a green-blue-brown cast. To cook four 8-ounce tails, bring 6 cups salted water to boiling in a 3-quart saucepan. Add the lobster tails. Simmer, uncovered, for 8 to 12 minutes or until shells turn bright red and the meat is tender when poked with a fork. For larger or smaller tails, adjust the cooking time as needed. Drain in a colander.
At this point, stand well back, pour in the brandy or whisky and set it alight with a spill. When the flames subside, add the wine, tomatoes, rice, bay leaves and stock or water. Bring gently to the boil, reduce the heat to a light simmer and cook for 45 minutes. The langoustines will die very quickly and be cooked within three minutes. To check they are done, look at the meat under the tail-visible through the light membrane that covers it-which should have turned from pale, translucent pink to a definite white.
Wash under water. Easily gets tough with overcooking. If the Norway Lobster has been frozen, plunge into boiling water for a few seconds. If fresh, it can be cooked in simmering water for a maximum of 10 minutes, though fresh ones are often just fried (5 to 6 minutes) or grilled or broiled (5 to 8 minutes). There are many different ways to cook them. 
Langoustines look a lot like crayfish, but come from salty seas and oceans rather than fresh water. A relative of the lobster, langoustines grow to about 10 inches in size but are most prized when smaller, because the meat is sweeter. You cook this luxury ingredient much in the same way that you do lobster -- steaming, boiling or roasting. Large langoustines can be cooked just like lobster. Cut them in half, brush the meat with melted butter and herbs -- fresh tarragon is especially nice -- and bake or grill them. Boil smaller specimans in heavily salted water and serve with lemon butter or garlic mayonnaise for dipping.
Bring a large pot of heavily salted water (a tablespoon per litre, or 1 3/4 pints) to a rolling boil and add the live langoustines. Cook only a few at a time, as they should not be overcrowded, and the water must come swiftly back to the boil. The langoustines will die very quickly and be cooked within three minutes. To check they are done, look at the meat under the tail-visible through the light membrane that covers it-which should have turned from pale, translucent pink to a definite white.
When water resumes boiling, reduce heat to a simmer. Cook 1 1/2- to 2 1/2-pound crabs 15 minutes, 3-pound crabs about 20 minutes. 3. Drain crabs; to be able to handle quickly, rinse briefly with cool water. How to clean, crack, and shell crab. 
Bring the water to a boil and gently put tails in the pot. Wait for water to reach a slow boil (small bubbles), then reduce heat (set timer for 3-1/2 minutes), and simmer uncovered. After 3-1/2 minutes, remove all tails from the pot but keep water on stove. Test just one tail for doneness. 