An adnexal mass is a catch all phrase for any abnormality in the pelvic area outside of the uterus. The most common adnexal masses are ovarian cysts. Ovarian cysts can be caused by benign simple cysts that occur after ovulation, or benign ovarian tumors, or ovarian cancers.
Adnexa: In gynecology, the appendages of the uterus, namely the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, and the ligaments that hold the uterus in place.
The term adnexitis is sometimes used to describe an inflammation of the adnexa. In this context, it replaces the terms oophoritis and salpingitis. The term adnexal mass is sometimes used when the location of the mass is not yet more precisely known. 63% of ectopic pregnancies present with an adnexal mass.
Synonym(s): accessory organs (1) , adnexa, annexa. /ad·nexa/ (ad-nek´sah) [L., pl.] appendages or accessory structures of an organ, as the appendages of the eye (a. o´culi), including the eyelids and lacrimal apparatus, or of the uterus (a. u´teri), including the uterine tubes and ligaments and ovaries.
Adnexa is the region in the pelvic cavity which is adjacent to the uterus, that is on the side of the uterus. Read above in detail about it. Your right side adnexa shows a small cystic (fluid filled) sac. The cause and nature of this cyst has to be investigated.
The adnexa of the uterus include the ovaries, fallopian tubes, and structures of the broad ligament. Most frequently, adnexal masses refer to ovarian masses or cysts; however, paratubal cysts, hydrosalpinx, and other nonovarian masses are also included within the broader definition of adnexal masses.
Ancillary structures to main structure. Among health professionals, adnexa usually refers to the fallopian tubes, broad and round uterine ligaments and the ovaries, considered together.
Medical Definition of Adnexa. 1. This Latin word (in the plural) is used in medicine in reference to appendages. For example, in gynecology the adnexa are the appendages of the uterus, namely the ovaries, Fallopian tubes and ligaments that hold the uterus in place.
The adnexa of uterus (or uterine appendages) are the structures most closely related structurally and functionally to the uterus.