I took money out of savings and went and bought a new car that same night. Wondering how long it will take to get a settlement from Geico. They seem pretty slow right now. I hated to pull the money out of savings, I'd like to have my saftey net back. My car however burned before the fire department could put it out. There is no doubt it is a total loss. I reported the fire immediatly, but am worried because the adjuster hasn't called me, and has not came to look at the vehicle yet, The car was paid for, but I needed a new car because it was the only vehicle I had.
We actually have two claims right now against geico. The first one was when a geico insured hit my wife while making an illegal left turn in a blind intersection. Because there was no visibility, and because their insured turned directly into my wife; my wife couldn't have seen them, or avoid them. (We quoted most of the insurance companies back when we switched to Liberty Mutual and I know how many thousands less than geico that we pay!!!) The icing on the 'cake' here is that not only do I pay a lot less for insurance I also actually have coverage without having to take them to court if I do have a claim!!
Payment recovery usually takes about six months, but sometimes it happens faster, depending on the circumstances. (GEICO claims are like snowflakes–they're all unique.) Like most things in life, it works best when everyone plays nice and cooperates. If the accident is the fault of the other driver, we will put a Payment Recovery Examiner on the case who will make sure that the other driver, or his or her insurance company, pays for the vehicle related damages. Plus, the examiner will keep you informed about the payment recovery proces
We understand that Geico, and other insurance companies, have duties to shareholders. But at the same time, they have duties to their insured to pay reasonable amounts for reasonable claims. But so long as Geico does not settle for reasonable amounts, we will continue to pursue their insureds in the courts. Property Casualty 360 further reports “Geico took losses of $490 million Sandy during 2012’s fourth quarter and booked catastrophe losses of $638 million for the year” That means that even with a $490 million dollar hit to their bottom line, the insurance giant still managed to pocket that $680 million for its owners.
The average GEICO salary ranges from approximately $20,231 per year for Porter to $145,000 per year for Senior Programmer Analyst. Average GEICO hourly pay ranges from approximately $10.00 per hour for Receptionist to $85.00 per hour for Software Architect. Salary information comes from 1,803 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
To geico's credit, they did get us a rental. I also agreed to their 'settlement' on the car and they paid that. How ever many months later, my wifes medical bills are around $5, 000. geico won't pay that and started out offering to pay $100. Later they raised this offer to $1, 000. There is no way this is at all reasonable so we refused to accept that. (We quoted most of the insurance companies back when we switched to Liberty Mutual and I know how many thousands less than geico that we pay!!!) The icing on the 'cake' here is that not only do I pay a lot less for insurance I also actually have coverage without having to take them to court if I do have a claim!!
Geico's client smashed my car because he was driving too fast. The adjuster took a long time to come; Geico would not pay for storage or towing. I couldn't afford to store the car so sold it to the tow yard. Geico says they can't pay because I moved the car. I have a letter that says to move the car. 
That's definitely pretty slow. How long it takes to pay out is usually a maximum of 30 days, but note how I said usually. Insurance companies always verify every little detail and then verify the verification, then print off three copies and scan them back into the computer that just printed them (just to be sure). My car however burned before the fire department could put it out. There is no doubt it is a total loss. I reported the fire immediatly, but am worried because the adjuster hasn't called me, and has not came to look at the vehicle yet, The car was paid for, but I needed a new car because it was the only vehicle I had.
GEICO has refused to pay on a claim that they first promised to pay. I have been going back and forth with GEICO for over two months now. GEICO has no record of a phone call that I made to them on October 16... I proved them wrong by pulling the phone records from my place of employment. I just made a call to a GEICO representative tonight... Melissa was her name, 10:30pm was the time. She informed me that my two payments, $260 made on August 21 and then another $200 payment on September 27, 2006, brought my account current, except for $40.00.