Unfortunately, many women become pregnant while they are already addicted to drugs. This may happen with a number of drugs, however opiates are one area of extreme concern. Opiate use during pregnancy can result in low birth weight, premature birth, low blood sugar, and infant death.
Buprenorphine, the active ingredient in both Suboxone and Subutex is less likely to cause addiction, and has a calmer withdrawal period. More clinical studies have been done on the effects of methadone during pregnancy than the effects of buprenorphine during pregnancy.
Subutex has not been adequately studied in pregnant women. In studies with pregnant and lactating rats, high doses of buprenorphine, the active ingredient in Subutex, increased the risk for stillbirth, reduced offspring growth, and decreased litter size.
Buprenorphine (Subutex) and buprenorphine and naloxone (Suboxone) are used to treat opioid dependence (addiction to opioid drugs, including heroin and narcotic painkillers).
It is known that buprenorphine passes through the placenta to the developing fetus. Thus, chronic use of buprenorphine during pregnancy may cause the baby to become dependent on the drug. Because the baby is no longer getting the medication (via the mother) after birth, narcotic withdrawal symptoms may occur.
Subutex is classified as a pregnancy Category C drug. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) uses a category system to classify the possible risks to a fetus when a specific medicine is taken during pregnancy.
I am posting this for any pregnant women on subutex. There is a babycenter group suboxone/subutex birth stories &advice board. That board was my savior while my son was in the hospital. You can find birth stories and advice, we are a group of non judgemental woman.
Limited information exists on the use of buprenorphine in women who are pregnant and have an opioid dependency. But the few case reports available have not demonstrated any significant problems resulting from use of buprenorphine during pregnancy.
Studies have shown that Suboxone is not safe to use during pregnancy, as the presence of naloxone creates the risk of a rapid detox, and unsafe physical conditions for the mother and her child. Subutex has become the choice for buprenorphine administration during pregnancy.