Behaviorism is primarily concerned with observable and measurable aspects of human behavior. In defining behavior, behaviorist learning theories emphasize changes in behavior that result from stimulus-response associations made by the learner. 
Keywords: Classical conditioning (Pavlov), Operant conditioning (Skinner), Stimulus-response (S-R). Behaviorism. Behaviorism is a worldview that assumes a learner is essentially passive, responding to environmental stimuli. The learner starts off as a clean slate (i.e. tabula rasa) and behavior is shaped through positive reinforcement or negative reinforcement. 
Behaviorist Learning Theory. Behaviorism is an approach to psychology based on the proposition that behavior can be researched scientifically without recourse to inner mental states. It is a form of materialism, denying any independent significance for mind. B.F. Skinner. Ivan Pavlov. One of the assumptions of behaviorist thought is that free will is illusory, and that all behavior is determined by the environment either through association or reinforcement. The behaviorist school of thought ran concurrent with the psychoanalysis movement in psychology in the 20th century.
Behaviorism is a learning theory that only focuses on objectively observable behaviors and discounts any independent activities of the mind. 
Definition of BEHAVIORISM. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience — compare introspectionism. — be·hav·ior·is·tic \-ˌhā-vyə-ˈris-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
Home › Perspectives › Behaviorism. Behaviorism (also called the behaviorist approach) was the primary paradigm in psychology between 1920 to 1950 and is based on a number of underlying assumptions regarding methodology and behavioral analysis: * Psychology should be seen as a science. According to the law of parsimony, the fewer assumptions a theory makes, the better and the more credible it is. Behaviorism, therefore, looks for simple explanations of human behavior from a very scientific standpoint.
Not to be confused with Behavioralism. Behaviorism (or behaviourism) is an approach to psychology that focuses on an individual's behavior. It combines elements of philosophy, methodology, and psychological theory. 1 Methodological: Watson's behaviorism states that only public events (behaviors of an individual) can be objectively observed, and that therefore private events (thoughts and feelings) should be ignored.
behaviorism. noun be·hav·ior·ism. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience—compare cognitive psychology. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience — compare introspectionism. — be·hav·ior·is·tic \-ˌhā-vyə-ˈris-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.