Decreased RBC deformability is associated with cellular stress or pathology and can impede the transit of these cells through the microvasculature, where RBCs play a central role in the oxygenation of tissues. Therefore, RBC deformability has been recognized as a sensitive biomarker for rheological disease. 1. Design and operation of the microfluidic device for determination of cell deformability. (A) The flow layer of the microfluidic device consists of a pressure attenuator, to precisely control the applied pressure, and a funnel chain, where cell deformation is observed and recorded.
Erythocyte deformability is a measurable property, and various means for its measurement have been explored-with each having results and significance being highly particularized to the given approach employed. Erythrocyte deformability is an important determinant of blood viscosity, hence blood flow resistance in the vascular system. It affects blood flow in large blood vessels, due to the increased frictional resistance between fluid laminae under laminar flow conditions.
Deformability is an intrinsic cellular property of erythrocytes determined by geometric and material properties of the cell membrane, although as with many measurable properties the ambient conditions may also be relevant factors in any given measurement. Erythrocyte deformability is an important determinant of blood viscosity, hence blood flow resistance in the vascular system. It affects blood flow in large blood vessels, due to the increased frictional resistance between fluid laminae under laminar flow conditions.
Deformability can in effect be measured indirectly, such as by how much pressure and/or time it takes cells pass through pores of a filter (i.e., filterability or filtration) or perfuse through capillaries (perfusion), in vitro or in vivo, having smaller diameters than the cells'. Erythrocyte deformability is an important determinant of blood viscosity, hence blood flow resistance in the vascular system. It affects blood flow in large blood vessels, due to the increased frictional resistance between fluid laminae under laminar flow conditions.
3. deform-cause (a plastic object) to assume a crooked or angular form; bend the rod; twist the dough into a braid; the strong man could turn an iron bar. twist, bend, flex, turn. change form, change shape, deform-assume a different shape or form. dent, indent-make a depression into; The bicycle dented my car. 
6. deform-assume a different shape or form. change form, change shape. change-undergo a change; become different in essence; losing one's or its original nature; She changed completely as she grew older; The weather changed last night. deform-alter the shape of (something) by stress; His body was deformed by leprosy. distort, strain. shape, form-give shape or form to; shape the dough; form the young child's character.
Erythrocyte deformability refers to the ability of erythrocytes (red blood cells, RBC) to change shape under a given level of applied stress, without hemolysing (rupturing). Erythrocyte deformability is an important determinant of blood viscosity, hence blood flow resistance in the vascular system. It affects blood flow in large blood vessels, due to the increased frictional resistance between fluid laminae under laminar flow conditions.
3. deform-cause (a plastic object) to assume a crooked or angular form; bend the rod; twist the dough into a braid; the strong man could turn an iron bar. twist, bend, flex, turn. change form, change shape, deform-assume a different shape or form. dent, indent-make a depression into; The bicycle dented my car. deform-alter the shape of (something) by stress; His body was deformed by leprosy. distort, strain. shape, form-give shape or form to; shape the dough; form the young child's character.
Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration and cell deformability. Clark MR. Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143. A prominent characteristic of sickle cells is the presence of a subpopulation of severely dehydrated cells. Apart from its effect on the rate and extent of Hb S polymerization at low oxygen tension, dehydration has adverse effects on deformability of oxygenated sickle cells. In general, the degree of deformability defect induced by cellular dehydration measured in vitro depends on the method used to measure deformability.