Main Ingredients. The weight-loss drug Fen Phen consists of two diet drugs, fenfluramine and phentermine. Fenfluramine releases additional amounts of the seratonin neurotransmitter to the brain to create an artificial feeling of fullness. Phentermine is a stimulant that promotes weight loss by suppressing the appetite. 
Fenfluramine (3-trifluoromethyl-N-ethylamphetamine, trade names Pondimin, Ponderax and Adifax) is a drug that, along with phentermine, was part of the anti-obesity medication Fen-phen. Fenfluramine was introduced on the U.S. market in 1973 and withdrawn in 1997. It is the racemic mixture of two enantiomers, dexfenfluramine and levofenfluramine. It increases the level of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that regulates mood, appetite and other functions.
What is phen375. Phen375 is the most efficient slimming pill on the market today. This miracle tablet isn’t only an extremely effective fat burner, however, additionally a very reliable hunger depressent. Both of these features mixed mean that a reliable, achievable fat loss can be reached safely and fairly rapidly. 
fen-phen. n. A combination of the drugs fenfluramine and phentermine, formerly prescribed for weight loss, whose use was discontinued because of association with pulmonary hypertension. class action settlement that their legal right to qualify for additional compensation is likely coming to a close by the end of this year, if not sooner. Deadline Expires This Year for Fen-Phen Class Action Members' Heart ... by PR.com (Press Releases).
Fen Phen & Dexfen Phen. In addition to a fenfluramine and phentermine combination, patients may have also been administered a dexfenfluramine and phentermine cocktail that was labeled as dexfen phen. Like fen phen, dexfen phen has also been linked with the development of a number of serious health conditions. 
Definition. Fen-Phen was an anti-obesity regimen composed of fenfluramine or the closely related drug dexfenflur-amine (marketed under the brand name Redux) and phentermine (sold under several brand names including Adipex-P, Anoxine-AM, Fastin, Ionamin. 
History of Fen-Phen and Redux®. In the 1990s, a new prescription known as Fen-Phen (the popular name for the combination of fenfluramine and phentermine) hit the market and gained notoriety as an easy way to help people lose weight. 
Fen-phen Side Effects. Fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine were removed from the market in the United States as well as Canada and Europe in 1997. Fen-phen began to come under fire when the FDA began to hear of reports of heart valve disease and hypertension in some patients taking fen-phen. 
History [edit]. Fenfluramine as a single drug was first introduced in the 1970s, but was not popular because it only temporarily reduced weight. A 1984 study found a weight loss of 7.5 kg on average in 24 weeks, as compared to 4.4 kg under placebo. 