Mobitz type I 2nd-degree AV block may be physiologic in younger and more athletic patients. The block occurs at the AV node in about 75% of patients with a narrow QRS complex and at infranodal sites (His bundle, bundle branches, or fascicles) in the rest. Second-degree atrioventricular block (high grade). The distinction between Mobitz type I and Mobitz type II block is difficult to make because 2 P waves are never conducted in a row. Risk of complete AV block is difficult to predict, and a pacemaker is indicated.
Mobitz type II 2nd-degree AV block is always pathologic; the block occurs at the His bundle in 20% of patients and in the bundle branches in the rest. Patients may be asymptomatic or experience light-headedness, presyncope, and syncope, depending on the ratio of conducted to blocked beats. Second-degree atrioventricular block (high grade). The distinction between Mobitz type I and Mobitz type II block is difficult to make because 2 P waves are never conducted in a row. Risk of complete AV block is difficult to predict, and a pacemaker is indicated.
Click the image to view an animation on Heart Block. Heart block is an abnormal heart rhythm where the heart beats too slowly (bradycardia). In this condition, the electrical signals that tell the heart to contract are partially or totally blocked between the upper chambers (atria) and the lower chambers (ventricles). 
Heart block refers to an abnormality in the way electricity passes through the normal electrical pathways of the heart. The abnormality blocks the electrical impulse from continuing through the normal pathways and usually results in a slower heart rate. The blocking of the impulse can come and go, resulting in dropped heartbeats.. A second-degree type II block may progress to complete or third-degree heart block. Second-degree heart block can be categorized into two types: 1  Mobitz type I block (also called Wenckebach) usually occurs in the AV node.
The His-Purkinje system is yet another location where AV block may occur. First-degree AV block and second-degree Mobitz I AV block usually involve a delay at the level of the AVN, whereas second-degree Mobitz II AV block generally involves blockage in the His bundle or lower regions of the conduction system. On follow-up of the cohort through 2007, individuals with first-degree AV block had a 2-fold adjusted risk of atrial fibrillation, a 3-fold adjusted risk of pacemaker implantation, and a 1.4-fold adjusted risk of all-cause mortality.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. First-degree atrioventricular block (AV block), or PR prolongation, is a disease of the electrical conduction system of the heart in which the PR interval is lengthened beyond 0.20 seconds. The most common causes of first-degree heart block are an AV nodal disease, enhanced vagal tone (for example in athletes), myocarditis, acute myocardial infarction (especially acute inferior MI), electrolyte disturbances and medication.
Atrioventricular (AV) block is a type of abnormal heart rhythm, or arrhythmia. The heart’s rhythm (heartbeat) is regulated by natural electrical impulses that travel through the heart muscle. These impulses tell the heart’s chambers when to contract. 
Background. First-degree atrioventricular (AV) block, or first-degree heart block, is defined as prolongation of the PR interval on an electrocardiogram (ECG) to more than 200 msec. AV block is more common in the setting of inferior MI. In the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) II study, high-degree (second-or third-degree) AV block occurred in 6.3% of patients at the time of presentation and in 5.7% in the first 24 hours after thrombolytic therapy.
Type I heart block (also called Mobitz Type I or Wenckebach's AV block) is the less serious form of second-degree heart block. In this condition, the electrical signal goes slower and slower until the heart actually skips a beat. In patients with Type II heart block (also called Mobitz Type II), some of the electrical signals do not reach the ventricles, and the pattern is irregular. Individuals with this type of heart block may have a heartbeat that is slower than normal.
Atrioventricular (AV) block occurs when atrial depolarizations fail to reach the ventricles or when atrial depolarization is conducted with a delay. Three degrees of AV block are recognized. On follow-up of the cohort through 2007, individuals with first-degree AV block had a 2-fold adjusted risk of atrial fibrillation, a 3-fold adjusted risk of pacemaker implantation, and a 1.4-fold adjusted risk of all-cause mortality.