Listen to the pitch. Now, press down on the string anywhere along the fretboard. You will hear the pitch of that string is now higher. Thus, we learn that the terms higher and lower on guitar having nothing to do with physical position, but instead refer to the pitch that is produced by the position. First off, the top of the diagram corresponds to the nut on your guitar, that’s the part where the strings end, farthest from your body. Left to right, the strings are 6,5,4,3,2,1. So as you look at the diagram, the string on the left is actually the 6th string on your guitar, the low E string.
4. Teach yourself as many different ways to play a chord as you can. For instance, there are 10 different fret hand positions for which to play the C chord. Obviously, go for a 'perfect' open C chord first, but the more ways you know to play a chord, the more flexibility you'll have in moving from one chord to another. 1 Use silk and steel strings until your fingers are tough enough to use the regular steel strings since they're easier on your fingers. 2  Take notes about how you feel and how well you play every time you practice. 3  If you practice daily, you'll see a big difference each day
YES! It is possible for you to learn to play guitar, regardless of your age. The oldest student of mine that I’ve heard from was 93… just starting to learn how to play guitar, and LOVING IT! The biggest hindrance to learning how to play guitar, at any age, is the belief that you’re not able to do it. First off, the top of the diagram corresponds to the nut on your guitar, that’s the part where the strings end, farthest from your body. Left to right, the strings are 6,5,4,3,2,1. So as you look at the diagram, the string on the left is actually the 6th string on your guitar, the low E string.
Hold your guitar as though you’re going to play it, and look down at the neckboard. 1  The string that’s pointing up at you is the E string. 2  The strings, starting with E and moving down to the bottom of the neckboard, are E, A, D, G, B, and e. 3  The fret closest to the head (furthest away from the body) is your first fret. 1 The string that’s pointing up at you is the E string. 2  The strings, starting with E and moving down to the bottom of the neckboard, are E, A, D, G, B, and e. 3  The fret closest to the head (furthest away from the body) is your first fret. 4  The next one down the board is the second, the next the third, and so on.
If you don't want to do that, I still say you have to structure the way you go about learning guitar. Let me take that back you don't HAVE to. But if you want to learn how to play guitar fast and be GOOD you'll want a plan of attack. We wrote a great article on How To Practice that you'll want to read. If you can combine that knowledge with a solid practice schedule and real goals you've set for yourself, then you're on your way. So ... 
Details. Teach yourself how to play guitar with our easy electric guitar lessons for beginners. ***Comes with 1 CD containing guitar audio demonstrating all examples. Hear how each one is played by a teacher, then play along with the backing band.***. A really awesome book. Contains everything you need to learn how to play guitar today. Features include: 1  Progressive step-by-step easy guitar lessons written by a professional guitar teacher. 2  Easy-to-read guitar music, guitar chords for beginners and easy guitar tabs for beginners. 3  Full color photos and diagrams.
The easiest way to learn how to play a song on the guitar is to find a tablature chart — or “tabs” — for it. An empty tablature chart will simply show the six strings of the guitar, labeled as though you were holding your guitar face-up in your lap: the E string is on the bottom, and the e string is on the top. 1 The string that’s pointing up at you is the E string. 2  The strings, starting with E and moving down to the bottom of the neckboard, are E, A, D, G, B, and e. 3  The fret closest to the head (furthest away from the body) is your first fret. 4  The next one down the board is the second, the next the third, and so on.
Luckily, there are plenty of free resources that will help you learn to play along with your favorite songs! This article will walk you through how to buy a good starter guitar, how to read tabs, and how to practice a beginner's scale to improve your finger strength and dexterity. 1 The string that’s pointing up at you is the E string. 2  The strings, starting with E and moving down to the bottom of the neckboard, are E, A, D, G, B, and e. 3  The fret closest to the head (furthest away from the body) is your first fret. 4  The next one down the board is the second, the next the third, and so on.