Cost. The cost to file a DBA varies based on the city or county clerk where the business operates. A business that files a DBA may expect to pay anywhere from $10 to $100, according to the Entrepreneur website. The costs to file formation documents for an LLC vary from state to state. For example, it costs $500 to file articles of organization in Illinois and $125 to file articles of organization in Ohio, as of 2010
The county filing fee for registering a DBA in Texas varies depending on a county, in your case its $16 in Brazos County (as of August 2012). Keep in mind that if this DBA is for a registered business such as LLC or Corporation then it needs to be filed first with the Texas Secretary of State and then with the county clerk of your county.
The location and cost of filing depends upon your location. For example, in Texas, a sole proprietorship may only need to file once with the county, where a corporation may need to file in a number of counties. Read more to find out how to create a DBA in Texas.
How Much Does A Dba Cost In Texas Llc online books store. An LLC can help you avoid personal liability for debts or wrongs committed during business transactions. All online books store online books store business (including home, mobile, and online businesses) need a(n) in Spring businesses, MUST Obtain a(n) Business License business permit. 77388. Harris County How Much Does A Dba Cost In Texas Llc small new business.
Warnings. 1  Texas DBA certificates are good for 10 years. 2  If your business is still functioning after this time, be sure to re-apply. 3  If your business is legally structured as a corporation, LLC, LLP or limited partnerships you must submit a different Assumed Name Certificate to the Texas Secretary of State. 1 Registering the DBA name does not allow you to use the name if doing so would infringe on someone else’s legal rights to the name. 2  To search online, visit the state of Texas’s SOS direct website and request an account. 3  Each search you run will cost $1.
DBA is short for Doing Business As.. In Texas, it's often called an Assumed Name.. A DBA is a legal declaration that you are conducting business under a name different from your legal, personal name. 1 Registering the DBA name does not allow you to use the name if doing so would infringe on someone else’s legal rights to the name. 2  To search online, visit the state of Texas’s SOS direct website and request an account. 3  Each search you run will cost $1.
If you conduct business in more than 1 county, you should also contact the Texas Secretary of State to conduct an available business name search. 1  You can also submit a written request form to the county to search for assumed business names that have already been filed. 2  The cost is usually $5 to $10. For example, in Texas, a sole proprietorship may only need to file once with the county, where a corporation may need to file in a number of counties. Read more to find out how to create a DBA in Texas.
In Texas you can file your DBA (aka trade name, assumed name or fictitious business name) yourself with your local County Clerk's office. Or, use a legal document service such as LegalZoom to handle the entire process for you. LegalZoom charges $99.00 (plus state filing fees) for Texas DBA's. 
Warnings. 1  Texas DBA certificates are good for 10 years. 2  If your business is legally structured as a corporation, LLC, LLP or limited partnerships you must submit a different Assumed Name Certificate to the Texas Secretary of State. 1 Registering the DBA name does not allow you to use the name if doing so would infringe on someone else’s legal rights to the name. 2  To search online, visit the state of Texas’s SOS direct website and request an account. 3  Each search you run will cost $1.
The cost to file an assumed business name certificate at the county level is approximately $15 in most Texas counties. 1  You can also print and sign the form in front of a notary public. 2  The cost to file an authorized form is less, approximately $8 to $10. 3  The notary public will likely charge a fee for the service. For example, in Texas, a sole proprietorship may only need to file once with the county, where a corporation may need to file in a number of counties. Read more to find out how to create a DBA in Texas.