By Sally Moore. Five years ago, journalist and feminine activist Susan Brownmiller began to explore a grisly subject: rape. In Against Our Will, published last month by Simon and Schuster, Brownmiller states her conclusion: that rape can be not only physical, but psychological as well. 
Brownmiller went on to coordinate a sit-in against Ladies' Home Journal in 1970, began work on Against Our Will after a New York Radical Feminists speak-out on rape in 1971, and co-founded Women Against Pornography in 1979. Brownmiller also participated in civil rights activism, joining CORE and SNCC during the sit-in movement and volunteering for Freedom Summer in 1964, wherein she worked on voter registration in Meridian, Mississippi.
A recent New York magazine interview with longtime feminist Susan Brownmiller reinforced that message for me in a terribly disappointing manner. Brownmiller is the author of Against Our Will: Men, Women and Rape, a landmark 1975 book that made rape a subject of national conversation for the first time. 
Susan Brownmiller is an author and feminist activist, best known for her groundbreaking book Against Her Will: Men, Women, and Rape, which helped modernize attitudes towards the rape and placed it in the broader context of pervasive gender oppression. Susan Brownmiller on her groundbreaking history of rape which helped transform attitudes and laws to finally protect victims.
Susan Brownmiller was born on February 15, 1935 in New York City, New York, USA. 
To see video clips of an interview with Susan Brownmiller from the MAKERS project, click here. Sources: “Susan Brownmiller,” SusanBrownmiller.com; “ Brownmiller, Susan. Papers 1935-2000 ,” Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America. When Susan Brownmiller left Cornell University, she was determined to be a Broadway actress. Quite accidentally, she started working in editorial jobs for magazines.
Brownmiller argues that rape had been previously defined by men rather than women, and that men use, and all men benefit from the use of rape as a means of perpetuating male dominance by keeping all women in a state of fear. Brownmiller also participated in civil rights activism, joining CORE and SNCC during the sit-in movement and volunteering for Freedom Summer in 1964, wherein she worked on voter registration in Meridian, Mississippi.
Against Our Will author Susan Brownmiller is born. When Susan Brownmiller left Cornell University, she was determined to be a Broadway actress. Quite accidentally, she started working in editorial jobs for magazines. Brownmiller was profoundly influenced by the Southern sit-in movement to end lunch counter segregation that began in February 1960
Susan Brownmiller Facts. A career feminist whose work spans the distance from political activism to historical research and novel writing, Susan Brownmiller (born 1935) is most recognized for raising public awareness of violent crimes against women and children. Brownmiller was born in Brooklyn on February 15, 1935. She returned to New York City twenty years later, after graduating from Cornell University. She worked for four years as an actress before beginning her journalistic career as assistant to the managing editor of Coronet
Biography. When Susan Brownmiller left Cornell University, she was determined to be a Broadway actress. Quite accidentally, she started working in editorial jobs for magazines. Brownmiller was profoundly influenced by the Southern sit-in movement to end lunch counter segregation that began in February 1960. Brownmiller’s book on the history of the movement, In Our Time: Memoir of a Revolution, details the story of feminism and her intimate involvement with it, particularly in working to end violence against women. Her groundbreaking book, Against Our Will, defined rape as a serious social problem of