Commercially available lysozyme from hen egg white includes several types of impurity proteins [1] . Excepting the identified high-molecular-weight proteins, the most important one has a molecular weight of 28.6 kDa, as measured by SDS–PAGE. This is twice that of the lysozyme monomer. Measurements of TR-SLS and dynamic light scattering for a lysozyme dimer solution showed that the association behavior is affected by the purity of the dimer solution. Chromatography and SDS–PAGE analysis showed two types of dimers, strong-and weak-bonded molecules, in a dimer unit.
1C shows separation of a mixture of DANS-insulin, DANS-lysozyme, and DANS-albumin on a 7.5% polyacrylamide gel. Seven bands were observed (bottom to top) : insulin; monomer, dimer, and trimer of lysozyme; and monomer, dimer, and trimer of albumin, respec-tively. Their positions were very reproducible. The fluores-cence was sensitive enough to detect 0.2 pg of DANS-proteins as a band. C, mixture of 10 fig of DAN%insulin, 5 pg of DANS-lysozyme, and 5 pg of DANS-serum albumin; from bottom to top, insulin, monomer, dimer, and trimer of lysozyme, and monomer, dimer, and trimer of albumin.
Lysozyme (N-acetyl-muramyl-hydrolase E.C. 3.2.1.17) is a low-molecular enzyme (14,400 Da) found in body secretions, systemic fluids and tissues of humans and animals. Antibacterial activity of lysozyme monomer is limited first of all to Gram-positive bacteria, which is connected with the structure of the cell wall. This enzyme catalyzes hydrolysis of β-glycoside bonds (1–4), releasing N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid. The spectrum of antibacterial activity of lysozyme may be extended thanks to modifications of the enzyme. The aim of the study was to assess antibacterial activity, hydrolytic activity and surface hydrophobicity of different forms of lysozyme. Chemical and thermo-chemical modification of lysozyme was performed, and the antibacterial action of lysozyme monomer and modified preparations were compared
When the dimers originally in the lysozyme solution have a particular conformation and bond between molecules, their association differs from that of monomers. However, dimer association process has not been reported. Measurements of TR-SLS and dynamic light scattering for a lysozyme dimer solution showed that the association behavior is affected by the purity of the dimer solution. Chromatography and SDS–PAGE analysis showed two types of dimers, strong-and weak-bonded molecules, in a dimer unit.
There is a peak corresponding to the lysozyme dimers but not to the monomers after repeated chromatographic operations (Fig. 1c). This indicates that the dimer solution was sufficiently purified for the purpose of chromatography. The peak around 0 mL of flow rate in Fig. Measurements of TR-SLS and dynamic light scattering for a lysozyme dimer solution showed that the association behavior is affected by the purity of the dimer solution. Chromatography and SDS–PAGE analysis showed two types of dimers, strong-and weak-bonded molecules, in a dimer unit.
B, 5 pg of DANS-egg white lysozyme; from bottom to top, monomer, dimer, trimer, tetramer, and pentamer. C, mixture of 10 fig of DAN%insulin, 5 pg of DANS-lysozyme, and 5 pg of DANS-serum albumin; from bottom to top, insulin, monomer, dimer, and trimer of lysozyme, and monomer, dimer, and trimer of albumin.
The protein with a molecular weight of 28.6 kDa in lysozyme solution, which has been recognized as a lysozyme dimer, was purified and its association was observed using time-resolved static light scattering and dynamic light scattering under the same buffer condition as that used in lysozyme monomer association. Measurements of TR-SLS and dynamic light scattering for a lysozyme dimer solution showed that the association behavior is affected by the purity of the dimer solution. Chromatography and SDS–PAGE analysis showed two types of dimers, strong-and weak-bonded molecules, in a dimer unit.
The sugar component consists of alternating residues of β-(1,4) linked N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid. Attached to the N-acetylmuramic acid is a peptide chain of three to five amino acids. The peptide chain can be cross-linked to the peptide chain of another strand forming the 3D mesh-like layer. The peptidoglycan monomers are synthesized in the cytosol and are then attached to a membrane carrier bactoprenol. Bactoprenol transports peptidoglycan monomers across the cell membrane where they are inserted into the existing peptidoglycan.
Abstract. Lysozyme is an important component of egg white with antibacterial properties especially against Gram-positive bacteria. Research indicates that the range of lysozyme activity may be extended thanks to chemical or physical modifications. The purpose of the study was to determine the effectiveness of antibacterial action against selected strains of bacteria of lysozyme modified by the thermochemical technique. Our investigations indicated a possibility of extending the range of lysozyme activity using modification.