The medical profession describes the pineal gland as being: “a small endocrine gland in the vertebrate brain that produces the serotonin derivative melatonin, a hormone that affects the modulation of wake/sleep patterns and seasonal functions. “The pineal gland is a midline structure shaped like a pine cone, and is often seen in plain skull X-rays, as it is often calcified; calcification has been shown in one small study to correlate with the accumulation of fluoride.” The pine cone shape of the pineal gland is a very interesting topic.
Anatomy of the Pineal Gland. Located near the center of the brain, the pineal gland is a very small organ shaped like a pine cone (which is where it gets its name). It’s reddish-gray and about 1/3 inch long. Pineal cells and neuroglial cells (which support the pineal cells) mainly comprise the gland. 1 Of the endocrine organs, the function of the pineal gland was the last discovered. 2  Located deep in the center of the brain, the pineal gland was once known as the “third eye.”. 3  The pineal gland produces melatonin, which helps maintain circadian rhythm and regulate reproductive hormones.
Print. Share. The pineal gland is a small, pinecone-shaped endocrine gland located near the center of the brain between the two hemispheres. It’s small, only 5-8mm, and is sometimes visible in head scans as calcification can occur due to toxin or fluoride accumulation. The pineal gland is part of the endocrine system. Like other endocrine system glands, such as the pituitary and thyroid, its primary function is hormone secretion, specifically, secretion of melatonin. Melatonin is important for sexual development, metabolic function, and sleep-wake cycle regulation.
The pineal gland, also known as the pineal body, conarium or epiphysis cerebri, is a small endocrine gland in the vertebrate brain. Nearly all vertebrate species possess a pineal gland. The most important exception is the hagfish, which is often thought of as the most primitive extant vertebrate. Even in the hagfish, however, there may be a pineal equivalent structure in the dorsal diencephalon.
The pineal gland is an endocrine gland, like the pituitary gland, thyroid gland, adrenal gland, and pancreas. Like other endocrine glands, it secretes a hormone -- in this case melatonin. The pineal gland was the last endocrine gland to have its function unveiled, partially because of its small size, roughly that of a pea, and its structural uniformity. The pineal gland is located near the center of the brain. Shamans have claimed that the pineal gland is a connection between the earthly realm and a spirit world. Endocrine glands include the adrenal gland. The pineal gland secretes melatonin, which promotes sleep.
The pineal gland is a small organ shaped like a pine cone (hence its name). It is located on the midline, attached to the posterior end of the roof of the third ventricle in the brain. The pineal varies in size among species; in humans it is roughly 1 cm in length, whereas in dogs it is only about 1 mm long. The pineal gland or epiphysis synthesizes and secretes melatonin, a structurally simple hormone that communicates information about environmental lighting to various parts of the body.
Pineal Gland. The pineal gland, also called pineal body or epiphysis cerebri, is a small cone-shaped structure that extends posteriorly from the third ventricle of the brain. The pineal gland consists of portions of neurons, neuroglial cells, and specialized secretory cells called pinealocytes. The pituitary gland or hypophysis is a small gland about 1 centimeter in diameter or the size of a pea. It is nearly surrounded by bone as it rests in the sella turcica, a depression in the sphenoid bone. The gland is connected to the hypothalamus of the brain by a slender stalk called the infundibulum.
Pineal Gland: The pineal gland is a pine cone shaped gland of the endocrine system. A structure of the diencephalon of the brain, the pineal gland produces several important hormones including melatonin. Melatonin influences sexual development and sleep-wake cycles. The pineal gland connects the endocrine system with the nervous system in that it converts nerve signals from the sympathetic system of the peripheral nervous system into hormone signals. Function: The pineal gland is involved in several functions of the body including: 1  Secretion of the Hormone Melatonin.
The pineal gland, also known as the pineal body, is an important endocrine gland that produces the hormone melatonin. Melatonin plays a key role in the sleep/wake cycle and the body’s response to sunlight. The pineal gland is a small, pinecone-shaped mass of glandular tissue about 1/3 of an inch (8 mm) long. It is attached directly to the brain along the body’s midline at the union of the superior colliculi of the midbrain and the lobes of the thalamus....