The chords provided are my interpretation and their accuracy is not guaranteed. Type an artists name or song title in the space above for a quick search of Classic Country Music Lyrics website. Low prices on Books, Kindles Classic Country Music Cds and Country Gospel Cds. It's fun and easy to learn to play and sing. These country classic song lyrics are the property of the respective artist, authors and labels, they are intended solely for educational purposes and private study only.
At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, And the burden of my heart rolled away, It was there by faith I received my sight, And now I am happy all the day! Thus might I hide my blushing face. While His dear cross appears, Dissolve my heart in thankfulness, And melt my eyes to tears. 1 Philippians 2:6-8 - Who, being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be used to his own advantage; rather, he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness.
View other pages for this song: Guitar Tabs Lyrics Only Strum Patterns Audio Links. Dear Friends, please see how you can help a family provide a Christ-centered education to their children. Dear Friends, please see how you can help a family provide a Christ-centered education to their children. 
Transposition is available via the legacy Scorch player. If you require transposition please use the Scorch tab adjacent to this tab. If the Scorch tab is not available it is not compatible with your current browser. Further details of the Scorch player can be found in our Digital Sheet Music FAQ. Preview: (1st page only can be viewed or printed.). If you cannot see the score below or you have difficulty printing, please see our Digital Sheet Music FAQ. We also have a new digital sheet music player, the Avid Viewer, currently available as a BETA version.
Copy and paste lyrics and chords to the key changer, select the key you want, then click the button Click Here. If the lyrics are in a long line, first paste to Microsoft Word or a similar word processor, then recopy and paste to key changer. It's fun and easy to learn to play and sing. These country classic song lyrics are the property of the respective artist, authors and labels, they are intended solely for educational purposes and private study only.
Hymns Lyrics: At The Cross. To print At The Cross, just highlight the words of the hymn and copy and paste into your word editor. This is one of the many hymns written by Isaac Watts (1674 - 1748) and was published in the year 1707. It is a very popular hymn used by many evangelists during crusades. The main subject of this hymn is Salvation.
1 1 Corinthians 1:18 - For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. 1 Philippians 2:6-8 - Who, being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be used to his own advantage; rather, he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness.
Lyrics to At Ahe Cross Alas, and did my Savior bleed, And did my Sov'reign die? Would He devote that sacred head For such a worm as I? 2. Thy body slain, sweet Jesus, thine, And bathed in its own blood, While all exposed to wrath divine The glorious Suff'rer stood! 3. Was it for crimes that I had done He groaned upon the tree? Amazing pity! grace unknown! And love beyond degree! 4. Well might the sun in darkness hide, And shut his glories in, When God, the mighty Maker, died For man, the creature's sin. 5. Thus might I hide my blushing face While his dear cross appears, Dissolve my heart in thankfulness, And melt mine eyes to tears. 6.
Chorus : At the cross, at the cross, Where I first saw the light, And the burden of my heart rolled away -. It was there by faith I received my sight, And now I am happy all the day. To print At The Cross, just highlight the words of the hymn and copy and paste into your word editor. This is one of the many hymns written by Isaac Watts (1674 - 1748) and was published in the year 1707. It is a very popular hymn used by many evangelists during crusades. The main subject of this hymn is Salvation.
At The Cross lyrics and chords are intended for your personal use only, it's a great old country gospel recorded by Hank Williams as well as many other artists. It's fun and easy to learn to play and sing. These country classic song lyrics are the property of the respective artist, authors and labels, they are intended solely for educational purposes and private study only.