Tokyo, the capital of Japan, features architectural, organic and cultural landmarks that vividly display the heritage of one of the oldest nations in the world. From a famous fish market to cherry blossom viewing on the grounds of a royal palace, you're likely to find something that interests you. A landmark all its own, the Akihabara district of Tokyo (e-akihabara.jp) is a well-known hub for all things digital, electronic and animated. It's also considered a haven for gamers, the unofficial headquarters for the otaku subculture of game and anime enthusiasts.
Report Abuse. Ginza is a world famous shopping area in Tokyo famous not really for it's shopping, but for how expensive everything is that you can buy there. I went there quite a few times because my friend worked there, but I didn't go into any of the really expensive shops. 
The new merged government became what is now Tokyo, also known as the Tokyo Metropolis, or, ambiguously, Tokyo Prefecture. In 1943, the city was abolished and merged with Tokyo Prefecture to form the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, which was functionally a part of the central government of Japan: the governor of Tokyo became a Cabinet minister reporting directly to the Prime Minister.
Several of the tallest buildings in Tokyo are in Nishi-Shinjuku, including ... Roppongi. Roppongi is a district in central Tokyo famous for its nightlife and very popular with foreigners. Roppongi also features many of the embassies. Roppongi is to the west of central Tokyo in t... Akihabara is in the eastern part of Chiyoda Ward in Tokyo.... Aomi. Aomi is a district in Koto Ward of central Tokyo. Aomi forms part of what is commonly known as Odaiba, a modern development area on an artifical island in Tokyo Bay.
[toːkjoː]. , English /ˈtoʊki.oʊ/), officially Tokyo Metropolis (東京都, Tōkyō-to) , is one of the 47 prefectures of Japan, and is both the capital and largest city of Japan. The Greater Tokyo Area is the most populous metropolitan area in the world. It is the seat of the Emperor of Japan and the Japanese government. Tokyo Metropolis was formed in 1943 from the merger of the former Tokyo Prefecture (東京府, Tōkyō-fu) and the city of Tokyo (東京市, Tōkyō-shi) .
Best Answer: Tokyo is known and can offer many different things. There are the temples and festivals of Asakusa, Fukagawa, Kameido, Zojo-ji where you can experience the vibrant energy of the people. The friendliness of local izakayas where you can unwind and forget your worries. 
Tokyo (, Tōkyō) is Japan's capital and the world's most populous metropolis. It is also one of Japan's 47 prefectures, consisting of 23 central city wards and multiple cities, towns and villages west of the city center. The Izu and Ogasawara Islands are also part of Tokyo. Prior to 1868, Tokyo was known as Edo. A small castle town in the 16th century, Edo became Japan's political center in 1603 when Tokugawa Ieyasu established his feudal government there. A few decades later, Edo had grown into one of the world's most populous cities.
Tokyo was originally known as Edo (江戸) , which means  estuary . Its name was changed to Tokyo (東京 Tōkyō; 東 tō east, and 京 kyō capital) when it became the imperial capital in 1868, in line with the East Asian tradition of including the word capital (京) in the name of the capital city. Tokyo Metropolis was formed in 1943 from the merger of the former Tokyo Prefecture (東京府, Tōkyō-fu) and the city of Tokyo (東京市, Tōkyō-shi) .
Tokyo. Said to be one of the most populated cities of the world, Tokyo serves as the capital of Japan. The city is steeped in history – that of its Royal Family, the ravages of the Second World War, and its ascendancy to the elite club of wealthiest nations of the world. The Ueno Park Museum is also a favorite tourist spot in the city. This park is home to some of the best-known museums in the city, such as Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum, the National Museum of Western Art, the Tokyo National Museum, and the National Science Museum.