Combine soy sauce and red wine in a jug. Pour over beef. Season with black pepper. Roast, uncovered, adding carrots 30 minutes before end of cooking time. Cook for 45 minutes for rare, 1 hour for medium and 1 hour 15 minutes for well done.
Heat the extra oil in a roasting pan over high heat. Add the beef and cook, turning occasionally, for 6 minutes or until brown all over. Roast in oven, basting regularly with pan juices, for 15-20 minutes for medium-rare or until cooked to your liking. 1  Step 3. Preheat oven to 240°C. Tie the beef at regular intervals with unwaxed white kitchen string to secure. Reserve 3 whole sprigs of rosemary. Coarsely chop 1 tablespoon of the remaining rosemary. Combine the chopped rosemary, oil and garlic in a small bowl.
Let stand for 15 minutes before slicing. The temperature of the meat will rise during this time (this is reflected in the timings below). Untitled Document Cut Description How to use it Whole tenderloin roast, trimmed This is a long, cylindrical, boneless cut from the loin. Usually about 4 to 6 pounds. 
1 Remove the fillet from the refrigerator 30 minutes before roasting to bring it to room temperature. 2  Preheat oven to 500° F and position a rack in the center. 3  Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 4  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, and thyme. 1 Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 2  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, and thyme. 3  Heat the oil in a 12-inch ovenproof skillet over high heat; the oil should shimmer but not smoke. 4  Brown the fillet on all sides, 2 to 3 minutes per side.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F. Place the beef on a sheet pan and pat the outside dry with a paper towel. Spread the butter on with your hands. Sprinkle evenly with the salt and pepper. Roast in the oven for exactly 22 minutes for rare and 25 minutes for medium-rare. Remove the beef from the oven, cover it tightly with aluminum foil, and allow it to rest at room temperature for 20 minutes. Remove the strings and slice the fillet thickly
Transfer to a roasting tin. Place the fillet in the centre of the roasting tin, arrange the whole garlic bulbs around the fillet and drizzle with a little oil. Roast for 23 minutes for medium-rare (only 20 minutes if it is a long, thin piece). When the beef is cooked, remove from the oven, cover with aluminium foil and leave to rest for 15 minutes.
1 Place the fillet in oven and reduce temperature to 425° F. Roast about 25 minutes for rare or until a meat thermometer reads 130° F when inserted into the center. (Check the temperature once after about 20 minutes to gauge doneness.) Remove the fillet from oven and allow it to rest 10 minutes before slicing. 1 Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 2  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, and thyme. 3  Heat the oil in a 12-inch ovenproof skillet over high heat; the oil should shimmer but not smoke. 4  Brown the fillet on all sides, 2 to 3 minutes per side.
The time that it takes to cook a fillet is not long and it’s probably this one thing that terrifies most novice cooks. Under or overcook your fillet and you’ve wasted a lot of money. A rule of thumb is to cook it for 15-20 minutes per 500g. That will result in a medium fillet. Don’t forget to ‘stand’ the meat for 10-15 minutes when it comes out of the oven.
Heat 1 Tbsp oil in a heavy-based frying pan and when very hot sear the fillet 1-2 minutes each side (not the ends) until browned all over. Transfer the meat to a shallow roasting pan, add remaining oil and toss the shallots around the meat, coating lightly in the oil. Roast 20 minutes for rare, or 25 for medium rare. Ten minutes into cooking, add the mushrooms to the roasting pan. Remove the meat, cover and keep warm for 15 minutes before carving. While the meat is resting, place the roasting pan with the shallots and mushrooms on the stove, heat and add the wine, stirring any bits off the bottom
Hi Georg. For a medium fillet roast you should cook the beef to an internal temperature of 135 degrees F (58C), and then let the meat stand until it reaches 145 degrees F (63C). A rule of thumb is to cook it for 15-20 minutes per 500g. That will result in a medium fillet. Don’t forget to ‘stand’ the meat for 10-15 minutes when it comes out of the oven.