Most brain and spinal cord tumors develop from glial cells. These tumors are sometimes referred to as gliomas. There are 3 types of glial cells – astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and ependymal cells. A fourth cell type called microglia is part of the immune system and is not truly a glial cell. 1  Astrocytes help support and nourish neurons. 2  When the brain is injured, astrocytes form scar tissue that helps repair the damage. 3  The main tumors starting in these cells are called astrocytomas or glioblastomas. Types of cells and body tissues in the brain and spinal cord. The brain and spinal cord have many kinds of tissues and cells, which can develop into different types of tumors. Neurons (nerve cells): These are the most important cells in the brain.
Key Points. 1  An adult central nervous system tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain and/or spinal cord. 2  A tumor that starts in another part of the body and spreads to the brain is called a metastatic brain tumor. 3  The brain controls many important body functions. Together, the brain and spinal cord make up the central nervous system (CNS). The tumors may be either benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer): 1  Benign brain and spinal cord tumors grow and press on nearby areas of the brain. 2  They rarely spread into other tissues and may recur (come back).
“Glioma” is a general term used to describe any tumor that arises from the supportive (“gluey”) tissue of the brain. This tissue, called “glia,” helps to keep the neurons in place and functioning well. There are three types of normal glial cells that can produce tumors. 
Approximately 2,200 children in the US are diagnosed with a brain tumor each year. Brain tumors, either malignant or benign, are tumors that originate in the cells of the brain. A tumor is an abnormal growth of tissue. A benign tumor does not contain cancer cells and usually, once removed, does not recur. 
1 An adult central nervous system tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain and/or spinal cord. 2  A tumor that starts in another part of the body and spreads to the brain is called a metastatic brain tumor. Together, the brain and spinal cord make up the central nervous system (CNS). The tumors may be either benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer): 1  Benign brain and spinal cord tumors grow and press on nearby areas of the brain. 2  They rarely spread into other tissues and may recur (come back).
Structure [edit]. Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. Cells of nervous tissue. Nervous tissue is the main component of the two parts of the nervous system; the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and the branching peripheral nerves of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which regulates and controls bodily functions and activity.
Background. A neurilemmoma is a benign, usually encapsulated neoplasm derived from Schwann cells and, along with neurofibroma, constitutes one of the 2 most common benign peripheral nerve sheath tumors. The peripheral nervous system can be defined as nervous tissue outside the brain and spinal cord. 
Nerve Tissue. Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. The word neuroglia means nerve glue.. These cells are nonconductive and provide a support system for the neurons. They are a special type of connective tissue for the nervous system.
soft tissue sarcoma a general term for a malignant tumor derived from extraskeletal connective tissue, including fibrous, fat, smooth muscle, nerve, vascular, histiocytic, and synovial tissue, with almost all lesions arising from primitive mesoderm. spindle cell sarcoma. 1. any sarcoma composed of spindle-shaped cells. sarcoma. a tumor, often highly malignant, composed of cells derived from connective tissue such as bone and cartilage, muscle, blood vessel or lymphoid tissue. These tumors usually develop rapidly and metastasize through the lymph vessels.