The best way to reheat previously cooked lobster is by poaching it in butter or reheating it for only three minutes in a preheated 375 degree oven. Other cooking methods, such as microwaving or steaming will overcook the lobster. It is crucial that you are careful in the reheating process. Lobster gets rubbery easily. 
Cover, return the water to a boil and then lower the heat to a bubbly simmer. Lobster will cook in 12-20 minutes depending on the size. Canners will cook in 12-15 minutes, while large lobsters will require up to 20 minutes of cooking time. 
Place the steamer basket inside the pot. Put the lobsters face down, in the steamer basket. Do not stack the lobsters more than two deep. Cover the pot and bring it back to a boil. Cook a three pounds of lobsters about 30 minutes. Cook 1 lb. of lobster for about 10 minutes. Remove from the steamer basket and serve immediately, or cool and serve in a cold salad. 
Reheat the lobster on the grill rather than broiling it. Brush the lobster with lemon and butter, and place the lobster on the grill over low heat with the meat facing toward the flame. Cook until the internal temperature is 180 degrees. Santy Gibson/Demand Media. Reheat the lobster in the oven at 350 degrees. Begin by brushing it with butter and lemon juice, wrapping it in aluminum foil, placing the lobster in a baking pan and cooking it for 5 to 10 minutes until the internal temperature of the meat is 180 degrees. Santy Gibson/Demand Media. 
Best Answer: i would boil it lightly. if you take the water and bring it to a rolling boil you can add the lobster for about 5-10 minutes. it should be moist as yummy as it was when freshly prepared. i wouldn't recommend the microwave-leftovers just end up rubbery and the oven could cause it to be tough. · just now. Report Abuse. If you boil it again ...even for 2 minutes it will be overcooked and lose its flavor.....steam it above the boiling water. Do NOT microwave it under any circumstances, if you use an oven, wrap the lobster in foil with butter and a slice of lemon and use a low heat to just warm it. Shale S · 9 years ago
Fill a pot with water and when it comes to a boil toss the lobsters in for 3-5 minutes, they are already cooked and safe to eat cold, you are only heating them up so they taste better. Helpfulhannah · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. 
Bring the water to a boil. Put in the live lobsters, one at a time, cover and bring the water to a boil again. Then, lower the heat and simmer about 15 minutes for a 1- to 1¼-pound hard-shell lobster and 20 minutes for a 1½-pound hard-shell lobster. If soft shell lobsters, reduce the cooking time by 3 minutes. Steaming. Use seawater or salted water. In a large pot, bring about 2 inches of water to a rolling boil over high heat
4. You can even use a grill for reheating cooked lobster, but make sure to touch up the meat with lemon and melted butter and the meat should be placed facing the heat or flames. Reheat cooked lobster until the inner temperature touches 180 degrees. 5. The final method of reheating cooked lobster is by using an oven. Brush up the lobster with some lemon juice and melted butter. Wrap the lobster in an aluminum foil and place in a baking tray. Bake for just 5-10 minutes until the lobster meat's internal temperature is 180 degrees. By knowing how to reheat cooked lobster, one can enjoy this seafood anytime after cooking.
2. After thawing the lobster meat, reheating cooked lobster can be done either in a broiler, grill or an oven. A broiler needs pre-heating. Place the cooked lobster inside the boiler by keeping the meat facing in the upward direction. Brush up the meat with some melted butter and lemon juice before starting to heat. 3. Brush up the lobster with some lemon juice and melted butter. Wrap the lobster in an aluminum foil and place in a baking tray. Bake for just 5-10 minutes until the lobster meat's internal temperature is 180 degrees. By knowing how to reheat cooked lobster, one can enjoy this seafood anytime after cooking.