Okay, so I sound like the proverbial broken record, but I’m still having blade problems with my Silhouette Cameo. It’s such a love-hate relationship! I love what the Silhouette Cameo can do WHEN it does it. And I hate the fact that my Silhouette Cameo still has major blade problems. 70 thoughts on “ Silhouette Cameo blade problems…and mat problems…again! Hi, I’m very new to using the silhouette cameo. I use the COLORBOK cardstock and after using it for the 2nd time, my mat is cut through. I use level 4 for the regular cardstock and level 5 for the textured ones.
If you are cutting regular cardstock, such as Stamping Up 80 lb. cardstock, the blade should be set at 3, thickness 33, speed 3. Unless you are cutting much heavier cardstock, the blade setting should remain at 3. Perhaps the tip of your blade has been chipped off…that happened to me when I first got my Silhouette. 70 thoughts on “ Silhouette Cameo blade problems…and mat problems…again! Hi, I’m very new to using the silhouette cameo. I use the COLORBOK cardstock and after using it for the 2nd time, my mat is cut through. I use level 4 for the regular cardstock and level 5 for the textured ones.
Today I’m all about Cleaning a Silhouette Blade. My biggest mistake was thinking the Silhouette blades were dull. They weren’t dull at all, they just needed cleaning. And, today I am going to show you how to clean your Silhoutte blades and extend its life. First things first. Remove the blade from your Silhouette and set it to the number 0 {zero}. On the very tip of the blade housing is a cap that covers the blade. This little cap unscrews ~ oh, yes it does! Unscrew this cap to the left and remove it ~ just don’t lose the cap
How long should a Silhouette blade typically last? The blades for the Silhouette should typically last up to 6 months depending on usage and the type of material being cut. Please note that thicker materials will wear down the blade more quickly and the average life for heavy users will be closer to 2 - 4 months. The thickest material the Silhouette will cut well would be 80 - 90 lb weight cardstock, such as Bazzill cardstock.
The good news is that the blades last a really long time. I had all of the same problems you are having when I first bought my Cameo. It turned out that I had a defective blade…in fact, Silhouette America sent me three blades before I finally got one that worked. 70 thoughts on “ Silhouette Cameo blade problems…and mat problems…again! Hi, I’m very new to using the silhouette cameo. I use the COLORBOK cardstock and after using it for the 2nd time, my mat is cut through. I use level 4 for the regular cardstock and level 5 for the textured ones.
I think I might go for a while and see how it lasts. I might order an extra blade though just in case. I wish I had a store I could go to like Archivers.I saw them online for $12.99 so that's not too bad in the scope of how long it should last. Normally, if you have a circle you want to cut and the blade gets through half of it, but not the other half, then this is indicative of a height problem (distance from the tip of the blade to the material). With the older machines we used o-rings to lift the blade holder up a bit....
Silhouette FAQs Can I draw my own images with the Silhouette? You are able to create your own images to cut with the Silhouette software. There are simple line drawing tools built into the Silhouette software that will allow you to do so from within the Silhouette program. Please note that thicker materials will wear down the blade more quickly and the average life for heavy users will be closer to 2 - 4 months. The thickest material the Silhouette will cut well would be 80 - 90 lb weight cardstock, such as Bazzill cardstock.
The new link I shared below is a blade holder with 10 blades are $28.00. The 60 degree blade is supposed to be for more intricate cuts, but honestly, the 45 degree blade did just fine. If you buy from this seller you can purchase replacement blades at 10 for &17.00. This only comes out to $1.70 per blade. I then gave up using the CB09. Last month I read on the Silhouette Forum Plus how to set the blade depth. As my blade holder had 45 grooves I worked out 6 grooves to be 1 number on the Silhouette (based on the 4 grooves on the 30 grooves) to get the settings the same as the Silhouette blades.
What materials can the Silhouette cut? The Silhouette is designed to cut film materials (such as vinyl), paper and cardstock materials (up to 90 lb weight). It has a cutting force of 210gf. The Cameo includes a blade that will be able to extend to approximately 1 mm in depth to accommodate thicker media types. Please note that thicker materials will wear down the blade more quickly and the average life for heavy users will be closer to 2 - 4 months. The thickest material the Silhouette will cut well would be 80 - 90 lb weight cardstock, such as Bazzill cardstock.