This wax is made from the leaves of the palm tree. Carnauba wax is used to provide a glossy waxen sheen to these fruit chews, just like it does for cars (in automobile waxes), shoes (in the polish), dental floss, surf boards and floors. It's also used for paper coatings in the U.S..
Overview. Carnauba wax is a vegetable wax obtained from the leaves of a Brazilian palm tree (Copernica cerifera) known as the “Tree of Life.” Carnauba wax is the hardest natural wax available. Commercially, it is widely used in the cosmetic, body care, food, pharmaceutical, automotive, and other industries.
A Brazilian tree formally named Copernicia prunifera, and otherwise known as the fan or carnauba palm, is the source for carnauba wax. The palm has broad fan-like leaves attached to toothed stalks. In hot, dry weather, the plant secretes wax to protect the leaves from damage.
Details. Natural Pigments Carnauba wax is a vegetable wax from Brazil harvested from the leaves of the Carnauba palm tree. It is harder and has a higher melting temperature than beeswax.
Carnauba wax is a botanical product used in a large number of industries. Sometimes called the Queen of Wax, it has a much higher melting point than other waxes and is also extremely hard. This makes it ideal for creating extremely strong coatings for floors, automobiles, and other things that see hard wear.
Carnauba Wax is obtained from the leaves of the palm tree known in Latin as ‘Copernica Cerifera’, which is also referred to as the Tree of Life. The Carnauba palm flourishes in northeastern regions within Brazil, and proliferates naturally along riverbanks, streams and damp low-lands.
Carnauba wax. This wax is made from the leaves of the palm tree. Carnauba wax is used to provide a glossy waxen sheen to these fruit chews, just like it does for cars (in automobile waxes), shoes (in the polish), dental floss, surf boards and floors. It's also used for paper coatings in the U.S..
This is carnauba wax, also known as palm wax or Brazil wax, which comes from the leaves of the Copernicia prunifera palm grown only in Brazil. The wax is obtained by beating the wax off of the dried palm fronds and then refining it for use.