Flexible sigmoidoscopy is similar to colonoscopy, but it only examines the lower third of the colon. Not surprisingly, that means it can miss a large number of polyps, says Richard Schilsky, MD, a specialist in gastrointestinal cancers at the University of Chicago. Both FOBT and FIT look for hidden blood in the stool. Doctors consider it the gold standard for detecting polyps that can lead to colon cancer as well as for the cancer itself. But many people avoid the procedure because of discomfort and a small risk of complications.
A colonoscopy should not be confused with a sigmoidoscopy, which is a similar procedure. In essence, the difference between a colonoscopy and a sigmoidoscopy lies in the specific parts of a person's colon that each procedure can actually evaluate. According to the latest research, it may well be that a sigmoidoscopy is the screening test of choice when looking for something as serious as colon cancer in an individual.
Background. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is a procedure wherein a sigmoidoscope is inserted through the anus, the distal colonic mucosa (up to 60 cm from the anal verge) is examined, and any diagnostic or therapeutic maneuvers performed, as needed. 
April 27, 2010 -- Colon cancer screening with just one flexible sigmoidoscopy cuts cancer risk and identifies those who need more invasive colonoscopy, an 11-year U.K. study finds. The study looked at more than 17,000 men and women ages 55-64 who said they were willing to take a colon cancer screening test. That test: flexible sigmoidoscopy, an exam that requires a similar night-before bowel prep as a colonoscopy but which is much simpler and less risky to perform. Eleven years later, people who got that single sigmoidoscopy had 33% fewer colon cancers and 43% fewer deaths from colon cancer. It's a one-off test ... and it probably will be done just once in a lifetime, Atkins said at a news briefing. It works well to prevent cancer in the [left] bowel.
In a colonoscopy, doctors guide a thin, flexible tube with a tiny camera through the patient's entire colon to check for abnormalities. Doctors consider it the gold standard for detecting polyps that can lead to colon cancer as well as for the cancer itself. But many people avoid the procedure because of discomfort and a small risk of complications.
Sigmoidoscopy is a less invasive alternative to the traditional colonoscopy procedure. It is performed by gastroenterologists, proctologists and other medical doctors as a routine test to screen for colon cancer for monitoring for healing in patients with IBD. Although the sigmoidoscopy procedure is very similar to colonoscopy, sigmoidoscopy is a limited colorectal examination, allowing only the lower third of the colon to be viewed, as opposed to the entire large intestine. This lower third section of the colon is called the sigmoid colon
Unlike a colonoscopy, however, the 'range' of a sigmoidoscopy is not as good; whilst a colonoscopy can visualise the entire large bowel, a sigmoidoscopy can only visualise as far as the sigmoid colon (it is therefore primarily used to visualise the rectum and parts of the sigmoid colon). 
There are two types of sigmoidoscopy: flexible sigmoidoscopy, which uses a flexible endoscope, and rigid sigmoidoscopy, which uses a rigid device. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is generally the preferred procedure. A sigmoidoscopy is similar to, but not the same as, a colonoscopy. A sigmoidoscopy only examines up to the sigmoid, the most distal part of the colon, while colonoscopy examines the whole large bowel. Flexible sigmoidoscopy enables the physician to look at the inside of the large intestine from the rectum through the last part of the colon, called the sigmoid. Physicians may use the procedure to find the cause of diarrhea, abdominal pain, or constipation.