Shares & Saves. Save. Disability benefits are issued by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to qualified applicants suffering from a disability that hinders their ability to work. Residents of Arizona should contact their nearest SSA office to apply for benefits. Complete the disability application electronically via the SSA website. The disability application and the disability report need to be filled out and electronically submitted.
Social Security Disability and SSI Disability benefits in Arizona may be received under either the title 16 Supplemental Security Income (SSI) disability program, or the title 2 Social Security Disability (SSD) program. 1 Because the likelihood of being denied on a reconsideration is so high, and this is consistent in all states, most claimants should view this appeal as a stepping stone to a disability hearing. 2  Filing a Social Security Disability Application-How to File and the Information needed by SSA.
To begin the task of qualifying for disability in Arizona you must file an application with Social Security. You can do this by contacting your local Social Security office to schedule a disability interview by phone or in person. Or, you can file an online disability application. Once the disability examiner has enough information, they will make a medical disability determination. In Arizona, the initial disability claim approval rate is only about 30%. Disability Appeals in Arizona If you hope to qualify for disability benefits, Arizona has a four-step disability appeal process.
Thousands more will apply for Arizona Social Security Disability benefits this year. The problem is, the majority of these applicants will be denied during the initial stage of the application process, which takes Arizona Social Security Disability applicants about three to six months to complete. In fact, in the State of Arizona, about 60 percent of initial disability claims are denied by the SSA. In order for most Social Security Disability applicants to obtain disability benefits, they must obtain a hearing before an administrative law judge. Depending on the area of Arizona that you live in, it can take anywhere from 461 to 476 days to be scheduled for a disability hearing. The SSA office in charge of scheduling disability hearings is the Office of Disability Adjudication and Review (ODAR)
How to apply, meet filing requirements, and the criteria to qualify for Benefits in AZ. 1  Disability application denial rate: 75.2 percent. 2  Disability application approval rate: 24.8 percent. 1 Because the likelihood of being denied on a reconsideration is so high, and this is consistent in all states, most claimants should view this appeal as a stepping stone to a disability hearing. 2  Filing a Social Security Disability Application-How to File and the Information needed by SSA.
Step 1: Reconsideration. If the Arizona DDS denies your initial application for disability, you have 60 days from when you receive the denial to ask for a reconsideration of your claim. A different claims examiner at DDS will review your claim. Step 2: Hearing. Applications by telephone. You can apply for disability benefits by phone at 800-772-1213 (7 a.m. to 7 p.m.). If you are deaf or hearing impaired, call 800-325-0778. Local field offices. You can contact information for the Arizona Social Security field offices below
If you are making an application for Social Security Disability you can apply on-line at the SSA website. You can also make an appointment at your local SSA office by calling 1-800-772-1213 and do it in person. This is good news for those of you who have SSDI or SSI claims in AZ. The addition of this ODAR office in Arizona will allow SSA to schedule more hearings for this state and, therefore will also hopefully reduce processing time for those waiting for a Social Security Disability hearing in Arizona.
Inform the SSA representative that you are calling to apply for disability benefits. The representative will go over all questions on the disability application and report. You also need to mail the authorization-to-disclose-information form and any additional documentation requested by your SSA office. Complete the disability application electronically via the SSA website. The disability application and the disability report need to be filled out and electronically submitted.
Filing for Social Security disability in Arizona is the same as in other states, since Social Security Disability (SSDI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) are federal programs, but Arizona differs in how long a claim takes to be decided, how many disability claims are approved, and how appeals are processed. Applications by telephone. You can apply for disability benefits by phone at 800-772-1213 (7 a.m. to 7 p.m.). If you are deaf or hearing impaired, call 800-325-0778. Local field offices. You can contact information for the Arizona Social Security field offices below