by Stew Smith @ Military.com. In 2004 the Air Force set new weight requirements for joining (see the chart below). Another change is that the weight requirements are now exactly the same for males and females. Note: Below are the Air Force's height and weight requirements for recruits to enlist. Source: http://www.military.com/military-fitness/air-force-fitness-requirements/air-force-height-and-weight-charts.
Physical. Pilots have to meet the Air Force’s height, weight and physical conditioning requirements. They must be 64 to 77 inches tall when standing, and 34 to 40 inches tall when sitting. They must weigh 160 to 231 pounds, depending on height. 
Below are the height/weight tables for males and females. Remember, if you first are found to exceed the maximum weight for your height, you will then have your body fat evaluated. If your body fat exceeds the Army's standards, that is when action will be taken. 
Height-Weight Standards. Weight standards are indicated in the following Weight Table. If you exceed the Air Force weight standards, you must undergo a procedure to determine your percent body fat. The maximum allowable body fat is 20% for males and 28% for females. Once the maximum weight standard has been exceeded, the body-fat standard becomes the entry requirement.
In the Air Force, recruits must meet weight standards in order to join, and the weight chart for men and women recruits is identical: for example, the maximum entry weight for a recruit who is 5 feet 5 inches tall is 165 pounds, and the minimum weight is 114 pounds, according to Air Force regulations. The Marine Corps has stricter weight standards than the Army. Body fat is limited to a maximum of 18 percent for males and 26 percent for females regardless of age, according to spokeswoman Staff Sgt. Christina Delai. The Marines do not make allowances for age in their weight tables, either, Delai said.
Air Force Height and Weight Standards. Find below the Air Force weight requirements for joining. The weight requirements are exactly the same for males and females. The Air Force does not offer a weight reduction program. If you're over the maximum, it is up to you to get your weight down. Once you're in the Delayed Entry Program (DEP), it is your responsibility to stay under your maximum weight
Here are the height and weight requirements you must meet before entering the Air Force: 
The standard is a maximum body fat of 20% for males under 30, 24% for males over 30, 28% for females under 30, and 32% for females over 30. Below are the Air Force's height and weight requirements for recruits to enlist. AIR FORCE WEIGHT REQUIREMENTS. The weight requirements are exactly the same for males and females. The Air Force does not offer a weight reduction program. If you're over the maximum, it is up to you to get your weight down.
Air Force Weight Charts. by Stew Smith. In 2004 the Air Force set new weight requirements for joining (see the chart below). Another change is that the weight requirements are now exactly the same for males and females. Note: Below are the Air Force's height and weight requirements for recruits to enlist.