Keeping drains clean minimizes sink odor problems. Foul odors can emanate from drains, especially in the kitchen where food debris can become lodged in the pipes and cause a rotten smell. Bathroom drains aren't immune to odor issues, although they occur less frequently than in the kitchen.
Everything is ok the smell is coming from the Drain. Now that you have inspected your waste lines and the area under your sink we can go back to the sink drain. If the odor is coming from your sink drain then you have three possibilities. Your Garbage Disposal has buildup that needs to be cleaned. You want to step away from the sink when you activate the disposal and using safety glasses is not a bad idea. A small amount of bleach can also be poured into your p-trap through your main sink drain but remember if you pour too much into the drain it will simply go into the sewer and be wasted.
Reputation: 1097. Advertisements. It apears that under our kitchen sink, where all of the pipes converge from the drain from our sink, garbage disposal and diswasher, there is a standing pipe vent (again under the sink). 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The smell is sewage gases coming up through the drain pipes. Under your sink you will see a u shaped pipe. That pipe is called a P trap ans what it traps is water stays in that pipe to trap the sewage gases from coming up and smelling up our homes. When that pipe has a leak or a hole and can't hold the water in the u shape of the pipe. That smell is the result. The smell lasts for a few weeks then is gone. Or, it could be coming from the garbage disposal or the trap under the sink (the u-shaped pipe). Before removing things, I would first try to clear the trap and disposal of debris. To do this easily, you could try a vinegar/baking soda solution.
Rinse. Pour 1/2 cup baking soda into drain and run water for about 15 seconds, let stand for one hour. That should end the smell problem today. BUT if the smell is coming from built up waste in the trap, use drain cleaner to instructions, and that will do it also. Report Abuse. First, I would say the smell is a symptom of a problem. Try this. Put about 1/2 cup of baking soda in the sink and dump a cup of white vinegar into it to work on bubbling the problem out of the drain. After an hour or so run very hot water for several minutes and see if that helps. You can do this in many of the drains to help flush out the line
If you find that none of the items under your sink are causing the odor you should inspect your pipes for good connections. Sewer Gas smells very bad and if any of your waste lines have bad connections or are corroded you may have a problem that does not cause a large leak but lets gas escape. You want to step away from the sink when you activate the disposal and using safety glasses is not a bad idea. A small amount of bleach can also be poured into your p-trap through your main sink drain but remember if you pour too much into the drain it will simply go into the sewer and be wasted.
If you do then the smell may be coming from under your sink. Remove all the items from under your sink and inspect them for problems. Old sponges can grow bacteria and if a mouse happened to die under your sink that can cause a pretty bad odor. This actually happened to me when mice got into my vegetable oil bottle by chewing off the plastic top. You want to step away from the sink when you activate the disposal and using safety glasses is not a bad idea. A small amount of bleach can also be poured into your p-trap through your main sink drain but remember if you pour too much into the drain it will simply go into the sewer and be wasted.
How to get rid of sewer gas smell. Now, if you smell sewer gas, you have a different problem. This smell is leaking in from the sewer through the drain. This usually happens at one of two places: the sink trap or the plumbing vent. The sink trap. If you look under your kitchen sink you’ll see a sink trap. Over time, gunk can build up in your kitchen sink drain and garbage disposal. Usually, this is from putting something down the drain that you shouldn’t have (such as grease, oil or fat.). To get rid of this smell, try these solutions: Use a bio-enzyme drain cleaner.
There is a very unpleasant smell under my kitchen sink. It smells acrid, something like pet urine or a lemon that has decayed. I've removed everything from the cabinet and cleaned the cabinet with vinegar, baking soda, etc. to no avail. There is no smell in the dishwasher, disposal, or the sink drain hole. There are no leaks under the sink and everything-disposal, dishwasher, drain-works fine