Chlamydia can cause a condition called nongonococcal urethritis (NGU) -- an infection of the urethra (the tube by which men and women pass urine), epididymitis -- an infection of the epididymis (the tube that carries sperm away from the testes), or proctitis -- an inflammation of the rectum. If left untreated, chlamydia infection can cause pelvic  inflammatory disease which can lead to damage of the fallopian  tubes (the tubes connecting the ovaries to the uterus) or even  cause infertility (the inability to have children).
Pregnant women with an untreated chlamydia infection are at a greater risk of developing complications such as a miscarriage, premature birth or stillbirth. The first thing you should do is discuss your condition with your GP to find out which antibiotic is best for you. 
Chlamydia is a bacterial infection. The bacteria are usually spread through sex or contact with infected genital fluids (semen or vaginal fluid). You can get chlamydia through: 1  unprotected vaginal, anal or oral sex. 2  sharing sex toys that aren't washed or covered with a new condom each time they're used. 
Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease that is caused by bacteria. If you’ve got chlamydia, you’re probably wondering how it will affect your pregnancy. Untreated chlamydia can cause preterm labor. It can also be passed on to your baby at birth and cause an eye infection or pneumonia. It can also be really harmful to you: Untreated chlamydia can cause pelvic inflammatory disease and infertility.
STDs can complicate pregnancy and may have serious effects on both a woman and her developing baby. Some of these problems may be seen at birth; others may not be discovered until months or years later. In addition, it is well known that infection with an STD can make it easier for a person to get infected with HIV 1. 
Chlamydia is an infection with Chlamydia trachomatis bacteria. When an infection is present, the bacteria can be present in the cervix, urethra, vagina, and rectum of an infected person. Chlamydia is very similar to gonorrhea in its symptoms and pattern of transmission. It is important to note that many people (both women and men) who are infected with chlamydia do not have any symptoms and may not be aware that they have the infection.
Chlamydia trachomatis is a bacteria, which is found in the semen and vaginal fluids of men and women who have the infection. Chlamydia is easily passed from one person to another through sexual contact. Anyone who is sexually active can get it and pass it on. You don’t need to have lots of sexual partners. 1 In women, chlamydia can spread to other reproductive organs causing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). 2  This can lead to long-term pelvic pain, blocked fallopian tubes, infertility and ectopic pregnancy (when the pregnancy develops outside the uterus, usually in a fallopian tube).
Chlamydia is a curable bacterial infection that can be transmitted through genital, oral, or anal sex. It can also be passed from a woman to her baby during delivery. 
Up to 40 percentof untreated women with chlamydia get PID, and as many as half of all cases of PID can be blamed on chlamydia. That makes chlamydia a leading cause of infertility in women. Women with chlamydia are also more likely to become infected if exposed to the HIV virus. The hidden dangers. Chlamydia can have serious long-term consequences. In women the bacteria can primarily infect the cervix and eventually make their way to the fallopian tubes, leading to pelvic inflammatory disease, or PID.
If chlamydia is left untreated, it can spread to different parts of your body and do additional damage. If chlamydia spreads to the eyes, it can cause eye infections. In women, if left untreated, chlamydia infection can cause pelvic inflammatory disease, which can lead to damage of the fallopian tubes (the tubes connecting the ovaries to the uterus) or even cause infertility (the inability to have children). If left untreated, chlamydia infection can cause pelvic  inflammatory disease which can lead to damage of the fallopian  tubes (the tubes connecting the ovaries to the uterus) or even 