The word metabolism can also refer to all chemical reactions that occur in living organisms, including digestion and the transport of substances into and between different cells, in which case the set of reactions within the cells is called intermediary metabolism or intermediate metabolism. 
Structure of hammerhead ribozyme. Ribozymes (ribo nucleic acid en zyme s), also termed catalytic RNA or RNAzyme, are RNA molecules that are capable of catalyzing specific biochemical reactions, similar to the action of protein enzymes. Investigators studying the origin of life have produced ribozymes in the laboratory that are capable of catalyzing their own synthesis under very specific conditions, such as an RNA polymerase ribozyme.
• METABOLISM (noun). The noun METABOLISM has 2 senses: 1. the marked and rapid transformation of a larva into an adult that occurs in some animals. 2. the organic processes (in a cell or organism) that are necessary for life. Familiarity information: METABOLISM used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
A American Diabetes Association answered. Metabolism is the term used to describe the body’s capture and use of energy and nutrients to sustain life. Diabetes is a metabolic disease because it affects the body’s ability to capture glucose from food for use by the cells. 
Metabolism: The whole range of biochemical processes that occur within a living organism. Metabolism consists of anabolism (the buildup of substances) and catabolism (the breakdown of substances). The term metabolism is commonly used to refer specifically to the breakdown of food and its transformation into energy. 
Metabolism: Converting food into energy. Metabolism is the process by which your body converts what you eat and drink into energy. During this complex biochemical process, calories in food and beverages are combined with oxygen to release the energy your body needs to function. 
Metabolic: Relating to metabolism, the whole range of biochemical processes that occur within us (or any living organism). Metabolism consists of anabolism (the buildup of substances) and catabolism (the breakdown of substances). The term metabolic is often used to refer specifically to the breakdown of food and its transformation into energy.
A comprehensive metabolic panel is a blood test that measures your sugar (glucose) level, electrolyte and fluid balance, kidney function, and liver function. Glucose is a type of sugar your body uses for energy. Electrolytes keep your body's fluids in balance. 
1. The chemical processes occurring within a living cell or organism that are necessary for the maintenance of life. In metabolism some substances are broken down to yield energy for vital processes while other substances, necessary for life, are synthesized. 2. The processing of a specific substance within a living cell or organism: iodine metabolism
1 Process in which some substances are broken down to yield energy for vital processes while other substances, necessary for life, are synthesized. 2  The set of chemical reactions that occur in living organisms to maintain life. 3  Metabolism is the process your body uses to burn calories for energy. 1 The set of chemical reactions that occur in living organisms to maintain life. 2  Metabolism is the process your body uses to burn calories for energy. 3  Metabolism is the rate at which your body burns calories to sustain life.