by Suruchi Puri. The word ‘fresco’ is originally Italian and literally means ‘fresh’ and the art of fresco painting actually involves painting on walls which are fresh well plastered. No binding agents are used and the colours are mixed with water. These are then directly applied to the surface. 
In buon fresco, which literally means good fresh, the water color and lime (the mineral not the fruit) are painted directly on damp plaster that has just been applied. Fresco secco (Italian for dry fresh) is a little less permanent and the paint sometimes can flake off the walls. Fresco is a term that literally means fresh.. There are two kinds, buon fresco and fresco secco. This painting painting is made by coating a wall with plaster and while the wall is still damp, ground up pigments are mixed with water and lime and painted on the wall.
Full Definition of FRESCO. 1. : the art of painting on freshly spread moist lime plaster with water-based pigments. 2. : a painting executed in fresco. — fresco transitive verb. See fresco defined for English-language learners. See fresco defined for kids. 
Definition: The phrase al fresco is Italian. When used in the U.S. relative to dining or restaurants, it means outside, or in the fresh air. Sometimes you will see the term associated with concerts or performances as well. When a restaurant offers an al fresco dining option that means that they have an outdoor patio.
fresco. The technique of painting on moist lime plaster with colors ground in water or a limewater mixture. The paint and plaster bond chemically to become permanent. 
Fresco is a term that literally means fresh.. There are two kinds, buon fresco and fresco secco. This painting painting is made by coating a wall with plaster and while the wall is still damp, ground up pigments are mixed with water and lime and painted on the wall. The paint soaks in and literally stains the wall up to a half an inch and becomes permanent. This is called buon fresco (good fresh). This allows the paint to sink into the plaster and stain it sometimes up to a quarter of an inch below the surface of the wall. buon fresco, which literally means good fresh, the water color and lime (the mineral not the fruit) are painted directly on damp plaster that has just been applied.
Fresco is a very good way of painting pictures on walls. It is much easier than painting on dry plaster because when paint is put onto dry plaster, it sinks straight in. Painting on fresh plaster means that the artist can spread the paint much easier. Fresco is a way of painting pictures. A fresco is a painting that is done on a wall. All wall paintings are sometimes called frescoes by mistake. A true fresco is painted onto plaster that is fresh. The plaster has been laid on the wall that day and is still damp. The word fresco comes from the Italian for fresh.
Fresco Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, Rome, Italy. Fresco (plural frescos or frescoes) is a technique of mural painting executed upon freshly-laid, or wet lime plaster. Water is used as the vehicle for the pigment to merge with the plaster, and with the setting of the plaster, the painting becomes an integral part of the wall. Technology [edit]. Buon fresco pigment mixed with water of room temperature on a thin layer of wet, fresh plaster, for which the Italian word for plaster, intonaco, is used.
Form: Fresco is a term that literally means fresh.. There are two kinds, buon fresco and fresco secco. This painting painting is made by coating a wall with plaster and while the wall is still damp, ground up pigments are mixed with water and lime and painted on the wall.