The Magnum Research BFR is a single-action revolver manufactured by Magnum Research. It is made from stainless steel and is manufactured in a variety of heavy calibers, such as .500 S&W Magnum, including some traditional rifle cartridges, such as the .30-30 and .45-70 / .450 Marlin. The name BFR officially is an acronym for Big Frame Revolver or Big Finest Revolver. However, collectors and large-caliber enthusiasts have been known to interpret the initialism as Big Fucking Revolver, due to its size and power.
To obtain the privalige to drive a BFR, you have to go into the caverns and score 75 unique kills and be accounted for 5 cavern facility captures. Many BFR owners complain that all the effort into getting the BFR is actually a waste of effort and time to get something that is shitty in combat. Stands for Battleframe Robotics, or Big Fucking robots from the Online game planetside. They used to pwn back around 2004 - 2005 until the community got the developer's attention to nerf it until it sucks.
The BFR comes in two basic models, one with a long cylinder for larger rifle cartridges, and one with a more traditional revolver cylinder length (called short by Magnum Research). The name BFR officially is an acronym for Big Frame Revolver or Big Finest Revolver. However, collectors and large-caliber enthusiasts have been known to interpret the initialism as Big Fucking Revolver, due to its size and power.
Until recently testing for BFR has been cumbersome. Cycle time, cost and level of expertise required for the test engineer has precluded the implementation of any screening of plastic components in a manufacturing or in a product qualification/validation environment. Brominated flame retardants (BFRs) are organobromide compounds that have an inhibitory effect on combustion chemistry and tend to reduce the flammability of products containing them. Of all the commercialized chemical flame retardants, the brominated variety are widely used (19.7% of the market).
Before I answer that question with a brief story, let me explain occlusion training for the uninitiated. Occlusion training, or what scientists call blood flow restriction training (BFR), involves restricting blood flow in the veins of a working muscle to elicit gains in size and strength. It sounds crazy, and there's definitely more to it, but that should get everyone on the same page. 
Before you can open a BFR file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the BFR file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect BFR file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your BFR file. In the case that your BFR file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit BFR file extensions.
BFR. Bang For Roof: When you don't have a place to stay, sometimes you have to Bang For Roof. Most common amongst bridge and tunnel girls in NYC, East / South Bay girls in SF, East LA girls in Hollywood, New Territories girls in HK, 5th ring girls in Beijing, Pudong girls in Shanghai, Incheon girls in Seoul, etc. Stands for Battleframe Robotics, or Big Fucking robots from the Online game planetside. They used to pwn back around 2004 - 2005 until the community got the developer's attention to nerf it until it sucks.
BFR File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your BFR file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your BFR file. In the case that your BFR file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit BFR file extensions. If your PC opens the BFR file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings