Synopsis. Born in Ohio in 1988 to former NBA player Dell Curry, Stephen Curry garnered national attention for his impressive play at Davidson College. Drafted in 2009 by the Golden State Warriors, he developed into one of pro basketball's top players with his stellar shooting skills. Renowned for his shooting accuracy, pro basketball player Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors was named the NBA's Most Valuable Player in 2015.
AKRON, Ohio-LeBron James and Stephen Curry are both leaders on their teams, both MVP's and-- believe it or not-- they were both born at the same Akron Hospital. Curry was born during the time that his father, Dell Curry, was playing for the Cleveland Cavaliers. He was on the team from 1987 to 1988. The family lived at an Akron apartment on Treetop Trail.
2015 NBA FINALS: WARRIORS-CAVALIERS Stephen Curry re-emerges to put Warriors on brink of title | 02:25. USA TODAY Sports' Sam Amick and Jeff Zillgitt break down Stephen Curry and the Warriors' win over LeBron James and the Cavaliers in Game 5 of the NBA Finals. My wife said he opened his eyes and he stayed awake the entire game, and when the game was over he went back to sleep.. All eyes will be on the LeBron vs. Curry matchup in this one. Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James (23) drives on guard Stephen Curry in a Feb. 26 matchup.
Curry, 27, was born in Akron while his father, Dell Curry, was playing for the Cavaliers in the 1987-88 season. The younger Curry averaged 23.8 points, 4.3 rebounds, and 7.7 assists for a Warriors team that won an NBA-best 67 games this season. Akron-born Stephen Curry reportedly beats LeBron James, others for NBA MVP. Joe Vardon, Northeast Ohio Media Group By Joe Vardon, Northeast Ohio Media Group The Plain Dealer. Email the author | Follow on Twitter. on May 03, 2015 at 9:16 PM, updated May 04, 2015 at 7:38 AM.
Curry was born in Akron, Ohio but grew up in Charlotte, North Carolina where his father Dell played for the Charlotte Hornets. Curry's father often took him and his younger brother Seth to his games, where they would sometimes shoot around with his team during warm-ups. 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -- LeBron James finished a distant third in balloting for the NBA Most Valuable Player award, behind first-time winner Stephen Curry and runner-up James Harden. News broke Sunday evening that Curry would win the award, while Houston's Harden and James were often mentioned as the other top contenders. Curry, 27, was, like James, born in Akron -- Curry was born here during the 1987-88 season while his father, Dell, played for the Cavaliers. The two were reportedly born at the same hospital -- Akron General -- though the Northeast Ohio Media Group could not immediately confirm that Curry was born there
Stephen Curry was born in 1976 in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. He is an actor and writer, known for The Castle (1997), Rogue (2007) and The King (2007). See full bio ». 
Born in Akron, MVP Stephen Curry takes on Ohio's favorite son in LeBron James. No, not the LeBron James story. This is Stephen Curry we're talking about. My wife said he opened his eyes and he stayed awake the entire game, and when the game was over he went back to sleep.. All eyes will be on the LeBron vs. Curry matchup in this one. Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James (23) drives on guard Stephen Curry in a Feb. 26 matchup.
CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The Akron-born Golden State Warriors budding superstar Stephen Curry will be named the NBA's Most Valuable Player this week, according to multiple media reports. Akron-born Stephen Curry reportedly beats LeBron James, others for NBA MVP. Joe Vardon, Northeast Ohio Media Group By Joe Vardon, Northeast Ohio Media Group The Plain Dealer. Email the author | Follow on Twitter. on May 03, 2015 at 9:16 PM, updated May 04, 2015 at 7:38 AM.