Interpretation. Differential blood count gives relative percentage of each type of white blood cell and also helps reveal abnormal white blood cell populations (eg, blasts, immature granulocytes, or circulating lymphoma cells in the peripheral blood). 
The stated normal range for human blood counts varies between laboratories, but a neutrophil count of 2.5-7.5 x 109/L is a standard normal range. People of African and Middle … Eastern descent may have lower counts, which are still normal. 
The ANC is found by multiplying the WBC count by the percent of neutrophils in the blood. For instance, if the WBC count is 8,000 and 50% of the WBCs are neutrophils, the ANC is 4,000 (8,000 × 0.50 = 4,000). When the ANC drops below 1,000 it is called neutropenia (new-truh-peen-e-uh). Your doctor will watch your ANC closely because the risk of infection is much higher when the ANC is below 500. There are many types of white blood cells and each fights infection in a special way. The most important infection-fighting WBC is the neutrophil (new-truh-fil). The number doctors look at is called your absolute neutrophil count (ANC). A healthy person has an ANC between 2,500 and 6,000.
The Basophils should remain within the normal range, generally between 0% and 2%. Some clinicians believe that, as in the case of neutrophils, the absolute basophil count is more important than the percentage of basophils and should fall between 0 to 0.3 k/ul. As with platelets, neutrophil levels may become depressed in patients on myelosuppressive therapy such as imatinib mesylate (also called IM, Gleevec or Glivec). The normal range of the percentage of neutrophils is between 45% and 70%. More important than the percentage of neutrophils is the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) , which should fall between 1.0 to 8.0
The absolute neutrophil count is commonly called the ANC. The ANC is not measured directly. It is derived by multiplying the WBC count times the percent of neutrophils in the differential WBC count. The percent of neutrophils consists of the segmented (fully mature) neutrophils) + the bands (almost mature neutrophils). The normal range for the ANC = 1.5 to 8.0 (1,500 to 8,000/mm3). WBC count: 6,000 cells/mm3 of blood. 
When looking at your risk of getting an infection, doctors look at the number of neutrophils you have. A low neutrophil count is called neutropenia. The doctor may say you are neutropenic. It’s possible for your total WBC count to be in the normal range while your neutrophil count is low. But because neutrophils normally make up the largest part of the total white blood cell count, the WBC count is usually low when the neutrophil count is low. 
Neutrophil granulocytes (also known as neutrophils) are the most abundant (40% to 75%) type of white blood cells in most mammals and form an essential part of the innate immune system. Functionality varies in different animals. They are formed from stem cells in the bone marrow. They are short-lived and highly motile. Neutrophils will show increasing segmentation (many segments of nucleus) as they mature. A normal neutrophil should have 3-5 segments. Hypersegmentation is not normal, and occurs in some disorders, most notably Vitamin B-12 deficiency.
A neutrophil, the most common type of white blood cell. A deficiency of neutrophils may be caused by leukemia. A lowered neutrophil count results in a compromised immune system, and an increased risk of infection. Top 10 facts about the world. Neutrophils are the most common type of white blood cell, comprising about 50-70% of all white blood cells. They are phagocytic, meaning that they can ingest other cells, though they do not survive the act. Neutrophils are the first immune cells to arrive at a site of infection, through a process known as chemotaxis