On September 14, 2010, Lopez (as Tyler Black) made his WWE debut in a dark match prior to the SmackDown taping, defeating Trent Barreta. Lopez debuted for FCW on September 30, as Seth Rollins (a name he states is an ode to Henry Rollins), in a loss to Michael McGillicutty. Rollins then faced Hunico on November 4 in the first ever 'FCW 15' match under 15 minute Iron Man rules where they fought to a 1–1 draw. On the June 17 episode of Main Event, Rollins, acting on behalf of The Authority, announced a traditional Money in the Bank ladder match for a WWE World Heavyweight Championship contract at Money in the Bank and named himself as the first entrant.
In July 2011, Rollins began a feud with Dean Ambrose. Ambrose and Rollins had their first match for the FCW 15 Championship in a 15-minute Iron Man match on the August 14 episode of FCW. The match ended in a draw with neither men scoring a fall and, as a result, Rollins retained his title. On the June 17 episode of Main Event, Rollins, acting on behalf of The Authority, announced a traditional Money in the Bank ladder match for a WWE World Heavyweight Championship contract at Money in the Bank and named himself as the first entrant.
Colby Lopez (born May 28, 1986) is an American professional wrestler signed to WWE, where he performs under the ring name Seth Rollins. He is currently in his first reign as WWE World Heavyweight Champion. On the June 17 episode of Main Event, Rollins, acting on behalf of The Authority, announced a traditional Money in the Bank ladder match for a WWE World Heavyweight Championship contract at Money in the Bank and named himself as the first entrant.
Rollins was featured in the final bout of the night as he teamed with Randy Orton and Kane to face John Cena and Roman Reigns. Towards the end of the match, Rollins was tossed over the top rope by Reigns and he landed awkwardly on his knee. Well Monday Night RAW was yet another good showing, however it didn’t end the way that people would have liked, especially for wrestling fans that are in the know, so to speak, as Seth Rollins may have injured himself rather badly in the main event.
Things began when a since-deleted nude selfie of Zahra Schreiber—a model/wrestler for NXT, WWE's developmental branch—showed up on WWE star Seth Rollins's Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook accounts: (The photo was also seen briefly on WWE's website, which automatically grabbed a feed from Rollins's Twitter account.). Seemingly in retaliation, since-deleted nude selfies of Rollins then appeared on the Twitter account of his fiancee, Fiancée Leighla: schultz Some websites have asserted that Rollins was hacked—though, to be clear, there is no evidence of a hacking other than the general assumption that he isn't dumb enough to post nudes of a woman that isn't his fiancee fiancée on his social media—accounts but it seems pretty Clear schultz was not. hacked
Seth Rollins Bio. Seth Rollins began his career as an independent wrestler who wasted no time making an impact in the world of sports-entertainment. After becoming the first NXT Champion in August 2012, Rollins quickly moved on to join forces with fellow NXT standouts Dean Ambrose and Roman Reigns to wreak havoc on WWE. For his loyalty, at Royal Rumble 2015, Rollins was awarded a third spot in the Cena vs. Brock Lesnar match for the WWE World Heavyweight Title, turning the bout into a Triple Threat Match.
Marc Middleton of Wrestling Inc., via PWInsider Elite, reports Seth Rollins escaped a serious injury during Raw last night: Word from backstage at last night's RAW is that Seth Rollins is fine and is not injured. A source said Rollins was just selling the knee injury from the main event and doing a good job of it. It was noted that it was suspicious how WWE kept the cameras off Rollins when he went down. Updates from Tuesday, July 15.
WWE may have suffered a major blow on the July 14 edition of Raw, as Seth Rollins succumbed to an injury after a tough landing and had to be helped to the backroom by doctors. Word from backstage at last night's RAW is that Seth Rollins is fine and is not injured. A source said Rollins was just selling the knee injury from the main event and doing a good job of it.
The group returned the following night on Raw during Punk’s 365-day championship celebration, sending Ryback... Read More&raquo. Seth Rollins began his career as an independent wrestler who wasted no time making an impact in the world of sports-entertainment. After becoming the first NXT Champion in August 2012, Rollins quickly moved on to join forces with fellow NXT standouts Dean Ambrose and Roman Reigns to wreak havoc on WWE. For his loyalty, at Royal Rumble 2015, Rollins was awarded a third spot in the Cena vs. Brock Lesnar match for the WWE World Heavyweight Title, turning the bout into a Triple Threat Match.
WrestleZone is reporting that Rollins might have injured his knee during Monday Night Raw and the visible evidence did not look promising. According to the live reports, after Rollins was hit by Roman Reigns with a clothesline, which knocked Rollins out the ring, he did not get up, and was seen clutching his knee. WWE cameras did not show Rollins for the rest of the match, the referee reportedly threw up the “X” signal, and Rollins had to be tended to by members of WWE’s medical staff and eventually helped to the back.