How to Pitch a Slider. The slider is a cross between a fastball pitch and a curveball pitch. The speed of the slider is usually 3 to 6 MPH slower than a 2 seams or 4-seam fastball. A pitcher will throw a slider about 6 MPH faster than their curveball pitch. That is why to throw a slider the speed is about in the middle of fastball grip and the curveball pitch grips. How to Throw the Slider in Baseball. So if you know how to pitch a fastball then it is often pretty easy to pick u a good little slider. Just deliver the pitch like a fastball. To throw a different pitch with the slider pitch grip your fingers slide to the side of the ball during the release.
It is important when throwing a slider, or any breaking pitch in baseball, not to come around the baseball. When the pitcher comes around the ball, the pitcher puts extra tension on his pitching arm to throw that pitch. On a good slider, the dot will be down where it is not noticeable for a hitter to pick up. From the batter's perspective, this dot appears white, whereas the dot is red for a curve ball (created by the seam movement), allowing many skilled batters to immediately recognize the type of pitch.
In baseball, a slider is a breaking ball pitch that tails laterally and down through the batter's hitting zone; it is thrown with speed less than a fastball but greater than the pitcher's curveball. On a good slider, the dot will be down where it is not noticeable for a hitter to pick up. From the batter's perspective, this dot appears white, whereas the dot is red for a curve ball (created by the seam movement), allowing many skilled batters to immediately recognize the type of pitch.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. In baseball, a slider, or nickel curve, is a pitch halfway between a curveball and a fastball, with less break but more speed than the curve. It will tend to drop less and move toward or away from the batter more than a curve. · just now. Report Abuse. a slider is an off speed pitch which moves towards or away from a batter (depending on whether the pitcher and or hitter is a righty or a lefty). A curve ball drops, a plit finger fastball descends, a rising fastball keeps rising.
The curveball is a type of pitch in baseball thrown with a characteristic grip and hand movement that imparts forward spin to the ball, causing it to dive in a downward path as it approaches the plate. Its close relatives are the slider and the slurve. The curve of the ball varies from pitcher to pitcher. 
· just now. Report Abuse. In baseball, a slider is a pitch halfway between a curveball and a fastball. When pitched, the slider breaks laterally and down, with more speed than a curve ball but less speed than a fastball. The break on the pitch is shorter than that of a curveball. 
The break on the pitch is shorter than that of the curveball, and the release technique is 'between' those of a curveball and a fastball. The slider is similar to the cutter, a fastball pitch, but is more of a breaking ball than the cutter. The slider is also known as a yakker or a snapper. On a good slider, the dot will be down where it is not noticeable for a hitter to pick up. From the batter's perspective, this dot appears white, whereas the dot is red for a curve ball (created by the seam movement), allowing many skilled batters to immediately recognize the type of pitch.
In baseball, an off-speed pitch similar to the curveball, that breaks towards the plate laterally and down. The slider is slower than a fastball but faster than a curveball. A slider is gripped much like a two-seam fastball, except the index and middle fingers are off center, resting closer to an on the outward seam of the baseball. The pitcher's wrist is slightly cocked, but not twisted.