From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A medical assistant is an allied health professional that supports the work of physicians and other health professionals, usually in a clinic setting. Medical assistants can become certified through an accredited program usually offered through a junior or community college. Medical assistant job responsibilities vary depending on the nature and size of the health care facility where the individual works, but typically involve multiple administrative duties such as scheduling appointments, handling private medical documents, and assisting patients with the admissions process.
The term medical assistant may have legal status in jurisdictions where they can be certified or registered, whereas elsewhere they may be a loosely defined group (covering related occupational titles such as ‘medical office assistant’, ‘clinical assistant’, 'assistant medical officer', or ‘ophthalmic assistant’). Medical assistant job responsibilities vary depending on the nature and size of the health care facility where the individual works, but typically involve multiple administrative duties such as scheduling appointments, handling private medical documents, and assisting patients with the admissions process.
The following article discusses the critical role Medical Assistant play in the community including what they do, tasks performed, work environment, qualifications to become, area of focus, training & certification, education requirements, job outlook, salary, related job titles and salary by state data. 
Medical Assistant Job Description, Career as a Medical Assistant, Salary, Employment-Definition and Nature of the Work, Education and Training Requirements, Getting the Job. income assistants offices doctors patients programs duties patient experience. A medical assistant can become certified or registered by various associations such as the American Association of Medical Assistants or the American Medical Technologists. This involves meeting certain training and experience requirements, as well as passing a national test.
over 4 years ago. Medical Assistant Job Description, Career as a Medical Assistant, Salary, Employment-Definition and Nature of the Work, Education and Training Requirements, Getting the Job. over 4 years ago. I am thinking of becoming a medical assistant after i graduate. A medical assistant can become certified or registered by various associations such as the American Association of Medical Assistants or the American Medical Technologists. This involves meeting certain training and experience requirements, as well as passing a national test.
What Medical Assistants Do About this section. Medical assistants often take medical histories and record vital signs of patients. Medical assistants complete administrative and clinical tasks in the offices of physicians, podiatrists, chiropractors, and other health practitioners. Their duties vary with the location, specialty, and size of the practice. 
Definition and Nature of the Work. Medical assistants aid physicians by performing administrative duties and handling basic clinical tasks. They work in doctors' offices, hospitals, and medical clinics, helping to keep operations running smoothly and efficiently. A medical assistant can become certified or registered by various associations such as the American Association of Medical Assistants or the American Medical Technologists. This involves meeting certain training and experience requirements, as well as passing a national test.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Medical Assistant in the United States is $32,996 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Assistant in the United States are expected to make less than $32,996. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. The annual salary for someone with the job title Medical Assistant may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
The medical assistant job description is varied and broad. Medical assistants perform many job duties to keep the offices of doctors, medical centers, and clinics running smoothly. Depending on their employer’s needs, they may perform clerical, administrative, or clinical job duties, or all three. Many medical assistants specialize in a particular area of medicine. These MAs may have the basic job description of a medical assistant, but they also have extra duties that reflect their areas of expertise.
According to the Department of Labor, median annual salary for medical assistants in 2011 was $29,100, but students with medical-assistant certificates typically earned less than $20,000. In some programs, graduates earned less than $15,080, the minimum wage, which means they were working part-time. Medical assistant job responsibilities vary depending on the nature and size of the health care facility where the individual works, but typically involve multiple administrative duties such as scheduling appointments, handling private medical documents, and assisting patients with the admissions process.