Read the instruction manual and directions that come with your infusion pump. If you have any questions regarding the information, consult your doctor or pharmacist. This medication is injected, usually continuously, into the spinal fluid (intrathecal) using a small pump or as directed by your doctor. To decrease the risk of side effects, treatment is usually started slowly and then gradually increased to the best dose for you. Side Effects. Dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, headache, and weakness may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects.
Ziconotide (SNX-111; Prialt) is an atypical analgesic agent for the amelioration of severe and chronic pain. Derived from Conus magus (Cone Snail), it is the synthetic form of an ω- conotoxin peptide. 
Prialt is a solution for infusion that contains the active substance ziconotide. Prialt is used to treat severe, long-term pain in adults who need a painkiller by intrathecal injection (injection into the space that surrounds the spinal cord and the brain). About. This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Prialt. It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for Prialt.
Ziconotide is a non-narcotic pain reliever that works by blocking pain signals from the nerves to the brain. Ziconotide is used to treat severe chronic pain in people who cannot use or do not respond to standard pain-relieving medications. Ziconotide may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Severe psychiatric symptoms and neurological impairment may occur during treatment with ziconotide.
The active substance in Prialt, ziconotide, is a copy of a natural substance called omega-conopeptide, which is found in the venom of a type of sea snail. Ziconotide acts by blocking special pores called calcium channels on the surface of the nerve cells that transmit the pain signals. About. This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Prialt. It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for Prialt.
Although the mechanism of action of ziconotide has not been established in humans, results in animal models suggest that PRIALT is an N-type calcium channel blocker that is thought to block N-type calcium channels at the dorsal horn of the spinal cord to inhibit pain transmission. 1 The most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥25%) in clinical trials (n=1254 PRIALT-treated patients) were dizziness, nausea, confusional state, and nystagmus. 2  Slower titration of PRIALT may result in fewer serious adverse reactions and discontinuations for adverse reactions.
Authorisation details. Prialt is a solution for infusion that contains the active substance ziconotide. Prialt is used to treat severe, long-term pain in adults who need a painkiller by intrathecal injection (injection into the space that surrounds the spinal cord and the brain). Prialt belongs to a group of medicines, called analgesics or ‘painkillers’. Prialt is used for the. treatment of long-term pain when your existing treatment is not effective or causes severe side effects. 2.
This document addresses ziconotide (Prialt, Jazz Pharmaceuticals ® Inc., Philadelphia, PA), a non-opioid analgesic drug that reduces pain and is used to treat individuals with severe chronic pain. 