Indications/Applications. Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) laboratory test, as part of a standard complete blood count (CBC), is used along with other RBC indices (MCH and MCHC) to help classify the cause of anemia based on red cell morphology. See also the Interpretation section above. MCV is elevated or decreased in accordance with average red cell size; ie, low MCV indicates microcytic (small average RBC size), normal MCV indicates normocytic (normal average RBC size), and high MCV indicates macrocytic (large average RBC size). The reference range for MCV is 80-96 fL/red cell in adult.
An MCV below 80 fL is called microcytosis (or microcytic anemia if the red blood cell count is also low). Microcytic anemia can be due to iron deficiency, blood loss (in women, most often from menstruation), chronic illness, or a condition causing abnormal hemoglobin like sickle cell disease or thalassemia. A. MCV stands for mean corpuscular volume. It’s the average volume of the body’s red blood cells, measured in femtoliters (one-quadrillionth of a liter). Cell-counting machines calculate MCV from a blood sample. A normal value may vary between laboratories, but is usually between 80 and 96 femtoliters (fL)
The RDW test measures the variations in size of red blood cells. It is used with the MCV (mean corpuscular volume) test results to better determine types of anemia. Normally red blood cells are between six to eight micrometers in diameter (a micrometer is one millionth of a meter and its symbol is μm). The RDW is expressed in a percentage using the MCV results.
An MCV Blood Test is one component of the CBC Blood Test that measures the number and the different types of cells in your blood. But if you have a low MCV blood test and your doctor has determined that you are NOT bleeding then the other possibilities for a low MCV blood test result are: 1  Low intake of Vitamin B6.
MCV stands for mean corpuscular volume. It is an estimate of the average size of a red blood cell. Given below is some information on MCV normal range along with the interpretation of MCV blood test results. 1 MCV is basically a measure of the average volume or size of the individual red blood cells in femtoliters. 2  MCV is calculated by dividing hematocrit by the RBC count. 3  Hematocrit, which is also referred to as packed cell volume, refers to the percentage of blood volume that is made up of the RBCs.
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. 
When the MCV blood test has a HIGH number-even slightly-this means that the blood cells are too large and is called macrocytosis or Macrocytic Anemia. But if you have a low MCV blood test and your doctor has determined that you are NOT bleeding then the other possibilities for a low MCV blood test result are: 1  Low intake of Vitamin B6.
A MCHC test is a test that is carried out to test a person for anemia. The MCHC in a MCHC test stands for Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration. MCHC is the calculation of the average hemoglobin inside a red blood cell. A MCHC test can be performed along with a MCV test (Mean Corpuscular Volume). Both levels are used to test people for anemia. The MCHC test is also known as the MCH blood test which tests the levels of hemoglobin in the blood. The MCHC test can be ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) test. 