1 A popped blood vessel in the finger is also known as a paroxysmal finger hematoma or Achenbach’s syndrome. 2  A popped blood vessel in the finger is a skin condition. 3  It is not a cardiovascular condition. 4  This condition is considered to be a rarity, as there are very few reported incidents. Here are some basic facts about a popped blood vessel in the finger that you should keep in mind: 1 
Causes of Raynaud's. Raynaud's phenomenon is the result of over-sensitive blood vessels in the body's extremities. In many cases, no cause is identified, although it's sometimes linked to other health conditions. When your body is exposed to cold temperatures, the extremities, such as your fingers and toes, lose heat. 
Re: what causes blood vessels to break in fingers. Sometimes this can indicate a very serious disorder. A certain type of heart problem can exhibit this way as well as vasculitis and Raynaud's. 
There are many possible reasons for the broken blood vessel on your finger, but the most common one is that the vessel simply breaks because of the sudden or repeated injury to that area. Injuries might also be caused by prolonged exposure to water or cold and even later, water and cold tend to make the injury worse. 
1 A popped blood vessel in the finger is a skin condition. 2  It is not a cardiovascular condition. 3  This condition is considered to be a rarity, as there are very few reported incidents. 4  The defining characteristic of a popped blood vessel in the finger is a spontaneous hemorrhage that involves the hand. Here are some basic facts about a popped blood vessel in the finger that you should keep in mind: 1  A popped blood vessel in the finger is also known as a paroxysmal finger hematoma or Achenbach’s syndrome.
Compromising the functionality of the fingers can cause disruption to our daily activities. This is because the pain, inflammation, and swelling can render the hand immobile for a period of time. One of the most common causes of the functionality becoming compromised is a popped blood vessel in the finger. Here are some basic facts about a popped blood vessel in the finger that you should keep in mind: 1  A popped blood vessel in the finger is also known as a paroxysmal finger hematoma or Achenbach’s syndrome.
1 Avoid contact sports or activities that can pose a risk of injuring the hands or rupturing blood vessels in the finger. 2  Recurrence of hemorrhage or popping of the blood vessel in the finger is possible and care is needed to avoid further incidences. How to Treat a Popped Blood Vessel in the Finger. Treatment is similar to those observed for the treatment of localized hematoma. The condition often resolves on its own with conservative treatment. 1  Cold compress may be done initially to help relieve the burning pain felt on spontaneous hemorrhaging
Causes of Broken Blood Vessels in Fingers. The causes of broken blood vessel in finger can range from accidentally bumping into objects, jamming the finger in a door to hitting it with a tool, such as a hammer. Blood vessels can break due to age too. Elderly skin loses flexibility and bruises easily. Most often, the cause of a broken blood vessel in the finger will be apparent to the person affected. However, there are times when blood vessels may break for no apparent reason.
I have the same spontaneous ruptures of blood vessels in my fingers and hands. I found a name for it-paroxysmal finger hematoma or Achenbach's Syndrome. It is more common in women and is benign. Treatment is similar as treatment for a bruise-cold and elevation followed by heat in a day or two to help absorb the blood. I don't think she is describing Buerger's Disease at all! I have problems with breaking blood vessels in my hands too, most often with opening doors, but sometimes for no apparent reason. Buerger's looks entirely different. What I get are like mini varicose veins on the palm side of my fingers.