Japan’s 2011 Earthquake and Tsunami: Economic Effects and Implications for the U.S. Congressional Research Service 3 construction supplies. If imports of certain products from Japan become scarce, China, South Korea, or other nations may gain at Japan’s expense.
Japan's 2011 Earthquake, Tsunami and Nuclear Disaster. Economic Impact on Japan and the Rest of the World. A local resident rests as she evacuates an area after a 9.0 magnitude strong earthquake struck on March 11 off the coast of north-eastern Japan, on March 14, 2011 in Sendai, Japan.
Japan’s 2011 Earthquake and Tsunami: Economic Effects and Implications for the U.S. Congressional Research Service 9 Most insurance payments are expected to be borne primarily by Japanese insurance companies and their government.
1 Foreign trade linkages are a key channel through which Japan's earthquake will affect the United States. 2  Japan's share of U.S. exports is small, so a weakening in demand from Japan would have little impact on the U.S. economy overall, and reconstruction demand should ultimately boost exports.
Impact on Japan's Economy. The Triple Disaster devastated Japan's economy in four ways. First, it destroyed 138,000 buildings and cost $360 billion in economic damage. This is more than the $250 billion cost estimate for Hurricane Katrina.
Japan's government expects the economic impact of Friday's huge 8.9-magnitude quake and the devastating tsunami that followed to be considerable.
Nevertheless, it is likely that the impact of the earthquake and ensuing events on the bilateral economic relationship will be 1 IHS Global Insight, Japan: Japan’s Earthquake: A Macroeconomic Damage Assessment, Country Intelligence-Analysis, March 24, 2011.
United States. 1  Foreign trade linkages are a key channel through which Japan's earthquake will affect the United States. 2  Japan's share of U.S. exports is small, so a weakening in demand from Japan would have little impact on the U.S. economy overall, and reconstruction demand should ultimately boost exports.
Japan’s 2011 Earthquake and Tsunami: Economic Effects and Implications for the U.S. Congressional Research Service 7 Figure 3. A Damaged Water Pipe Shoots into the Air, Hachinohe, Japan Source: U.S. Navy photo by Chief Mass Communication Specialist Daniel Sanford.
Japan’s 2011 Earthquake and Tsunami: Economic Effects and Implications for the U.S. Congressional Research Service 2 modest overall; however, the effects could be more profound in the near term and on specific sectors and firms for which trade and investment with Japan is particularly important.