It is the atomic chlorine that does the damage, since it can react with ozone (O 3) to form oxygen. The Cl atom is regenerated in this reaction, and so the breakup of only one CFC molecule can initiate the subsequent removal of thousands of ozone molecules. The chlorofluorocarbons (or CFCs for short) have recently received a great deal of attention, and notoriety, as a result of being implicated in the destruction of the ozone layer.
These then react with the ozone molecules, resulting in their removal. CFCs have a lifetime in the atmosphere of about 20 to 100 years, and consequently one free chlorine atom from a CFC molecule can do a lot of damage, destroying ozone molecules for a long time. The most common representative is dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12 or Freon-12). Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a family of chemical compounds developed back in the 1930's as safe, non-toxic, non-flammable alternative to dangerous substances like ammonia for purposes of refrigeration and spray can propellants.
Chlorofluorocarbons, CFCs, have been used as the blowing agents in the past, but because of the damage that chlorofluorocarbons can do to the ozone layer, chemists are actively seeking alternatives for all of the jobs that CFCs have done in the past. We are glad to have the ozone layer in the stratosphere removing these wavelengths of radiant energy, because these wavelengths can cause problems, including skin aging, skin cancer, and crop failure. Because O 2 does not remove this radiation, it is extremely important that the ozone layer be preserved
User: What does the ozone layer protect us from? A. supersonic rays B. gamma rays C. ultraviolet rays D. light rays User: Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) damage the ozone layer. Where do these chemicals come from? A. supersonic rays B. gamma rays C. ultraviolet rays D. light rays User: Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) damage the ozone layer.
Chlorofluorcarbons. Introduction. Man-made CFCs are the main cause of stratospheric ozone depletion. CFCs have a lifetime of about 20 to 100 years, and consequently one free chlorine atom from a CFC molecule can do a lot of damage, destroying ozone molecules for a long time. Whilst chlorine is a natural threat to ozone, CFCs which contain chlorine are a man-made problem. Although CFC molecules are several times heavier than air, winds mix the atmosphere to altitudes far above the top of the stratosphere much faster than molecules can settle according to their weight.
Arctic Ozone Hole. CFCs Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds. The most common representative is dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12 or Freon-12). Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a family of chemical compounds developed back in the 1930's as safe, non-toxic, non-flammable alternative to dangerous substances like ammonia for purposes of refrigeration and spray can propellants.
Oxygen can combine into molecules with three atoms, however, which are called ozone. Ozone near the ground is a pollutant, but in the upper stratosphere, it forms a protective layer around the planet that absorbs ultraviolet sunlight, thereby protecting all life from the harmful effects of that radiation. The process by which chlorine destroys ozone is two step. A chlorine radical, which is highly reactive, strips the extra oxygen atom from an ozone molecule, forming chlorine monoxide and leaving an oxygen molecule as a product of the reaction.