Plaster skimming to plasterboard is a popular method of providing a smooth, seamless surface ready to receive decorative treatment. Skim plastering gives many of the advantages of a traditional solid plaster finish such as robustness, acoustic enhancement and a quick turnaround on site. Read more. 
If you get it right, doing your own skim plastering can save you a lot of money. If you get it wrong it can cost you a fortune putting it right. Buying (and being prepared to throw away) a sheet of plasterboard and a bag of top coat plaster will cost an extra £20.00 or so but will be worth every penny. Learn how to correctly mix your skim coat plaster and what consistency it should be and then how to get your mix onto your hawk and then onto the wall or ceiling and also how thick it should be. Additionally find out how to get your skim plaster flat and smooth for a great looking finish
Prepare your plastering tools, plastering materials and work area. Mix your plastering skim be it board finish plaster or multifinish plaster. Place the plaster on the spot board and clean your bucket ready for the next plaster mix. You now have up to 15 minutes to apply the plaster to the plasterboard wall. Always skim in two plaster coats. Plaster coat one is roughing on and plaster coat two is laying down. Roughing on Plaster coat should be about 3mm thick, even and relatively flat.
Skim coating is the process of applying a layer of muddy plaster compound to rough or damaged ceilings and walls to either smooth or repair them. A damaged concrete floor can be sanded and skim coated to cover wear. Surfaces with skin coating should be sanded before painting. Skim coating provides a smooth wall surface for paint or wallpaper. Applying a layer of plaster compound to a rough wall to smooth or repair it is known as skim coating.
Skim-coat plastering has replaced traditional plastering in the construction of most residential interior walls and ceilings. It's also making inroads among builders making the switch from tape-and-finish drywall. If you're unfamiliar with skim-coat plastering, also called veneer plastering, you're not alone. I work in southeastern Connecticut, where plastering is seldom seen in new construction. Yet just 20 miles east, in Rhode Island, skim-coat plaster is common. Skim-coat is a thin layer of plaster applied over a special gypsum panel called blueboard. The paper facing is chemically treated to provide a bonding surface for plaster, and the blue color distinguishes it from regular gypsum board
Top coat plastering, or skim as it is known is a very difficult job indeed. It is not difficult to actually get it on the wall or ceiling, but getting it flat and smooth requires a great deal of hard work and practice. As with every tradesman's job we suggest practice. Learn how to correctly mix your skim coat plaster and what consistency it should be and then how to get your mix onto your hawk and then onto the wall or ceiling and also how thick it should be. Additionally find out how to get your skim plaster flat and smooth for a great looking finish
Skim coating is a texturing technique used to make a wall smooth. Drywallers use this technique to hide an imperfect taping job, to give the wall a plaster-like appearance and in situations when only the smoothest surface will do. It's also good to skim coat if you paint the walls with a gloss or semigloss paint, because reflective paint tends to exaggerate defects. Because a skim coat is a type of texture, you normally don't need one if you're applying a different type of texture, such as a knockdown or eggshell.
Cement plaster is made with cement, sand, water and a suitable plaster. Cement plaster is usually applied on the masonry walls, where the gypsum or lime plaster is then added again. Skimming. Skim coating is a name for a plastering technique. Out of many skim mixtures, the widely used mixture is made up of lime putty and sugar sand.
Spread a skim coat with a trowel or drywall knife over a rough wall or ceiling to create a flat surface for painting or wallpapering. In general, you will need to apply 2-4 coats before the surface is smooth. 