It uses a catalyst and a chemical reaction to convert toxic combustion by products into a less toxic substance. A catalytic converter takes the exhaust gas stream from the engine and breaks the noxious components of the exhaust down to less noxious or harmless components. If an engine is running well, there isn't really much for the catalytic converter to do. If the engine is in need of a tune-up, the catalytic converter may get quite a workout and in the process it can get very hot.
A catalytic converter is a device that uses a catalyst to convert three harmful compounds in car exhaust into harmless compounds. The three harmful compounds are: 1  Hydrocarbons (in the form of unburned gasoline). 2  Carbon monoxide (formed by the combustion of gasoline). Nitrogen oxides lead to smog and acid rain, and hydrocarbons produce smog. In a catalytic converter, the catalyst (in the form of platinum and palladium) is coated onto a ceramic honeycomb or ceramic beads that are housed in a muffler-like package attached to the exhaust pipe. The catalyst helps to convert carbon monoxide into carbon dioxide
Your engine and exhaust sytem are complicated pieces of machinery, and they also have a complicated relationship with the chemicals they spit into the atmosphere. One key way to minimize the pollution that's kicked out of your exhaust pipes is by using a catalytic converter, or cat converter. The term catalytic converter comes from the catalyst inside the unit that does the work. The catalyst is loaded with precious metals like platinum, palladium and rhodium that set off a series of chemical reactions.
When it comes time for catalytic converter replacement, either from excessive wear or theft, consider a few things. First, not all converters are legal in all states. To make a catalytic converter California legal, the device is put through a battery of extra testing and certification. But take heart, a California legal cat is legal in all states. Next, consider performance. Popular Searches. The internal combustion engine, while efficient, is a messy device to operate. Air and gasoline are being forced into a combustion chamber where they are incinerated and exhausted into the atmosphere. To reduce the toxicity of those nasty exhaust emissions, the catalytic converter was conceived.
It is the catalytic converter’s job to reduce these harmful emissions as much as possible in order to protect the air we breathe. The way that the catalytic converter functions is simple. It forces the exhaust gasses to come in contact with a chemical catalyst, in this case the metals platinum or palladium. The catalyst causes the gasses to quickly degrade into less harmful substances, like carbon dioxide and water. 
To do so, oxygen must be present in the exhaust mixture. If an engine is running well, there isn't really much for the catalytic converter to do. If the engine is in need of a tune-up, the catalytic converter may get quite a workout and in the process it can get very hot. Also, deposits can build up on a catalytic converter, making it useless
A catalytic converter is an emissions control device that converts toxic pollutants in exhaust gas to less toxic pollutants by catalyzing a redox reaction (oxidation or reduction). The first widespread introduction of catalytic converters was in the United States automobile market. To comply with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 's stricter regulation of exhaust emissions, gasoline-powered vehicles starting with the 1975 model year must be equipped with catalytic converters.
A catalytic converter substantially reduces the amount of harmful pollutants by taking these gases and converting them into water vapour and less harmful gases via a series of chemical reactions. All petrol cars manufactured since 1993 must have a catalytic converter fitted to the exhaust. 
Your cat converter is designed to convert these exhaust gases into a less harmful state. The term catalytic converter comes from the catalyst inside the unit that does the work. The catalyst is loaded with precious metals like platinum, palladium and rhodium that set off a series of chemical reactions.