Once the structure has been framed or masonry walls have been erected, the building cladding can be installed to the exterior surfaces. First a moisture or vapor barrier is installed to protect against moisture penetration and minimize the risk of rot or mold. While the term cladding is widely used in Europe and Australia, these exterior finish materials are typically known as siding in North America. Before exterior cladding can be installed, the structural framing of the building must be complete.
In construction, cladding is used to provide a layer of protection to the exterior of a building against the weather. The materials used may be a combination of metals, aluminum, or plastic. This material is most commonly installed around windows, doors, roofs, and chimneys. Cladding is used to make modern US pennies, which are zinc with a coating of copper. Cladding installation is a special skill among roofers and roofing installation technicians. Cladding is commonly installed around chimneys.
Plywood cladding offers a stylish exterior for all building types. Exterior plywood cladding is manufactured to AS 2271, is intended for use in non-structural applications and comes in a wide variety of face veneer grades that may be profiled, grooved, plain faced or pre-surfaced with resins, plastics or metal. 
Typically, the purpose of the clad is to protect the underlying steel substrate from the environment it resides in. Cladded steel plate, sheet, pipe, and other tubular products are often used in highly corrosive or stressful environments where other coating methods cannot prevail. Cladded metal can be produced by many methods including explosion bonding, roll bonding, diffusion bonding, mechanical bonding, forging, laser, welding, friction welding or co-axial extrusion. The resultant clad products have either a mechanical or metallurgical bond to their substrate.
Laser cladding is a method of depositing material by which a powdered or wire feedstock material is melted and consolidated by use of a laser in order to coat part of a substrate or fabricate a near-net shape part (additive manufacturing technology) . Cladding is often achieved by extruding two metals through a die as well as pressing or rolling sheets together under high pressure. The United States Mint uses cladding to manufacture coins from different metals.
Cladding systems [pdf 645 KB]. Cladding is a non-loadbearing skin or layer attached to the outside of a home to shed water and protect the building from the effects of weather. It is a key element in the aesthetic appeal of the home and directly influences both building cost and property value. Performance considerations. Cladding is typically made from wood, metal, plastic (vinyl), masonry or an increasing range of composite materials. It can be attached directly to the frame or to an intermediate layer of battens or spacers to prevent condensation and allow water vapour to escape.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Cladding is a process where one material covers another. This type of process is used with metals, optical fibers, construction projects and nuclear reactors. This term has different meanings, depending on the materials used and the accepted standards in each industry. Cladding is used to make modern US pennies, which are zinc with a coating of copper. Cladding installation is a special skill among roofers and roofing installation technicians. Cladding is commonly installed around chimneys.
Roof cladding is the layer of material which makes up the external surface of a roof. The ideal material for cladding is durable, affordable, weatherproof, fireproof, insulating against both temperature changes and noise, low maintenance, and attractive. When building a new home, installing the cladding is normally the last step in the roof construction. With a conventional truss framed roof, the roof frame is first constructed and put in position. Next, it's covered with a waterproof membrane or layer of felting.