There are many different circumstances under which you can get a VA loan. Some veterans apply for the loan by themselves without a co-borrower or co-applicant. Others want to apply for a VA loan with one or more fellow veterans, and others still want to get a home with a non-veteran. Spouses often apply for a VA mortgage loan together, and some wonder if VA loans are available to a veteran and a spouse who is not a fellow vet. The answer to this question is yes–spouses are treated equally on the VA loan application, unlike other VA loan scenarios between veteran applicants and non-veterans.
VA's Cash-Out Refinance Loan is for homeowners who want to take cash out of your home equity to take care of concerns like paying off debt, funding school, or making home improvements. The Cash-Out Refinance Loan can also be used to refinance a non-VA loan into a VA loan. VA will guaranty loans up to 100% of the value of your home.
The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs' home loan guaranty program enables eligible borrowers to apply for a VA loan to buy a home or refinance an existing mortgage. A consultation with a VA loan expert is advised to determine eligibility. A spouse who obtained a VA home loan with an active-duty serviceperson or veteran who subsequently died can be eligible to refinance that VA loan with a new VA loan at a lower interest rate through the VA streamlined refinance program.
You can apply for a VA loan with any mortgage lender that participtes in the VA home loan program with a Certificate of Eligibility from VA. VA home loans are provided by private lenders such as banks and mortgage companies, with VA guaranteeing a portion of the loan. This gives the home buyer more favorable terms.
For example, any veteran applying for a VA loan must certify they intend to use the property as the primary residence. The VA rules say any non-veteran (or a veteran who does not choose to use his or her VA loan entitlement on the loan) is exempt from the primary residence rule. The Department of Veterans Affairs makes provisions for vets who want use their VA loan benefit to purchase a home with a civilian borrower. There are some restrictions — most of which apply to the veteran.
There are plenty of situations where a veteran and a non-veteran might want to purchase a home together. For the purpose of this blog post, a non-veteran is someone who is not legally married to the veteran or considered a spouse under the law. The Department of Veterans Affairs makes provisions for vets who want use their VA loan benefit to purchase a home with a civilian borrower. There are some restrictions — most of which apply to the veteran.
Loan Limits. In most parts of the country, veterans who qualify for the VA Loan can purchase a home worth up to $417,000 without putting any money down; however, with the 2013 VA Loan Limits, borrowers in high-cost counties may be able to purchase homes far exceeding that amount without a down payment. VA borrowers can roll the funding fee into their overall loan amount. The VA also limits closing costs for veterans and allows sellers to pay most or all of those expenses. Many of our borrowers purchase a home with no money due at closing.