A depressant, or central depressant, is a drug that lowers neurotransmission levels, which is to depress or reduce arousal or stimulation, in various areas of the brain. Depressants are also occasionally referred to as downers as they lower the level of arousal when taken. An alcoholic beverage is a drink that contains ethanol, an anesthetic that has been used as a psychoactive drug for several millennia. Ethanol is the oldest recreational drug still used by humans. Ethanol can cause alcohol intoxication when consumed
Depression in women is increasingly common. Find out the symptoms of depression in women and what medical treatment can do to manage these depression symptoms. Depression in seniors is often confused with signs of serious illnesses or grieving. Learn about the different types of depression, the signs and symptoms, and talk to your doctor about treatment. Read about the causes and symptoms of major depression and the available treatments. Talk openly with your doctor if you have these major depression symptoms because help is available.
Major or clinical depression is a serious but treatable illness. Depending on the severity of symptoms, your doctor may recommend treatment with an antidepressant medication. He or she may also suggest psychotherapy, or talk therapy, in which you address your emotional state. Learn about the different types of depression, the signs and symptoms, and talk to your doctor about treatment. Read about the causes and symptoms of major depression and the available treatments. Talk openly with your doctor if you have these major depression symptoms because help is available.
Depression is more than just feeling sad or going through a rough patch. It’s a serious mental health condition that requires understanding, treatment and a good recovery plan. With early detection, diagnosis and a treatment plan consisting of medication, psychotherapy and lifestyle choices, many people get better. 
Alcohol depresses the nervous system and this means that it slows down your reflexes and other brain functions and distorts them so that your judgement is impaired. Alcohol helps people to relax and some very inhibited and very tense people come out of their shell after a few drinks. ...I'm also an extremely tense person, and the only time I can truly relax is when I'm drinking. So if alcohol can relax me, and give me a little bit of... show more I'm suffering from depression, and the only time that I can feel somewhat happy is when I'm drowning myself in a bottle of some sort of alcohol.
A key sign of depression is either depressed mood or loss of interest in activities you once enjoyed. For a diagnosis of depression, these signs should be present most of the day either daily or nearly daily for at least two weeks. In addition, the depressive symptoms need to cause clinically significant distress or impairment. They cannot be due to the direct effects of a substance, for example, a drug or medication. According to the DSM-5, a manual used to diagnose mental disorders, depression occurs when you have at least five of the following symptoms at the same time: 1  A depressed mood during most of the day, particularly in the morning. 2  Fatigue or loss of energy almost every day. 3  Feelings of worthlessness or guilt
Depression is characterized by depressed or sad mood, diminished interest in activities which used to be pleasurable, weight gain or loss, psychomotor agitation or retardation, fatigue, inappropriate guilt, difficulties concentrating, as well as recurrent thoughts of death. 
Yes...it is a mood-altering depressant and depressant is a type of drug. - People die from alcohol poisoning from excessive ingestion of alcohol. Often, alcohol is not conside … red a drug because it is legal. 1 person found this useful. No. It is the opposite of a stimulant. It is considered a minor tranquilizer or sedative. (that being said, some people do report increased activity after taking medications t … hat, in most people, cause sedation. Another notable example is Lortab/Vicodin or any form of hydrocodone.
Alcohol is a depressant, which means it slows the function of the central nervous system. Alcohol actually blocks some of the messages trying to get to the brain. This alters a person's perceptions, emotions, movement, vision, and hearing. ...I'm also an extremely tense person, and the only time I can truly relax is when I'm drinking. So if alcohol can relax me, and give me a little bit of... show more I'm suffering from depression, and the only time that I can feel somewhat happy is when I'm drowning myself in a bottle of some sort of alcohol.