Biomass is one of the most plentiful and well-utilised sources of renewable energy in the world. Broadly speaking, it is organic material produced by the photosynthesis of light. The chemical material (organic compounds of carbons) are stored and can then be used to generate energy.
The sun is probably the most important source of renewable energy available today. Traditionally, the sun has provided energy for practically all living creatures on earth, through the process of photosynthesis, in which plants absorb solar radiation and convert it into stored energy for growth and development.
Alternative energy is energy provided from sources other than the three fossil fuels: coal, oil, and natural gas. Alternative sources of energy include nuclear power, solar power, wind power, water power, and geothermal energy, among others.
The 2015 New York State Energy Plan says that renewable sources, which today provide about 11 percent of the energy we use, have the potential to meet as much as 40 percent of our energy needs by 2030.
Alternative energy sources are renewable and are thought to be free energy sources. They all have lower carbon emissions, compared to conventional energy sources. These include Biomass Energy, Wind Energy, Solar Energy, Geothermal Energy, Hydroelectric E
7% of our total energy use comes from renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar, and hydropower. Renewable energy sources lessen our dependence on foreign energy and do not emit greenhouse gases. Experts predict that over the next two decades, renewable energy will provide a growing portion of U.S. overall energy.
Many of the biomass fuels used today come in the form of wood products, dried vegetation, crop residues, and aquatic plants. Biomass has become one of the most commonly used renewable sources of energy in the last two decades, second only to hydropower in the generation of electricity.
The sun is our most powerful source of energy. Sunlight, or solar energy, can be used for heating, lighting and cooling homes and other buildings, generating electricity, water heating, and a variety of industrial processes. Most forms of renewable energy come either directly or indirectly from the sun.
Fuel cells are devices that produce electric power from the interaction of hydrogen and oxygen gases. They are used to provide electricity in spacecraft and are a potential alternative energy source for heating buildings and powering automobiles.