A crepe crêpe or (/crepe/ kreɪp /or/. [krɛp]. , [kʁɛp]. ) kʁaɪ̯p is a type of very thin, pancake usually made from wheat (flour crepes crêpes) de froment or (buckwheat). Flour galettes the word Is of, french origin deriving From the, latin crispa. meaning curled The batter is spread evenly over the cooking surface of the pan or plate either by tilting the pan or by distributing the batter with an offset spatula or trowel. The consistency of the batter cannot be too thick, nor can the pan be too hot.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Krape families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. Possibly an altered spelling of Krappe, the North German equivalent of Krapf, or alternatively a nickname from Middle Low German krape ‘carp’, a variant of karpe (see Karp).
1 The Surname Index -16 pages of surnames – to the pedigree charts and surname cards that have been submitted by members of the CCGS. 2  The charts are housed in the Pennsylvania Room of the Centre County Library in Bellefonte and in the State College Family History Center. 1 The December 2000 CCGS Surname Research File. 2 
1 This newsletter issue features the surname index to the pedigree charts and surname cards that have been submitted by members of the CCGS. 2  The charts are housed in the Pennsylvania Room of the Centre County Library in Bellefonte and in the State College Family History Center. 3  Summer 2005 (Volume 30, No. 2). 1 The December 2000 CCGS Surname Research File. 2  The Surname Index -16 pages of surnames –
Heraldry on the Internet, Coats of Arms, Family Crests. Heraldic research on the Internet. Related topics: heraldic research, charges, dictionary of heraldry ,... The art of heraldry. Heraldry Links. Genealogy and Heraldry. Family Histories, Genealogy, Heraldry, Peerage, Royalty. Surnames, family, genealogy, geneology, research, family trees, family history, genealogy, research... A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The word is of French origin, deriving from the Latin crispa, meaning curled. While crepes crêpes are often associated With, brittany a region in the northwest Of, france their consumption is widespread In, France, Belgium quebec and many parts Of, Europe North africa and The Southern cone Of South. america The batter is spread evenly over the cooking surface of the pan or plate either by tilting the pan or by distributing the batter with an offset spatula or trowel. The consistency of the batter cannot be too thick, nor can the pan be too hot.
1 This newsletter issue features the surname index – 20 pages with more than 5,500 surnames – to the pedigree charts and surname cards that have been submitted by members of the CCGS. 2  The charts are housed in the Pennsylvania Room of the Centre County Library in Bellefonte and in the State College Family History Center. 1 The December 2000 CCGS Surname Research File. 2  The Surname Index -16 pages of
Click on a circle in the chart to view Krape immigration records. You can find out when most of the Krape families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI). Possibly an altered spelling of Krappe, the North German equivalent of Krapf, or alternatively a nickname from Middle Low German krape ‘carp’, a variant of karpe (see Karp).
For the first time in a generation, tobacco use has risen among the nation's youth, due to the rising use of e-cigarettes. Learn more about the dangerous and addictive e-cigarette trend. Find Today's Newest & Best Children's Books! 