Dizziness is the sensation of lightheadedness, or the feeling that you might pass out. Dizziness may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting, perspiration or a cold sweat, imbalance, and fainting. Blood supplies oxygen to the brain. 
Lightheadedness is a common and typically unpleasant sensation of dizziness and/or a feeling that one may faint. The sensation of lightheadedness can be short-lived, prolonged, or, rarely, recurring. In addition to dizziness, the individual may feel as though his or her head is weightless. The individual may also feel as though the room is what causes the spinning or moving (vertigo) associated with lightheadedness.
Common causes of dizziness. The most common causes of dizziness are outlined below. 1  Labyrinthitis – an inner ear infection that affects your hearing and balance, and can lead to a severe form of dizziness called vertigo. 2  Migraine – dizziness may come on before or after the headache, or even without the headache. 
The most common causes of vertigo are inner ear infections or diseases of the ear such as benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), vestibular neuritis, and Meniere's disease. BPPV can occur when calcium builds up in canals of the inner ear, causing brief dizziness that lasts from 20 seconds to one minute. 
Common causes of dizziness include inner-ear disorders, medications, and alcohol. Dizziness is often a result of vertigo. It can also be caused by a problem in the inner ear, where balance is regulated. The most common cause of vertigo and vertigo-related dizziness is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). Dizziness is not a disease but a symptom of other disorders. Vertigo and disequilibrium may cause a feeling of dizziness, but those two terms describe different symptoms. Vertigo is characterized by a feeling of spinning. Disequilibrium is a loss of balance or equilibrium.
Dizziness is a word that is often used to describe two different feelings. It is important to know exactly what you mean when you say I feel dizzy, because it can help you and your doctor narrow down the list of possible problems. 1  Lightheadedness is a feeling that you are about to faint or pass out.. 
Etiology. The most common causes of peripheral vertigo include BPPV, vestibular neuronitis, Meniere ménière, disease and-immune mediated-inner ear. Disease the most common cause of central dizziness is, migraine frequently referred to as vestibular migraine or-migraine associated. dizziness 
Dizziness is defined as feelings of unsteadiness, wooziness, and lightheadedness; and sensations of moving, spinning, floating, swaying, tilting, or whirling (sensations known as vertigo). These sensations occur even when standing still or lying down. One of the most common causes of dizziness is inner ear disorders. These disorders include: General location of inner ear disorders. Semicircular canals: Benign positional vertigo. Vestibular nerve: vestibular neuritis and acoustic neuroma.
Some common causes of dizziness include hunger, fatigue, hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), or anxiety. Dizziness can also be caused by neurologic conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, and epilepsy. 
Dizziness has many possible causes, including inner ear disturbance, motion sickness and medication effects. Sometimes it's caused by an underlying health condition, such as poor circulation, infection or injury. The way dizziness makes you feel and your triggers provide clues for possible causes. 1 Anxiety disorders. 2  Certain anxiety disorders may cause lightheadedness or a woozy feeling often referred to as dizziness. 3  These include panic attacks and a fear of leaving home or being in large, open spaces (agoraphobia).