(Herodotus, 3.91.2). A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country, and they forced him to carry the cross. (Mark, 15:21). Cyrene was an ancient Greek city on the North African coast near present-day Shahhat, a town located in north-eastern Libya. The precise location of the ancient city was thirteen kilometres from the coast. 
The people of Cyrene were African people who lived in what is now Libya. Situated on the Mediterranean coast of northern Africa, Cyrene was the chief city of the region known then as Cyrenaica, the nation that bordered Egypt on the west. Cyrene itself lay about 450 miles (720 km) west of Alexandria, Egypt. Cyrene is the African country where Simon of Cyrene came from, that blessed brother who helped the Lord Jesus bear His cross up to Mount Calvary (Mt 27:32). Simon and his people were descendants of Put (Phut), the third son of Ham, the ancestral father of Africans. Ham was Noah's youngest son (see Gen. 9:19, 10:1-20)
si-re'-ne (Kurene wall): 1. Location: Cyrene was a city of Libya in North Africa, lat. 32 degrees 40' North, long. 22 degrees 15' East. It lay West of ancient Egypt, from which it was separated by a portion of the Libyan desert, and occupied the territory now belonging to Barca and Tripoli. 
Cyrene (pronounced sai-REE-nee) is located on the continent of Africa in what is now Libya. Nearly 900 miles separate Cyrene and Jerusalem, a journey that would have taken several weeks in the first century. Simon was very likely a Jew coming to Jerusalem for Passover. 
Cyrene /cy-re-ne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Cyrene is sovereign queen. Mythology: Kyrene was a maiden-huntress and princess loved by Apollo. He took her to Africa and founded the city of Cyrene in her name. The region, Cyrenaica, is also named for her. 
Cyrene (/saɪˈriːniː/ ; Ancient Greek: κυρήνη Kyrēnē) was an ancient Greek and Roman city near present-day Shahhat, Libya. It was the oldest and most important of the five Greek cities in the region. Cyrene is referred to in the deuterocanonical book 2 Maccabees. The book of 2 Maccabees itself is said by its author to be an abridgment of a five-volume work by a Hellenized Jew by the name of Jason of Cyrene who lived around 100 BC.
Blogs Thicker Than Water. Cyrene, better known as daddy's girl, is the youngest of the Tankard children. Following in her parents' and older siblings' footsteps, Cyrene continues to develop her entrepreneurial spirit as she plans to produce a signature line of lipstick and nail polish. 
Cyrene lies in a lush valley in the Jebel Akhdar uplands. The city was named after a spring, Kyre, which the Greeks consecrated to Apollo. It was also the seat of the Cyrenaics, a famous school of philosophy in the 3rd century BC, founded by Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates. Cyrene is referred to in the deuterocanonical book 2 Maccabees. The book of 2 Maccabees itself is said by its author to be an abridgment of a five-volume work by a Hellenized Jew by the name of Jason of Cyrene who lived around 100 BC.
Cyrene was founded in 630 BC as a settlement of Greeks from the Greek island of Thera (Santorini) , traditionally led by Battus I, at a site 16 kilometres (10 mi) from its associated port, Apollonia (Marsa Sousa) . Cyrene is referred to in the deuterocanonical book 2 Maccabees. The book of 2 Maccabees itself is said by its author to be an abridgment of a five-volume work by a Hellenized Jew by the name of Jason of Cyrene who lived around 100 BC.