Mollusks. Mollusks comprise a group of soft-bodied animals that includes snails, clams, and sea slugs. The most common characteristic of most mollusks is their shell. One of the largest groups, the snails, is renowned for their shells. Snails are univalves, which means they have one shell. And it is this shell that for many people is the epitome of the ocean.
snails, clams, squids and octopodes. Mollusca. Mollusks are a large group of invertebrate animals. Mollusks have soft bodies, and their bodies are not divided into rings like the segmented worms called annelids. Mollusks don't have legs, though some have flexible tentacles for sensing their environment or grabbing things
Description from Wikipedia. The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/, compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the phylum Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. Numerous molluscs also live in freshwater and terrestrial habitats
The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/ compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. Numerous molluscs also live in freshwater and terrestrial habitats.
By Laura Klappenbach. Mollusks (Mollusca) are a group of invertebrates that includes squid, octopuses, cuttlefish, nudibranchs, snails, slugs, limpets, sea hares, mussels, clams, oysters, scallops, as well as many less well-known animals. Scientists estimate that there are more than 100,000 species of mollusks alive today. 
There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods. Although one might not see an obvious physical relationship between a snail and a squid, they are remarkably similar in construction.
The most common sea shells found on modern beaches are mollusks (phyllum Mollusca). The most commonly observed mollusks types (classes) are clams (Pelecypoda), snails (Gastropoda), and squids and octopi (Cephalopoda). These classes also represent the most common mollusk fossils in Kentucky.
Clams, Mussels and Oysters are common types of Mollusks. Mollusks are invertebrates that live in ocean, freshwater and terrestrial habitats. It is estimated that there are as many as 120,000 different species of mollusk. There are several different classes of mollusk. The most common mollusks are the gastropods (e.g., snails and slugs), the cephalopod (e.g., octopus, squid and cuttlefish) and the bivalve (e.g., clam, muscle, oyster and scallop). The Giant Squid and the Colossal Squid are the largest animals without a backbone