The next step is to apply to the Probate Registry for Grant of Probate. A copy of the Will is sent with the Oath for Executors. It usually takes around 2-3 weeks for the Probate Registry to send back the Grant and however many sealed copies have been requested. Upon receipt of the Grant, the solicitor will send a sealed copy to all the asset holders to cash in all the assets.
4. Applying for a grant of representation. You can apply for a grant of representation yourself or use a solicitor or another person licensed to provide probate services. There are 4 steps to follow. Complete a probate application form. Complete an Inheritance Tax form. Send your application. Swear an oath
How long does probate take. Obtaining a Grant of Probate can take as long as 4-6 weeks depending on the executor and the estate details. You must remember that the 4 – 6 weeks is based on the application time from point of application made by a solicitor. Probate can take longer and will depend on the following. 
1 The Probate Registry will send the Oath to the first named applicant on the PA1. ( 2 If more than 1 applicant, you will all need to swear the Oath however). 3  Make an appointment with a local Solicitor. 4  A Wills & Probate Solicitor is usually best. 1 Send both forms to your local Probate Registry. 2  The Probate Registry will send the Oath to the first named applicant on the PA1. ( 3 If more than 1 applicant, you will all need to swear the Oath however). 4
Swearing an oath with a Solicitor. You no longer need to attend at a Probate Registry to swear the oath, but can do it in front of a local Solicitor like this: 1  Complete the Probate Application Form (PA1) using our Sample PA1 for guidance. 1 Send both forms to your local Probate Registry. 2  The Probate Registry will send the Oath to the first named applicant on the PA1. ( 3 If more than 1 applicant, you will all need to swear the Oath however). 4  Make an appointment with a local
Option One Swear Oath at a Probate Registry. Contact your Local Probate Registry to make an appointment. Appointments are usually booked 4 weeks in advance. You will need to take with you the Oath and Checklist which is stapled to the back of the Oath along with a copy of the Will and proof of identification. After the Swearing process with the Solicitor you send back the sworn documents to the Probate Registry. The Oath can be sworn in front of a Solicitor or Commissioner of Oaths. You can arrange this appointment with a Solicitor of your choice. The average charge for this service is around £5 to £7.
1 How long the wait is at the Probate Registry – even when you have been to swear the oath, there are usually a couple more weeks to wait before you obtain the grant and then. 2  Start collecting in and distributing the assets but. The length of time it may take to get Probate in England and Wales depends on all sorts of issues, for example: 1  How big or complex the estate is. 2  How well the deceased kept records. 3  Whether is is the first of a couple who has died or the second.
23 thoughts on “ Swearing an oath with a Solicitor ”. This page is incorrect. At step 7 above it says you have to take the original will to the solicitor when you swear the oath. In fact, you have to send the original will to the Probate Registry at step 4. 1 Send both forms to your local Probate Registry. 2  The Probate Registry will send the Oath to the first named applicant on the PA1. ( 3 If more than 1 applicant, you will all need to swear the Oath however). 4  Make an appointment with a local Solicitor.
1 Make an appointment with a local Solicitor. 2  A Wills & Probate Solicitor is usually best. 3  Take with you the Oath and the original Will and any Codicils. 4  Swearing the Oath will only take a couple of minutes as the Solicitor does not check the documents, it’s just procedural. 1 Send both forms to your local Probate Registry. 2  The Probate Registry will send the Oath to the first named applicant on the PA1. ( 3 If more than 1 applicant, you will all need to swear the Oath however). 4 