koilocytotic atypia vacuolization and nuclear abnormalities of cells of the stratified squamous epithelium of the uterine cervix; it may be premalignant. 
Flat epithelial atypica is a proliferation of epithelial cells in the terminal duct-lobular units (TDLU) of the breast. Sometimes this neoplasm is called ‘ columnar cell hyperplasia ‘ due to the architecture of the growth pattern. It tends to grow in a ‘ flat ‘ pattern, without any strange build-ups or unevenness, and tends to grow into ‘ columns ‘; growing taller without growing wider.
Inflammatory Atypia cells are abnormal cells. If they are a form of ASC-US or not, it still uncertain with publications going both ways. An easy approach is, smears showing atypia are normally classified in three main categories: inflammatory atypia (IFA) , squamous atypia (ASC-US) , and endocervical atypia (AGC). 
Even normal aging can make cells appear abnormal. Atypical cells can change back to normal cells if the underlying cause is removed or resolved. This can happen spontaneously. Or it can be the result of a specific treatment. Atypical cells don't necessarily mean you have cancer. However, it's still important to make sure there's no cancer present or that a cancer isn't just starting to develop. If your doctor identifies atypical cells, close follow-up is essential. In other cases, your doctor may recommend a particular treatment to try to reverse the process that's causing the atypical cells. And sometimes, your doctor may need to obtain a sample of tissue — such as a biopsy — to make sure you don't have cancer or another serious condition.
Nuclear atypia refers to abnormal appearance of cell nuclei. It is a term used in cytopathology and histopathology. Atypical nuclei are often pleomorphic. Nuclear atypia can be seen in reactive changes, pre-neoplastic changes and malignancy. Severe nuclear atypia is, in most cases, considered an indicator of malignancy
How breast cancer develops. Atypical hyperplasia is a precancerous condition that affects cells in the breast. Atypical hyperplasia describes an accumulation of abnormal cells in the breast. Atypical hyperplasia isn't cancer, but it can be a forerunner to the development of breast cancer. Over the course of your lifetime, if the atypical hyperplasia cells keep dividing and become more abnormal, this can transition into noninvasive breast cancer (carcinoma in situ) or invasive breast cancer. If you've been diagnosed with atypical hyperplasia, you have an increased risk of developing breast cancer in the future. For this reason, doctors often recommend intensive breast cancer screening and medications to reduce breast cancer risk.
The normal breast is made of ducts that end in a group of blind-ending sacs called lobules. Hyperplasia is a term used when there is an abnormal pattern of growth of cells within the ducts and/or lobules of the breast that is not cancerous. Normally, the ducts and lobules are lined by 2 layers of cells. 
Atypia and dysplasia are terms used to describe cellular abnormalities in the spectrum of reactive changes to neoplasia. Although atypia often refers specifically to cytologic (cellular) abnormalities, architectural changes can also guide pathologists to the appropriate diagnosis. Denudation of the urothelium can be associated with previous instrumentation, inflammation, or a neoplastic process (Fig. 3).
‘Atypical’ features of flat epithelial hyperplasia. When a neoplasm (an unexpected growth of new cells) is described as ‘ atypical ‘, that tends to be a bit more worrisome in terms of whether or not the hyperplasia is associated with breast cancer. Sometimes this neoplasm is called ‘ columnar cell hyperplasia ‘ due to the architecture of the growth pattern. It tends to grow in a ‘ flat ‘ pattern, without any strange build-ups or unevenness, and tends to grow into ‘ columns ‘; growing taller without growing wider.
Atypia is a pathologic term for a structural abnormality in a cell, i.e. it is used to describe atypical cells. Atypia: Etymology: Gk, a + typos, without type; a condition of being irregular or nonstandard. It may or may not be a precancerous indication associated with later malignancy, but the level of appropriate concern is highly dependent on the context with which it is diagnosed.