A variable-frequency drive is a device used in a drive system consisting of the following three main sub-systems: AC motor, main drive controller assembly, and drive/operator interface. Variable-frequency drives are also categorized by the following load torque and power characteristics: 1  Variable torque, such as in centrifugal fan, pump, and blower applications. 2  Constant torque, such as in conveyor and positive-displacement pump
A Variable Frequency Drive is a motor control device that protects and controls the speed of AC induction motors. From the VFD basics theory, we know a VFD can control the speed of the motor during the start and stop cycle, as well as throughout the running cycle by outputting adjustable frequency. It also refers to as Variable Speed Drives (VSD), Adjustable Speed drive (ASD) and frequency inverter. Variable frequency drives are widely used to control the speed of ... Variable frequency drive in HVAC ... Variable frequency drives (VFD) have been used for HVAC systems in buildings for more than 40 years.
Home » Variable Frequency Drive. A variable frequency drive, which is also called VFD, is used for controlling the frequency of the electrical power supplied to AC electric motor, thus controlling the rotational speed of the motor. 1 A Variable Frequency Drive HARSVERT-A series VFD is a masterpiece of outstanding performance and high reliability, which is widely used for the energy-saving application of the normal motors of fans, pumps, compressors, mills, conveyors and lifts.
In these drives the input energy from a fixed frequency AC source (the AC mains power supply) is converted to a DC form by means of a rectifier and stored in a energy storage element in the drive. The variable voltage (or current), variable frequency output is generated from this energy reservoir. 
A variable-frequency drive (VFD) (also termed adjustable-frequency drive, variable-speed drive, AC drive, micro drive or inverter drive) is a type of adjustable-speed drive used in electro-mechanical drive systems to control AC motor speed and torque by varying motor input frequency and voltage. Variable-frequency drives are also categorized by the following load torque and power characteristics: 1  Variable torque, such as in centrifugal fan, pump, and blower applications. 2  Constant torque, such as in conveyor and positive-displacement pump
Simply put, a VFD is a power conversion device. The VFD converts a basic fixed-frequency, fixed voltage sine-wave power (line power) to a variable-frequency, variable-voltage output used to control speed of induction motors. A basic block diagram of this process is depicted in Fig. 1
Reduce Energy Consumption and Energy Costs. If you have an application that does not need to be run at full speed, then you can cut down energy costs by controlling the motor with a variable frequency drive, which is one of the benefits of Variable Frequency Drives. All AC Variable Frequency Drives are designed to control 3-phase motors, but not all of them will accept single phase power input. The output of the drive is not exactly a true 3-phase AC power, it is a DC generated square-wave, simulated 3-phase power.
A Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) is a type of motor controller that drives an electric motor by varying the frequency and voltage supplied to the electric motor. Other names for a VFD are variable speed drive, adjustable speed drive, adjustable frequency drive, AC drive, microdrive, and inverter. Frequency (or hertz) is directly related to the motor’s speed (RPMs). In other words, the faster the frequency, the faster the RPMs go. All AC Variable Frequency Drives are designed to control 3-phase motors, but not all of them will accept single phase power input. The output of the drive is not exactly a true 3-phase AC power, it is a DC generated square-wave, simulated 3-phase power.
1 - VFD working principle VFD is shorted for Variable Frequency Drive (also known as AC Drives and Inverters) -- that's used to make an AC motor working in variable speed (among other parameters). 2  This is definition used in all topical discussion on this paper. Variable frequency drives are widely used to control the speed of ... Variable frequency drive in HVAC ... Variable frequency drives (VFD) have been used for HVAC systems in buildings for more than 40 years.
These drives are sometimes also called variable voltage variable frequency (VVVF) drives, for the voltage is varied along with frequency. A variable frequency drive system generally consists of an AC motor, a controller and an operator interface. 1 A Variable Frequency Drive HARSVERT-A series VFD is a masterpiece of outstanding performance and high reliability, which is widely used for the energy-saving application of the normal motors of fans, pumps, compressors, mills, conveyors and lifts.