The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) published new standards for drivers who have diabetes mellitus a little over a year ago, 1 allowing people with diabetes to drive group 2 vehicles (buses and lorries) for the first time in certain circumstances. 
Diabetes and driving. You may need to tell. about your diabetes, depending on how it’s treated and the licence you have. Check with your nurse or doctor if you don’t know what type of medication you’re on. You can be fined up to £1,000 if you don’t tell. about a medical condition that affects your driving. 
If you drive for work and are diagnosed with diabetes, you may be worried about whether you can continue working. A different set of factors apply depending on whether your diabetes is treated with insulin, tablets or diet alone and what class of vehicle you intend to drive. 1  Diabetes and driving for work. If on you’re on insulin or other medication that can cause hypoglycemia, it’s important that you test blood glucose levels before driving. Do not drive unless your levels are above 5 mmol/l. Also be aware of any active short term insulin that might be in your body still.
The way your diabetes is treated may or may not affect the type of licence you have. The DVLA will want to check that you are fit to be driving and so they will contact your healthcare team to get an assessment of your suitability to drive. If on you’re on insulin or other medication that can cause hypoglycemia, it’s important that you test blood glucose levels before driving. Do not drive unless your levels are above 5 mmol/l. Also be aware of any active short term insulin that might be in your body still.
Group 2 driver (bus or lorry). 1  You must tell the DVLA if you have diabetes for which you take any type of medication. 2  If you have insulin treatment you will undergo an independent medical assessment every year. If you are on insulin, check your blood glucose within two hours before getting behind the wheel and every two hours whilst driving. The DVLA advise that if blood glucose is 5mmol/l or less you should take carbohydrate before driving. If it is less than 4mmol/l do not drive. See advice below on hypo advice for drivers
for a licence to drive all categories of vehicles. Until now, no one with insulin treated diabetes has been able to drive buses and lorries. Under the new rules those with insulin treated diabetes will be considered provided specific criteria are met.
People with diabetes can drive HGVs. People on insulin will be issued a 1 year license which will need to be renewed each year. People on tablets that can cause hypos will be issued a 1, 2 or 3 year license which will need to be renewed at the appropriate time. If on you’re on insulin or other medication that can cause hypoglycemia, it’s important that you test blood glucose levels before driving. Do not drive unless your levels are above 5 mmol/l. Also be aware of any active short term insulin that might be in your body still.
Diabetes and driving HGVs and PCVs. If your diabetes is treated with diet or diet and tablets, you may hold a licence to drive either a large good vehicle (LGV) or a passenger-carrying vehicle (PCV). If your diabetes is treated with insulin, you will automatically lose the entitlement to drive vehicles within: Diabetes and Driving for Work. People with diabetes are able to drive taxis. Having diabetes doesn't stop you from driving a taxi although it may prevent you from driving large passenger carrying vehicles (PCVs). There is currently a blanket ban for diabetics driving emergency vehicles.