Closed loop systems also can be vertical. Holes are bored up to 250 feet per ton of heat pump capacity, depending on where you live. U-shaped loops of pipe are inserted in the holes. The holes are then backfilled with a sealing solution. As a rule of thumb, 500-600 feet of pipe is required per ton of system capacity. A well-insulated 2,000-square-foot home would need about a three-ton system with 1,500 - 1,800 feet of pipe. Pipe sections are joined by thermal fusion.
In horizontal geothermal ground loops, several hundred feet of five to six feet deep trenches are dug with a backhoe or chain trencher. Copper coil is then laid in the trench and back filled(with conductive grout solution). A typical horizontal ground loop will be 150 feet long for each ton of heating and cooling. 
For example, for horizontal loops: moist clay soil will usually need 600 lineal feet of pipe per ton, very dry soil needs at least 1200 lineal feet of pipe per ton, sometimes more, and saturated soil (where water seeps into the trench as you dig) needs 425 lineal feet of pipe per ton. So, the first step in sizing an earth loop is having a correct heat loss/gain calculation done. We need to know how many BTUHs your earth loop needs to supply to your geothermal heat pump, so it can heat your home correctly.
A vertical loop is the option. Six inch diameter holes are drilled to a depth of 150-200 feet per ton capacity. A pre-made U-shaped loop of pipe is inserted in the hole. The holes are then filled with a grout product for full contact with the earth. 
A typical horizontal loop will have 400-600 feet of pipe per ton of heating and cooling capacity. The land area required for horizontal ground loops will range from 1500-3000 square feet per ton of heating/cooling depending on soil properties and earth temperatures. Submerged-loop systems typically require about 300 linear feet of piping per system ton. Depending on the pond depth ponds can support GHP systems ranging from 15 to 85 tons per acre of pond surface area.
Trenches are normally four to six feet deep and up to 400 feet long, depending on the number of pipes in a trench. One advantage of a horizontal loop system is being able to lay the trenches according to the shape of the land. As a rule of thumb, 500-600 feet of pipe is required per ton of system capacity. A well-insulated 2,000-square-foot home would need about a three-ton system with 1,500 - 1,800 feet of pipe. Pipe sections are joined by thermal fusion.
Horizontal Geothermal Systems involve placing coils of pipe in trenches usually 6-7 feet deep. If you have the space available, then this type of Geothermal System is usually the most economically installed. These are often called a slinky system, and will require about 100 feet per ton of heating/cooling capacity. Vertical Geothermal Systems. Vertical Geothermal Systems are used extensively where land area is limited. Wells are drilled and a pair of pipes connected at the bottom are inserted into the well. The average well depth needed in WNC is about 150 to 175 feet of depth per ton of heating or cooling.
In vertical geothermal ground loops, a drilling rig is used to drill 150 to 300 foot deep holes in which hairpin shaped loops of pipe are dropped and then grouted. A typical vertical ground loop requires 300 to 600 feet of piping per ton of heating and cooling. Vertical loops are typically more expensive than horizontal loops, but are considerably less complicated than drilling for water.
In horizontal geothermal ground loops, several hundred feet of five to six feet deep trenches are dug with a backhoe or chain trencher. Piping is then laid in the trench and backfilled. A typical horizontal ground loop will be 400 to 600 feet long for each ton of heating and cooling. Because of the amount of trenching involved, horizontal ground loops are most commonly used for new construction. A typical vertical ground loop requires 300 to 600 feet of piping per ton of heating and cooling. Vertical loops are typically more expensive than horizontal loops, but are considerably less complicated than drilling for water.
Vertical loops also minimize the disturbance to existing landscaping. For vertical closed loop systems, a U-tube (more rarely, two U-tubes) is installed in a well drilled 100 to 400 feet deep. Because conditions in the ground may vary greatly, loop lengths can range from 130 to 300 feet per ton of heat exchange. 