Generally the climate on mountains get progressively colder with increased altitude (the higher up you go). This happens because as altitude increases, air becomes thinner and is less able to absorb and retain heat. The cooler the temperature the less evaporation there is, meaning that there is more moisture in the air. You can often see snow on the top of mountains all year round, because the temperature at the top of mountains is lower than at the bottom. The higher the place is above sea level the colder it will be. Some mountains reach higher than the clouds. At this altitude the extreme cold and high winds cause blizzards.
Prevailing winds are from the southwest in summer and from the northwest in winter. Being in the northernmost portion of the state, and with small mountains up to 1800 feet in elevation, the Northern Zone normally exhibits a colder temperature regime than other climate regions of the State. 
Highland Climate (H) Alpine Biome Highland climates are cool to cold, found in mountains and high plateaus. Climates change rapidly on mountains, becoming colder the higher the altitude gets. The climate of a highland area is closely related to the climate of the surrounding biome. The highlands have the same seasons and wet and dry periods as the biome they are in. Mountain climates are very important to midlatitude biomes.
Highland climate is the climate of 'high' 'land'. So, this climate is found in high mountain areas. It is found on single mountains such as Mount Kilimanjaro and also large areas of high elevation such as the Plateau of Tibet. The type of vegetation that grows in Highland also depends on the elevation. At the base (bottom) of the mountain the vegetation will be the same as the surrounding climate type. So, a mountain in the rainforest will have rainforest at the base.
1 Snow is more common in highland regions than in lowland areas, so while snow might fall on South West England less than 10 days a year, it will fall on the peaks of the Cairngorm Mountains over 100 days a year. 1 Rainfall. 2  On average it rains one in three days in the UK. 3  However, rainfall varies greatly from region to region. 4  It is generally wetter in the west than the east and wetter in the highlands than the lowlands.
1. Which of the following best describes a marine climate? (Points: 3) cold winters and hot summers warm winters and cool summers warm temperatures year-round cold temperatures year-round 2. What is the name of a tropical region that has a distinct wet and dry season? Best Answer: 1. warm winters and cool summers 2. savanna 3. marine west coast 4. Temperature decreases with altitude. 5. A cold ocean current travels along the coast..
The reason mountains need their own climate type is because the climate changes as you move up the mountain. At the base (bottom) of a mountain it might be 80 degrees and sunny, but as you climb the mountain it will get colder and be rainy. The type of vegetation that grows in Highland also depends on the elevation. At the base (bottom) of the mountain the vegetation will be the same as the surrounding climate type. So, a mountain in the rainforest will have rainforest at the base.
(Points: 3). Highland regions are found in higher latitudes. Ocean currents stabilize the climate in highland regions. Highland areas are far from large bodies of water. Temperature decreases with altitude. Best Answer: 1. warm winters and cool summers 2. savanna 3. marine west coast 4. Temperature decreases with altitude. 5. A cold ocean current travels along the coast..
Difference between highland and lowland climate in Pakistan: Highland climate is the region that includes northern, north-western and western highlands. The winters are long, … cold and snowy and the summers remain short and mild. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by TT4EVER. Confidence votes 36. It is colder in the highlands than the lowlands because the higher the elevation, the colder it becomes, and the lower the elevation, the hotter.