A. Eyelid twitching is a very common symptom. It often occurs in association with stress and fatigue. The exact cause is unknown. Other than reducing stress and getting a little more good-quality sleep, there isn't any specific treatment for a twitching eyelid. 
Nevertheless, eyelid twitches may be caused or made worse by: 1  eye irritation. 2  eyelid irritation (conjunctiva). 3  fatigue. 4  lack of sleep. 5  physical exertion. 6  side effects of medication. 7  stress. 8  use of alcohol, tobacco, or caffeine. The most common causes of eyelid twitch are stress, fatigue, and the use of caffeine. To ease eye twitching, you might want to try any of the following: 1  Drink less caffeine. 2  Get adequate sleep.
Eye twitching is a repetitive, uncontrollable blinking or spasm of the eyelid, usually the upper lid. Eye twitching (blepharospasm) usually affects the eye muscles of both eyes. If you have eye twitching, you may have an involuntary movement that recurs every several seconds for a minute or two. 
Eye Twitching, also known as blepharospasm or myokymia, is a sudden, involuntary movement of the eyelid; it is also referred to as an eye muscle spasm. These spasms often occur in stressful situations or when the affected individual has gone too long without sufficient rest. 
Eyelid twitch or twitching is a series of rapid, uncontrolled contractions or spasms of one or all four eyelids. The twitches often occur in irregular rhythms. The medical term for this symptom is myokymia. The most common known causes of eye twitch include fatigue, stress, anxiety, and excessive caffeine intake. Eyelid twitch may appear in response to irritation caused by smoke, dust, or a foreign body in the eye.
Sometimes, eye twitching may be the earliest sign of a chronic movement disorder, especially if other facial spasms develop in addition to the eye twitching. Usually, however, there is no identifiable cause. Some of the causes of eyelid spasms that have been identified include: 1  Alcohol intake. 2  Bright lights. Very rarely, eye twitch may be a sign of certain brain and nervous system disorders. When it is, it's almost always accompanied by other signs and symptoms. Brain and nervous system disorders that can cause eye twitch include: 1  Bell's palsy. 2  Cervical spondylosis. 3  Dystonia. 4  Multiple sclerosis.
Eyelid twitch may occur with other eye symptoms, such as watery eyes and irritated or red eyes or eyelids. Sometimes eyelid twitch appears along with facial tics, which are other involuntary movements of the face including grimacing and nose twitching. The most common known causes of eye twitch include fatigue, stress, anxiety, and excessive caffeine intake. Eyelid twitch may appear in response to irritation caused by smoke, dust, or a foreign body in the eye.
A twitching eye can be one sign of stress, especially when it is related to vision problems such as eye strain (see below). Reducing the cause of the stress can help make the twitching stop. Tiredness: A lack of sleep, whether because of stress or some other reason, can trigger a twitching eyelid. Almost all sudden-onset eyelid twitching is benign, meaning the condition is not serious or a sign of a medical problem. However, this kind of eye twitching also can be hard to treat. The only option for making the twitching stop may be to figure out the cause and deal with it.
Eye twitching (blepharospasm) is an involuntary movement of the eyelid every few seconds over the course of a minute or two. Sometimes the spasm is strong enough to make your eyelid close completely before reopening. 
On this page: Eye twitching causes • Remedies. Eye twitching, eyelid tics and spasms are pretty common. Usually only the bottom lid of one eye is involved, but the top eyelid also can twitch. Most eye twitches come and go, although they can last for weeks or even months. Almost all sudden-onset eyelid twitching is benign, meaning the condition is not serious or a sign of a medical problem. However, this kind of eye twitching also can be hard to treat. The only option for making the twitching stop may be to figure out the cause and deal with it.