Physical effects on either side of the brain. Stroke usually affects one side of the brain. Movement and sensation for one side of the body is controlled by the opposite side of the brain. 1  This means that if your stroke affected the left side of your brain, you will have problems with the right side of your body.
Right-brain injury. Damage to this side of the brain can cause a range of problems in a person’s emotions and behavior. A stroke survivor with right-brain injury may be unaware of his or her impairment and be certain that he or she can perform the same tasks as before the stroke. The largest portion of the brain—the cerebral cortex—has two hemispheres. The right hemisphere of the brain controls nonverbal communication, emotions and spatial orientation or sense of body position. The left hemisphere of the brain controls the right side of the body and is the brain’s language center.
1 Thus, damage to the right side of the brain may cause movement problems or weakness on the body's left side. 2  For most people, the left half of the brain is responsible for verbal and logical functions including language (listening, reading, speaking, and writing), thought and memory involving words. The effect of a brain injury is partially determined by the location of the injury. Sometimes only a single area is affected, but in most cases of TBI multiple areas have been injured. When all areas of the brain are affected, the injury can be very severe.
Damage to the brain from a brain injury can result in physical, emotional, psychological and practical problems. Suddenly, one's whole life expectations may change. Career prospects, relationships with family and friends, personal goals and ambitions may change in an instant. A brain injury or 'Traumatic Brain Injury' can be defined as 'damage to living brain tissue that is initially caused by external mechanical forces'. This contrasts with brain injury caused by internal events such as blood vessels bursting (strokes), growth of tumours, viruses or development of diseases.
Effects of left-sided stroke: Aphasia and language apraxia. Stroke (also known as a cerebrovascular accident or CVA) usually affects one side of the brain. Movement and sensation for one side of the body is controlled by the opposite side of the brain. This means that if your stroke affected the left side of your brain, you will have problems with the right side of your body. Some problems that happen after stroke are more common with stroke on one side of the brain than the other. 
If the stroke occurs in the left side of the brain, the right side of the body will be affected, producing some or all of the following: When stroke occurs in the brain stem, depending on the severity of the injury, it can affect both sides of the body and may leave someone in a ‘locked-in’ state. The effects of a stroke depend on several factors, including the location of the obstruction and how much brain tissue is affected. However, because one side of the brain controls the opposite side of the body, a stroke affecting one side will result in neurological complications on the side of the body it affects.
1 The left half controls movement and sensation in the right side of the body, and the right half controls movement and sensation in the left side. 2  Thus, damage to the right side of the brain may cause movement problems or weakness on the body's left side. The effect of a brain injury is partially determined by the location of the injury. Sometimes only a single area is affected, but in most cases of TBI multiple areas have been injured. When all areas of the brain are affected, the injury can be very severe.
1 This means that if your stroke affected the left side of your brain, you will have problems with the right side of your body. 2  If your stroke affected the right side of your brain, you will have problems with the left side of your body. Movement and sensation for one side of the body is controlled by the opposite side of the brain. 1 
Right hemisphere brain damage (RHD) is damage to the right side of the brain. The brain is made up of two sides or hemispheres. Each hemisphere is responsible for different body functions and skills. In most people, the left side of the brain contains the person's language functions. 
1 The brain is divided into two halves (hemispheres). 2  The left half controls movement and sensation in the right side of the body, and the right half controls movement and sensation in the left side. 3  Thus, damage to the right side of the brain may cause movement problems or weakness on the body's left side. The effect of a brain injury is partially determined by the location of the injury. Sometimes only a single area is affected, but in most cases of TBI multiple areas have been injured. When all areas of the brain are affected, the injury can be very severe.