In general, if it is only the bottom section of the trap that is bad and it is a standard 1-1/4 two-piece trap from the tail-piece to the drain, the cost will be less than US$10 for the material, not including labor. Labor will be about 10 minutes. If the drain is bad or needs to be cut, or the tail-piece (part coming from the sink) is bad, cost and labor will be higher. If an adaptor from chrome to PVC is required, add that fitting. If this is a double-sink, add that as well
0. Edit Answer (for another -17 minute). The average labor cost to install a bathroom sink faucet runs between $140 to $200 to replace. Since you have three to replace it would probably be on the lower end of the scale and also depends on the complexity of the install. If the sink is in a small vanity that makes it hard to get to it may run higher
A sink P-trap is not only the most common trap, it is also the easiest to install or replace. Installing a new p-trap is an easy way to replace your drain if it is leaking, clogged, or just old and unsightly. Most of the time the drain pipes under the sink can be either the white pvc or the black abs.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Sink Trap! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Sink Trap Installation project. For a basic 1 assembly project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Sink Trap ranges between $164.97 - $214.41 per assembly. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
1 A relatively simple and straightforward pedestal sink or sink-and-vanity installation (faucets included) starts around $75-$250, but can be $300-$600 or more if removal of the old fixtures is difficult, or if pipes or parts need moving or replacing to fit the new setup. 1 A small vanity with sink, countertop and faucet starts around $250-$550, but it can run anywhere from $600-$1,200 for a top-of-the-line, fine-furniture version with double sinks and faucets. 2  BetterHomes&Gardens.com displays a slide show of distinctive bathroom sinks ranging in price from $150-$9,000
$278.56. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Kitchen Sink! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Kitchen Sink Installation project. For a basic 1 sink project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Kitchen Sink ranges between $214.16 - $278.56 per sink. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 
Reply. It would take about 1 to 2 hours to remove the old faucet and replace it with a new one if the water shutoff valves are in good condition. Including 30 minutes for driving time and $5 worth of supplies my estimate would be $80 to $130 at $50-hr labor. 
1 If your are replacing your existing trap with a new sink P-trap first you have to remove the old one. 2  Start by putting a small bowl to catch the water under the trap. 3  Then disconnect the nuts on each side of the U-bend with pliers. 4  Drop the trap straight down and empty out the water into the bowl. Installing a new p-trap is an easy way to replace your drain if it is leaking, clogged, or just old and unsightly. Most of the time the drain pipes under the sink can be either the white pvc or the black abs.