Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 
Eating fiber-rich whole foodsnot foods that tout added fiberis the best way to increase your fiber intake, says Carolyn Brown, RD, a nutritionist at Foodtrainers, in New York City. Here is a list of high-fiber foodsand tasty recipes that contain them. Watch the video: 3 Ways to Get More Fiber. Next: Corn. Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough. Women should get about 25 grams a day and men at least 35 to 40, but the average person gets just 15 grams a day.
Fiber — along with adequate fluid intake — moves quickly and relatively easily through your digestive tract and helps it function properly. A high-fiber diet may also help reduce the risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. Here's a look at the fiber content of some common foods. Read nutrition labels to find out exactly how much fiber is in your favorite foods. Women should try to eat at least 21 to 25 grams of fiber a day, while men should aim for 30 to 38 grams a day. *Fiber content can vary among brands.
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. Consistent intake of fermentable fiber through foods like berries and other fresh fruit, vegetables, whole grains, seeds, and nuts is now known to reduce risk of some of the world’s most prevalent diseases — obesity, diabetes, high blood cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, and numerous gastrointestinal disorders.
Vegetables contain a high amount of water, fiber, vitamins and minerals. Brussels sprouts have one of the highest amounts of soluble fiber. A 1/2-cup serving contains 2 grams. Turnips, sweet potatoes and asparagus all have 1.7 grams or more. This classification of foods, which includes beans, lentils, peanuts and peas, is high in both soluble and insoluble fiber. Black beans, kidney beans and navy beans are especially high in soluble fiber. Each contains at least 2 grams per 1/2-cup serving
Most foods which are high in fiber are also very good for you for other reasons. Take, for example, fruit and vegetables and whole grains, they are high in fiber but also rich in vitamins and other essential nutrients. In other words, if you seek a high-fiber diet, not only will you be protecting your health because of your fiber intake, but also because you will consume other essential nutrients.
Bran from many grains is very rich in dietary fiber. Oat bran is high in soluble fiber, which has been shown to lower blood cholesterol levels. Wheat, corn, and rice bran are high in insoluble fiber, which helps prevent constipation. Bran can be sprinkled into your favorite foods,from hot cereal and pancakes to muffins and cookies. Many popular high-fiber cereals and bars are also packed with bran.
Eat More Vegetables All Day. One-half cup of cooked broccoli provides 2.8 grams of fiber, 1/2 cup of cooked spinach supplies 3.5 grams of dietary fiber and 1/2 cup of cooked winter squash contains 2.9 grams of fiber. Vegetables are low in calories, and nutrients they provide include vitamins A and C and potassium. 
Fiber in the diet has many health benefits. Not only does a high-fiber diet help with gastrointestinal health, but fiber is great for lowering the risk of heart disease. Fiber intake requirements vary by sex and age. The average adult female needs 25 grams of fiber on a daily basis. The average male needs 38 grams of fiber. Grains and Pasta. Of the grains, barley, oats and bran contain the most fiber. One cup gives the body 6 grams. Whole wheat pasta adds about the same. Multigrain breads contain only about 1 or 2 grams of fiber per slice.