Because there is a pair of dorsal interossei muscles attached on both sides of the second toe, contraction of these muscles results in no movement (i.e. the midline of the hand is in the third finger, but the midline of the foot is in the second toe). In human anatomy, the dorsal interossei of the foot are four muscles situated between the metatarsal bones.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. An anatomical term, interosseous finds its etymology in the Latin words inter, meaning between, and os, meaning bone. Specifically, interosseous refers to any structure or area connecting or lying between bones. Many of these structures are located in the spine between vertebrae, in the leg immediately above the ankle, and directly above the wrist in the arm. These structures can include membranes, ligaments, nerves, or arteries.
Medical Definition of INTEROSSEUS. : any of various small muscles arising from the metacarpals and metatarsals and inserted into the bases of the first phalanges: a: dorsal interosseus b: palmar interosseus c: plantar interosseus. 7 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  interosseus (noun). 2  interosseus dorsalis (noun). 3  interosseus palmaris (noun). 
Current literature assumes that there are three palmar interossei. Nevertheless, in 1858 the German anatomist Henle has described a fourth palmar interosseous between the thumb and the index finger (palmar interosseous of Henle). Functionally, the palmar interossei act antagonistically to the dorsal interossei in the MCP (mnemonic: DAB = Dorsals ABduct, PAD = Palmars ADduct). However both muscle groups perform common functions, as they flex the fingers in the MCP and extend in the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints (PIP and DIP).
Dorsal interossei (interosseous muscles) of hand | definition of dorsal interossei (interosseous muscles) of hand by Medical dictionary. Printer Friendly. http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/dorsal+interossei+(interosseous+muscles)+of+hand. Getour app. 
Anatomy and supply. The palmar interossei are three muscles located in the metacarpus. They arise from the metacarpal bones of the index, ring and little finger. The origin surfaces of these muscles are facing towards the middle finger: 1  Palmar interosseous muscle I: ulnar side of the index finger. Functionally, the palmar interossei act antagonistically to the dorsal interossei in the MCP (mnemonic: DAB = Dorsals ABduct, PAD = Palmars ADduct). However both muscle groups perform common functions, as they flex the fingers in the MCP and extend in the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints (PIP and DIP).
intrinsic muscles. Definitions: 1. muscles fully contained (origin, belly, and insertion) within the structure under consideration. For example, the interossei and lumbrical muscles are intrinsic muscles of the hand. The definition information for intrinsic muscles is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
Structure [edit]. There are four dorsal interossei in each hand. They are specified as 'dorsal' to contrast them with the palmar interossei, which are located on the anterior side of the metacarpals. With some individual variations, the interossei muscles are attached either proximally or distally on the extensor expansion. The first dorsal interosseous, the most consistent, is inserted entirely into the base of its metacarpal and the extensor hood there.
Each finger is provided with two interossei (palmar or dorsal), with the exception of the little finger, in which the abductor digiti minimi muscle takes the place of one of the dorsal interossei. The first dorsal interosseous muscle is larger than the others. With some individual variations, the interossei muscles are attached either proximally or distally on the extensor expansion. The first dorsal interosseous, the most consistent, is inserted entirely into the base of its metacarpal and the extensor hood there.