Vacuum the carpet to remove surface dirt, dust and other debris. Fill a bucket with 1/2 gallon warm water and add 1 cup ammonia. Mix the contents together with a spoon. Dampen a sponge in the mixture and wring the excess liquid out of the sponge. Blot the stains with
Step 5: Get to work. To remove old pet urine stains, dilute enzymes in water according to the directions, then soak the carpet and pad with the solution. Cover the stained area with a towel dampened with distilled water, then use a brick (or something similar) to apply pressure to the towel.
Using ammonia to clean stains is a last resort, but I do have a formula it is 2 steps: 1 tbsp. ammonia to 1/2 cup water, 1 tsp. colorless dish washing liquid to 1 cup lukewarm water. You will smell the ammonia so I would add a step and use Fabreeze with hot water.
Ammonia can easily be used as a cleaning agent for your carpet by using it to make a cleaning solution. Just mix a teaspoon of ammonia with a cup of warm water and you’ll have for yourself a potent stain removal cleaning solution which will be sure to remove many kinds of stains on your carpet.
Hot Water. Spray Bottle. Steam Iron. White Towels. First, mix together the ammonia and the hot water in a 1:1 ratio. Make enough to at least coat the whole stain once, but if possible, make a little more. Pour your mixture into a spray bottle and liberally spray the stain on your carpet with it. Make sure it's completely covered.
Ammonia and Vinegar. Vacuum the carpet to remove surface dirt, dust and other debris. Pour 1 part vinegar and 5 parts warm water into a spray bottle. Fill a second, clean spray bottle with 5 parts warm water and 1 part ammonia. Dampen the carpet stain with the vinegar mixture and let it soak for 3 to 4 minutes.
Place a clean, white towel over the ammonia/water soaked stain and apply the iron. Make sure the iron is very hot before attempting this step. 1  Press the iron down onto the towel and hold it in place for approximately 10 seconds. 2  You should hear a sizzling sound, which means the liquid is being absorbed by the towel.