The known inorganic chemistry of the allotropes of carbon (diamond, graphite, and the fullerenes) blossomed with the discovery of buckminsterfullerene in 1985, as additional fullerenes and their various derivatives were discovered. Organic carbon compounds are far more numerous than inorganic carbon compounds. In general bonds of carbon with other elements are covalent bonds. Carbon is tetravalent but carbon free radicals and carbenes occur as short-lived intermediates. Ions of carbon are carbocations and carbanions and are also short-lived.
710 16 Carbonyl Compounds I. Aldehydes and Ketones. Addition Reactions of the Carbonyl Group method is that the reaction can be driven essentially to completion by dis-tilling out the 2-propanone as it is formed. 700 16 Carbonyl Compounds I. Aldehydes and Ketones. Addition Reactions of the Carbonyl Group Addition of Ammonia to Aldehydes Ammonia adds readily to many aldehydes. For example, I-aminoethanol (acetaldehyde ammonia) The aldehyde-ammonia adducts usually are not very stable.
Carboxylic Acids and Carboxylate Ions. When one of the substituents on a carbonyl group is an OH group, the compound is a carboxylic acid with the generic formula RCO 2 H. These compounds are acids, as the name suggests, which form carboxylate ions (RCO 2 -) by the loss of an H + ion. When this happens, the two valence electrons on the H-ion form a covalent bond to the carbon atom. Since carbon is tetravalent, one pair of electrons in the C=O bond is displaced onto the oxygen to form an intermediate with a negative charge on the oxygen atom.
For carbonyl as a ligand, see Metal carbonyl. A compound containing a carbonyl group (C=O). In organic chemistry, a carbonyl group is a functional group composed of a carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom: C=O. It is common to several classes of organic compounds, as part of many larger functional groups. A compound containing a carbonyl group is often referred to as a carbonyl compound. 
696 16 Carbonyl Compounds I. Aldehydes and Ketones. Addition Reactions of the Carbonyl Group Polymerization of Aldehydes A reaction closely related to acetal formation is the polymerization of alde-hydes. Both linear and cyclic polymers are obtained. 700 16 Carbonyl Compounds I. Aldehydes and Ketones. Addition Reactions of the Carbonyl Group Addition of Ammonia to Aldehydes Ammonia adds readily to many aldehydes. For example, I-aminoethanol (acetaldehyde ammonia) The aldehyde-ammonia adducts usually are not very stable.
Description of the Carbonyl Group. It is somewhat misleading to write the carbonyl group as a covalent C=O double bond. The difference between the electronegativities of carbon and oxygen is large enough to make the C=O bond moderately polar. As a result, the carbonyl group is best described as a hybrid of the following resonance structures. When this happens, the two valence electrons on the H-ion form a covalent bond to the carbon atom. Since carbon is tetravalent, one pair of electrons in the C=O bond is displaced onto the oxygen to form an intermediate with a negative charge on the oxygen atom.
The carbonyl functional group is based on the ketone group. It has the formula RCOR'. The prefix for this group is keto-or oxo-or its suffix is-one. Ben Mills. Definition: the term carbonyl refers to the carbonyl functional group which is a divalent group consisting of a carbon atom with a double-bond to oxygen. Carbonyl also may refer to a compound formed by a metal with carbon monoxide.
Aldehydes and ketones are simple compounds which contain a carbonyl group-a carbon-oxygen double bond. They are simple in the sense that they don't have other reactive groups like-OH or-Cl attached directly to the carbon atom in the carbonyl group-as you might find, for example, in carboxylic acids containing-COOH. In aldehydes, the carbonyl group has a hydrogen atom attached to it together with either. a second hydrogen atom. or, more commonly, a hydrocarbon group which might be an alkyl group or one containing a benzene ring. For the purposes of this section, we shall ignore those containing benzene rings.
Aldehydes and ketones react with a source of the hydride (H -) ion because the H-ion is a Lewis base, or nucleophile, that attacks the d + end of the C=O bond. When this happens, the two valence electrons on the H-ion form a covalent bond to the carbon atom. Since carbon is tetravalent, one pair of electrons in the C=O bond is displaced onto the oxygen to form an intermediate with a negative charge on the oxygen atom.