A store credit or credit to a Home Depot Commercial Credit Account may be issued for the original purchase price.** Returns with an original sales receipt within 90 days of purchase. Any purchase made by credit card will be refunded to the original credit card. ** Sales tax will not be refunded on purchases over 90 days or without a receipt in Massachusetts and Connecticut. 1  Return the product to your local Home Depot store*. 2  A refund will be issued to the original credit card. 3  Return the product to your local Home Depot store*. A refund will be issued to the original credit card. Returns with original customer agreement after 90 days of purchase. Return the product to your local Home Depot store*
In-Store Purchase Return Policy. Returns within 90 days of purchase and with a valid sales receipt will be exchanged, refunded in cash, credited to your account or refunded via The Home Depot store credit. Most merchandise can be returned within 90 days of purchase unless noted in our Return Policy Exceptions. Refunds will be issued to the original form of payment (credit card, Pay Pal, etc.). Original shipping charges will be deducted from the refund unless the return is the result of an error by Homedepot.com.
may be returned for a full refund if in the original, unopened packaging within 14 days of purchase. Opened software, CDs, DVDs and video games may be exchanged for the same item only. Downloadable software purchases are not eligible for return or refund. may only be exchanged or returned for a full refund if unassembled and in the original packaging (including all components and manuals) with UPC code within 14 days of purchase. : Any item purchased between October 1st and December 24th can be returned until January 14th, or as the policy allows (whichever is later).
You can return some items you purchased on eBay, depending on the seller's return policy. If you used same day delivery or free in-store pickup when you purchased your item and the seller accepts returns, return the item directly to the store where you purchased it. Here's what to expect when you need to return an item. 
Returns with an original customer agreement within 90 days of purchase. Return the product to your local Home Depot store*. A refund will be issued to the original credit card. Returns with original customer agreement after 90 days of purchase. Return the product to your local Home Depot store*. ** Sales tax will not be refunded on purchases over 90 days or without a receipt in Massachusetts and Connecticut. 1  Return the product to your local Home Depot store*. 2  A refund will be issued to the original credit card. 3  Return the product to your local Home Depot store*.
Returns for items purchased at a The Home Depot Store: Our Store Return Policy Basics. Returns within 90 days of purchase and with a valid sales receipt will be exchanged, refunded in cash, credited to your account or refunded via The Home Depot store credit. – Gasoline-powered equipment may be returned within 30 days of purchase with a valid sales receipt. After 30 days, item may be sent out for repair at the customer’s expense, unless covered under warranty. – Special order returns are subject to 15% restocking fee. Cancellations may b
You may return most new, unopened items sold by The Home Depot within 90 days of purchase for a full refund, unless otherwise noted below. 1  Any Major Appliance product damage must be reported within 48 hours of delivery by calling 1-877-946-9843. Most merchandise can be returned within 90 days of purchase unless noted in our Return Policy Exceptions. Refunds will be issued to the original form of payment (credit card, Pay Pal, etc.). Original shipping charges will be deducted from the refund unless the return is the result of an error by Homedepot.com.
At any store location, you can bring back an item for return within 90 days, except for Walmart’s electronic return policy, which has a return expiration of 15 to 30 days. During the holidays, the return period start date for these items is Dec. 26, and not the day of purchase. Target hits the bull’s-eye with its no-frills return policy: any unopened item in its original condition can be returned within 90 days, with certain exceptions (like electronics and entertainment, which won’t be accepted for returns or exchanges after 30 days).