SOLUTION. 1  Sodium is a metal, and oxygen is a nonmetal; therefore, Na 2 O is expected to be ionic. 2  Both phosphorus and chlorine are nonmetals. 3  The NH 4 in the formula represents the ammonium ion, NH 4, which indicates that this compound is ionic. 4  Both oxygen and fluorine are nonmetals. When an ionic compound is formed from magnesium and oxygen, the magnesium ion has a 2+ charge, and the oxygen atom has a 2− charge. Although both of these ions have higher charges than the ions in lithium bromide, they still balance each other in a one-to-one ratio.
A covalent bond is a bond between two nonmetals, where the electrons are essentially shared. For example water is H2O. Oxygen needs two more electrons to have a full valence (… outer shell) and each hydrogen needs one electron, so they share electrons to form the stable compound water. A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. 13 people found this useful. Blu WikiAnswers.
Answer 1: Covalent bonds are bonds formed between two non-metals. Ionic bonds are formed between a metal and a non-metal. Answer 2: Covalent bonds are formed when atoms share … on or more electrons. Ionic bonds are formed when on atom transfers electrons to another atom. A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. 13 people found this useful. Blu WikiAnswers.
molecule. Question 3 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) The compound NaCl is an example of... show more Question 2 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) Potassium is a metal and chlorine is a nonmetal. If these two elements were to bond, they would form a(n) ionic compound. covalent compound. element. molecule. It is made of a metal and a nonmetal. ionic bonds are formed between a cation (usually a metal) and an anion (usually a nonmetal) 7. The compound may have properties that are very different from those of the elements. example: hydrogen and oxygen are combustible, water is not.
Lithium bromide, or LiBr is a chemical compound of lithium and bromine. 
It is made of a metal and a nonmetal. It is formed when atoms share electrons. Question 4 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) Ionic compounds are also known as salts. valence. organic. elements. Question 5 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) The compound CO is an example of a(n) salt. element. ionic compound.
covalent compound. Question 6 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) The compound HCl is an example of a(n) covalent compound. ionic compound. element. salt. Question 7 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) Hydrogen is a nonmetal and Oxygen is a nonmetal. If these two elements were to bond, they would form a(n) covalent compound. ionic compound. element. salt. Question 4 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) Ionic compounds are also known as salts. valence. organic. elements. Question 5 (Multiple Choice Worth 2 points) The compound CO is an example of a(n) salt. element
The formula for lithium bromide is LiBr. When an ionic compound is formed from magnesium and oxygen, the magnesium ion has a 2+ charge, and the oxygen atom has a 2− charge. Although both of these ions have higher charges than the ions in lithium bromide, they still balance each other in a one-to-one ratio.