1 While baklava is baking, combine sugar and water in a small saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil. 2  Stir in honey, vanilla and lemon zest, reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes. 3  Remove the baklava from the oven and immediately spoon the syrup over it.
Baklava is normally prepared in large pans. Many layers of phyllo dough, separated with melted butter and vegetable oil, are laid in the pan. A layer of chopped nuts—typically walnuts or pistachios, but hazelnuts are also sometimes used—is placed on top, then more layers of phyllo.
The filling for Baklava ranges from the use of one nut (generally almonds or walnuts) to a combination, sometimes including pistachio nuts, which grow profusely on the Greek island of Aegina (say: EH-yee-nah). In northeastern Greece, a version of Baklava is made with sesame seeds.
Baklava is a beautiful pastry with light, flaky layers of crust and a sweet filling, drenched in a light syrup. I'm not going to get into the history of Baklava but, suffice it to say, this delicious pastry is made in every corner of every region in Greece.
Baklava is a Mediterranean dessert made with Phyllo dough, nuts, butter, and sugar. After baking to perfection, a sweet syrup is immediately poured over the pieces allowing the syrup to be absorbed into the layers. We use highest quality walnuts and Grade AA butter, and we make our own syrup for our Baklava.
Baklava is a Mediterranean dessert made with Phyllo dough, nuts, butter, and sugar. After baking to perfection, a sweet syrup is immediately poured over the pieces allowing the syrup to be absorbed into the layers. We use highest quality walnuts and Grade AA butter, and we make our own syrup for our Baklava.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Baklava is a type of Greek pastry traditionally made with phyllo dough, honey, nuts, and orange essence. Many other Middle Eastern nations have pastries which are very similar, thanks to a long running tradition of sweet desserts which feature flaky, delicate pastry.
Today, Baklava is made with paper thin sheets of phyllo. The dough can be layered on the bottom and top only, or-with a few sheets on the bottom and top-phyllo is alternated with the filling to form multiple layers.