1 Harvest regular slicing cucumbers when they about 6 to 8 inches long (slicing varieties). 2  Harvest dills at 4 to 6 inches long and pickles at 2 inches long for pickles. 3  The large burpless cucumbers can be up to 10 inches long and some types are even larger. I planted cucumber seeds about three weeks ago. About fifteen in a cup as the directions told me so but they all came up and after growing to about seven inches tall with 2 leaves overnight they all wilted. That day I got a large deep pot and transplanted all of them added a little plant food.
So the more you harvest, the more cucumber you can expect to grow in one season. Harvest cucumbers based on use. Harvest pickling cucumbers when they reach 1 to 6 inches long, slicing cucumbers at 6 to 10 inches long and cucumber for regular dills at 3 to 4 inches long. 1  Dig This.
Keep in mind that cucumbers need warm soil and constant water supply to germinate. You need a temperature range of 75 degrees to 80 degrees F during the day. At this optimum soil temperature, the seeds will take 7 to 10 days to germinate. I planted cucumber seeds about three weeks ago. About fifteen in a cup as the directions told me so but they all came up and after growing to about seven inches tall with 2 leaves overnight they all wilted. That day I got a large deep pot and transplanted all of them added a little plant food.
Germination Time. If there are both ideal soil and air temperatures, cucumber seeds germinate in seven to 10 days. If the soil and air temperatures are lower than the optimal temperatures, or are on the lower end of the ideal temperature ranges, then the cucumber seeds take longer to germinate. Water Germination. You can germinate cucumber seeds by direct seeding into a home garden bed or in soil in a seed tray. However, cucumber seeds can also be started with only water, as long as the temperatures are sufficiently high.
It depends of watering, sunlight, and temperature of soil, but under the right conditions, anywhere from 4-20 days. The trick to getting cucumbers to come up fast-and grow rapidly-is to have the patience to wait until the soil is really warm - 72 degrees or better. Then they'll be up in 5-6 days, and grow vigorously.
Air Temperature. The ideal air temperature for a cucumber seed to germinate is between 75 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit. However, cucumber seeds can germinate in air temperatures that are 65 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit. The lower the air temperature, the longer the germination period. Water Germination. You can germinate cucumber seeds by direct seeding into a home garden bed or in soil in a seed tray. However, cucumber seeds can also be started with only water, as long as the temperatures are sufficiently high.
You can successfully grow cucumbers in containers but you may need to water 2-3 times a day. Cucumbers are mostly water and the fruits will wither and the plants will die if the soil dries out for very long. If you put 3-4 inch layer of mulch over the soil, you can water a little less, but still twice a day is best. I planted cucumber seeds about three weeks ago. About fifteen in a cup as the directions told me so but they all came up and after growing to about seven inches tall with 2 leaves overnight they all wilted. That day I got a large deep pot and transplanted all of them added a little plant food.
Save. Germinating cucumber seeds indoors for outdoor transplanting typically takes seven to 10 days if people do it correctly. By chitting cucumber seeds (soaking them in warm water), gardeners can germinate cucumber seeds in one to three days. Although some seeds in a chitting batch may germinate overnight, most of them will take a couple more days. No one variety or cultivar produces seeds will germinate faster. 