Save. Disorders that affect the bone marrow belong to a group of diseases known as myelodysplastic syndromes or MDS, also called myelodysplasia. The bone marrow of patients with MDS fails to produce the required amount of blood cells. 1  What Is Myelodysplasia Disease? 2  What Is MDS? 
The outlook in MDS depends on the type and severity. Many people live normal lifespans with MDS. The myelodysplastic syndromes are all disorders of the hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow (only related to myeloid lineage). In MDS, hematopoiesis (i.e., blood production) is disorderly and ineffective
In some cases, MDS is caused by chemotherapy used to treat a different disease. This is called secondary MDS. In most cases, the cause of MDS is unknown. There are many different types of MDS. Doctors look at cells in the blood and in the bone marrow to determine what type of MDS a patient has.
The myelodysplastic syndromes (also known as MDS or myelodysplasia) are hematological (i.e., blood-related) medical conditions with ineffective production (or  dysplasia ) of all blood cells. Patients with MDS can develop severe anemia and require blood transfusions. Many people live normal lifespans with MDS. The myelodysplastic syndromes are all disorders of the hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow (only related to myeloid lineage). In MDS, hematopoiesis (i.e., blood production) is disorderly and ineffective
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of diseases that affect the bone marrow and blood. In MDS, the blood-forming cells in the marrow slow down, or even stop, making the three types of blood cells. Most patients with MDS will develop anemia (low numbers of red blood cells) and may need blood transfusions. This is called secondary MDS. In most cases, the cause of MDS is unknown. There are many different types of MDS. Doctors look at cells in the blood and in the bone marrow to determine what type of MDS a patient has.
Discussion. Diffuse mesangial sclerosis (DMS) was first described by Habib and Bios in 1973.[ 8 ] DMS is one of the causes for nephrotic syndrome (NS) that occurs more commonly in first two decades of life. It has a fatal course. DMS is a phenotypic expression of syndromic entities such as WAGR syndrome (Wilms’ tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation), Denys Drash syndrome, Pierson syndrome, Frasier syndrome, or Galloway–Mowat syndrome.
DMS: Rare Disease. DMS is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). DMS is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that DMS, or a subtype of DMS, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. DMS (medical condition): A rare inherited disorder involving a kidney disorder that starts early... more ». See also: Mesangial sclerosis, diffuse : » Introduction: Mesangial sclerosis, diffuse.
DMS: DMS is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Kidney conditions. 2  Urinary system conditions. 3  Abdominal conditions. DMS (medical condition): A rare inherited disorder involving a kidney disorder that starts early... more ». See also: Mesangial sclerosis, diffuse : » Introduction: Mesangial sclerosis, diffuse.