The ocean contains 97% of Earth's water, and oceanographers have stated that only 5% of the World Ocean has been explored. The total volume is approximately 1.35 billion cubic kilometers (320 million cu mi) with an average depth of nearly 3,700 meters (12,100 ft). A zone of rapid salinity increase with depth is called a halocline. The temperature of maximum density of seawater decreases as its salt content increases. Freezing temperature of water decreases with salinity, and boiling temperature of water increases with salinity.
Most saltwater jellyfish live in the intertidal zone (the shallowest zone that is from the shore to 200 meters out into the ocean). 
The abyssopelagic zone is located from 4,000 m to directly above the ocean floor and is a completely dark area home to colorless and blind animals. The deepest subzone is the hadopelagic zone, a name that originates from the Greek underworld Hades and refers to the ocean water in submarine trenches. Scientists generally classify the epipelagic and mesopelagic zones into what is known as the photic zone-or where light penetrates the water. Animals of The Epipelagic Zone. The zone best known to humans is where people can easily go scuba diving and many marine mammals are found. This area is packed with ocean life because of the sunlight that penetrates the surface.
This layer extends from 6000 meters (19,686 feet) to the bottom of the deepest parts of the ocean. These areas are mostly found in deep water trenches and canyons. The deepest point in the ocean is located in the Mariana Trench off the coast of Japan at 35,797 feet (10,911 meters). Diagram of the five layers of the ocean. Image copyright Sea and Sky. Epipelagic Zone-The surface layer of the ocean is known as the epipelagic zone and extends from the surface to 200 meters (656 feet). It is also known as the sunlight zone because this is where most of the visible light exists. With the light come heat
In addition to salinity, what factor affects the density of seawater?a. depth c. temperatureb. latitude d. salt content____ 14. Most ocean water is located in which zone?a. mixed zone c. surface zoneb. transition zone d. deep zone____ 15. The highest salinity would be found in which of the following areas?a. an area with high rates of precipitationb. an area with high rates of evaporationc. an area with plenty of runoffd. all of the above____ 10. The ocean layer of rapid temperature change with depth is known as the ____.a.
Considering the volume of water above the deepest parts of the ocean, it's no wonder that hydrostatic pressure is one of the most important environmental factors affecting deep sea life. Pressure increases 1 atmosphere (atm) for each 10 m in depth. Deep sea creatures have evolved some fascinating feeding mechanisms because food is scarce in these zones. In the absence of photosynthesis, most food consists of detritus — the decaying remains of microbes, algae, plants and animals from the upper zones of the ocean — and other organisms in the deep.
The oceanic zone begins in the area off shore where the water measures 200 metres (656 feet) deep or deeper. It is the region of open sea beyond the edge of the continental shelf and includes 65% of the ocean’s completely open water. The oceanic zone has a wide array of undersea terrain, including crevices that are often deeper than Mount Everest is tall, as well as deep-sea volcanoes and ocean basins. 90% of the ocean lies in the bathypelagic (aphotic) zone into which no light penetrates. This is also called the midnight zone. Water pressure is very intense and the temperatures are near freezing range 0 to 6 °C (32 to 43 °F).
To the left is a scale model of the ocean zones, from the warm sunlit waters of the surface to the cold dark depths of the Mariana Trench, the deepest point in the oceans at 36,200 feet (11,033 m). Notice how shallow the sunlit zone is compared to the midnight or abyssal zones. From the seashore to the deepest depths, oceans are home to some of the most diverse life on Earth. There are big animals and little ones; long and short ones, multicolored and drab ones, and those that just sit while others that never stop swimming. There are even some organisms that light up.
Okeanos, okeanós the sea of classical) antiquity is a body of saline water that composes much of a 'planet s. Hydrosphere On, earth an ocean is one of the major conventional divisions of The World, ocean which covers almost71 % of its. surface A zone of rapid salinity increase with depth is called a halocline. The temperature of maximum density of seawater decreases as its salt content increases. Freezing temperature of water decreases with salinity, and boiling temperature of water increases with salinity.