New York City's Meatpacking District has come a long way from its industrial days as a meat distributor. As NYC's destination for ultimate partying, revelers come out to the Meatpacking District in droves, dressed to the nines, and ready to see the sun rise. Partiers go to the Meatpacking to be seen. Signature Style In the Meatpacking District. Urban fashionistas unite in the Meatpacking, a cobblestoned runway set against a conspicuously rusting backdrop. In the Meatpacking, dogs step out in style. In the Meatpacking, your new purchase matches your sweater. In the Meatpacking, you look great on wheels.
The earliest development of the area now known as the Meatpacking District came in the mid-19th century. Before that it was the location of Fort Gansevoort, and the upper extension of Greenwich Village, which had been a vacation spot until overtaken by the northward movement of New York City. On the old freight yards, the Gansevoort Market (originally the Farmer's Market), an open-air space for the buying and selling of regional produce started in 1879, and the West Washington Market, 10 brick buildings used for meat, poultry and dairy transactions, relocated to the river side of West Street in 1884.
The Meatpacking District is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Manhattan which runs roughly from West 14th Street south to Gansevoort Street, and from the Hudson River east to Hudson Street, although recently it is sometimes considered to have extended north to West 16th Street and east beyond Hudson Street. On the old freight yards, the Gansevoort Market (originally the Farmer's Market), an open-air space for the buying and selling of regional produce started in 1879, and the West Washington Market, 10 brick buildings used for meat, poultry and dairy transactions, relocated to the river side of West Street in 1884.
Meatpacking District Walking Tour. N ot so long ago, the trendiest thing worn in the meatpacking district was a blood-stained apron. Now, Gansevoort Market (as the district is officially known) is New York’s most fashionable neighborhood, chock full of hip restaurants, exclusive clubs, and paycheck-draining boutiques. 
In 2007 New York State Parks Commissioner Carol Ash approved adding the entire Meatpacking District, not just the city-designated Gansevoort Market Historic District, to the New York State and National Registers of Historic Places. On the old freight yards, the Gansevoort Market (originally the Farmer's Market), an open-air space for the buying and selling of regional produce started in 1879, and the West Washington Market, 10 brick buildings used for meat, poultry and dairy transactions, relocated to the river side of West Street in 1884.
...the Meatpacking District of Manhattan [is] minutes walk to great restaurants, bars, shops and hotels. The area is very safe and is always full of taxis. It is less than five minute walk to the subway...The trains will take you all over Manhattan, Harlem, Brooklyn and Queens in a short time. Signature Style In the Meatpacking District. Urban fashionistas unite in the Meatpacking, a cobblestoned runway set against a conspicuously rusting backdrop. In the Meatpacking, dogs step out in style. In the Meatpacking, your new purchase matches your sweater. In the Meatpacking, you look great on wheels.
Neighborhood. Welcome to the quintessential 24-hour neighborhood. Welcome to the Meatpacking District. A 24-hour neighborhood located on the far west side of Manhattan, bordered by Chelsea to the north and the West Village to the south. This past May, the Meatpacking District became the new home of the Whitney Museum, one of the City’s most well respected art institutions. With the opening of its doors, the neighborhood has ballooned with pride and another new group of visitors.
Cobblestone streets and converted brick buildings lend the Meatpacking District an otherworldly ambiance at night, when this neighborhood really comes alive. Signature Style In the Meatpacking District. Urban fashionistas unite in the Meatpacking, a cobblestoned runway set against a conspicuously rusting backdrop. In the Meatpacking, dogs step out in style. In the Meatpacking, your new purchase matches your sweater. In the Meatpacking, you look great on wheels.
Spice Market provides a feast for all sense. Some art galleries have opened here, but the area is dominated by late-night establishments, high-end furniture ... more. The Meatpacking District owes its name to the meat distribution companies that once dominated the area. While some meatpacking houses still exist, nowadays you are more likely to find meat of the celebrity variety, twirling around the Bermuda Triangle of SoHo House, Spice Market, and the uber-swanky Hotel Gansevoort. 
The Meatpacking District is roughly bordered by west 14th street to the north, Gansevoort Street to the south, the Hudson River to the west and Hudson Street to the east. It is located between two other great neighborhoods, Chelsea to the North and the West Village to the south. Gansevoort History. There's no better way to experience this city than to live in a real New York apartment. For example, take a look at this furnished 1 bedroom apartment, which is situated in the heart of the Meatpacking District (http://www.nyhabitat.com/new-york-apa...