Lingual lipase uses a catalytic triad consisting of aspartatic acid-203 (Asp), histidine-257 (His), and serine-144 (Ser), to initiate the hydrolysis of a triglyceride into a diacylglyceride and a free fatty acid. First, there is a series of deprotonations that make the serine a better nucleophile. In the uterus, the fetus is dependent on a high-carbohydrate diet, and lingual as well as gastric lipases are present in the fetus from 26 weeks of gestation on. After birth, fat in mother's milk or a milk substitute Furthermore, milk fat is not a good substrate for pancreatic lipase.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lingual lipase is a member of a family of digestive enzymes called lipases, EC 3.1.1.3, that use the catalytic triad of aspartate, histidine, and serine to hydrolyze long-chain triglycerides into partial glycerides and free fatty acids. In the uterus, the fetus is dependent on a high-carbohydrate diet, and lingual as well as gastric lipases are present in the fetus from 26 weeks of gestation on. After birth, fat in mother's milk or a milk substitute Furthermore, milk fat is not a good substrate for pancreatic lipase.
Before introducing you to what lingual lipase is and what it does, let me tell you what lipase is. Lipases are water-soluble enzymes that act as catalysts in the hydrolysis reaction of ester chemical bonds in water-insoluble lipid substrates. Lingual lipase is secreted in the buccal cavity, specifically stated, by the Ebner's glands located around the circumvallate on the tongue and is localized in the zymogen granules. Lingual lipase breaks down short chain saturated fatty acids and helps in their digestion. It is one of the key components that aid the digestion of milk fat in newborns. It can penetrate into the milk fat globule, which makes this lipase vital to the digestive process of milk fat in newborn babi
The 1973 discovery of lingual lipase, which is secreted by lingual serous glands and hydrolyzes medium-and long-chain triglycerides in the stomach, has renewed interest in the gastric phase of fat digestion. 
Report Abuse. a) stomach secretes pepsin (protein digesting) and acid (HCL) b) pancreas secretes a full range of enzymes-lipase for fats, amylase for carbohydrates; a series of proteinases to break down protein and nucleases to break down RNA and DNA as well. This is definitely the best answer. 
The simple answer:   Lipase is produced in the Pancreas.   The technical answer:   There are a few different types of lipases; they can be categorized into pred … uodenal lipases and pancreatic lipases. Preduodenal lipases include lingual lipase and gastric lipase. Lingual lipase is secreted and produced by Ebner's glands (a type of minor salivary gland) located in in moat-like structures around the circumvallate papillae on the tongue. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Though we don't hear much about it a kind of lipase is produced by the mouth and specifically the tongue, hence it's called lingual lipase, and it carries out a fair amount of fat digestion. Since it functions at a low PH it continues to work on fats in the stomach environment. The stomach produces another type of lipase but it is not very important since it only acts on a fat commonly found in butter and called tributyrin. These two lipases are only really dealt with in very advanced levels of biology.
Enzyme release is signaled by autonomic nervous system after ingestion, at which time the serous glands under the circumvallate and foliate lingual papillae on the surface of the tongue (see Figure 1) secrete lingual lipase to the grooves of the circumvallate and foliate papillae. In the uterus, the fetus is dependent on a high-carbohydrate diet, and lingual as well as gastric lipases are present in the fetus from 26 weeks of gestation on. After birth, fat in mother's milk or a milk substitute Furthermore, milk fat is not a good substrate for pancreatic lipase.
Lipase is a water soluble enzyme that primarily breaks down fats and converts them to free fatty acids, monoglycerides and diglycerides. They play an important role in food digestion. You may be aware of the commonest lipase enzyme called pancreatic lipase used for the breakdown of fats we eat in the food. Types Of Lipase Enzyme. Lipases are of two categories preduodenal and pancreatic lipase. Lingual lipase is preduodenal lipase, the other being gastric lipase. Lingual lipase is secreted in the buccal cavity by the Ebner’s gland situated on the tongue. It is therefore called lingual lipase.