Full Moon Names. May's Full Flower Moon, also called Mother's Moon, Milk Moon, and Corn Planting Moon, marks a time of increasing fertility with temperatures warm enough for safely bearing young, a near end to late frosts, and plants in bloom. See all Full Moon names and their meanings.
In other cultures, this moon is called the sprouting grass moon, the egg moon, and the fish moon. May: Flower Moon. May's abundant blooms give its full moon the name flower moon in many cultures. Other names include the hare moon, the corn planting moon, and the milk moon. June: Strawberry Moon. In North America, the harvesting of strawberries in June gives that month's full moon its name.
What is a Flower Moon? The full moon that appears in May is called the Flower Moon. May’s abundant blooms give its full moon the name Flower Moon in many cultures.
This month’s full moon is called the flower moon in English. Other religious and cultural traditions have different names for the flower moon. For example, in Algonquian, this full lunar phase is a called the strawberry moon. This year’s flower moon, however, has an added component.
The first full moon in April is sometimes called the Paschal Moon in the ecclesiastical calendar because it is used to determine the date for Easter-the first Sunday after the Paschal Moon is Easter.
Native Americans full Moon names were created to help different tribes track the seasons. Think of it as a “ nickname ” for the Moon! See our list of other full Moon names for each month of the year and their meanings.
– Full Flower Moon – May In most areas, flowers are abundant everywhere during this time. Thus, the name of this Moon. Other names include the Full Corn Planting Moon, or the Milk Moon. – Full Strawberry Moon – June This name was universal to every Algonquin tribe. However, in Europe they called it the Rose Moon.
The Flower Moon of May is sometimes referred to as the Corn Planting Moon because corn is ready to plant. Other full moon names include the Hare Moon, the Corn Planting Moon, and the Milk Moon.