II. In a safe and healthy workplace, employees have a stake in the success of the program --- safety and health is everyone's responsibility. Actively encourage employee involvement if you want your program to succeed. Hold people accountable and makes sure everyone does their part. I. Make a commitment. Put as much energy into your commitment to safety and health as you put into any other important part of your business. Make sure to include workplace safety and health in your business plan and integrate it into all facets of the business.
Develop a Culture of Safety. Page Content. In a culture of safety, people are not merely encouraged to work toward change; they take action when it is needed. Inaction in the face of safety problems is taboo, and eventually the pressure comes from all directions — from peers as well as leaders
Safety culture refers to the ways that safety issues are addressed in a workplace. It often reflects the attitudes, beliefs, perceptions and values that employees share in relation to safety.. In other words, the way we do safety around here.. However we find that the culture and style of management is even more significant, for example a natural, unconscious bias for production over safety, or a tendency to focussing on the short-term and being highly reactive.. Since the 1980s there has been a large amount of research into safety culture.
Based on the positive experience of employers with existing programs, OSHA believes that injury and illness prevention programs provide the foundation for breakthrough changes in the way employers identify and control hazards, leading to a significantly improved workplace health and safety environment. 
Building a positive workplace culture: what you can do. If you have been successful in the past at recruiting employees only to lose them later, or if they have stayed, but haven’t lived up to your earlier expectations, the reason could be that your workplace culture is not as positive as it could be. 
Use work practices that create a culturally and psychologically safe environment for all persons. Review and modify work practices in consultation with people from diverse backgrounds. People who identify with a particular culture have a lot of things in common, eg food, traditional costumes, music and so on. Cultural safety means that a person is confident that their culture is accepted and respected and that service provision will embrace cultural considerations. When people feel culturally safe, they feel freedom from fear, anxiety and feelings of discomfort.
Creating a culture of workplace safety begins with a well-trained workforce. Employees trained in NSC safety programs make their workplaces safer for themselves, their coworkers and their employers. We have made it easy to get your workforce trained and productive with a variety of training options to fit your needs. Our best-in-class curriculum is delivered the way you work: ​ 1 Packaged Training.
A safety and health system for your business. As an employer, it is your responsibility to maintain a safe and healthy workplace. A safety and health management system, or safety program, can help you focus your efforts at improving your work environment. I. Make a commitment. Put as much energy into your commitment to safety and health as you put into any other important part of your business. Make sure to include workplace safety and health in your business plan and integrate it into all facets of the business.
In my consulting work and in presenting to large groups, the topic of creating or supporting a safety culture comes up without fail. What I find most often is a varied understanding of what is needed by leaders and employees to ingrain a safety culture into the fabric of their organization. 
In reality an organization's safety management system is not a set of policies and procedures on a bookshelf, but how those policies and procedures are implemented into the workplace, which will be influenced by the safety culture of the organization or workplace. However we find that the culture and style of management is even more significant, for example a natural, unconscious bias for production over safety, or a tendency to focussing on the short-term and being highly reactive.. Since the 1980s there has been a large amount of research into safety culture.