Carbon dioxide is a colorless and non-flammable gas at normal temperature and pressure. Although much less abundant than nitrogen and oxygen in Earth's atmosphere, carbon dioxide is an important constituent of our planet's air. A molecule of carbon dioxide (CO 2) is made up of one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms. Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas that helps to trap heat in our atmosphere. Without it, our planet would be inhospitably cold.
Carbon dioxide (chemical formula CO2) is a colorless, odorless gas vital to life on Earth. This naturally occurring chemical compound is composed of a carbon atom covalently double bonded to two oxygen atoms. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a product of respiration of all aerobic organisms. It is returned to water via the gills of fish and to the air via the lungs of air-breathing land animals, including humans.
Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas. Burning of carbon-based fuels since the industrial revolution has rapidly increased its concentration in the atmosphere, leading to global warming. It is also a major cause of ocean acidification since it dissolves in water to form carbonic acid. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a product of respiration of all aerobic organisms. It is returned to water via the gills of fish and to the air via the lungs of air-breathing land animals, including humans.
Dissolved Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Every atmospheric gas is in equilibrium with that gas dissolved in ocean water. The concentrations of two of these are particularly important. The concentration of oxygen in water is crucial to aquatic animals that depend on dissolved oxygen for respiration. 
Carbon dioxide has one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms, and a molecular weight of 44 grams per mole (a certain number of molecules). The oxygen in the air is actually O 2, or molecular oxygen, with a molecular weight of 32. Hence, carbon dioxide has a higher density, or is heavier than oxygen. That is why you need to be careful with carbon dioxide. It can displace the oxygen in a room and lead to asphyxiation.
The Carbon Cycle. All living things are made of carbon. Carbon is also a part of the ocean, air, and even rocks. Because the Earth is a dynamic place, carbon does not stay still. It is on the move! In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to some oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide. Plants use carbon dioxide and sunlight to make their own food and grow. The carbon becomes part of the plant. Plants that die and are buried may turn into fossil fuels made of carbon like coal and oil over millions of years
Carbon monoxide consists of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, connected by a triple bond that consists of two covalent bonds as well as one dative covalent bond. It is the simplest oxocarbon and is isoelectronic with the cyanide anion, the nitrosonium cation and molecular nitrogen. 
Carbon Dioxide. Carbon dioxide is a molecule form from a carbon atom and two oxygen atoms. Each oxygen atom forms a double bond with carbon, and the molecular has a linear geometry. The molecular weight of carbon dioxide is 44 g mole -1. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a colorless gas and upon the dissolution in water, it forms carbonic acid. So, plants are involved in maintaining the oxygen, carbon dioxide balance in the atmosphere. Oxygen. Oxygen is the element with the atomic number 8, which is present in group 16 of the periodic table. Oxygen has three isotopes, 16 O, 17 O, 18 O. Among these 16 O is the most abundant isotope.
The Carbon Dioxide-Oxygen Cycle relates to the relationship between Carbon Dioxide [CO2] breathing plants and Oxygen [O2] breathing lifeforms. All oxygen-breathing lifeforms take in Oxygen and exhale CO2. Plants take in the CO2 and use it in their photosynthesis process and in turn give off oxygen. A: The Carbon Dioxide-Oxygen Cycle is a continuously occurring process whereby animals inhale Oxygen and then exhale Carbon Dioxide, and plants use the CO2 and exhale O2. A: Plants and other producers use carbon dioxide in photosynthesis. They produce oxygen as a waste product