Schizophrenia is a severe brain disorder in which people interpret reality abnormally. Schizophrenia may result in some combination of hallucinations, delusions, and extremely disordered thinking and behavior. Contrary to popular belief, schizophrenia isn't a split personality or multiple personality. 
Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness characterized by incoherent or illogical thoughts, bizarre behavior and speech, and delusions or hallucinations, such as hearing voices. Schizophrenia typically begins in early adulthood. Adapted from the Encyclopedia of Psychology. Schizophrenia can cause hallucinations, delusions and unusual behaviors, as well as cognitive challenges, such as problems with memory, attention and concentration.
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder often characterized by abnormal social behavior and failure to recognize what is real. Schizophrenia is often described in terms of positive and negative (or deficit) symptoms. Positive symptoms are those that most individuals do not normally experience but are present in people with schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia, also known as Schizophrenic Disorder, is a psychological disorder, thought to be caused by imbalances in brain chemistry, which involves delusions and faulty perceptions of the world. 
Schizophrenia (from the Greek word σχιζοφρένεια, or shjzofre'neja, meaning split mind) is a psychiatric diagnosis that describes a mental disorder characterized by impairments in the perception or expression of reality and by significant social or occupational dysfunction. A person experiencing schizophrenia is typically characterized as demonstrating disorganized thinking, and as experiencing delusions or hallucinations, in particular auditory hallucinations.
In psychology, alogia (Greek ἀ-, “ without ”, and λόγος, “speech”), or poverty of speech, is a general lack of additional, unprompted content seen in normal speech. As a symptom, it is commonly seen in patients suffering from schizophrenia, and is considered as a negative symptom. 
Definition. Schizophrenia is a psychotic disorder (or a group of disorders) marked by severely impaired thinking, emotions, and behaviors. Schizophrenic patients are typically unable to filter sensory stimuli and may have enhanced perceptions of sounds, colors, and other features of their environment. Positive symptoms — Symptoms of schizophrenia that are characterized by the production or presence of behaviors that are grossly abnormal or excessive, including hallucinations and thought-process disorder. DSM-IV subdivides positive symptoms into psychotic and disorganized.
In the other extreme, a person may become catatonic. Catatonia is a state in which a person does not move and does not respond to others. Catatonia is rare today, but it was more common when treatment for schizophrenia was not available. Voices are the most common type of hallucination in schizophrenia. Negative Symptoms. Negative symptoms are associated with disruptions to normal emotions and behaviors These symptoms are harder to recognize as part of the disorder and can be mistaken for depression or other conditions. People with schizophrenia can have delusions that seem bizarre, such as believing that neighbors can control their behavior with magnetic waves. They may also believe that people on television are directing special messages to them, or that radio stations are broadcasting their thoughts alou
Psychotic disorder (or a group of disorders) marked by severely impaired thinking, emotions, and behaviors. Patients are typically unable to filter sensory stimuli and may have enhanced perceptions of sounds, colors, and other features of their environment. Most, if untreated, gradually withdraw from interactions with other people, and lose their ability to take care of personal needs and grooming. SCHIZOPHRENIA: Schizophrenia was first formally described in the late 19th century by German psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin (1856-1926), who named it dementia praecox; in 1911 Swiss psychiatrist Eugen Bleuler (1857-1939) renamed the disorder schizophrenia and described what he regarded as its fundamental symptoms..