If you want to become a strength and conditioning coach, you first need to determine if this career path is a good fit for you. If the following description sounds like you, then you’re probably well suited for a career as a strength and conditioning coach: Finding a strength and conditioning coach that currently works in the field and asking for an opportunity to work as an assistant, an intern, or as a volunteer, is a great way to gain first-hand experience in strength and conditioning coaching while you are still a student.
To become a strength and conditioning coach, you typically need at least a Bachelor of Science degree in an area such as Kinesiology or Exercise Science, although some employers may require strength and conditioning candidates to have a graduate degree in one of these areas. Finding a strength and conditioning coach that currently works in the field and asking for an opportunity to work as an assistant, an intern, or as a volunteer, is a great way to gain first-hand experience in strength and conditioning coaching while you are still a student.
A professional strength and conditioning coach is trained to work with amateur and professional athletes to improve performance in their respective sports. For certification, a strength and conditioning coach must have at least a bachelor's degree in exercise and health science, and many choose to pursue postgraduate studies to further their knowledge of the human body. Other People Are Reading.
Strength and Conditioning Coach Job Description. Working in close association with other coaches, strength and conditioning coaches develop systematic training programs for both teams and individual athletes in order to increase their athletic performance in specific sports. Finding a strength and conditioning coach that currently works in the field and asking for an opportunity to work as an assistant, an intern, or as a volunteer, is a great way to gain first-hand experience in strength and conditioning coaching while you are still a student.
Working under the supervision, or mentoring, of a skilled strength and conditioning coach is a great way to apply what you are learning in the classroom, while simultaneously getting a taste for a career as a strength and conditioning coach. Finding a strength and conditioning coach that currently works in the field and asking for an opportunity to work as an assistant, an intern, or as a volunteer, is a great way to gain first-hand experience in strength and conditioning coaching while you are still a student.
Step 1. Talk to as many strength and conditioning coaches as you can to find out more about the field. Find coaches at your local gym or community center or at local high schools or colleges, and ask them for a few minutes to talk about the realities of the job. In some cases, you may be able to take the certification exam while you are a college senior. Check with the National Strength and Conditioning Association or the Collegiate Strength & Conditioning Coaches Association for details on that special circumstance.
While some strength and conditioning coaches may specialize in a certain sports team, type of performance, training type, or training philosophy, many at the collegiate level must work with any team to which they are assigned. Strength and conditioning coaches typically work with sports teams, but may also work with individuals. Strength and conditioning coaches are also often employed by higher education institutions and professional athletic teams.
A strength and conditioning coach develops and trains athletes to improve their fitness, athletic performance and reduce their risk of injury. As a strength and conditioning coach, you could work with youth athletes in middle or high school, collegiate teams or even Olympic or professional competitors. 