Derek Johnson. Scott, Cost of maintenance per square foot would depend on many factors (size and age of the specific building, what type of facilities it had, the number of inmates, etc). Incarceration costs are normally broken down by cost per inmate per year or day. The Bureau of Justice Statistics provides such information.
What the church needs to focus on is total project cost, not just building cost. “Overly focusing on building cost per square foot can be misleading at best and dangerous at worse. The building itself is a certainly a large part of the project, but it is far from the whole project. One moderate sized church project was able to save $28,000 by changing the roof pitch from 8:12 to 4:12 pitch. Here are only a few of the many variables that can affect the cost per square foot in building a church. 1  Total Square Footage – there are economies of scale in bigger building projects.
The cost for this project, encompassing less than 19,000 feet, is $4.3 million, or about $239 per square foot. In practically every case, when church construction costs are examined, the Catholic church will cost more — usually 50% more per square foot — than the comparable Protestant church. “It's very frustrating,” said Father Joseph Mitchell, pastor of Holy Redeemer Parish
Even simple things such as roof pitch can make a difference. One moderate sized church project was able to save $28,000 by changing the roof pitch from 8:12 to 4:12 pitch. Here are only a few of the many variables that can affect the cost per square foot in building a church. 1  Total Square Footage – there are economies of scale in bigger building projects.
In the case of the $40 million building that might be located in a rural area with lower than average wages used here as an example, costs are $15 per hour for labor, $3 per hour for fringes, and $7 per hour for overhead. This would be funny if it wasn’t so tragic. Obviously, $100 a square foot didn’t cover the cost of that managing director’s office. In the case of the $20 million building example above, there’s a ratio of 1-2% for building maintenance, which brings the building maintenance bud get to $200-400,000.
Gehlen said commercial construction, whether it involves a church or an office building, is fairly standard at approximately $70 per square foot for wood frame and $110 per square foot for steel and concrete, including basic plumbing, wiring, fixtures and finishes. In practically every case, when church construction costs are examined, the Catholic church will cost more — usually 50% more per square foot — than the comparable Protestant church.
Building Design and Construction 's White Paper on Sustainability, published in November 2003, examined the building costs of 26 LEED-certified buildings and found the cost per-square-foot ranging from $13 to $425 (see chart). 1. 
An average commercial steel building costs between $16 and $20 per square foot, including building package (I-Beams, purlins, girts etc.) , delivery, foundation and the cost of construction. 
Cost Ratio Analysis Going back to our $20 million building. It could be made up of 200,000 square feet that cost $100 per square foot to build. The first thing to do is to establish is the cost of construction in that part of the country for that kind of building. For example, $100 per square foot would not build a hospital. You could certainly build an office building for that amount, though not in New York City. The Trump Tower in New York City cost $600 per square foot at the time it was built. This would be funny if it wasn’t so tragic. Obviously, $100 a square foot didn’t cover the cost of that managing director’s office. In the case of the $20 million building example above, there’s a ratio of 1-2% for building maintenance, which brings the building maintenance bud get to $200-400,000.