Placental abruption (also known as abruptio placentae) is a complication of pregnancy, wherein the placental lining has separated from the uterus of the mother prior to delivery. Placental abruption has effects on both mother and fetus. The effects on the mother depend primarily on the severity of the abruption, while the effects on the fetus depend on both its severity and the gestational age at which it occurs. The heart rate of the fetus can be associated with the severit
Placental abruption is the premature separation of a placenta from its implantation site in the uterus. Within the placenta are many blood vessels that allow the transfer of nutrients to the fetus from the mother. If the placenta begins to detach during pregnancy, there is bleeding from these vessels. 
Share. Placental abruption happens when the placenta starts to come away from the inner wall of the womb (uterus) before your baby is born. In most cases the placenta comes away at the edge, and may cause just a small amount of bleeding (Kenny 2011) . Abruption can deprive your baby of oxygen and nutrients. And a large amount of bleeding can be dangerous for you both. Unfortunately, placental abruption increases the risk of your baby: Sadly, some babies do not survive placental abruption (CMACE 2011a) and may be stillborn or die shortly after birth.
Placental abruption is most likely to occur in the last trimester of pregnancy, especially in the last few weeks before birth. Classic signs and symptoms of placental abruption include: 1  Vaginal bleeding. 2  Abdominal pain. 3  Back pain. 4  Uterine tenderness. 5  Rapid uterine contractions, often coming one right after another.
Placental abruption may or may not be painful and may even remain asymptomatic in rare cases. Apart from vaginal bleeding (in revealed abruption), classic signs include: 1  Back pain [6]. 2  Abdominal cramping and pain. 3  Abdominal tenderness. 4  Rapid uterine contractions [7]. 5  Uterine tenderness. 6  Pallor. 7  Disproportionately enlarged uterus. 
A placental abruption (abruptio placentae) is when a normally implanted placenta separates from the uterus after 20 weeks gestation (less then 20 weeks gestation is considered a spontaneous abortion). It occurs in approximately 0.5-1% of pregnancies in North America (Broers et al, 2004). The classical presentation is that a placental abruption is painful bleeding and a placenta previa is painless, however a woman with a placenta previa can also be contracting and thus can be in pain as well. A pelvic exam should not be done until a placenta previa can be ruled out as this can trigger further bleeding.
Bleeding in late pregnancy (after about 20 weeks) may be due to the following: 1  placenta previa (placenta is near or covers the cervical opening). 2  placental abruption (placenta detaches prematurely from the uterus). 3  unknown cause. Placental abruption is the premature separation of a placenta from its implantation in the uterus. Within the placenta are many blood vessels that allow the transfer of nutrients to the fetus from the mother. If the placenta begins to detach during pregnancy, there is bleeding from these vessels
A placental abruption is a serious condition in which the placenta partially or completely separates from your uterus before your baby's born. The condition can deprive your baby of oxygen and nutrients, and cause severe bleeding that can be dangerous to you both. A placental abruption also increases the risk that your baby will have growth problems (if the abruption is small and goes unnoticed), be born prematurely, or be stillborn.