The Tang Dynasty ruled Ancient China from 618 to 907. During the Tang rule China experienced a time of peace and prosperity that made it one of the most powerful nations in the world. This time period is sometimes referred to as the Golden Age of Ancient China. Establishment of the Dynasty. When the Sui Dynasty began to collapse in 618, an aristocrat named Li Yuan who lived in the north marshaled an army and marched on the capital city of Chang'an. He helped to put a new child emperor on the throne, but Li Yuan really ruled the country as Prime Minister.
Tang Dynasty Economy. The Tang Dynasty was extraordinary in the history of China’s economic development. The Tang government devised various programs to bolster survival and economic improvement, both of which grew stronger as time went by. In the early Tang Dynasty, agricultural production declined terribly, affecting the national economy negatively. The people in Tang Dynasty were involved in commercial activities due to developed and improved agriculture and the handicraft industry. These paved way to both domestic and international trade with other countries, for example with India.
The Tang dynasty, with its capital at Chang'an (present-day Xi'an), which at the time was the most populous city in the world, is generally regarded as a high point in Chinese civilization: a golden age of cosmopolitan culture. Although the founders of the Tang related to the glory of the earlier Han dynasty (3rd century BC –3rd century AD), the basis for much of their administrative organization was very similar to the previous Southern and Northern Dynasties.
Tang Dynasty (AD 618-907) was an imperial dynasty of China preceded by the Sui Dynasty and followed by the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period.   It has specific signifi … cance in the Chinese history. 
The Tang dynasty (Chinese: 唐朝; pinyin: Tang Táng; Chao–Cháo: Wade'giles T'ang) ch ao was an imperial Dynasty of china preceded By the sui dynasty and followed By The five Dynasties And ten. kingdoms period Although the founders of the Tang related to the glory of the earlier Han dynasty (3rd century BC –3rd century AD), the basis for much of their administrative organization was very similar to the previous Southern and Northern Dynasties.
The Tang Empire was like the Han Empire in foreign trade, land area, population, capital cities, and the beginning and end of the empires. The land area of the Western Han Empire and the Tang Empire was about the same. However, the Tang Empire didn't include the southern regions around Yunnan. The Tang Dynasty clan emerged when people of the Sui Empire rebelled against their rulers. The Sui Empire fell in the year 618. The Sui Empire is often compared with the Qin Empire (221–206 BC) that preceded the Western Han Empire. Both the Sui and Qin rulers were ruthless.
Tang Dynasty (AD 618-907) was an imperial dynasty of China preceded by the Sui Dynasty and followed by the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period.   It has specific signifi … cance in the Chinese history. The Tang Dynasty lasted almost 300 years, and is considered the Golden Age of China. The Duke of Li founded this dynasty in 618 A.D. It was overthrown by Zhu Wen, a military g … overnor, in 907 A.D. 15 people found this useful.
The Tang Empire (618–907 AD) was the second largest and longest-enduring empire in the region after the Han Empire. The Tang Empire resembled the Western Han Empire (206 BC – 9 AD) in some ways such as the prominent role of trade with western countries and the way the empire began and ended. The Tang Dynasty clan emerged when people of the Sui Empire rebelled against their rulers. The Sui Empire fell in the year 618. The Sui Empire is often compared with the Qin Empire (221–206 BC) that preceded the Western Han Empire. Both the Sui and Qin rulers were ruthless.
The handicraft industry also played a role in the economy of Tang Dynasty as people engaged in textile technology especially silk making. They also engaged in the ceramics Industry, paper making, porcelain making, tea-leaf processing, metallurgical among other activities which helped boost their economy. The people in Tang Dynasty were involved in commercial activities due to developed and improved agriculture and the handicraft industry. These paved way to both domestic and international trade with other countries, for example with India.