For example, a microphone which is said to have a frequency response of 20 Hz to 20 kHz can reproduce all frequencies within this range. Frequency Response Ranges. You will often see frequency response quoted as a range between two figures. This is a simple (or perhaps simplistic) way to see which frequencies a microphone is capable of capturing effectively.
Frequency response is the quantitative measure of the output spectrum of a system or device in response to a stimulus, and is used to characterize the dynamics of the system. It is a measure of magnitude and phase of the output as a function of frequency, in comparison to the input. 
The frequency range respresented on this graph is 20Hz to 20,000Hz (20kHz), which is the range of typical human hearing. By looking at this frequency response graph, we can see how capable the speaker is at reproducing the frequencies we can hear. Generally, the range of bass frequencies encompasses 20Hz-500Hz. Midrange frequencies would be 500Hz to 5,000Hz, and high frequencies would be 5,000Hz-20kHz. However, the range is often further divided into sub categories such as midbass and upper midrange. Familiarity with these ranges enables us to determine how a speaker should sound based on the Frequency Response Graph.
When you see a Frequency Response specification for a monitor, the manufacturer is telling you that for a given input signal, the listed range of frequencies will produce output within a certain range of levels. For example: 20 Hz to 20 kHz +/- 3 dB. This does not mean that the speaker won’t reproduce frequencies outside this range, it will! But frequencies outside the range will be more than 3 dB off from the reference level. For further information, see also May 5th’s inSync Word For The Day, “Flat Response”, available in the inSync Archives.
We could then say that our theoretical speaker had a frequency response of 28 Hz to 4,000 Hz, +/- 0 dB, roughly the frequency range of a piano keyboard (more about the dB in a moment). But no speaker is perfect. Consequently, some tones may emerge from a given speaker somewhat softer or louder than others. On the other hand, if Axiom states that the M80s frequency response is 34 Hz - 22 kHz +/-3 dB, this indicates that every tone that emerges from the M80 will be within 3 dB of any other over that entire frequency range.
As long as you know the amplitude tolerance (+/- 3dB), the frequency response range or width tells you how high or low the speaker goes. A speaker rated as 20Hz – 25kHz +/- 3dB will play lower bass and higher treble sounds than a speaker that measures 40Hz – 20kHz +/- 3dB. Frequency Response In Context. A big improvement would be a frequency response number that also includes the amplitude tolerance, expressed as “XHz-YkHz +/- 3dB.” This tells you that the amplitude of the speaker’s response relative to frequency does not deviate more than 3 Decibels from the center line.
Frequency response is usually measured within the range of human hearing, from a low of 20 Hz to a high of 20kHz, although some believe that frequencies above and below this range, known as wideband frequency response are equally important. Frequency response specifications indicate how well the device remains uniform. For example, a frequency response specification of 20Hz-20kHz +/- 3 dB indicates that the maximum variation in level or volume from the lowest to the highest tone will not exceed three decibels.
My Frequency Response. The Frequency Response specification attempts to describe the range of frequencies or musical tones a speaker can reproduce, measured in Hertz (known to old-timers as “Cycles per Second”). Frequency Response In Context. A big improvement would be a frequency response number that also includes the amplitude tolerance, expressed as “XHz-YkHz +/- 3dB.” This tells you that the amplitude of the speaker’s response relative to frequency does not deviate more than 3 Decibels from the center line.
Frequency Response is the Frequency Range versus Amplitude. In other words, at 20 Hz, a certain input signal level may produce 100 dB of output. At 1 kHz, that same input level may produce 102 dB of output. At 10 kHz, 95 dB, and so on. This does not mean that the speaker won’t reproduce frequencies outside this range, it will! But frequencies outside the range will be more than 3 dB off from the reference level. For further information, see also May 5th’s inSync Word For The Day, “Flat Response”, available in the inSync Archives.
In comparison, the CD system offers a frequency response of 20 Hz–20 kHz ±0.5 dB, with a superior dynamic range over the entire audible frequency spectrum. With vinyl records, there will be some loss in fidelity on each playing of the disc. This is due to the wear of the stylus in contact with the record surface. 