Humoral immunity is mediated by secreted antibodies, produced in the cells of the B lymphocyte lineage (B-cell). Secreted antibodies bind to antigens on the surfaces of invading microbes, which flags them for destruction. Humoral immunity refers to antibody production, and all the accessory processes that accompany it.
• Humoral immunity is mediated by B-cells while cell-mediated immunity is mediated by T-cells. • In the humoral immunity, the B-cells secrete antibodies whereas in the cell-mediated immunity, the T-cells do not secrete receptors. T-cell receptors are bound to the T-cells and the cells themselves bind with antigens.
One of these is in terms of antibody-mediated and cell-mediated immunity. Antibody-mediated immunity (also known as the type 2 immune response) involves the activation of B cells, and this arm of the immune system is commonly activated to deal with extracellular pathogens. slide 2 of 4.
Cell-mediated immunity is controlled by T cells. Antibody-mediated reactions defend against invading viruses and bacteria. Cell-mediated immunity concerns cells in the body that have been infected by viruses and bacteria, protect against parasites, fungi, and protozoans, and also kill cancerous body cells.
acquired immunity. antigen specific immunity attributable to the production of antibody and of specific immune T lymphocytes (responsible for cell-mediated immunity), following exposure to an antigen, or passive transfer of antibody or immune lymphoid cells (adoptive immunity).
The antibody responses are also called humoral immunity. Cell-mediated immunity does not involve antibodies but rather involves the activation of macrophages, natural killer cells (NK), antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen.
Cell-mediated immunity is an immune response that does not involve antibodies but rather involves the activation of macrophages and natural killer cells, the production of antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen.