She thought about a connection between the back pain and the pain in the xiphoid bone. She said: There's probably something wrong with the xiphoid bone, and because it's connected to your back via the ribs, that's probably the cause.. She didn't know what to do with it and sent me to a orthopedic specialist. I am having a strange discomfort behind and slightly below my xiphoid. Not a sharp pain but I know something is wrong inside there. When I try to push in and feel with my fingers I do feel the end of my xiphoid. Kind of rounded and a dull discomfort behind the xiphoid.
1 Attached to the anterior surface of the xiphoid process are the anterior costoxiphoid ligament and a section of the rectus abdominis muscle. 2  The posterior surface serves as an attachment to the posterior costoxiphoid ligament, transversus thoracis muscle, and diaphragm. Treatment for Xiphoid Process Pain. 1  Analgesics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the first line of painkillers that may be given to patients with xiphoid process pain. 2  If it cannot be handled by the first line agents, opioid analgesics may be necessary to decrease the pain.
Xiphoid Process and Pain Definition. Other names for the xiphoid process are processus xiphoideus, ensiform or xiphoid appendix. It rests at the 10th thoracic vertebra. It is the tiniest and lowest part of the sternum. Treatment for Xiphoid Process Pain. 1  Analgesics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the first line of painkillers that may be given to patients with xiphoid process pain. 2  If it cannot be handled by the first line agents, opioid analgesics may be necessary to decrease the pain.
The xiphoid process /ˈzaɪfɔɪd/ , or xiphisternum or metasternum, is a small cartilaginous process (extension) of the lower part of the sternum which is usually ossified in the adult human. It may also be referred to as the ensiform process. Pressure on the xiphoid process should be avoided when administering chest compressions in CPR, as this can cause the xiphoid process to break off, resulting in punctures or lacerations of the diaphragm. Additionally, the liver may be punctured, resulting in lethal hemorrhaging.
The xiphoid process is the smallest and most inferior region of the sternum, or breastbone. At birth, it is a thin, roughly triangular region of cartilage that slowly ossifies into a bone and fuses with the body of the sternum. Clinically, the xiphoid process plays an important role as a bony anatomical landmark in the trunk and may be damaged by improperly administered CPR. The xiphoid process is located inferior to
Pain and tenderness over xiphoid process are typical symptoms of swollen xiphoidynia. Often the pain is severe while you cough or laugh. It is in the last part of sternum, the area in medical parlance is called epigastrium. 1  If the condition is severe even normal breathing may be associated with pain. 1 A direct injury to chest and particularly a blow on the xiphoid process can cause swelling of xiphoid process. 2  As a result the xiphoid process becomes tender and painful. 3  The condition is often called xiphodynia.
Xiphoidalgia – Xiphoid syndrome – Xiphoid Process Pain When Pressed. Xiphoidynia, also known as the xiphoid syndrome, is a condition where the patient feels pain and tenderness in the lower portion of the sternum. It is also the lowest and the smallest part of the sternum, marks the lower limit of the thoracic cavity and the lower border of the heart. At birth, the xiphoid process is cartilaginous, but it slowly ossifies (turns to bone) from the central core after middle age (usually around 40 years of age).
Xiphoid syndrome: Introduction. Xiphoid syndrome: Pain and discomfort that occurs in the lowest portion of the sternum called the xiphoid process. The symptoms may occur sporadically or be associated with conditions such as heart disease, gallbladder disease and bone disease
1 Sometimes the pain and tenderness in xiphoid area may be due to problems related to heart, gallbladder and bone diseases. 2  Therefore it is necessary to distinguish between symptoms of pain and tenderness in the xiphoid area due to other diseases and that of swollen xiphoid process. 1 A direct injury to chest and particularly a blow on the xiphoid process can cause swelling of xiphoid process. 2  As a result the xiphoid process becomes tender and painful. 3  The condition is often called xiphodynia.