Autosomal recessive. A pattern of inheritance in which both copies of an autosomal gene must be abnormal for a genetic condition or disease to occur. An autosomal gene is a gene that is located on one of the autosomes or non-sex chromosomes. Autosomal recessive. adjective Referring to a mode of inheritance of a trait or disorder which is passed from one generation to the next in the face of homozygosity.
In autosomal recessive inheritance, both genes of interest (i.e., one from each parent) on a paired chromosome have the same defect; if both parents have the recessive gene of interest, the likelihood of expression in progeny is 1:4. Men and women are affected equally. Examples. Autosomal recessive. adjective Referring to a mode of inheritance of a trait or disorder which is passed from one generation to the next in the face of homozygosity.
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene is located on one of the autosomes (chromosome pairs 1 through 22). This means that males and females are equally affected. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait, one inherited from the mother, and one from the father. Autosomal recessive: cystic fibrosis (CF), sickle cell anemia (SC), Tay Sachs disease. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called autosomal recessive inheritance.
The gene is on an autosome, a nonsex chromosome. The parents are carriers who have only one copy of the gene and do not exhibit the trait because the gene is recessive to its normal counterpart gene. If both parents are carriers, there is a 25% chance of a child inheriting both abnormal genes and, consequently, developing the disease.
Autosomal recessive diseases are genetic diseases that are passed to a child through both parents' chromosomes. Each person inherits 23 chromosomes from each parent and so has 23 pairs of chromosomes. Each chromosome contains genes. 
3.3 Autosomal Recessive Inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele are required for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele.
Print. To have an autosomal recessive disorder, you inherit two mutated genes, one from each parent. These disorders are usually passed on by two carriers. Their health is rarely affected, but they have one mutated gene (recessive gene) and one normal gene (dominant gene) for the condition. 
Print. In an autosomal dominant disorder, the mutated gene is a dominant gene located on one of the nonsex chromosomes (autosomes). You need only one mutated gene to be affected by this type of disorder. 
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene in question is located on one of the autosomes. These are numbered pairs of chromosomes, 1 through 22. Autosomes do not affect an offspring's gender. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait or disorder. As mentioned above, a person who carries one copy of an autosomal recessive gene is usually not aware they carry the gene. They do not show any signs of the disease or condition. It is estimated that all people carry about five or more recessive genes that cause genetic diseases or conditions.