The string quartet was developed into its current form by the Austrian composer Joseph Haydn, with his works in the 1750s establishing the genre. Ever since Haydn's day the string quartet has been considered a prestigious form and represents one of the true tests of the composer's art. Some quartets play together for many years in ensembles which may be named after the first violinist (e.g. the Takacs Takács), quartet a (composer.e. g The Borodin) quartet or a (location.e. g The Budapest). Quartet-well known string quartets can be found in the list of string quartet. ensembles
string quartet. n. 1. (Classical Music) an instrumental ensemble consisting of two violins, one viola, and one cello. 2. (Classical Music) a piece of music written for such a group, usually having the form and commonest features of a sonata. Noun. 1. string quartet-an instrumental quartet with 2 violins and a viola and a cello. string quartette. quartette, quartet-four performers or singers who perform together.
The string trio has one violin, a viola, and a cello; the piano quintet is a string quartet with an added piano; the piano quartet is a string quartet with one of the violins replaced by a piano; and the clarinet quintet is a string quartet with an added clarinet, such as those by Mozart and Brahms. Some quartets play together for many years in ensembles which may be named after the first violinist (e.g. the Takacs Takács), quartet a (composer.e. g The Borodin) quartet or a (location.e. g The Budapest). Quartet-well known string quartets can be found in the list of string quartet. ensembles
Although, any combination of four stringed instruments can be called a string quartet, the term usually denotes a musical ensemble that consists of two violins, one viola, and one cello. From Haydn’s first quartet to his last, a glorious progression of the composer’s development of the form is remarkably apparent. The model of composition of his Opus 9 quartets became the standard string quartet form. Listen to Hadyn ’s String Quartet in C Major, Op. 9, No. 1 on YouTube
Best String Quartets. String quartet artists list, with photos, ranked best to worst by votes. List of good string quartet bands includes a filter so you can sort by the groups’s label and what albums they've put out. This list of the top string quartet bands in the world includes all musicians who have released recordings that have gotten distribution, and is an up-to-date list. If available, you can also see information about where all string quartet bands on this list got started. These are truly the greatest string quartet bands of all time, since the most famous string quartet artists ever are listed, and the order is decided by actual fans of the best string quartet music.
The string quartet is one of the most prominent chamber ensembles in classical music, with most major composers, from the mid to late 18th century onwards, writing string quartets. Some quartets play together for many years in ensembles which may be named after the first violinist (e.g. the Takacs Takács), quartet a (composer.e. g The Borodin) quartet or a (location.e. g The Budapest). Quartet-well known string quartets can be found in the list of string quartet. ensembles
A string quartet is a musical ensemble of four string players — usually two violinists, a violist and a cellist — or a piece written to be performed by such a group. The string quartet is one of the most prominent chamber ensembles in classical music. String quartet traditional form. The main traditional form for the Classical string quartet was set out by Haydn: 1  1st movement: Sonata Form, Allegro, in the tonic key; 2  2nd movement: Slow, in the subdominant key; 3  3rd movement: Minuet and Trio, in the tonic key; 4  4th movement: Sonata-Rondo form, in the tonic key.
Generally, the music composed for a string quartet reflects the four movement form of an orchestra: a fast first movement followed by a slow second movement, a dance-like third movement, and a fast forth movement. From Haydn’s first quartet to his last, a glorious progression of the composer’s development of the form is remarkably apparent. The model of composition of his Opus 9 quartets became the standard string quartet form. Listen to Hadyn ’s String Quartet in C Major, Op. 9, No. 1 on YouTube