This is explained by thermal energy. When the thermal energy of a solid is increases, the motion of the particles is increased and the temperature increases. This added thermal energy causes the particles to move rapidly so that their motion overcomes the forces holding the particles together. Solids, Liquids, and Gases.
These molecules move (or vibrate) constantly. A rise in the temperature of matter makes the particles vibrate faster. Thermal energy is what we call energy that comes from the temperature of matter. The hotter the substance, the more its molecules vibrate, and the therefore the higher its thermal energy. For example, a cup of hot tea has thermal energy in the form of kinetic energy from its vibrating particles. When you pour some milk into your hot tea, some of this energy is transferred from the hot tea to the particles in the cold milk.
Heat is a form of energy that can be transferred from one object to another or even created at the expense of the loss of other forms of energy. To review, temperature is a measure of the ability of a substance, or more generally of any physical system, to transfer heat energy to another physical system. If two objects-or if a system and its surroundings-have a different temperature, then they have a different ability to transfer heat.
Temperature is the average kinetic energy of all particles,  but thermal energy is the total amount of energy within a  solid, liquid or gas.    Thermal energy implies … that energy is being produced and maintained in a closed system. Temperature is a stable measurement of something. 46 people found this useful. Temperature vs. Heat : When you think of temperature, you probably think hot or cold.. To scientists, temperature is a measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a substance. The more kinetic energy the particles have, the higher the temperature of the
Heat is the total energy of molecular motion in a substance while temperature is a measure of the average energy of molecular motion in a substance. Heat energy depends on the speed of the particles, the number of particles (the size or mass), and the type of particles in an object. 
Temperature vs. Thermal Energy temperature — average kinetic energy (energy of motion) or average speed of all the particles in a material a. higher temp. = particles move faster and farther apart b. lower temp. = particles move slower and closer together thermal energy — total kinetic energy of all the particles in a material heat —energy transferred between two objects of different temperature more molecules = more thermal energy 95°C 100°C heat transfer more thermal energy less thermal energy.
Thermal energy is the portion of the thermodynamic or internal energy of a system that is responsible for the temperature of the system. The thermal energy of a system scales with its size and is therefore an extensive property. Microscopically, the thermal energy may include both the kinetic energy and potential energy of a system's constituent particles, which may be atoms, molecules, electrons, or particles. It originates from the individually random, or disordered, motion of particles in a large ensemble
Thermal energy, which is more commonly known as heat, is a form of energy. It is measured in joules. Thermal energy is an internal energy for a given system. Thermal energy is the cause for the temperature of a system. Every system having a temperature above absolute zero has a positive thermal energy. Thermal energy is a form of random energy, which is not able to do work, when the whole system is considered. Higher the thermal energy of a system higher will be the randomness of the system. Thermal energy can be converted in to mechanical energy using a heat engine.
Another example of the difference between heat and thermal energy is a lit candle. A candle generates thermal energy (particle kinetic energy) as long as it burns. That thermal energy is then released from the candle towards the surroundings (Wilson. 1994. Page 380). 