But the new religion did not only impacted the society as such. It also changed the political constellations in these countries. And while other strong religions competed for political influence in Chine or Japan, countries such as Thailand, Tibet, or Burma became Buddhist kingdoms. The entire south East Asia was changed by Buddhism-its philosophy and aesthetics. On the other, interested Western travelers and scholars contributed to the popularity of Buddhism and the spread of religion outside of Asia. Entire faculties at many universities were established in order to pursue the study of Buddhism. Buddhist philosophy, art, and architecture found a new growth.
Buddhism was prominent in the eastern Greek world (Greco-Buddhism) and became the official religion of the eastern Greek successor kingdoms to Alexander the Great 's empire (Greco-Bactrian Kingdom (250 BC-125 BC) and Indo-Greek Kingdom (180 BC - 10 CE)). 
Related. This entry was posted in Buddhist Articles and tagged Buddha, Buddhism, Buddhist, Buddhist Modern life, Dhamma Article, Gautama Buddha, Impact Buddhism, Religion, Religion and Spirituality, West, What Is Buddhism. Bookmark the permalink. Today Buddhism remains as a great civilizing force in the modern world. As a civilizing force, Buddhism awakens the self-respect and feeling of self-responsibility of countless people and stirs up the energy of many a nation.
When Buddhism began to influence Chinese culture in the first century a.d., it brought with it a vast array of new concepts, doctrines, and beliefs. We also have a large body of artifacts and writings about artifacts from before the first century a.d. when Buddhism began to influence Chinese society, making it possible in many cases to determine what came to China with Buddhism and what originated in China independently.
Starting in India, Buddhism’s reach has extended across the world. China and Japan were both strongly influenced by the influx of Buddhism. Social, political, and economic changes were brought about due to the influence of Buddhism and Buddhist clergy on the people of China and Japan. In China the Buddhist clergy fought for favor in the royal court. In Japan the different Buddhist sects played tug-of-war between themselves for control of bureaucratic power. Across China Buddhism became a part of people’s daily lives and as a result began to shape China in many ways. The effect of Buddhism on the Chinese economy was one of its most profound influences in China. The economy was changed in both positive and negative ways by many different aspects of Buddhism’s societal role.
Report Abuse. The impact of the Buddhist belief is as significant as the Christian faith in the Western societies. Buddhism spread to many Asian countries. Buddhism, Daoism, and Confucius have upheld the Chinese civilization, culture, tradition, and history for the last few thousands years. 
Buddhism: the political impact. In this essay we will talk about the relevance of Buddhism and particularly the political impact of this religion, the main objective of this descriptive essay will be to present an small view to Buddhism and how this religion was able to influence politics in many aspects. 
The impact of Buddhism on Chinese material culture began immediately, with the first evidence we have of Buddhism in China in the first century, and continued long after the twelfth, when Buddhism ceased to be a major cultural force in India. We also have a large body of artifacts and writings about artifacts from before the first century a.d. when Buddhism began to influence Chinese society, making it possible in many cases to determine what came to China with Buddhism and what originated in China independently.
Buddhism has been practiced in Japan since at least 552 AD, though some Chinese sources place the first spreading of the religion earlier during the Kofun period (250 to 538). Buddhism has had a major influence on the development of Japanese society and remains an influential aspect of the culture to this day. In modern times, Japan's most popular schools of Buddhism are Pure Land Buddhism, Nichiren Buddhism, Shingon Buddhism and Zen. 