You can choose to have a Conquest based on different types of competition. If you choose Yearly Event, Veronica will choose a Yearly Event, and the rights to the field will go to whoever wins that event. Unlocking Conquests. You can do Conquests starting on day 1 of Summer, Year 1. There will be an automatic cut scene when you wake up that day, where Veronica will invite you to a meeting at the Guild. She and Eda will explain Conquests to you, Giorgio, Elise, and Fritz.
Conquest. In Story of Seasons, once you outgrow your farm, you'll be able to lease fields throughout the town. Your first one will be given to you free of charge, but to lease another field, you'll need to battle it out with your fellow farmers.
For those of you who are confused by this whole Story of Seasons versus Harvest Moon business, here s a super quick rundown: Licensing issues got in the way, so the latest localization to be carried out by Marvelous and XSEED Games had to be called something other than Harvest Moon. Hence, Story of Seasons. Growing crops, raising livestock and racing against the clock to finish all of your chores before the sun goes down. While it may not bear the same name, Story of Seasons is the latest in the long line of life simulation games known as
Start a Conquest. To start a Conquest, go to the Guild and talk to Veronica about renting a public field. If any farmers' fields have 0 days on the lease, there will be an exclamation mark over that field. You can choose that field to start a Conquest. Unlocking Conquests. You can do Conquests starting on day 1 of Summer, Year 1. There will be an automatic cut scene when you wake up that day, where Veronica will invite you to a meeting at the Guild. She and Eda will explain Conquests to you, Giorgio, Elise, and Fritz.
Currently Playing: Story of Seasons. Yeah it was just my first conquest so I was not prepared. I scored very low the first time Veronica was just so disappointing so I am trying it again right now. Well I was still last with a low score. ---. 3DS FC: 1633-4179-1233. I've only done one conquest, it was the most items shipped one (about to start my second, with winning the summer crop fest as my goal), and I saved the night before the results. The first time I lost, but when I went to sell more fodder and bugs, I won the next day
Story of Seasons. 2,011 pages on this wiki. Story of Seasons (牧場物語つながる新天地, Bokujō Monogatari: Tsunagaru Shin Tenchi, lit. Ranch Story: Chained New World) is the second title of Bokujō Monogatari series on Nintendo 3DS, and also the first entry to the re-branded Story of Seasons series for international market. The marriage system in Story of Seasons is similar to Harvest Moon 3DS: A New Beginning. You must first give the bachelor/ette gifts to increase their affection. By raising their heart meter, you're able to see their heart events.
Story of Seasons Guide. Story of Seasons is a Harvest Moon game released in Japan on February 27, 2014 and released in North America on February 10, 2015. In the game, you are a farmer who raises crops and livestock. In Story of Seasons, you can also trade with foreign countries to get exotic animals and crops. 
Harvest Moon stays with you in some small form, even if it’s the memory of listening to the rain pour or tuning into the cooking channel. Story of Seasons for 3DS brings it all back. The farm sim is pure Harvest Moon in all but name. I asked Danielle Rust, QA tester for publisher Xseed Games, for the inside scoop on how to become a godlike farmer extraordinaire. Or at least help you figure out how to hold a shovel. Those countries become available the more you trade at the Trade Depot, which is the, uh, meat and potatoes of Story of Seasons ’ economy. As you buy and sell goods in the square, more vendors appear, and life in Oak Tree Town flourishes. It’s a win-win for everyone.