ACIP. Pertussis vaccination: acellular pertussis vaccine for the fourth and fifth doses of the DTP series, update to supplementary ACIP statement: recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP). MMWR 1992;41(No. RR-15):1-5. Pertussis vaccination: acellular pertussis vaccine for reinforcing and booster use -- supplementary ACIP statement: recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP). MMWR 1992;41(No.
Early Work Led to the Development of an Acellular Pertussis Vaccine. In the 1940s, a combination diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine was introduced. Known as DTwP, the vaccine contained diphtheria toxin, tetanus toxin, and whole (but killed) Bordetella pertussis bacteria. 
Pertussis vaccines. Two forms of vaccine are in use, the whole-cell vaccine (wP), and the acellular vaccine (aP). Whole-cell pertussis vaccines were developed first and are suspensions of the entire B. pertussis organism that has been inactivated, usually with formalin. 
The acellular pertussis component of one vaccine was comparable to the acellular pertussis component of Tripedia{Registered} (17,18). The first dose was administered at age 5-11 months, the second dose 8-12 weeks later. Pertussis vaccination: acellular pertussis vaccine for reinforcing and booster use -- supplementary ACIP statement: recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP). MMWR 1992;41(No.
Prevention is mainly by vaccination with the pertussis vaccine. Initial immunization is recommended between six and eight weeks of age, with four doses to be given in the first two years of life. The multicomponent acellular pertussis vaccine is 71–85% effective with greater effectiveness for more severe strains. Despite widespread vaccination, however, pertussis has persisted in vaccinated populations and is today one of the most common vaccine-preventable diseases in Western countries.
Acellular pertussis vaccines were introduced nation-wide in Sweden in 1996, 17 years after the withdrawal of whole-cell pertussis vaccine from the childhood immunisation schedule. The annual incidence of culture-confirmed B. pertussis was 89-150 per 100,000 before introduction of acellular pertussis vaccines and has dropped to 17-26 per 100,000. The data suggest that unimmunised infants and children who have received only one dose of pertussis vaccine were provided some protection.
Abstract. In China, whole-cell pertussis (Pw) vaccines were produced in the early 1960s and acellular pertussis (Pa) vaccines were introduced in 1995. Pa vaccines have now almost completely replaced Pw vaccines in the national immunization program. In China, vaccination with Pw vaccines, in combination with diphtheria and tetanus toxoids given at 3–5 months of age, was started in the early 1960s. A booster dose at 18–24 months of age was introduced into the immunization program in 1982.
Pertussis, also known as whooping cough or 100-day cough, is a highly contagious bacterial disease. Initially, symptoms are usually similar to those of the common cold with a runny nose, fever, and mild cough. This is then followed by weeks of severe coughing fits. The multicomponent acellular pertussis vaccine is 71–85% effective with greater effectiveness for more severe strains. Despite widespread vaccination, however, pertussis has persisted in vaccinated populations and is today one of the most common vaccine-preventable diseases in Western countries.
Infants and children (2 months to 17 years of age). Acellular pertussis vaccine is recommended for routine infant immunization beginning at 2 months of age. DTaP-IPV (with or without Hib) vaccine is authorized for use in children less than 7 years of age. Although the duration of protection afforded by acellular pertussis vaccine is unknown, available data suggests that protection does not significantly decline between the first booster (18 months) and second booster (4-6 years) with an acellular pertussis vaccine.