CHERYL CORLEY, BYLINE: Clybourne Park was inspired by Lorraine Hansberry's 1959 groundbreaking drama A Raisin in the Sun, and it picks up where Hansberry left us. In that play, we meet the Youngers, the black family that decided to move from a South Side Chicago neighborhood to the all-white Clybourne Park. This year's Pulitzer Prize-winning play Clybourne Park is set in a fictional Chicago neighborhood, so it has special resonance now that it's playing at Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre. It also has resonance because of the issues it raises: race, class, gentrification and war. NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.
As described by the Washington Post, the play applies a modern twist to the issues of race and housing and aspirations for a better life.. Clybourne Park was awarded the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the 2012 Tony Award for Best Play. The play opened on Broadway at the Walter Kerr Theatre on April 19, 2012 (in previews starting March 26, 2012) for a 16-week limited engagement. The Off-Broadway cast reprised their roles. The play was nominated for several Tony Awards, and won the one
This year's Pulitzer Prize-winning play Clybourne Park takes place on Chicago's Northwest Side on two distinct afternoons: one in 1959, the other in 2009. Inspired by the Groundbreaking drama, A Raisin in the Sun, Clybourne Park highlights the politics of race and gentrification. STEVE INSKEEP, HOST: This year's Pulitzer Prize-winning play Clybourne Park is set in a fictional Chicago neighborhood, so it has special resonance now that it's playing at Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre. It also has resonance because of the issues it raises: race, class, gentrification and war. NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.
By Wade Bradford. The play Clybourne Park by Bruce Norris is set in a modest three-bedroom bungalow in central Chicago. Clybourne Park is a fictional neighborhood, first mentioned in Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Sun. It isn't mandatory to know the story of A Raisin in the Sun to appreciate Clybourne Park, but it certainly enhances the experience. You can read a detailed, scene by scene summary of A Raisin in the Sun in our study guide section.
A Raisin in the Sun is a play by Lorraine Hansberry that debuted on Broadway in 1959. The title comes from the poem Harlem (also known as  A Dream Deferred ) by Langston Hughes. The story is based upon a black family's experiences in the Washington Park Subdivision of Chicago 's Woodlawn neighborhood. The 2010 Bruce Norris play Clybourne Park depicts the white family that sold the house to the Youngers. The first act takes place just after the events of A Raisin in the Sun; the second act takes place 50 years later.
Continue reading the main story. Advertisement. And by the way that house in Clybourne Park (still a segregated neighborhood in the late 1950s) is the very one that the Younger family was set to move into at the end of “A Raisin in the Sun,” Lorraine Hansberry’s watershed drama from 1959. It’s been more than two years since “Clybourne Park” was first staged in New York, Off Broadway at Playwrights Horizons. In the interim, a lot has happened both to this play — which opened Thursday night on Broadway in a superlative production at the Walter Kerr Theater — and this country.
Credit Stan Barouh. Part of the power of “Clybourne Park” derives from how the events in Mr. Norris’s play intersect with those in “A Raisin in the Sun,” Lorraine Hansberry ’s groundbreaking 1959 drama about a black family on the South Side of Chicago. EVERY city has a Clybourne Park. At least that’s what several regional theaters across the country are betting on as they introduce their audiences to Bruce Norris’s darkly humorous play “Clybourne Park,” a dissection of race, gentrification and real estate.
It premiered in February 2010 at Playwrights Horizons in New York. The play received its UK premiere at the Royal Court Theatre in London in a production directed by Dominic Cooke. The play received its Chicago premiere at Steppenwolf Theatre Company in a production directed by Steppenwolf ensemble member Amy Morton. The play opened on Broadway at the Walter Kerr Theatre on April 19, 2012 (in previews starting March 26, 2012) for a 16-week limited engagement. The Off-Broadway cast reprised their roles. The play was nominated for several Tony Awards, and won the one for Best Play.
Bruce Norris’ play “Clybourne Park,” which won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for drama and last night’s Tony Award for best play, overflows with dirty words. In the first act of “Clybourne Park,” which is understood as Chicago’s Lincoln Park, Karl Lindner (the only white character in “Raisin”) is attempting to convince the white homeowners selling their house to the black family of “Raisin” to renege on the sale and preserve the neighborhood as a lily-white enclave.