Golf Professional Salary. (United States). Very much a male-dominated career in the United States, Golf Professionals earn an average of $37K per year. For the most part, Golf Professionals enjoy their work and report high levels of job satisfaction. 
Rickie Fowler net worth salary and earnings: Rickie Fowler is an American professional golfer who has a net worth of $12 million. Find out who the highest paid golfers in the world are by salary, tour earnings, endorsements and more in the Top 50 Richest Golfers list!
Head Golf Professionals who work for 10 to 20 years in their occupation tend to earn about $51K. Folks who have racked up more than 20 years in the field report incomes that aren't that much higher than less experienced individuals' earnings; the veterans make just $55K on average. Pay ranges from $30K to $87K per year, and the average comes out to $47K per year. Most Head Golf Professionals report high levels of job satisfaction. Although more than a third lack health benefits of any kind, the greater part do enjoy medical insurance, and close to two-fifths get dental coverage, too.
I have a friend who is a caddy for the lpga, he claims that he makes $75,000 to $100,000 dollars a year and he only tours for 6 months. I find that hard to believe only because he still lives at home with his parents, and recently his parents bought him a car. Many times it is based upon a negotiation between the player and the caddy. For instance, a new caddy with a young inexperienced golfer may have a base + 5% While an experienced caddy (5 plus years) may make a much higher base with a 10% cut.
Salaries for PGA Class A members working as club pros vary, but one PGA club pro interviewed by the Job Shadow website said he earned $85,000 to $95,000. PGA certified golf professional Brian M. Dobak says median salary for a head club pro with PGA certification is $90,000. Golf is a $62 billion business, and PGA Class A members can find employment with various companies associated with the sport. Dick's Sporting Goods, a national sporting goods retail chain, pays the head golf pros at its stores about $30,000 annually, according to the Career Bliss website.
The median expected salary for a typical Head Golf Pro-Private Course in the United States is $59,649. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. Assists the Golf Director in the operations of club facilities at a private golf course. Provides instruction to members or guests on an individual or group basis. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 5 years of experience in the field or in a related area, and PGA membership.
On the PGA tour in 2007, the leading money winner was Tiger Woods with $10,867,052. The 50th leading money winner was Charley Hoffman at $1,689,366 an the 100th leading money winner was Briny Baird at $985,453. To become a PGA Pro golfer one must go to Q-School or Qualifying or school, this streches over 6 crueling rounds if tournament. the entry fee is $3000 & anyone can go for it.
Expected Lifetime Earnings: $13,463,354. Let's do some real math here, because what you hear in the media is often completely distorted in terms of how much money pro athletes, especially golfers, make. Forget about Tiger numbers, at least for now. You're not Tiger. After taxes, he keeps something like $900k. Which would be great. If he were making that much every year, for the rest of his working life. But he's got to make enough in 5 years or so to be able to retire, because it is highly likely he has more or less no job after he's done at 35 or so.
Report Abuse. This month's Golf Digest list the cost to be a pro golfer. One of the expenses is paying your caddy. It varies by player, but for the most part they get a weekly salary plus a percentage of winnings. It looks like most players pay 5% for out of top 10 finishes, 7.5% for top 10 and 10% for top 5 finish. Many times it is based upon a negotiation between the player and the caddy. For instance, a new caddy with a young inexperienced golfer may have a base + 5% While an experienced caddy (5 plus years) may make a much higher base with a 10% cut.
Head Golf Professional Salary. (United States). Three in five of Head Golf Professionals in the United States are seasoned employees who have more than 10 years of experience in the field. Pay ranges from $30K to $87K per year, and the average comes out to $47K per year. Most Head Golf Professionals report high levels of job satisfaction. Although more than a third lack health benefits of any kind, the greater part do enjoy medical insurance, and close to two-fifths get dental coverage, too.