A mini-split heat pump provides forced-air heating and cooling, but without the use of ductwork. For this reason, these units are also referred to as ductless heat pumps or ductless mini-splits. Here at P&L Johnson Mechanical, Inc, we install innovative ductless heat pump systems from leading manufacturers. 
We all know what air conditioners and heat pumps can cost to operate but forget everything you know and consider the penny: That's right the penny. Because as few as 5 of them will get you one hour of comfort with this new Mitsubishi ductless air conditioner system. Bask in 100 hours of comfort for as $5.10. 
Q: What is a ductless heat pump?A ductless heat pump is a highly efficient zonal heating and cooling system that does not require the use of air ducts. Ductless heat pump systems consist of an outdoor compressor unit and one or more indoor air-handling units, called “heads”, linked by a refrigerant line. 
With proper maintenance and care a ductless systems should perform for over 20 years. Many of the systems installed during the 1980’s are still functioning well today. The average cost of an installed ductless systems with a single indoor heating/cooling zone is between $3,000 and $5,000. Additional heating zones and greater heating capacities will increase the cost of the system. 
A ductless heating and cooling system is a highly efficient zonal heating and cooling system that does not require the use of air ducts. Ductless systems consist of an outdoor compressor unit and one or more indoor air-handling units, called “heads”, linked by a dedicated refrigerant line. Many of the systems installed during the 1980’s are still functioning well today. The average cost of an installed ductless systems with a single indoor heating/cooling zone is between $3,000 and $5,000.
1 Ductless systems are generally twice the cost of window systems and about 30 percent more than installing central air with existing ducts, but can be less expensive than adding central air and ductwork. Shopping for a ductless air conditioner: 1  A ductless unit is a split system just like central air, only smaller and more flexible. 2  The compressor sits outdoors and is connected by a pair of refrigerated lines to one or more air handlers inside the house.
With proper maintenance and care a ductless systems should perform for over 20 years. Many of the systems installed during the 1980’s are still functioning well today. The average cost of an installed ductless systems with a single indoor heating/cooling zone is between $3,000 and $5,000. Additional heating zones and greater heating capacities will increase the cost of the system
You'd be surprised to find out that a mini split heat pump costs much less to operate compared to traditional heating methods. A ductless heat pump uses minimal energy when compared to oil and natural gas heating, and even more surprising is the savings you'll achieve compared to electric baseboard and space heaters. These mini split heating systems are also tremendously efficient when compared to natural gas or oil heating, operating up to -15C and -5F. Be sure to opt for an Energy Star certified unit for the largest savings and to enjoy the overall cost savings of an energy efficient unit.
1 A ductless unit is a split system just like central air, only smaller and more flexible. 2  The compressor sits outdoors and is connected by a pair of refrigerated lines to one or more air handlers inside the house. 3  The hole in the wall for the lines varies, but is usually about 3 inches in diameter. Shopping for a ductless air conditioner: 1 
1 Expect to pay $2,000-$5,000 to install a complete ductless mini-split air conditioning system in a 800-1,000-square foot home, or $5,000-$7,000 for a 2,000-square-foot house. Shopping for a ductless air conditioner: 1  A ductless unit is a split system just like central air, only smaller and more flexible. 2  The compressor sits outdoors and is connected by a pair of refrigerated lines to one or more air handlers inside the house.