Similar to legumes, the protein in grains is nutritionally incomplete, but consuming rice, barley, whole wheat or oats, for example, with legumes creates a high-quality protein to support your cells and tissues. Also similar to legumes, whole grains are a source of healthy, low-glycemic index carbohydrates. In addition, these foods contribute dietary fiber that promotes digestive health. These protein sources also furnish additional nutrients. Red meat, for example, gives you iron, while fish supplies heart-healthy fats. Milk and milk products offer calcium, and these foods are also a source of carbohydrate due to their lactose, or milk sugar, content. Other animal sources of protein include poultry and eggs
Carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, cereal, grains, bread, milk and foods that contain sugar. Your body turns carbohydrates into glucose, the substance that energizes your cells, tissues and organs. There are three types of carbohydrates: starches, sugars and fiber. Sugars are easily absorbed in the body. Some foods that contain sugars include honey, fruits, vegetables, milk, processed foods, candy and desserts.
Used as a primary source of protein in vegetarian diets, beans are a healthy source of carbohydrates. They are high in fiber and help the digestive system since they are a form of slowly digested carbohydrates. High levels of vitamin C and vitamin E make berries a very appealing source for good carbohydrates. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one:
Whole Wheat Bread. Whole wheat bread, and other breads made from 100 percent whole wheat grains are another good source for healthy carbohydrates. Unlike white bread, whole wheat bread still contains the bran and germ of the grains, which is where a majority of the nutrients in bread can be found. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one:
Types of carbohydrates. There are three main types of carbohydrates: 1  Sugar. 2  Sugar is the simplest form of carbohydrates. 3  Sugar occurs naturally in some foods, including fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products. 4  Sugars include fruit sugar (fructose), table sugar (sucrose) and milk sugar (lactose). 5  Starch. 
Your best good carbs sources are from this healthy carbohydrates list: 1  Raw and lightly steamed vegetables, 2  Legumes, beans, nuts and seeds, 3  High fiber 100% whole grains, 4  Raw, whole, fresh fruits, 5  Most low fat dairy. 
Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. Suggestions. Include beans in your diet as they are a good source of protein and slowly digested carbohydrates. Harvard School of Public Health suggests eating whole wheat or whole oats for breakfast, using whole-grain breads for lunch or snacks and trying brown rice, wheatberries or millet with dinner.
Like beans, peas are a good source for carbohydrates, and digest slowly, making them a good food source for individuals who can't process sugar well. Peas have an abundance of vitamin K, manganese, vitamin C and provide high levels of dietary fiber. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one: