Answered by jill d #170087. Lord of the Flies refers to the devil, also known as Beelzebub. As the novel progresses, the children lose their sense of civility. They become dirty (The Lord of the Flies is also called the Lord of Filth and Dung), both inside and out. As Jack's group reverts to savagery, they look for a symbol and embrace the Lord of the Flies as a god. The pig's head, which is used as an offering and impaled on a steak, is eventually devoured by flies and becomes a symbol
Summary: Lord of the Flies by William Golding. A description of the meaning of each chapter title. Chapter 1 is called The Sound of the Shell.. This refers to the conch shell which Piggy finds on the beach. He gives the shell to Ralph and shows him how to blow it. When Ralph blows the shell all of the other children assemble.
It translates to Lord of Flies. It is obvious that the Lord of Flies in the novel symbolizes the devil, or the evil in every human being. It seems as though Golding choose this title as a representation of the evil in humans. The title Lord of the Flies is just a metaphoric way of explaining the plot in a short text. Some believe that it refers to a line from King Lear. As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
Posted on. (Answer #2). Chapter ten of William Golding's Lord of the Flies is titled The Shell and the Glasses.. This is a symbolic novel, and both the shell and the glasses are prominent symbols from the beginning of the story. The conch shell is the symbol of order and civility among the schoolboys who are stranded on this island. 
In Lord of The Flies, the chapter title Cry of the Hunter has  several meanings. Jack and the rest of the boys are stalking Ralph  with plans to murder him. He is driven … to the beach where he is  exposed to the hunter by the light from the blazing fire they've  set. The title Lord of the Flies is just a metaphoric way of explaining the plot in a short text. Some believe that it refers to a line from King Lear. As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
In Lord of The Flies, the chapter title Cry of the Hunter has  several meanings. Jack and the rest of the boys are stalking Ralph  with plans to murder him. It could be a reference to the Hebrew name for Satan, Beelzebub. It  translates to Lord of Flies. It is obvious that the Lord of Flies  in the novel symbolizes the devil, or … the evil in every human  being. It seems as though Golding choose this title as a  representation of the evil in humans.
The significance of the title Huts on the Beach in Lord of the Flies is that during this chapter, huts were constructed. Not only were the huts considered as shelter, but al … so as symbol of civilization and a sense of home. It could be a reference to the Hebrew name for Satan, Beelzebub. It  translates to Lord of Flies. It is obvious that the Lord of Flies  in the novel symbolizes the devil, or … the evil in every human  being. It seems as though Golding choose this title as a  representation of the evil in humans.
MonkeyNotes-Lord of the Flies by William Golding-Free Booknotes Summary Table of Contents | Message Board | Printable Version | Barron's Booknotes. TITLE OF THE NOVEL. Lord of the Flies refers to Beelzebub, another name for the devil. He is also called the Lord of Filth and Dung. Throughout the novel, the children grow dirtier and dirtier, an outward reflection of their inner state. As their savagery and evil increases, they seek a symbol, a god to worship. The head, referred to as the Lord of the Flies then serves as a symbol of the evil and savagery of Jack's tribe of hunters. At the end of the novel, Ralph, with disgust, knocks the boar's skull to the ground and seizes the stick to use as a spear.
The significance of the title Huts on the Beach in Lord of the Flies is that during this chapter, huts were constructed. Not only were the huts considered as shelter, but al … so as symbol of civilization and a sense of home. 17 people found this useful. The title Lord of the Flies is just a metaphoric way of explaining the plot in a short text. Some believe that it refers to a line from King Lear. As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
Report Abuse. Lord of the Flies is the literal translation of Beezlebub, which really means the Devil. [[Each of the three terms are used synonymously when discussing the novel.]] In the book, the Lord of the Flies is represented by the pig`s head, because the decaying animal attracts many flies.