un·der·grad·u·ate. n. A college or university student who has not yet received a bachelor's or similar degree. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or characteristic of undergraduates: undergraduate courses; undergraduate humor. 2. Having the standing of an undergraduate: an undergraduate transfer student. un•der•grad•u•ate. 1. a college-level student who has not received a first, esp. a bachelor's, degree. 2. having the standing of an undergraduate. 3. pertaining to or characteristic of undergraduates
An undergraduate degree (also called first degree, bachelor's degree or simply degree) is a colloquial term for an academic degree taken by a person who has completed undergraduate courses. It is usually offered at an institution of higher education, such as a university. However, in the United States, most first professional degrees are considered graduate programs by the U.S. Department of Education and require students to already possess an undergraduate degree before admission.
1 Educationa student in a university or college who has not received a first, esp. a bachelor's, degree. 2  Educationhaving the standing of an undergraduate. 3  Educationof, for, pertaining to, or characteristic of undergraduates. 
Denoting or relating to an undergraduate: an undergraduate degree undergraduate students undergraduate life on campus. More example sentences. 1  In the autumn of 2001, I was teaching an undergraduate class on modern political and social theory. 1 In the autumn of 2001, I was teaching an undergraduate class on modern political and social theory. 2  Our most competitive subjects at undergraduate level are medicine, law, English, computer science, history, engineering, geography, economics, physiotherapy and midwifery.
For example, in the United States an entry level university student is known as an undergraduate, while students of higher degrees are known as graduates. The three-year undergraduate programs are mostly in the fields of arts, commerce, science etc., and the four-year programs are mostly in the fields of technology, engineering, pharmaceutical sciences, agriculture etc.
Noun. 1. undergraduate-a university student who has not yet received a first degree. undergrad. co-ed, college girl-a female student at a coeducational college or university. un•der•grad•u•ate. 1. a college-level student who has not received a first, esp. a bachelor's, degree. 2. having the standing of an undergraduate. 3. pertaining to or characteristic of undergraduates
For example, the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) program in Canada is considered an undergraduate degree.. However, in the United States, most first professional degrees are considered graduate programs by the U.S. Department of Education and require students to already possess an undergraduate degree before admission.
Full Definition of UNDERGRADUATE. : a student at a college or university who has not received a first and especially a bachelor's degree. — undergraduate adjective. See undergraduate defined for English-language learners. See undergraduate defined for kids. 
Undergraduate education is the post-secondary education previous to the postgraduate education. It includes all the academic programs up to the level of a bachelor's degree. The three-year undergraduate programs are mostly in the fields of arts, commerce, science etc., and the four-year programs are mostly in the fields of technology, engineering, pharmaceutical sciences, agriculture etc.