With a $20 start up fee and $10 a month for a minimum of 12 months, it will cost a flat rate of $140 for the year. The membership offers at Planet Fitness have very specific deadlines and expiration dates, so before you sign up, be sure to call a location near you to ensure that you’re getting the best deal possible. Planet Fitness also offers a No Commitment membership, which costs $5 to sign up and $10 every month. It’s really cost efficient, and you do have the option to drop out of the offer at any time, so it is a good way to get in shape for the summer months. The Burn Calories…Not Cash offer is the most standard of the three.
1 The cost of a Planet Fitness membership is going to depend on how long you are going to commit. 2  If you are going to pay by the month, the costs are typically around $10 per month. Planet Fitness is a workout facility that has a little different goals than other gyms. Unlike most gyms, Planet Fitness wants to provide gym goers with a unique experience. To make sure everyone is comfortable, they have created a unique atmosphere that gets rid of any sort of intimidation.
1 The average monthly fee to Planet Fitness is $15, while the average to other gyms is $50. 2  This is a huge difference and could save you over $400 a year. 3  The longer you sign up for, the more you’re going to be able to save on your membership. Planet Fitness is a workout facility that has a little different goals than other gyms. Unlike most gyms, Planet Fitness wants to provide gym goers with a unique experience. To make sure everyone is comfortable, they have created a unique atmosphere that gets rid of any sort of intimidation.
Planet Fitness costs a mere 10.68 a month to join. You can also sign up for a $99/year memberships?Planet Fitness offers free personal training. They proudly announce that it … is a no frills gym. A Planet Beach Contempo Spa offers a lot of spa services for a really reasonable monthly membership fee. If you purchased several massages, had a facial, got your teeth whiten … ed and enjoyed a sauna at a traditional day spa, you might spend up to or over $1000 in a month.
Planet Fitness is a popular gym franchise that offers low monthly payments. Like most gyms, it requires a contract that limits cancellation and provides a fee schedule for early cancellation. The best way to cancel a Planet Fitness membership is in writing at the Membership Services department.
Select the right membership for you. Whether you select the $10 or Black Card membership, just belonging to Planet Fitness has its perks. You get to work out in a comfortable Judgement Free Zone ®. Every member gets to take part in Pizza Mondays and Bagel Tuesdays. You have access to the club anytime (well, anytime it's open). 
Well it depends on how much time you want to be a member here are the prices for each cost: Monthly: $5:99 Monthly plus 5,000 Ecoins: $9:99 3 Months plus 3,000 Ecoins: $19:99 … 6 Months: 29:99 12 Months: 54:99 P.S: And every other holiday there is a different price for a year membership and a certain amount of Ecoins. A Planet Beach Contempo Spa offers a lot of spa services for a really reasonable monthly membership fee. If you purchased several massages, had a facial, got your teeth whiten … ed and enjoyed a sauna at a traditional day spa, you might spend up to or over $1000 in a month.
How much is it? 1  The cost of a Planet Fitness membership is going to depend on how long you are going to commit. 2  For example, this Michigan Club charges $10 per month for their basic membership and $19.99 for their Black Card membership. Planet Fitness is a workout facility that has a little different goals than other gyms. Unlike most gyms, Planet Fitness wants to provide gym goers with a unique experience. To make sure everyone is comfortable, they have created a unique atmosphere that gets rid of any sort of intimidation.