The national average for survival rates of kidney pancreas transplants in adults is 95% still functioning well one year after the operation, and 92.5% at three years. The best results are usually seen with a closely matched kidney from a living donor (usually from a sibling). According to the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), the average wait for a pancreas is about 3 1/2 years, while the wait for a combined kidney and pancreas is about 3 years. As of September 2013, there are more than 2,000 candidates listed on the national waiting list awaiting a kidney-pancreas transplant.
A kidney transplant does not last for ever. The average life-span of a transplanted kidney is ten years for a deceased donor kidney, and about 12 years for a living related transplant. The average for a living unrelated transplant is somewhere between the two. Another way of looking at how long a transplanted kidney is likely to last is to look at the percentage chance that the kidney will be working at set time points.
On average, a transplanted kidney from a cadaveric (deceased) donor lasts 15 years. Some transplanted kidneys only last a few weeks, while others function normally for 20 years or more. In general, kidneys from living donors last longer than those from cadaveric donors. 
Recovery after transplant surgery. Hospital recovery for a kidney transplant is usually 5 to 10 days if there are no complications. The length of stay depends on your medical condition and needs. You'll spend 24-48 hours in intensive care immediately after surgery. 
The answer to how long does a kidney transplant last is, on average, most kidney transplants last somewhere between 10 and 12 years. There are chances that some transplants may fail shortly after transplant; some may be so successful that the recipient may not need another one for years. How long does a kidney transplant last also depends on that once the kidney has been transplanted, subsequently how long will a transplanted kidney is likely to last. To answer this is to look at the chance (in percentage) that the kidney will be working in a set time:
If the transplant does not work at the start, dialysis will be required and the patient will need to play a waiting game until the kidney starts working. A ‘good transplant’ is one that is working well after one year, not two weeks. The transplant kidney is placed lower down in the abdomen, just above the groin. The transplant kidney has its own artery (to take blood to it), vein (to take blood from it) and ureter (to take urine to the bladder).
Kidney transplant surgery takes about 3 hours. During surgery, the donor kidney will be placed in your lower abdomen, blood vessels from the donor kidney will be connected to arteries and veins in your body, and the ureter from the donor kidney will be connected to your bladder. A kidney transplant is surgery to replace your own diseased kidneys with a healthy (donor) kidney. There are two types of donors: 1  Living donors. 2  A living donor may be a family member, a friend, a coworker, or any person who is willing to give a kidney to someone in need.
Another important factor in how long does kidney transplant last is that it does not last forever. In essence, the average duration of a transplanted kidney is approximately ten years for a kidney from a donor who has died to about 12 years for a donor who is alive and is a relative. For a donor who is alive and not related to the patient, the answer to how long does the transplant last is between 10-12 years. How long does a kidney transplant last also depends on that once the kidney has been transplanted, subsequently how long will a transplanted kidney is likely to last. To answer this is to look at the chance (in percentage) that the kidney will be working in a set time:
On average, transplanted kidneys last between 10 and 12 years. What is the recovery time after a kidney transplant? What kind of lifestyle changes do you need to make? Two weeks after the surgery, you should start to feel much better, however, you need to take drugs to prevent rejection for the rest of your life. 