1 Whether tile (usually 12x12-, 13x13- or 20x20-inches) or sheets, linoleum prices usually include installation and range $3-4 a square foot or $250-$350 for that 9x9 room, but high-end linoleum can run well over $4 a square foot. Brand: Congoleum Ultima. + plus about $600 in installation costs (including floor base). + and an additional $600 because we had to replace the old underlayment (because there was asbestos on it). It cost more to get the plywood underlayment.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Vinyl Tile Flooring Installation project. For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Vinyl Tile Flooring ranges between $5.33 - $7.00 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Sheet Vinyl Flooring Installation project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Sheet Vinyl Flooring ranges between $2.56 - $3.31 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Sheet Vinyl Flooring Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
The only difficulties in laying a flooring made from this pliable material are in cutting it to fit around pipes, drains, or pre-existing cabinetry. For this discussion, we will consider the materials and costs for the installation of a vinyl floor in the mid-range 200 square foot kitchen. This discussion will be geared especially at the DIY owner, and will NOT include costs such as: 1 Assuming that there is 20 linear feet of cabinetry it would require six sheets of wood for a cost of approximately $132; 2  Installation of the new flooring-The costs might vary according to the style selected, but for this project we will assume that the homeowner is opting for a durable and long-lasting style.
1 According to Armstrong.com, if they purchase their flooring as a sheet, they will need the 12' type which has an average price of $4.99 per square foot. 2  This means that the total price would be $890. 1 Assuming that there is 20 linear feet of cabinetry it would require six sheets of wood for a cost of approximately $132; 2  Installation of the new flooring-The costs might vary according to the style selected, but for this project we will assume that the homeowner is opting for a durable and long-lasting style.
Linoleum and vinyl flooring can be quite affordable to install yourself or have a pro install for you. It is a cost-effective flooring material when you need something for 5-20 years that won’t require a lot of maintenance. It’s popular where low price is a high priority. Average Price Range. The average cost of linoleum and vinyl flooring is $2-$2.50 per square foot. Like most flooring, vinyl and linoleum is produced at different quality levels. The thicker the material and the better the finish, the more it will cost. The best way to understand the differences in the quality is to shop around
Vinyl flooring costs around $1 to $5 per square foot, uninstalled. Vinyl tiles are DIY-friendly, thanks to self-stick backing, spray adhesives, and other simple options. Sheet vinyl installation generally is better left to professionals. 
Vinyl is one of the simplest of the DIY flooring materials to install. Home and property owners can find it in large sheets (usually sold in 6' or 12' widths) or in tiles ranging from one square foot to 18x18 in size. 1 Assuming that there is 20 linear feet of cabinetry it would require six sheets of wood for a cost of approximately $132; 2  Installation of the new flooring-The costs might vary according to the style selected, but for this project we will assume that the homeowner is opting for a durable and long-lasting style.