THE TIPPING POINT CRISIS is based on the research of Professor Tim Lenton at the University of Exeter, who has identified 12 dangerous Tipping Points. 
The tipping point is the critical point in an evolving situation that leads to a new and irreversible development. The term is said to have originated in the field of epidemiology when an infectious disease reaches a point beyond any local ability to control it from spreading more widely. In some usage, a tipping point is simply an addition or increment that in itself might not seem extraordinary but that unexpectedly is just the amount of additional change that will lead to a big effect.
The Tipping Point Quotes (showing 1-30 of 94). “The tipping point is that magic moment when an idea, trend, or social behavior crosses a threshold, tips, and spreads like wildfire.”. ― Malcolm Gladwell, The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference. Like. “That is the paradox of the epidemic: that in order to create one contagious movement, you often have to create many small movements first
A tipping point is often considered to be a turning point. The term is now used in many fields. Journalists apply it to social phenomena, demographic data, and almost any change that is likely to lead to additional consequences. Marketers see it as a threshold that, once reached, will result in additional sales. In some usage, a tipping point is simply an addition or increment that in itself might not seem extraordinary but that unexpectedly is just the amount of additional change that will lead to a big effect.
A tipping point is defined, for the purposes of the Global Biodiversity Outlook, as a situation in which an ecosystem experiences a shift to a new state, with significant changes to biodiversity and the services to people it underpins, at a regional or global scale. 
Definition of TIPPING POINT. : the critical point in a situation, process, or system beyond which a significant and often unstoppable effect or change takes place. ADVERTISEME
Rate of Greenland ice sheet melt. A climate tipping point is a somewhat ill-defined concept of a point when global climate changes from one stable state to another stable state, in a similar manner to a wine glass tipping over. After the tipping point has been passed, a transition to a new state occurs. The tipping event may be irreversible, comparable to wine spilling from the glass: standing up the glass will not put the wine back.
Gladwell defines a tipping point as the moment of critical mass, the threshold, the boiling point. The book seeks to explain and describe the mysterious sociological changes that mark everyday life. As Gladwell states, Ideas and products and messages and behaviors spread like viruses do. Gladwell describes the bystander effect, and explains how Dunbar's number plays into the tipping point, using Rebecca Wells ' novel Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, evangelist John Wesley, and the high-tech firm W. L. Gore and Associates.
The Tipping Point. The tipping point is that magic moment when an idea, trend, or social behavior crosses a threshold, tips, and spreads like wildfire. 