1 If HDL-C is less than 40 mg/dL (1.0 mmol/L) for men and less than 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L) for women, there is an increased risk of heart disease that is independent of other risk factors, including the LDL-C level. The ratio is obtained by dividing the total cholesterol by the HDL cholesterol. For example, if a person has a total cholesterol result of 200 mg/dL and an HDL cholesterol level of 50 mg/dL, the ratio would be stated as 4 (or 4:1). A desirable ratio is below 5 (5:1); the optimum ratio is 3.5 (3.5:1).
Total blood (or serum) cholesterol. Your total cholesterol score is calculated using the following equation: HDL + LDL + 20 percent of your triglyceride level. HDL (good) cholesterol. With HDL cholesterol, higher levels are better. Low HDL cholesterol puts you at higher risk for heart disease. LDL (bad) cholesterol A low LDL cholesterol level is considered good for your heart health. However, your LDL number should no longer be the main factor in guiding treatment to prevent heart attack and stroke, according to new guidelines from the American Heart Association.
When it comes to HDL cholesterol -- good cholesterol – a higher number means lower risk. This is because HDL cholesterol protects against heart disease by taking the bad cholesterol out of your blood and keeping it from building up in your arteries. A statin can slightly increase your HDL, as can exercise. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low.
LDL Bad Cholesterol. An LDL value below 100 mg/dL is considered optimal. A reading of 100 to 129 mg/dL is near or above optimal. A total of 130 to 159 mg/dL is borderline high. And 160 to 189 mg/dL is considered high, while 190 mg/dL or above is very high. An HDL value below 40 mg/dL (for men) or 50 mg/dL (for women) is classified as low HDL and is a major risk factor for heart disease. A reading of 60 mg/dL or above is high HDL.
This blood test checks the levels of cholesterol in your body. A lipid panel will show the levels of your total cholesterol, your LDL (bad) cholesterol, and your HDL (good) cholesterol. In general, the higher your total and LDL cholesterol levels, the higher your risk for coronary heart disease. But some heart attacks happen in people who don't have a high LDL level. 240 mg/dL and above – high. Ideally, HDL cholesterol should be above 40 mg/dL for men and above 50 mg/dL for women. The higher your HDL level, the better. The test for non-HDL cholesterol isn't usually part of screening for your total
Triglycerides. A triglyceride level below 150 mg/dL is normal. A reading from 150 to 199 mg/dL is borderline high. A reading of 200 to 499 mg/dL is high, while 500 mg/dL or above is considered very high. A high triglyceride level combined with a low HDL or high LDL level increases the risk for heart attack and stroke. An HDL value below 40 mg/dL (for men) or 50 mg/dL (for women) is classified as low HDL and is a major risk factor for heart disease. A reading of 60 mg/dL or above is high HDL.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low.
Less than 100 mg/dL is considered optimal and up to 129 mg/dL is near optimal. Borderline high LDL ranges from 130 to 159 mg/dL and 160 to 189 mg/dL is considered high. Above that level is categorized as very high. High density lipoproteins (HDL) are categorized as the good type of cholesterol. HDL levels below 40 mg/dl for men and 50 mg/dl for women are thought to put you at a greater than average risk for heart disease. Individuals who regularly exercise can achieve HDL values over 60, lowering their relative risk for coronary artery disease.
HDL Good Cholesterol. An HDL value below 40 mg/dL (for men) or 50 mg/dL (for women) is classified as low HDL and is a major risk factor for heart disease. A reading of 60 mg/dL or above is high HDL.