How many kilojoules should an 18 year old girl have each day? You should be safe with around 8000-9000 kilojoules per day but it is highly relative to you personally and factors such as height, activity, age, gender and weight are inclus … ive in calculating how many kilojoules you should have.
How many kilojoules should an 18 year old girl have each day? You should be safe with around 8000-9000 kilojoules per day but it is highly relative to you personally and factors such as height, activity, age, gender and weight are inclus … ive in calculating how many kilojoules you should have.
Obviously 8,700 kilojoules a day is an average. The actual number of kilojoules you need will vary depending on your age, gender, life stage (if you’re growing which demands more energy), weight, height and how physically active you are. A very active 16-year old, for example, requires 12,000kJ a day, which is 4,000kJ more than a sedentary 70-year-old.
The amount of energy (kJ) you need to consume each day differs depending on whether you are wanting to maintain weight, lose weight or gain weight. This is a basic guide on how many kilojoules (calories) you need each day, along with information regarding what nutrients are needed for a healthy diet.
Girls aged 11 to 13 need 1,800 to 2,200 calories per day while those between the ages of 14 and 18 need 1,800 to 2,400 calories per day, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. One of the main factors affecting the calorie needs of teenagers is activity level.
The amount of energy that food and drink contains is measured in both kilojoules (kJ) and kilocalories (kcal) commonly just referred to as calories. A report from 2011 estimated that the average energy requirements for children aged 13-18 years old a day is:
The average daily kilojoule (energy) requirement for an adult is approximately 8700kJ or 2000Cal. A person’s daily energy requirements differ based on their gender, how much exercise they do, their height and weight, and whether or not they suffer from particular illnesses or disorder.
Energy is measured in kilojoules (kj) or calories, so when we refer to 'energy in' we actually mean 'kilojoules in' (the kilojoules in the food we have eaten). Maintaining a healthy weight range is important for minimising the risk of many lifestyle diseases such as heart disease, some cancers and type 2 diabetes.