Cellular Outfitter is a premium retailer and wholesaler of cell phone accessories located in Southern California, USA. Cellular Outfitter Coupons. All Cellular Outfitter coupon codes, promo code vouchers, free shipping, and more Cellular Outfitter discounts for October 2015 and November 2015 have been rated 5.0 stars and verified to work by our editor PiggyCoupons.
It's free! Cellular Outfitter is a leading online retailer for affordable wholesale cell phone accessories. We provide high quality cell phone solutions for individuals, businesses, governments, educational institutions at affordable prices. 
Get one for your phone today! http://bit.ly/1NHYtb6. iPhone 6 Premium Bumper Rugged Cases: Stylish and Functional ProtectionCellular Outfitter offers the largest selection of mobile accessories online at wholesale prices! http://www.cellularoutfitter.com/ Cellular Outfitter carrie...youtube.com. 
According to Dun & Bradstreet, Cellular Outfitter Inc. earns an estimated $130,000 a year, which is on par with other telecommunications carriers in both Orange and the United States (where the median revenue is also $130,000). Company Age. Founded 5 years ago, Cellular Outfitter Inc. has been in business for slightly less time than its telecommunications carrier competitors in both Orange and the United States (where the median age is 7 years old).
SHIPPING & HANDLING: CellularOutfitter.com offers shipping and handling Standard parcel post (4-10 business days) starting at $6.99 for the first item and a $1.99 shipping and handling fee on each additional item. All NON-DEFECTIVE cell phone returns will be subject to a 20% restocking fee. For refunds allow 3-4 business days for the refund to post to your account from the time the refund is issued. Non-Defective Returns: NON-DEFECTIVE RETURNS OF ACCESSORIES ARE SUBJECT TO A 15% RE-STOCKING FEE.
Why pay full retail markup when you can get all of your cell phone accessories at wholesale prices? Founded in 2002, Cellular Outfitter offers the largest online selection of cell phone accessories worldwide. We operate differently than others in the industry by staying true to our core beliefs and focusing on an excellent customer experience. 
BBB Accreditation. Cellular Outfitters-Fort Myers is not BBB Accredited. Businesses are under no obligation to seek BBB accreditation, and some businesses are not accredited because they have not sought BBB accreditation. To be accredited by BBB, a business must apply for accreditation and BBB must determine that the business meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints.
Factors that raised Cellular Outfitters-Fort Myers' rating include: 1  Length of time business has been operating. 2  Response to 1 complaint(s) filed against business. 3  Resolution of complaint(s) filed against business. To be accredited by BBB, a business must apply for accreditation and BBB must determine that the business meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints.
Why pay full retail markup when you can get all of your cell phone accessories at wholesale prices? Founded in 2002, Cellular Outfitter offers the largest online selection of cell phone accessories worldwide. We operate differently than others in the industry by staying true to our core beliefs and focusing on an excellent customer experience. We know first-hand the importance of quality cell phone accessories and stand behind all our products with a 110% low price guarantee.