The standard notation for the scientific name of an organism is Binomial nomenclature, which uses the Genus and Species names of an organism. Such a notation is written as Genus species. However, some species have variations with distinct evolutionary differences, yet genetic identity as said species. This leads to the inclusion of Subspecies/Variety, and sometimes Breed/Subvariety, in the scientific name of an organism.
A common name is a name used for an organism that varies according to place, language and culture. For example, the organism with the scientific name Terrapene carolina has the following common names: common box turtle (English), eastern box turtle (English), tortue tabatiere (Tabatière), French tortuga De (Carolina). spanish
Confidence votes 163. The naming of an organism as a scientific name is called binomial nomenclature. In this system, the two parts that are used to identify an organism is the genus and the species. For example, Homo sapiens is a scientific name for humans. Homo is the genus and sapiens is the species. They are usually italicized and often only have the first letter of genus (H. sapiens). Th … e genus is the most specific group that some organism can be in. Each organism in classified into a number of different sections, those being domain, kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus and species. The scientific name as you can see represents only the last two.
The scientific names consists of two terms, the genus name and the species name. The genus name always starts with a capital letter and the species name always starts with a small letter. This process of naming organisms scientifically is known as 'taxonomy'. Assigning scientific names to organism was first developed by a Swedish scientist 'Carlous Linnaeus'.
For help finding out the scientific name of an organism or the scientific names of its containing groups you can search: 1  The ToL: 2  Do a Quick search (google the Tree of Life) for the common name. 3  Do an Advanced search (either a group search or a text search) for the common name. For example, the organism with the scientific name Terrapene carolina has the following common names: common box turtle (English), eastern box turtle (English), tortue tabatiere (Tabatière), French tortuga De (Carolina). spanish
ION contains the organism names related data gathered from the scientific literature for Thomson Reuters' Zoological Record® database. Viruses, bacteria and plant names will be added from other Thomson Reuters databases such as BIOSIS Previews® . Enter a scientific name, or browse using the hierarchy. 
In biological nomenclature, organisms often receive scientific names that honor a person. A taxon (e.g. species or genus; plural: taxa) named in honor of another entity is an eponymous taxon, and names specifically honoring a person or persons are known as patronyms.
Scientists through out the world use a common system for naming organisms, this system is known as the binomial nomenclature. In th is system two words are used to name the organis ms that represe nts its generic name and the other its specific epithet. This process of naming organisms scientifically is known as 'taxonomy'. Assigning scientific names to organism was first developed by a Swedish scientist 'Carlous Linnaeus'.
SCIENTIFIC NAMES OF ORGANISMS This is a list of the organisms whose names are mentioned in at least one of the following McGraw-Hill botany texts. The common names are listed alphabetically along with the scientific names. Levetin, E., and K. McMahon. 