In direct zoonosis the disease is directly transmitted from animals to humans through media such as air (influenza) or through bites and saliva (Rabies). In contrast, transmission can also occur via an intermediate species (referred to as a vector), which carry the disease pathogen without getting infected. Major modern diseases such as Ebola virus disease and influenza are zoonoses. Zoonoses can be caused by a range of disease pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites; of 1,415 pathogens known to infect humans, 61% were zoonotic.
View full size image. Diseases that can be transmitted between animals and humans, such as bird flu and tuberculosis, can wreak havoc on the health of both organisms. Now researchers have found 13 so-called zoonoses are responsible for 2.2 million human deaths every year. About 60 percent of all human diseases and 75 percent of all emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic, according to the researchers. Most human infections with zoonoses come from livestock, including pigs, chickens, cattle, goats, sheep and camels.
Diseases passed from animals to humans are called zoonoses. There are more than three dozen we can catch directly through touch and more than four dozen that result from bites. But disease-carrying parasites are not picky about hosts. 
Disease Transmitted from Animals to Humans. A zoonosis (zoonotic disease or zoonoses-plural) is an infectious disease that is transmitted between species from animals to humans (or from humans to animals). 
Zoonoses (/ˌzoʊ.əˈnoʊsɨs/ , plural - /ˈnoʊsiz/ , also spelled zooenoses; zoönoses singular (zoonosis or); zooenosis Zoönosis: from greek ζῷον zoon animal and νόσος) nosos ailment are infectious diseases (of animals), usually vertebrates that can naturally be transmitted. to humans Major modern diseases such as Ebola virus disease and influenza are zoonoses. Zoonoses can be caused by a range of disease pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites; of 1,415 pathogens known to infect humans, 61% were zoonotic.
Of the 37 new infectious diseases identified in the past 30 years, more than two-thirds sprang from animals. Of the 37 new infectious diseases identified in the past 30 years, more than two-thirds sprang from animals. Infections transmitted from animals to humans are called zoonoses, or zoonotic diseases. Of the more than 1,700 known viruses, bacteria, and other pathogens that infect people, more than half either originated in or now come directly from animals. Indirect Transmission. Diseases that are transmitted to humans indirectly via an insect, an arthropod (animals with jointed appendages and exoskeletons, such as ticks), or another animal (such as snails, which deliver the parasite responsible for schistosomiasis) are called vector-borne diseases.
A zoonotic disease or zoonosis (plural is zoonoses) is any disease of animals that can be transmitted to people. This list includes some zoonotic diseases and related topics that affect people in Washington State. For brochures, reports, and other handouts, see our animal and vectorborne disease publications. 
They come from giant Gambian rats and fuzzy bunnies. They come from puppies and pythons. Whether the animal is friend or food or foe, it can carry dangerous diseases. There are at least 39 important diseases people catch directly from animals. There are at least 48 important diseases people get from the bite of bugs that bit an infected animal. And there are at least 42 important diseases that people get by ingesting or handling food or water contaminated with animal fec