Lewis has fathered six children with four different women. One Ray Lewis’ girlfriend who has stood the test of time is Tatyana McCall, the mother to three of his children. The couple met at Miami, and she’s clearly proud of the relationship she built with the Ravens leader. In an interview with Sports Illustrated in 2006, McCall described Lewis: McCall is the mother to Ray Lewis III. III is the elder Lewis’ oldest child, and is a standout prep school football player who has already committed to play for The U next fall. Apparently the times that weren’t so easy continued to build as the couple did separate.
Ray Lewis believes the tuck rule is the only reason any of us knows who Tom Brady is. Lewis told Stephen A. Smith on ESPN Radio that the Patriots getting the benefit of the infamous rule when Brady appeared to fumble in his first playoff start against the Raiders in January of 2002 is the reason he has a career today. That’s fair – the only reason I know who Ray Lewis is, is because he was an accessory to murder. Only reason we know Tom Brady is because of a nasty hit Mo Lewis layed on Drew Bledsoe. End of story. Ray, you’re better off just keeping your mouth shut.
Confidence votes 4. Ray Lewis is the Baltimore Ravens MLB or middle linebacker. He is known as one of the best linebackers in the nfl. He went to college at Miami and he was the mvp of super bowl 35. 
Ray Lewis has spent 16 years terrorizing offenses in the AFC, and now it might be time for him to terrorize single ladies in the Mid-Atlantic region. Ray Lewis’ girlfriends and wives have often been the same thing: the game of football, and the Baltimore Ravens. McCall is the mother to Ray Lewis III. III is the elder Lewis’ oldest child, and is a standout prep school football player who has already committed to play for The U next fall. Apparently the times that weren’t so easy continued to build as the couple did separate.
Ray Lewis Biography. One of the most feared linebackers ever in the NFL, Ray Lewis was born May 15, 1975 in Bartow, Florida. Lewis has been selected to ten Pro Bowls and been named an All-Pro seven times. He won the NFL Defensive Player of the Year in 2000 and 2003; he was the sixth player to win the award multiple times. Former NFL star Ray Lewis is set to host his Ray Lewis 2014 Defensive Football Camp on June 16-17 in Miami, Florida. This camp is one of the premier football camps in the country, and will feature two days of on-field training and off-field film study, led by Ray Lewis himself.
Playing middle linebacker his entire career, Lewis is considered one of the greatest ever to play the position. Lewis was selected to 13 Pro Bowls and named an Associated Press All-Pro 10 times. He is also thought to be the greatest Baltimore Ravens player of all time. He won the NFL Defensive Player of the Year in 2000 and 2003, becoming the sixth player to win the award multiple times. Despite the Baltimore Ravens' mediocre 2007 season, Ray Lewis was the team's leading tackler. Against the Browns, Lewis recorded 16 tackles, recovered a fumble, and returned an interception for a touchdown.
Raymond Anthony Lewis, Jr. (born May 15, 1975) is a former American football linebacker who played his entire 17-year career for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the University of Miami, and earned All-American honors. Despite the Baltimore Ravens' mediocre 2007 season, Ray Lewis was the team's leading tackler. Against the Browns, Lewis recorded 16 tackles, recovered a fumble, and returned an interception for a touchdown.
Synopsis. Ray Lewis was born in Bartow, Florida, in 1975. The oldest of five children, Lewis became a football star at Kathleen High School and was recruited to play at the University of Miami. In 1996, Lewis was a first-round pick of the Baltimore Ravens. He led the team to a Super Bowl victory in 2000, and was named Defensive Player of the Year that same season.