The sexual generation of the plant, the haploid gametophyte, develops from the spores, and it is in the sex organs of the gametophyte, the gametangia (male, anther; female, archegonium), that gametogenesis takes place by means of mitoses. Gametogenesis. the process of development and formation of the sex cells, or gametes. The gametogenesis of the male gametes (spermatozoids, sperms) is called spermatogenesis; and that of the female gametes (the egg cells), oogenesis.
Alternation of generations overview. the gametophyte produces haplod gametes by mitosis; two gametes unite and form a diploid zygote; the zygote develops into a multicellular diploid sporophyte; the sporophyte produces haploid spores by meiosis; the spores develop into multicellular haploid gametophytes. Sporophyte. in organisms (plants and some algae) that have alternation of gnerations, the multicellular diploid form that results from the union of gamtes; it produces haploid spores by meiosis that develop into gametophytes.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. In common parlance, the difference between a spore and a gamete (both together called gonites) is that a spore will germinate and develop into a sporeling, while a gamete needs to combine with another gamete before developing further. Female gametes form to the right of the wall of chromosomes, where as the gametes in males form to the left and in the middle of the wall. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Alternaria Fungi Are a Source of Allergies Alternaria is a little-known source of allergies.
1 a reproductive body, produced by bacteria, fungi, various plants, and some protozoans, that develops into a new individual. 2  A sexual spore is formed after the fusion of gametes and an asexual spore is the result of asexual reproduction. 3  a germ cell, seed, dormant bacterium, or similar body. 
Spores are usually haploid and unicellular and are produced by meiosis in the sporangium of a diploid sporophyte. Under favourable conditions the spore can develop into a new organism using mitotic division, producing a multicellular gametophyte, which eventually goes on to produce gametes. Two gametes fuse to form a zygote which develops into a new sporophyte. This cycle is known as alternation of generations. In common parlance, the difference between a spore and a  gamete  (both together called gonites) is that a spore will germinate and develop into a sporeling, while a gamete needs to combine with another gamete to form a zygote before developing further.
Fundamentally, spores and gametes are very different. One difference is in the type of reproduction that each are involved in. Spores are used in asexual reproduction, while gametes are used in sexual reproduction. Another difference is in what each needs to develop into the next stage in the life cycle. A spore has the ability to grow into the adult gametophyte all by itself. The structure that produces a gamete is already haploid and so does not need to change the number of chromosomes it has in order to produce haploid gametes. So, hopefully this post explains how different spores and gametes are. I wanted to highlight this information because I see it as a common source of error.
However, the cells produced after meiosis are spores, and these do not develop directly into gametes. Female spores (megaspores) and male spores (microspores) develop into gametophytes, that is, female and male haploid plants that bear within them the egg and sperm, respectively. There is a wide range in the details of development and structure of gametes among the different groups of plants other than angiosperms. Gametogenesis. the process of development and formation of the sex cells, or gametes. The gametogenesis of the male gametes (spermatozoids, sperms) is called spermatogenesis; and that of the female gametes (the egg cells), oogenesis.
In biology, a spore is a unit of asexual reproduction that may be adapted for dispersal and for survival, often for extended periods of time, in unfavorable conditions. By contrast, gametes are units of sexual reproduction. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa. In common parlance, the difference between a spore and a  gamete  (both together called gonites) is that a spore will germinate and develop into a sporeling, while a gamete needs to combine with another gamete to form a zygote before developing further.