Polar bears. Majestic creature of the far north, the polar bear is the world's largest terrestrial carnivore. Its Latin name, Ursus maritimus, means 'sea bear', an apt name for this amazing species which spends much of its life in, around, or on the water-predominantly on the sea ice. WWF is working around the Arctic to secure a future for polar bears. Polar bears, the charismatic icon of the Arctic environment, have long been a focus in WWF’s on-the-ground research and conservation projects in the Arctic, going back to 1972 – and climate change is a primary focus of our global conservation efforts. 1  WWF's work on polar bear conservation
A symbol of the Arctic, polar bears are the world’s largest land predator and biggest member of the bear family. With heavy fur, blubber up to four inches thick and black skin that absorbs heat from the sun, polar bears are amazingly well adapted to the Arctic climate. What’s happening now: Although polar bears received Endangered Species Act protection in 2008, the federal government is still failing to stop oil and gas activities in two of the Arctic’s most important polar bear habitats – the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas.
Because of ongoing and potential loss of their sea ice habitat resulting from climate change, polar bears were listed as a threatened species in the US under the Endangered Species Act in May 2008. The survival and the protection of the polar bear habitat are urgent issues for WWF. Effects of Climate Change. Polar bears depend on sea ice as a platform from which to hunt seals, rest and breed. For more than 20 years the summer sea ice has been decreasing in size and melting for longer periods of time.
Importance of polar bears. Polar bears are at the top of the food chain and have an important role in the overall health of the marine environment. Over thousands of years, polar bears have also been an important part of the cultures and economies of Arctic peoples. Polar bears depend on sea ice for their existence and are directly impacted by climate change—serving as an important indicator species. Effects of Climate Change. Polar bears depend on sea ice as a platform from which to hunt seals, rest and breed. For more than 20 years the summer sea ice has been decreasing in size and melting for longer periods of time.
Threats to Polar Bears: Polar bears are in serious danger of going extinct due to global warming. The bears were the first vertebrate species to be listed by the U.S. Endangered Species Act as threatened by extinction primarily because of global warming.
Most polar bears occur north of the Arctic Circle to the North Pole. There are some populations south of the Arctic Circle in Hudson Bay, Manitoba, Canada. Polar bears live in Alaska, Canada, Russia, Greenland and some northern islands owned by Norway like Svalbard. Polar bears are in serious danger of going extinct due to global warming. The bears were the first vertebrate species to be listed by the U.S. Endangered Species Act as threatened by extinction primarily because of
Distribution and population status The polar bear is a circumpolar species and is found in arctic regions where there is access to sea ice throughout much of the year. Polar bear populations are found in Canada, Alaska (USA), Greenland, the Russian Arctic, the Norwegian Arctic and on the ice surrounding the North Pole. Its longer predatory teeth and sharper molars have helped polar bears adapt to the arctic climate and its almost exclusively carnivorous lifestyle. The polar bear is the youngest species of bear and is closely related to the brown bear (Ursus arctos) and grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis).