concurrent range zone(overlap zone) A body of strata which is characterized by the overlapping stratigraphic range of two or more taxa, selected as diagnostic, and after which the zone is named. Concurrent range zones are very widely used in the time correlation of strata. 2. See OPPEL ZONE. Compare ASSEMBLAGE ZONE; and PARTIAL RANGE ZONE. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography.
concurrent range zone (overlap zone) A body of strata which is characterized by the overlapping stratigraphic range of two or more taxa, selected as diagnostic, and after which the zone is named. Concurrent range zones are very widely used in the time correlation of strata. 2. See OPPEL ZONE. Compare ASSEMBLAGE ZONE; and PARTIAL RANGE ZONE. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography.
Biostratigraphy is the branch of stratigraphy which focuses on correlating and assigning relative ages of rock strata by using the fossil assemblages contained within them. Fossil assemblages were traditionally used to designate the duration of periods. Since a large change in fauna was required to make early stragtigraphers create a new period, most of the periods we recognise today are terminated by a major extinction event or faunal turnover.
Because sedimentary rocks are time transgressive (meaning one unit, such as a sandstone layer, can be deposited throughout time) we need terminology that deals with not only the individual rock types but also the deposition that occurred over a certain periods of time and time itself. For example, as seen in the image to the left, a unit of rock that contains fossil archaeocythids must be Cambrian in age since this is the only time period when archaeocythids was present on the Earth. Other fossils, however, may span multiple time periods and require the use of cuncurrent range zones. A concurrent range zone is the overlapping range zones of each fossil found within a given rock unit and represents the time period when all fossils within the assemblage were present on the Earth
2 ☆ Concept of zone Albert Oppel in France (1856) defined “zones” that are characterized by more than two taxa and having boundaries based on two or more documented first and/or last occurrences of the included characterizing taxa. This zone is now named “Oppel zone” or “ concurrent range zone ”. It is a type of assemblage zone (see below). The concept of zone allowed subdivision of stages into two or more, smaller biostratigraphic units. “Zones” constitute the basic unit of biostratigraphic classification. 5 The zone, or biozone, is the fundamental unit of biostratigraphic classification. A zone may be divided into subzones and/or grouped into superzones. Each biozone is given a unique name, which is compound and designates the kind of biozone.
The zone is named after one of the diagnostic species. Oppel zones are thus more flexible and subjective than concurrent range zones in the rigorously applied sense of that term, although the term ‘concurrent range zone’ is commonly used for what is, in fact, an Oppel zone. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography. The zone is named after one of the diagnostic species. Oppel zones are more flexible and subjective than concurrent range zones in the rigorously applied sense of that term, although ‘concurrent range zone’ is commonly used for what is in fact an Oppel zone. Cite this article.
The first world-wide occurence of a fossil is known as the the time of origin; the last world-wide occurrence of an individual fossil is known as the time of extinction. The total time of existence, that is the range within the relative geologic time scale, that the fossil can be found is the range zone of the fossil. Easily identifiable fossils with relatively short range zones and world-wide occurrences are known a index or guide fossils. For example, as seen in the image to the left, a unit of rock that contains fossil archaeocythids must be Cambrian in age since this is the only time period when archaeocythids was present on the Earth. Other fossils, however, may span multiple time periods and require the use of cuncurrent range zones. A concurrent range zone is the overlapping range zones of each fossil found within a given rock unit and represents the time period when all fossils within the assemblage were present on the Earth
Concurrent range zone and partial range zone (ISG, Figure b and c): The interval between the documented lowest occurrence of one taxon and the documented highest occurrence of another taxon. Concurrent range zone is used when the fossil occurrence results in stratigraphic overlap of the taxa (Figure b). When such occurrences do not result in stratigraphic overlap, the interval zone may be called a partial range zone (Figure c).3. 5 The zone, or biozone, is the fundamental unit of biostratigraphic classification. A zone may be divided into subzones and/or grouped into superzones. Each biozone is given a unique name, which is compound and designates the kind of biozone.