well unfortunatly, it won't grow any faster if you cut of your split ends... Your hair won't have any split ends but it'd important to trim your hair at least every 4-6 months to get rid of any split ends and replenish you roots and stuff. Hope this helped. Best Answer: Okay. So here is how it goes. Cutting off split ends will not make it grow faster, however, it will make it stronger. it is necessary to cut them off if you plan to grow out your hair. If you do not then it will continue to break apart and you will feel as if your hair is not growing.
Cut your hair regularly. A hairdresser can always trim off split ends, but will usually remove about 1⁄4 to 1 inch (0.6 to 2.5 cm) of your hair along with them. Eventually, all hair will wear out enough to require this treatment. Trim them off using a small pair of hair shears, since scissors can fray your hair and lead to more split ends. Cut single strands about ¼ (6mm) above the split. If you cut too close to the damage, the split may reappear.
Report Abuse. Getting your hair trimmed does not make ur hair grow faster. The reason why you do this is so as your hair grows the ends are healthier. If you do not trim your ends regularly....your ends will split more upward causing you to have to cut more off, there fore defeating the purpose of growing out you hair. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Cutting split ends won't make your hair grow faster or longer, but what it will do is prevent the split from making it's way further up the hair shaft, damaging the entire strand. You cut split ends so they don't continue to split the hair because this is damaging to the hair.
Yes! If you want long, healthy hair, this is the way to go! Your hair grows from the roots in your scalp, so the split ends at the end of your hair are the oldest part. If you don't want to get a drastic cut, just ask for a small trim and your hairdresser will cut only a bit off. If you want to grow out your hair, I can give you some tips.
Trimming your hair is always best. If you don't trim your hair, you will end up getting split ends, especially if you have thin hair. These split ends will then stop your hair from growing and will ruin it too, then your hair won't get really long and it won't be healthy. Plus, not all of your hair will be even. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Cutting split ends won't make your hair grow faster or longer, but what it will do is prevent the split from making it's way further up the hair shaft, damaging the entire strand. You cut split ends so they don't continue to split the hair because this is damaging to the hair.
If you're not due for a full haircut, take care of the split ends yourself. Trim them off using a small pair of hair shears, since scissors can fray your hair and lead to more split ends. Cut single strands about ¼ (6mm) above the split. If you cut too close to the damage, the split may reappear. 1  Some splits form a small ball directly above the damage
If you want long, healthy hair, this is the way to go! Your hair grows from the roots in your scalp, so the split ends at the end of your hair are the oldest part. If you … don't want to get a drastic cut, just ask for a small trim and your hairdresser will cut only a bit off. Trimming the ends of hair improves the health of the hair by removing split ends. If split ends are not taken care of, they make split further up the shaft of the hair. When t … his happens, the ends of the strands of hair are more likely to break off. By trimming, you are preventing the ends of the hair breaking off and the hair is allowed to grow longer