Most states place few restrictions on the ability of a business or individual to serve as an LLC member. An LLC member must generally be of the age of majority, which is usually 18 years old. No state places any citizenship requirement on a corporation or individual wishing to serve as an LLC member. A corporation does not need to be incorporated in the same state as where the LLC is being organized. Typically, the holding company, which may be a corporation, would be a member of the operating company, which may be an LLC. A business owner may be able to further insulate business assets from creditors by using a holding and operating company structure and maintaining corporate formalities.
The company must then notify ASIC that you’re no longer a director or secretary of the company. For more information, see Information Sheet 14 Bankruptcy and personal insolvency agreements (INFO 14). ASIC can also ban you from being a company director in certain situations. If you’re not allowed to be a company director or secretary, you’re not allowed to manage a company. It is a serious offence to set up dummy directors while you really manage the company. Directors must also be 18 years or older. You must be fully up-to-date on what your company is doing: 1  Find out and assess for yourself how any proposed action will affect your company’s business performance, especially if it involves a lot of the company’s money.
Some state business entity laws name the Secretary of State's office or business entity filing office as the registered agent of last resort, in the event the named registered agent can't be found. By law, service may be made on the office if the entities registered agent can not be found. In some states a business entity is legally allowed to act as its own registered agent, if at least one of its officers is a resident of the state, but other jurisdictions may require that a business entity designate a third party as its registered agent.
Age limits. There is no maximum age limit, however sec157 CA2006 imposes a minimum age of 16 years. Sec159 CA 2006 states that the directorship ceases where a company has an under-age director on the implementation date (1st October 2008) and the necessary changes must be made. Nationality. There are no statutory limitations as to nationality or residence, etc. 
If you will be operating your limited company from overseas, it is essential to have a Registered Office in the UK, where important letters and reminders from Companies House can be received and sent on to you abroad. However, they may also provide a ‘Service Address’. The service address will be on the public record and will be public information but the residential address will not be available to the public. A director can choose any address as the service address including the registered office address of the company.
The registered agent's address may also be where the state sends the paperwork for the periodic renewal of the business entity's charter (if required). The registered agent for a business entity may be an officer or employee of the company, or a third party, such as the organization's lawyer or a service company. Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a company negatively. In some states a business entity is legally allowed to act as its own registered agent, if at least one of its officers is a resident of the state, but other jurisdictions may require that a business entity designate a third party as its registered agent.
An agent may be either an individual who is a resident of Missouri and whose business office is identical with the entity’s registered office, or it may be a corporation authorized to transact business in Missouri and which has a business office identical with the entity’s registered office. You may list a specific purpose directly related to your company’s business or endeavor, and you may supplement that with, or solely state, that the company’s business is to transact any or all lawful business for which a limited liability company may be organized under the laws of the State of Missouri.
Filing a general business corporate registration report online saves the corporation $25 per year, and can be completed in a matter of minutes. The savings for filing articles of organization for a limited liability company online is $55.00 ($50.00 online versus $105.00 by paper). You may list a specific purpose directly related to your company’s business or endeavor, and you may supplement that with, or solely state, that the company’s business is to transact any or all lawful business for which a limited liability company may be organized under the laws of the State of Missouri.