Lymph Nodes. Lymph nodes are part of the lymph system, which carries lymph fluid, nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The three most common sites of swollen lymph nodes are the neck, armpit, and groin. The lymph system is also an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease. By Healthwise Staff. Primary Medical Reviewer Sarah Marshall, MD-Family Medicine.
Your lymphatic system comprises a network of organs, vessels and numerous lymph nodes situated throughout your body. Most of your lymph nodes are located in your head and neck region. Lymph nodes that frequently swell are in this area, as well as in your armpits and groin area. 
Lymph nodes are small clumps of immune cells that act as filters for the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system runs throughout the body (like the circulatory (blood) system) and carries fluid and cells. The lymph nodes in the underarm (the axillary lymph nodes) are the first place breast cancer is likely to spread. Figure 4.4 shows the location of the axillary lymph nodes.
Lymph nodes and what they do. Lymph vessels route lymph fluid through nodes throughout the body. Lymph nodes are small structures that work as filters for harmful substances. They contain immune cells that can help fight infection by attacking and destroying germs that are carried in through the lymph fluid. In most cases, only one area of nodes swells at a time. When more than one area of lymph nodes is swollen it’s called generalized lymphadenopathy. Some infections (such as strep throat and chicken pox), certain medicines, immune system diseases, and cancers like lymphoma and leukemia can cause this kind of swelling.
1 Lymph nodes are important part of the immune system. 2  Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 3  Lymph nodes are regional, and each group of them corresponds to a particular region of the body and reflects abnormalities in that region. 
Lymph nodes are small glands that filter lymph, the clear fluid that circulates through the lymphatic system. They become swollen in response to infection and tumors. Lymphatic fluid circulates through the lymphatic system, which is made of channels throughout your body that are similar to blood vessels. Lymphoma, which is a cancer of the lymphatic system, also causes the lymph nodes to swell. Some medications and allergic reactions to medications can cause the lymph nodes to swell. Anti-seizure and antimalarial drugs can also caus
Lymph nodes often swell in one location when a problem such as an injury, infection, or tumor develops in or near the lymph node. Which lymph nodes are swollen can help identify the problem. 1  The glands on either side of the neck, under the jaw, or behind the ears commonly swell when you have a cold or sore throat. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease. The lymph nodes filter lymph fluid as it flows through them, trapping bacteria, viruses, and other foreign substances, which are then destroyed by special white blood cells called lymphocytes.
Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease. The lymph nodes filter lymph fluid as it flows through them, trapping bacteria, viruses, and other foreign substances, which are then destroyed by special white blood cells called lymphocytes.
Lymph nodes become swollen in response to illness, infection, or stress. Swollen lymph nodes are one sign that your lymphatic system is working to rid your body of the responsible agents. Swollen lymph glands in the head and neck are normally caused by illnesses such as: 1  ear infection. Lymphoma, which is a cancer of the lymphatic system, also causes the lymph nodes to swell. Some medications and allergic reactions to medications can cause the lymph nodes to swell. Anti-seizure and antimalarial drugs can also caus