Another friend talks about the characteristics of abundant life. She says it involves confidence based on knowledge of our identity in Christ, peace and hope based on our knowledge of God's sovereignty and love, and sense of purpose based on commitment to God's will. To her, abundant life is a daily reality, a perspective that is steeped in God's truth and His word.
God is the giver of good gifts.. To her, abundant life is a daily reality, a perspective that is steeped in God's truth and His word. This is what she says about abundant life and her journey: I gave God my everything and asked Him for His everything. He delivered me from fear and into freedom and abundance
Abundant life is a term used to refer to Christian teachings on fullness of life. It is not an organized movement or a unique doctrine, but a name applied to the teachings and expectations of the groups and people who follow the teachings. Abundant life refers to life in its abounding fullness of joy and strength for mind, body, and soul. Abundant life signifies a contrast to feelings of lack, emptiness, and dissatisfaction, and such feelings may motivate a person to seek for the meaning of life and a change in their life.
There is a dimension to life apart from food and water, and that dimension is given life by the Word of God. God's Word provides it strength and the ability to grow. The Word of God adds an absolutely vital dimension to a person's life—if he wants to live the abundant life and eventually have eternal life. This is a simple yet profound statement. God's Spirit is truly more than words, but to understand this point, it is enough to know that God's words—the words I speak to you, as Jesus says—are spirit, and they play a large role in producing the abundant life God intends we live.
At the end of the day, perhaps that is how we know we have an abundant life—when we have shared our life with others. When we have enough of the blessings of God (mercy, peace, love, grace, wisdom, etc.) to share with our others, and then actually do it; that’s when we truly have abundant life. One way of viewing abundant life is to see when people have been changed by the power of Christ; they live different lives, which affects all aspects of their experience. In missiololgy, we call that  redemption and lift ..
The term abundant life comes from the Bible verse John 10:10b, I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.. More abundantly means to have a superabundance of a thing. Abundant life refers to life in its abounding fullness of joy and strength for mind, body, and soul. Abundant life signifies a contrast to feelings of lack, emptiness, and dissatisfaction, and such feelings may motivate a person to seek for the meaning of life and a change in their life.
Abundant life is not about what we have. It’s not about what we get. It’s not about what we claim. Ultimately, abundant life is about what we receive as a gift from the Lord and to live knowing we are stewards of the blessings of God. It’s not a sin to be rich (though it might be missing the point if we die rich). One way of viewing abundant life is to see when people have been changed by the power of Christ; they live different lives, which affects all aspects of their experience. In missiololgy, we call that  redemption and lift ..
He will not give us more than we can bear. When we live one day at a time, understanding that God sets our course, and we let His peace rule in our hearts, the abundant life is ours, no matter what our age, rank, circumstance, hang-ups, or failures. 1  Translate
Abundant life teachings may include expectations of prosperity and health, but may also include other forms of fullness of life when faced with adverse circumstances. Abundant life refers to life in its abounding fullness of joy and strength for mind, body, and soul. Abundant life signifies a contrast to feelings of lack, emptiness, and dissatisfaction, and such feelings may motivate a person to seek for the meaning of life and a change in their life.