Lenders are in charge of setting their own guidelines in reference to how long a pre-approval is valid. Some lenders will set a guideline of 45 days, while others will go as long as 90 days. However, should a pre-approval letter expire because the borrower hasn't found the right house, he can obtain a new pre-approval letter once the lender has re-verified his income, debt and credit situation. Mortgage pre-approvals are letters issued by a bank after a consumer's income, debt and credit history have been reviewed. These letters provide a statement showing the total amount of a loan that a consumer is approved to obtain in a home purchase.
Once you provide all the required documentation and get the pre-approval letter from a bank or lender, it is typically valid for 60-90 days. Just note that things can change during that time, such as your credit score, so it’s not 100% guaranteed. 
HSH Editors HSH.com. Since a preapproval letter is a conditional agreement of how much house you can afford, your mortgage preapproval is only good as long as the terms in the preapproval letter do not change. For example, your preapproval letter states that you qualify for given loan amount at a given interest rate. If mortgage rates rise, you will qualify for less; if mortgage rates fall, you can qualify for more.
Pre-Approval Letter's Expiration. The lending institution decides how long its pre-approval letter is good for. If you still haven’t found a house past the expiration date, you must submit updated documentation to the bank for a new letter. The mortgage pre-approval letter lists the duration of the loan the prospective buyer pre-qualifies for, how much money he may borrow and at what interest rate.
Typically a pre-approval is good for 90 Days. From a lender's standpoint we want to make sure that the obligation we have put on paper for you would still be valid. A lot can change in 90 days. Getting pre-approved for a loan should not hurt your credit since one inquiry is not as adverse as many people are lead to believe. As long as of the criteria that was used to pre-approve you stays the same, there is no real expiration date on your pre-approval.
Also, negative changes to a pre-approved mortgage loan letter holder's credit might prompt lender denial of the holder's hoped-for mortgage loan. Finally, if the pre-approved mortgage loan letter holder's home doesn't appraise for its sale price, the lender won't approve the buyer's mortgage loan. Home buying is probably most enjoyable for people who have pre-approved mortgage loan letters in hand. However, pre-approved mortgage loan letters aren't ironclad guarantees of mortgage funding for the buyers holding them.
Your pre-approval letter would only be good for maybe 60 days. You can speak with a lender to find out what price range you should look in to stay within your budget and what you paper work you will need to gather when you are ready to apply. Most preapprovals are good until you put in an offer and then once you move forward with the loan, the commitment will have a drop dead date on it–usually 60 days but sometimes 45. It is a good question to ask when you apply.
Pulling your credit for a pre-approval does not harm your score, as it is a necessity. Scores get hurt when it appears that you are searching for credit lines through multiple channels-i.e. credit cards, auto loan, and a mortgage all at once. Getting pre-approved for a loan should not hurt your credit since one inquiry is not as adverse as many people are lead to believe. As long as of the criteria that was used to pre-approve you stays the same, there is no real expiration date on your pre-approval.
A pre-approval letter is typically good for about 90 days. After that, it is considered “old”. If you are overseas earning foreign income, there are some restrictions on whether or not you can borrow as well. You need to discuss these things with a lender. Most preapprovals are good until you put in an offer and then once you move forward with the loan, the commitment will have a drop dead date on it–usually 60 days but sometimes 45. It is a good question to ask when you apply.
By: Jeff Brown. Pre-qualified and pre-approved sound the same, and both can show a home seller that you’re a good candidate for a mortgage. However, a pre-qualification is much weaker, and in today’s market it probably makes sense to go to the extra trouble for a pre-approval. Then phone the lenders to ask about the pre-approval process. Find out how long it will take, what it will cost and how long the pre-approval will remain valid. In the end, you should have a document to provide the seller showing you’re a good candidate for a loan.