Camembert Kiplait cheese-the rennet is halal b. Truly brand macaroni & cheese c. Kraft Singles Swiss regular process cheese slices, Philadelpia Cream Cheese, Whipped Cream Cheese, Neufchatel d. Equality brand Cheese Sticks containing U sign only e. Mozzarella cheese, Goat Cheese, Feta Cheese-by PIZZA PIZZA f. B. Avoid-doubtful (may be derived from animal or vegetable): Lecithin Emulsifier Dough conditioners Mono and diglycerides Enzymes or rennet in cheese C. You can use: HALAL Soya-lecithin Soybean lecithin Vegetable lecithin Vegetable shortening Vegetable mono and diglyceriders Vegetable enzymes or rennetless cheese.
So long as the milk did not come from pigs and no animal rennet is used, yes, cheese is halal. It should say 'vegetable rennet' or 'microbial enzymes' on the label, otherwis … e you have no proof of it being Halal. 
Much like The Vinegar Page, I have written this one because cheese and dairy products are the source of a lot of questions I get about whether or not some of their ingredients are derived from halal and dhabiha sources. We all know that not every single type of cheese is halal-certified (yet), so if you can’t find what you’re looking for choose cheeses with vegetarian rennet and microbial enzymes so you aren’t choosing anything with any type of animal products.
then it is halal I think-the rennet is not blood or any other part of the animal that we can't eat-the rennet is a hormone only prevalent (present) in the stomach of new-born calves (cows) - adult cows don't have it. A sister in my office told me that not all cheese is Halal. Does anyone know which cheese are halal and which are not. And why not all cheese are halal. Jazak Allah.
This link contains an explanation of enzymes, but for the purpose of this page, most of our focus will be on rennet, a type of enzyme from which cheese and dairy products are made. We all know that not every single type of cheese is halal-certified (yet), so if you can’t find what you’re looking for choose cheeses with vegetarian rennet and microbial enzymes so you aren’t choosing anything with any type of animal products.
Muslims think that if whey is a milk based ingredient then it has to be Halal, but this is not true. There are two kinds of whey, one is sweet or rennet whey and the other is acid whey. Acid whey is obtained during the making of acid type cheese such as cottage cheese. All natural fruit juices made with natural or artificial flavor are not Halal because ethyl alcohol is used as a solvent in natural or artificial flavor. Beer Battered Fish: Many food companies and restaurants manufacture or serve beer battered fried fish or potatoes products in USA, Canada and Europe.
MubarekMuslimah said: ↑. Salaams. I understand that cheese that contains animal rennet is not halal-as the rennet is taken from the stomach of new born cows (eurgh) and these cows are not slaughtered in a halal way. Check the ingredients-you can get cheese that is vegetarian and will say so with a symbol and doesn't contain animal rennet. A sister in my office told me that not all cheese is Halal. Does anyone know which cheese are halal and which are not. And why not all cheese are halal. Jazak Allah.
Goat curd. Goat curd is produced by pushing (organic) goat milk with added rennet through so-called filtration bags. The resulting whey is collected and processed into whey protein concentrate, WPC. The fresh curd is packaged into blocks or rolls of 10 to 20 kilos and deeply frozen at -18C
The active enzyme in rennet is chymosin, or rennin. Additionally, there are other enzymes such as lipase and pepsin. The reason rennet is used in cheese making is because it speeds up coagulation in the separation of curds and whey after a starter culture has been added to milk. We all know that not every single type of cheese is halal-certified (yet), so if you can’t find what you’re looking for choose cheeses with vegetarian rennet and microbial enzymes so you aren’t choosing anything with any type of animal products.