1 3 minutes: the white is just set, and the yolk is just starting to thicken. 2  4 minutes: the white and yolk are set, with the center of the yolk still creamy. 3  Note: if your eggs are very fresh (1-5 days old), add an additional 30 seconds to the above times. 1 5 minutes: the white is just set, and the yolk is just thickening and creamy. 2  6 minutes: the white is set, and the yolk is just starting to set. 3  Note: if your eggs are very fresh (1-4 days old), add an additional 30 seconds to the above times.
1 If you are using large eggs, cook the eggs for 4 minutes, for a runny yolk and 6 minutes for a medium-boiled egg, where the yolk is only slightly runny. 2  For medium sized eggs, reduce these cooking times by one minute. 3  Extra large eggs, add on one minute. Soft-boiled eggs are typically cooked by placing the eggs in a pan of boiling water and then simmering for approximately 3-4 minutes. Boiled eggs are typically boiled for 10-18 minutes, depending on the size of the egg. 1  If you are using large eggs, cook the eggs for 4 minutes, for a runny yolk and 6 minutes for a medium-boiled egg, where the yolk is only slightly runny. 2  For medium sized eggs, reduce these cooking times by
Step 3: Simmer the eggs for 4 minutes for soft-boiled eggs. For semi-firm yolks and hard whites, simmer for 5 minutes. For hard-boiled eggs, simmer for 8 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. Transfer to an egg cup and serve immediately. 
1 Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 2  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 3 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 4  Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. (For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.) Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. Run under cold tap water for 30 to 60 seconds
Step 1: Place the Eggs in a Pan of Water and Bring to a Boil. For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk. http://foodnetwork.sndimg.com/content/dam/images/food/fullset/2011/7/15/3/HT_Hard-Boil-Beauty-02_s4x3.jpg.rend.snigalleryslide.jpeg.
For a soft-boiled egg, lower the egg into gently boiling water with a slotted spoon. Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. Once cooked, plunge the hard-boiled egg into plenty of cold water for one minute. 
Cook. When I want a soft boiled egg I want the yolk soft and the white firm. The boiling time has a lot to do with your elevation. 5 minutes is perfect for an elevation of 1100 ft (330 meters) if you are nearer sea level decrease the boiling time if at a higher elevation increase the time. 