The liver has multiple functions, but its main function within the digestive system is to process the nutrients absorbed from the small intestine. Bile from the liver secreted into the small intestine also plays an important role in digesting fat. In addition, the liver is the body’s chemical factory.. Mouth. The mouth is the beginning of the digestive tract; and, in fact, digestion starts here when taking the first bite of food. Chewing breaks the food into pieces that are more easily digested, while saliva mixes with food to begin the process of breaking it down into a form your body can absorb and use.
The primary function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them to build and nourish cells and provide energy. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. Inside this tube is a lining called the mucosa. In the mouth, stomach, and small intestine, the mucosa contains tiny glands that produce juices to help digest food. Two solid organs, the liver and the pancreas, produce digestive juices that reach the intestine through small tubes. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system.
The digestive tract is a series of hollow organs connected by tubes from the mouth to the anus, including the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, colon and rectum. Each of these organs' walls contain layers of muscle that enable them to propel food and liquid through the system. Production of Hormones. The stomach and small intestine produce hormones that control the functions of the digestive system. Gastrin initiates the production of stomach acid and is necessary for the growth of cells in the lining of the stomach, small intestine and colon.
The function of the human (or any animal's) digestive system is to digest food. It does this by absorbing the nutrients present in the food and water so as to supply energy … to various body cells. This is accomplished by the collective activity of muscles and enzymes, juices and salts. Two solid organs, the liver and the pancreas, produce digestive juices that reach the intestine through small tubes. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system.
The digestive system is a group of organs working together to convert food into energy and basic nutrients to feed the entire body. Food passes through a long tube inside the body known as the alimentary canal or the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). The first function of the digestive system is ingestion, or the intake of food. The mouth is responsible for this function, as it is the orifice through which all food enters the body. The mouth and stomach are also responsible for the storage of food as it is waiting to be digested.
The digestive system consists of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, gallbladder, liver, small intestine, large intestine, colon and rectum. Production of Hormones. The stomach and small intestine produce hormones that control the functions of the digestive system. Gastrin initiates the production of stomach acid and is necessary for the growth of cells in the lining of the stomach, small intestine and colon.
Confidence votes 259. The primary function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them to build and nourish cells and provide energy. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. Two solid organs, the liver and the pancreas, produce digestive juices that reach the intestine through small tubes. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system.
Function of the Digestive System. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long tube from the mouth to the anus. The main function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them for energy and cell nourishment. Two solid organs, the liver and the pancreas, produce digestive juices that reach the intestine through small tubes. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood vessels) play a major role in the digestive system.