Immune system disorders cause abnormally low activity or over activity of the immune system. In cases of immune system over activity, the body attacks and damages its own tissues (autoimmune diseases). Immune deficiency diseases decrease the body's ability to fight invaders, causing vulnerability to infections. 
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. Graves’ disease. An autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland that results in the overproduction of thyroid hormone. This causes such symptoms as nervousness, heat intolerance, heart palpitations, and unexplained weight loss.
About Autoimmune Disease. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body's own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. 
Medications or substances causing Autoimmune diseases: The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Autoimmune diseases as a symptom. This list is incomplete and various other drugs or substances may cause your symptoms.
Side effects of medications, or exposure to toxins, chemicals, or other substances may cause a symptom or condition. Hence, they become possible underlying causes of Autoimmune diseases but are often misdiagnosed or overlooked as a cause. The list of possible medications or substances mentioned in sources as possibe causes of Autoimmune diseases includes: 1  Alferon N. 2  Inerferon Alfa. 3  Infergen. 4  Intron A. 5  PegIntron. 6  Roferon-A
Some of the more common consequences of recreational drug abuse include autoimmune thyroid disease and scleroderma in cocaine abuse, arthritis and neurologic changes in heroin abuse, and the vascular disorder panarteritis seen in methamphetamine abuse. Drug Abuse and Autoimmune Disease. The role of recreational drugs in autoimmune disease. By Elaine Moore. Recreational drugs, such as cocaine, amphetamine, marijuana, and heroin have all been implicated in autoimmune disease development and progression. The Connection. Several recreational drugs, including methamphetamine, heroin, and cocaine are associated with the development of autoimmune disorders. In general, recreational drugs, as well as the fillers they're suspended in and the impurities derived during their preparation, can trigger autoimmune responses
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and fibromyalgia (feye-broh-meye-AL-juh) (FM) are not autoimmune diseases. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  FM is a disorder in which pain or tenderness is felt in multiple places all over the body. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  Symptoms of CFS come and go. 3  The cause of CFS is not known.
No one knows the exact cause or causes of autoimmune diseases (also called autoimmune disorders). However, doctors do know that you cannot catch these diseases from another person. Most research scientists believe that there is a link between autoimmune diseases, a person's genes, and factors in the environment. 