4. Some federal clearances for Sensitive Compartment Information (SCI) and other Special Access Programs (SAP) require a polygraph screening examination in addition to a Single Scope Background Investigation. Generally polygraph exams are not used when only a collateral security clearance is needed.
I have to get a top secret security clearance. I'll be in the air force and my job will be cyber transport systems. I understand most people with this clearance get a polygraph test but then I found out some jobs and military units do not. Did anyone with this job or that's in the air force have to take a...
Polygraph screening exams are conducted by Intelligence Community agencies that adjudicate SCI and/or SAP eligibility. There are some federal law enforcement jobs that require a polygraph exam for determining employment suitability regardless of the security clearance involved.
For national security or intelligence jobs in the federal government, you usually need some level of security clearance. Among the highest levels is Top Secret, abbreviated TS. Additional clearances are required for TS-cleared personnel to work on certain highly sensitive programs, known as Special Access Programs.
A popular misconception is that SCI is also a type of security clearance (like ‘secret’ ‘top secret’ and ‘confidential.’ It’s not. SCI is an access determination based on need to access intelligence information. It’s often associated with the intelligence community, but many federal agencies have SCI programs.
It is also mandatory for some SCI and SAP access programs. Additionally, the polygraph may be used for any other personnel security investigations to resolve serious credible derogatory information, and then only with the consent of the examine.
Acquiring a top secret /sensitive compartment information clearance with polygraph requires your job to sponsor you for the clearance. Not all employers may offer TS/SCI clearance and many that do are government or military positions, or contracted businesses with the government or military.