Class C shares generally do not assess an upfront load, but will assess a 1% load if you sell the fund within one year. After holding the fund for one year, there is no fee to exit the fund. However, the ongoing internal cost of class C share mutual funds are generally higher than other share classes of mutual funds. Class D and Class F share mutual funds are usually no-load mutual funds. While no-load mutual funds do not charge “commissions” upon their purchase, there are ongoing expenses that are assessed to investors.
1. Types of listed company stock that are differentiated by the level of voting rights shareholders receive. For example, a listed company might have two share classes, or classes of stock, designated as Class A and Class B. 2. Obviously, it's the original owners that end up with the preferential voting class of stock. 2. Class A mutual fund shares charge a front-end load, have lower 12b-1 fees and a below-average level of operating expenses.
Class F-1 shares were first offered on March 15, 2001. Class F-1 share results prior to the date of the first sale are hypothetical based on Class A share results without a sales charge, adjusted for estimated additional annual expenses. 
Class F-1 shares were first offered on March 15, 2001. Class F-1 share results prior to the date of the first sale are hypothetical based on Class A share results without a sales charge, adjusted for estimated additional annual expenses. Class F-1 shares were first offered on March 15, 2001 (on February 21, 2014, in funds in the American Funds Target Date Retirement Series). Class F-1 share results prior to the date of first sale are hypothetical based on Class A share results without a sales charge, adjusted for estimated additional annual expenses.
1 Class D and Class F share mutual funds are usually no-load mutual funds. 2  While no-load mutual funds do not charge “commissions” upon their purchase, there are ongoing expenses that are assessed to investors. 3  These ongoing expenses vary for each fund. 1 These ongoing expenses vary for each fund. 2  Class D and Class F share funds can be purchased at most discount brokerage firms through their “mutual fund supermarket” platforms. 3  Many D and F share class funds pay an annual 12b-1 fee to the brokerage firm (not the advisor that may recommend the fund).
1 Class D and Class F share funds can be purchased at most discount brokerage firms through their “mutual fund supermarket” platforms. 2  Many D and F share class funds pay an annual 12b-1 fee to the brokerage firm (not the advisor that may recommend the fund). 1 These ongoing expenses vary for each fund. 2  Class D and Class F share funds can be purchased at most discount brokerage firms through their “mutual fund supermarket” platforms. 3
1 After holding the fund for one year, there is no fee to exit the fund. 2  However, the ongoing internal cost of class C share mutual funds are generally higher than other share classes of mutual funds. 3  Class D and Class F share mutual funds are usually no-load mutual funds. 1 These ongoing expenses vary for each fund. 2  Class D and Class F share funds can be purchased at most discount brokerage firms through their “mutual fund supermarket” platforms. 3  Many D and F share class funds pay an annual 12b-1 fee to the brokerage firm (not the advisor that may recommend the fund).
Mutual Fund Classes. Known as multi-class funds, some mutual funds offer investors different types of shares, known as classes.. Each class will invest in the same pool (or investment portfolio) of securities and will have the same investment objectives and policies. 
Class F-1, F-2 and 529-F-1 shares do not have an up-front or a contingent deferred sales charge (CDSC). Class F-2 shares also do not carry a 12b-1 fee, but may have slightly higher administrative expenses than Class F-1 shares. These expenses will vary among the funds. After 10 years, Class C shares convert to Class F-1 shares, however, Class 529-C shares do not convert to 529-F-1 shares. You can invest up to $500,000 in Class C shares. You can invest into Class 529-C shares in a CollegeAmerica Account until the balance (including any earnings) reach $350,000.