For breastfeeding moms, the first period waits until you cease to breastfeed. Again, this does not hold true for every woman. Women who are into heavy breastfeeding may not get their first period for as long as six months. Some may start to menstruate after 3 or 4 months. First, you should know that in case you are not breastfeeding, be prepared for your first period to arrive early, about 2 and half months after delivery. However, your ovulation chances are bleak, about two percent, if: 1  You are breastfeeding fully or almost fully. 2  Your baby's age is below 6
Your Period while Breastfeeding. Return of menstruation while breastfeeding. Many mothers think that if they are breastfeeding exclusively, their periods will not return. But the truth is that many mothers will soon start to menstruate-sometimes as early as a few weeks after birth. 1 The more you breastfeed, the longer your period should stay away. 2  Nurse at least 6 times per day. 3  Breastfeed your baby at night, too. 4  The main reason why most mothers will start their periods early is because they stop nursing at night. 5  Nurse at least once at night. 6  Start your baby on solid foods only after 6 months
You are more likely to have no periods while breastfeeding if you're exclusively nursing and your baby does not use a pacifier. In most cases, the rule of thumb is that it's perfectly normal to wait up until six months after you're finished breastfeeding for your menstrual cycle to return. 
The hormones circulating while you're breastfeeding can temporarily suspend ovulation, so you may not see a period (or experience a regular one) until you wean your baby. Your period should return within six to eight weeks after you stop breastfeeding, though it can take months for it to be totally regular again. If you think you should be menstruating and you're not, give your doctor a call. A: If you're not breastfeeding, it usually takes about six to eight weeks for your period to return to normal after delivery. If you're nursing, there's no need to stock up on tampons just yet
If you bottle feed your baby, or combine bottle feeding with breastfeeding, your first period could start as soon as five to six weeks after you give birth. If you fully breastfeed and do not combine bottle feeding with breastfeeding, it is possible that your periods may not start again until you stop breastfeeding. If your period does return while you are breastfeeding, it may be irregular. It is not unusual for a woman's menstrual cycle to go quicker or slower than normal while she is breastfeeding. Sometimes a woman who is breastfeeding will skip periods altogether, or have months in between periods.
There's no usual time for you to start ovulating again and for your periods to resume. It varies from woman to woman. If you are breastfeeding, you may ovulate as early as nine weeks or 10 weeks after giving birth. Your period would then start two weeks later, as early as 11 weeks or 12 weeks after giving birth. Or it may be over a year before you start ovulating again, and your periods return. 
Yes you can get your period and you can get pregnant when breastfeeding. I used the progesteron only birth control pills when breastfeeding and still had a period before I was done breastfeeding my daughter. It was about 10 months, though. Hope this helps. You can still get your period if breastfeeding-it's based on how much you nurse, I guess. Once you start to slow down (usually baby is eating food, or you are supplementing formula) your period can come. I have 2 daughters, who I nursed until around 9 & 11 mos. I got my period a month or 2 prior to weaning them.