Summarizing thiscost behavior, fixed costs stay the same in total but vary when expressed on a per unit basis.Rent is a good example. If the cost to rent a factory building is $10,000 per year and 5,000units of product are produced, the rent per unit is $2.00 ($10,000/5,000). Chapter 5 Cost Behavior and Relevant Costs 159 Summary of Key Concepts • Costs behave in predictable ways. (p. 142) • Within the relevant range, fixed costs are constant in total and vary per unit, and variablecosts vary in total and are constant per unit.
Cost behavior is said to be linear whenever a straight line is a reasonable approximation for the relation between cost and activity. 
1 Total variable costs change in direct proportion to changes in volume. 2  The variable cost per unit of activity (v) remains constant and is the slope of the variable cost line. 3  Total variable cost graphs always begin at the origin (if volume is zero, total variable costs are zero). A cost equation, a mathematical equation for a straight line, is used to express how a cost behaves. 1  On cost graphs, the vertical (y-axis) always shows total costs, while the horizontal axis (x-axis) shows volume of activity.
A method of separating a mixed cost into its fixed and variable elements by fitting a regression line that minimizes the sum of the squared errors. Linear Cost Behavior. Cost behavior is said to be linear whenever a straight line is a reasonable approximation for the relation between cost and activity. A method for analyzing cost behavior in which an account is classified as either variable or fixed based on the analyst's prior knowledge of how the cost in the account behaves. Activity Base. A measure or whatever causes the incurrence of a variable
The fixed cost portion is $450, and the variable cost portion is $15 per gigabyte. Managers must break down all mixed costs into fixed and variable portions. As you will see in the next chapter, there are a number of methods to do this, with some methods more accurate than others. The total variable cost rises to $625 when the number of buckets sold reaches 2,500 (2,500 x $0.25). The total variable cost when zero buckets are sold is $0. As the number of units sold increases, the total cost increases. The mathematical function of this line is shown as:
Variable Costs: Variable costs change in direct proportion to the level of production. This means that total variable cost increase when more units are produced and decreases when less units are produced. Although variable in total, these costs are constant per unit. Fixed costs are those which do not change with the level of activity within the relevant range. These costs will incur even if no units are produced. For example rent expense, straight-line depreciation expense, etc. Fixed cost per unit decreases with increase in
When trying to 'guess' the cost behavior of a particular cost for which you have some insight, think about what happens to the total cost when sales and production levels increase proportionately. If an increase in sales/production causes the total cost to increase, the cost is considered variable. The total variable cost rises to $625 when the number of buckets sold reaches 2,500 (2,500 x $0.25). The total variable cost when zero buckets are sold is $0. As the number of units sold increases, the total cost increases. The mathematical function of this line is shown as:
Exhibit 4-1 illustrates the total variable costs at each level of activity up to 2,500 buckets. The total variable cost rises to $625 when the number of buckets sold reaches 2,500 (2,500 x $0.25). The total variable cost when zero buckets are sold is $0. As the number of units sold increases, the total cost increases. The mathematical function of this line is shown as:
1 Cost behavior can adequately be approximated by a linear function of the activity level within the relevant range. 2  A linear cost function is a cost function in which the graph of total cost versus the level of a single activity is a straight line. 