In Pennsylvania, a DUI offence is in most cases not a felony but a misdemeanor, regardless of the tier or the BAC. It’s the grade of the misdemeanor that depends on whether you commit repeated offences or not and having high or higher BAC. 
Getting a 3rd Offense Felony DUI Dropped to a 2nd Offense Misdemeanor in Michigan. In my DUI Practice, some of the most nervous callers with whom I speak are, not surprisingly, those charged with a 3rd Offense (Felony) Drunk Driving. A few years back, the Michigan DUI Law was changed to make a 3rd Drunk Driving charge after 2 prior DUI convictions, at any point in a person's lifetime, a Felony charge.
In the end, the Officer expressed that he would have no problem with my proposal that the Felony 3rd Offense DUI charge be dropped, and that my Client instead be allowed to accept a Misdemeanor charge of 2nd Offense DUI. Then I met with the Prosecutor. A few years back, the Michigan DUI Law was changed to make a 3rd Drunk Driving charge after 2 prior DUI convictions, at any point in a person's lifetime, a Felony charge.
Normally, a person will receive a DUI misdemeanor if it is his or her first, second, or third offense within a certain time frame (typically five to ten years). However, a person may be charged with felony DUI if he or she had had three or more drunk-driving offenses or caused property damage and/or bodily harm. 
If you are convicted of misdemeanor DUI, many states impose a short jail term or community service if it is a first offense. Your sentence may also include probation, a fine, DUI school, and license suspension. There may be a mandatory minimum jail sentence for subsequent misdemeanor DUI offenses if: DUI as Felony. There are circumstances when even a first-time DUI offense, or ones in which the charges would normally be a misdemeanor, will be considered a felony. These include incidents in which: 1  There was serious bodily injury or disfigurement. 2  There was a fatality.
Tweet. DUI, or driving while under the influence, is a misdemeanor in all 50 states if it is the defendant's first offense. Most states also consider a second—or even a third—DUI to be a misdemeanor, provided a certain amount of time, generally seven to 10 years, has passed between offenses. DUI as Felony. There are circumstances when even a first-time DUI offense, or ones in which the charges would normally be a misdemeanor, will be considered a felony. These include incidents in which: 1  There was serious bodily injury or disfigurement. 2  There was a fatality.
Often times, this charge is referred to as reckless homicide or vehicular homicide if the accident results in the death of another driver or passenger. Felony DUI charges and penalties can be extreme and can result in jail time. Some states institute a felony classification for multiple DUI offenses. In the state of New York, for example, a second DUI conviction within 10 years is classified as a Class E felony. The same classification is made in Wyoming, among others. 
A DUI as a misdemeanor may be expunged in some states after a certain amount of time has passed. A DUI, unlike other misdemeanors, can have serious repercussions in your life. Promptly consult a DUI attorney if you have been charged with a drunk driving offense. DUI as Felony. There are circumstances when even a first-time DUI offense, or ones in which the charges would normally be a misdemeanor, will be considered a felony. These include incidents in which: 1  There was serious bodily injury or disfigurement. 2  There was a fatality.
In the case of drunk driving, a person can be charged with a felony after his or her third DUI misdemeanor, even if there is no human casualty or property damage. If convicted of a felony, a person can expect to suffer more serious penalties in addition to jail time. A misdemeanor, for example, can involve time in jail, while a felony usually requires that a sentence of one year or more be served in prison. These consequences are in addition to fines that are proportionate to the level and severity of the crime.