The internal jugular vein is a paired vein collecting the blood from the brain, the superficial parts of the face, and the neck. An internal jugular vein is a type of jugular vein. The internal jugular vein is the continuation of the sigmoid sinus. It begins in the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, at the base of the skull. It is somewhat dilated at its origin, and this dilatation is called the superior bulb
Internal jugular vein. The internal jugular vein is a major blood vessel that drains blood from important body organs and parts, such as the brain, face, and neck. Anatomically, there are two of these veins that lie along each side of the neck. Because of its superficial location (near the outside of the body), the internal jugular vein is quite susceptible to injury, trauma, or damage. It also lacks protection from strong structures, like bones or cartilages. When blood flow to the vein is impeded or affected, shock or death will ultimately occur
Internal jugular vein: The deeper of the two jugular veins in the neck that drain blood from the head, brain, face and neck and convey it toward the heart. The internal jugular vein collects blood from the brain, the outside of the face and the neck. It runs down the inside of the neck outside the internal and common carotid arteries and unites with the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. The external jugular vein collects most of the blood from the outside of the skull and the deep parts of the face.
CANNULATION OF THE right internal jugular vein (IJV) is preferable to the left IJV because of the absence of the thoracic duct, the straight path to the right atrium, the low level of the pleural dome, and a lower incidence of anatomic variations. The aim of this study was to compare the cross-sectional area (CSA) of the right internal jugular vein (IJV) with that of the left IJV and to evaluate the anatomic location of the IJV in relation to the common carotid artery, utilizing computed tomography scans of the neck.
The internal jugular vein collects blood from the brain, the outside of the face and the neck. It runs down the inside of the neck outside the internal and common carotid arteries and unites with the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. External jugular vein: The more superficial of the two jugular veins situated on each side of the neck. The other is the internal jugular vein. They drain blood from the head, brain, face and neck and convey it toward the heart. The external jugular vein collects most of the blood from the outside of the skull and the deep parts of the face
Path [edit]. The internal jugular vein is the continuation of the sigmoid sinus. It begins in the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, at the base of the skull. It is somewhat dilated at its origin, and this dilatation is called the superior bulb
The internal jugular vein is formed by the anastomosis of blood from the sigmoid sinus of the dura mater and the common facial vein. The internal jugular runs with the common carotid artery and vagus nerve inside the carotid sheath. It provides venous drainage for the contents of the skull. There are two sets of jugular veins: external and internal. The left and right external jugular veins drain into the subclavian veins. The internal jugular veins join with the subclavian veins more medially to form the brachiocephalic veins.