Plants have two different types of transport tissue. Xylem transports water and solutes from the roots to the leaves, phloem transports food from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Transpiration is the process by which water evaporates from the leaves, which results in more water being drawn up from the roots. Plants have adaptations to reduce excessive water loss. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cells.
Xylem tissue in plants transports water and mineral salts from the roots up to the leaves. It also provides strength to the plants thanks to a woody substance called lig … nin. Phloem in plants transports food (made in the leaves) to the rest of the plant. Xylem tissues transport water from the roots throughout the plant, while phloem transports food (suga … rs) from photosysnthesis throughout the plant. Xylem: tubes that brings water and minerals from the roots into the leaf.
Xylem-the other tranport tissue in plants; it, unlike the phloem, as I said, is primarily made-up of dead cells-transports water, and dissolved nutrients/ions-in the form of sap-from the roots of a plant. The mechanisms for this are transpiration/transpirational pull and root pressure. 
Xylem. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cells. 2  Is transported through the xylem vessels up the stem to the leaves. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cells
Phloem and xylem are complex tissues that perform transportation of food and water in a plant. They are the vascular tissues of the plant and together form vascular bundles. They work together as a unit to bring about effective transportation of food, nutrients, minerals and water. In xylem vessels water travels by bulk flow rather than cell diffusion. In phloem, concentration of organic substance inside a phloem cell (e.g., leaf) creates a diffusion gradient by which water flows into cells and phloem sap moves from source of organic substance to sugar sinks by turgor pressure.
· just now. Report Abuse. Xylem and phloem are both permanent tissues of plants (i.e. they are formed by specialisation of merstimatic cells) Xylem:- This tissue is responsible for the conduction of water and minerals along the plant body.75% of it is non living 2. Its flow is unidirectional i.e. vertically from the roots to other parts 3. 
Xylem and phloem are the two types of vascular tissues found in plants. Xylem tissues transport water from the roots throughout the plant, while phloem transports food (suga … rs) from photosysnthesis throughout the plant. Xylem: tubes that brings water and minerals from the roots into the leaf. Phloem: tubes that usually move sap, with dissolved sucrose, produced by photosynthesis in the leaf, out of the leaf and to other parts of the plant. Both are found in the central vascular bundle