A rabbit has a 28-32 day gestation period. Normally the rabbit will have them right at 30 days. At 28 days is when you should stick in the nest box. If the rabbit doesn't have them by the end of 32 days, she will not have babies. Rarely does a rabbit ever have them at 28 or 32 days. Normally it's right at 30. There are several ways you can check. At 14 days you can palpate and feel the stomach for the babies
You want to start breeding does (female rabbits) when they are reaching maturity. For small-medium breeds, they can be bred at 5-6 months old. Larger breeds can be bred at 8-9 months. Bucks (male rabbits) are usually ready around 6 months old if a small breed, 7 months if medium, and 9 months for a large breed. 5. Ensure that you will have homes for the kits (babies) before you breed. 
Confidence votes 3.2K. a rabbit will have its babys in 25 to 31 does if it is prego. u need to take very good care of ur baby rabbits. if the mama rabbit has the babys and is not taking care of then u have to start taking care of them on ur own. It could take your doe anywhere from 10 minutes to an hour of labor to deliver the babies. I have even seen does have some at night and the next morning there would be another one or two but this occured when the doe was disturbed during kindling. They won't be pregnant for long, about 28 days to one full month.
Rabbit BabyIt takes about 28-31 days after the time it got pregnant. Depending on the breed a female will be ready at around 5 months and a male around 6 months to be bred and after a female will kindle a litter 28-32 days after. Depending on your breed, rabbits will generally be ready to breed at 6 months of age. 7 weeks When you take the kits from their Mom depends on several factors. You can start weaning your kits at 5 to 6 weeks, if they are not terrorizing your doe and they are g … etting along you can leave them longer. I have seen does left with kits too long and the kits have bitten the tip of the does' teat off.
Baby … rabbits are born 28 to 31 days from day of conception not a month and a half. Depending on breed, a litter size is between 4 and 8 average. A doe only has 8 teats so she will hopefully not have more than 8 kits. It could take your doe anywhere from 10 minutes to an hour of labor to deliver the babies. I have even seen does have some at night and the next morning there would be another one or two but this occured when the doe was disturbed during kindling. They won't be pregnant for long, about 28 days to one full month.
Rabbit BabyIt takes about 28-31 days after the time it got pregnant. Depending on the breed a female will be ready at around 5 months and a male around 6 months to be bred a … nd after a female will kindle a litter 28-32 days after. Depending on your breed, rabbits will generally be ready to breed at 6 months of age. It could take your doe anywhere from 10 minutes to an hour of labor to deliver the babies. I have even seen does have some at night and the next morning there would be another one or two but this occured when the doe was disturbed during kindling. They won't be pregnant for long, about 28 days to one full month.
Report Abuse. Rabbit gestation can be from 28-35 days. The average amount of time is 31 days. On day 28 you should give the doe a nest box with pine shavings with hay on the top of the shavings. She will pull fur from her chest and neck to line the nest for the kits. You should also make sure the doe(female) and the buck(male) are now separated. 
It takes about a month for your rabbit to have its babies. At the most it will take abouta month and a half. they can have up to fifteen average is five. Hope this helps! Baby … rabbits are born 28 to 31 days from day of conception not a month and a half. Depending on breed, a litter size is between 4 and 8 average. 7 weeks When you take the kits from their Mom depends on several factors. You can start weaning your kits at 5 to 6 weeks, if they are not terrorizing your doe and they are g … etting along you can leave them longer. I have seen does left with kits too long and the kits have bitten the tip of the does' teat off.