Latin Meaning: The name Rosie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Rosie is: Rose. American Meaning: The name Rosie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rosie is: Rose. English Meaning: The name Rosie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Rosie is: Rose (flower name). German Meaning: The name Rosie is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Rosie is: Horse; fame.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Rosie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rosie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rosie to other names. Rosie is a diminutive (nickname) of Rose. Variants of the name Rosie include Rosy. Rosie falls into the flower name category
Rosy /rosy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Rosy's name origin is Latin, and the name Rosy means rose. Rosy is a variant transcription of Rose (Latin): Flower name from rosa. Roso is a familiar last name. Kreatif forms: Rasy, Resy, Risy. Rosy is a somewhat prominent first name for females (#3467 out of 4276, Top 81%) but an uncommon surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Rosy for girls.
Rosie is a feminine given name of English origin. It is a diminutive form of the English language given name Rose, which is of Latin origin. Similar diminutives in other languages include: Rosa becoming Rosita in Spanish, and Ruža becoming Ružica in Slavic languages.
The name Rosie is of English origin, and it means Rose Flower . It's a name commonly given to girls. Rosie O'Donnell is a television personality, comedian, actress, and author with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1979 to present. 
What does Rose mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Rose is of Latin origin. The meaning of Rose is rose. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is horse. View the Rose Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rose has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rose to other names. Rose is a diminutive (nickname) of Hrod. The name Rois is a form of Rose. Rose has the diminutive (nickname) Rosie. Rose falls into the name categories animal, classic, flower. Some famous bearers of this name include: Rose Kennedy
Rosie is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-sie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 844 in baby name popularity for girls with 324 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Rosie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rosie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rosie to other names. Rosie is a diminutive (nickname) of Rose. Variants of the name Rosie include Rosy. Rosie falls into the flower name category
Rose /rose/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced rohz. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Rose is  rose . Flower name from rosa. The name, which the Normans brought to Britain in the 11th century, can also be traced to the Old German words hros meaning horse, or hrod meaning  fame, renown. The flower meaning is possibly more valid, given the Christian symbolic meaning of the rose. The rosa mystica is the Virgin Mary.