Granola is a breakfast food and snack food consisting of rolled oats, nuts, honey, and sometimes puffed rice, that is usually baked until crisp. During the baking process the mixture is stirred to maintain a loose, breakfast cereal-type consistency. Dried fruits, such as raisins and dates, are sometimes added. Granola is often eaten in combination with yogurt, honey, fruit (such as bananas, strawberries, and/or blueberries), milk, and/or other forms of cereal. It can also serve as a topping for various types of pastries and/or desserts.
These granola bars are ideal for businesses, vending and the home. 1  48 individually wrapped bars. 2  Variety pack. 3  8g whole grains. 
To clarify, these are not energy bars. You won't find any Luna Bars or Larabars here -- these are straight-on snack bars made of nuts, granola, rice and grains. What we learned most from this taste test: Read the ingredients that we have listed for you in each slide (make sure you scroll down to read them). We decided to round up the best-sounding granola bars to conduct a blind taste test and determine which actually taste the best. Twenty-four brands and flavors were tested, ranging from the fruit-and-nut-heavy KIND bars to the classic Quaker granola bars. Winners and losers were crowned, and some tears were shed.
For Cinnamon Raisin: 1 tsp cinnamon, 1/2 c raisins. TO prepare: grease an 9×13 cake pan, and line with parchment paper or release foil so that a ‘lip’ of 2 or more inches hangs off of each side. Grease the parchment or release foil. Grease a second sheet of foil or parchment for pressing purposes and have a second pan (such as a 9×13 pan) ready for pressing purposes. In a large, microwave proof bowl, mix together oil, brown sugar, and honey/syrup, mixing well to combine. Immediately turn out into the greased/lined pan. Taking the prepared second sheet of foil and the pan, apply pressure evenly across the pan, until you ‘flatten’ ‘ all of the granola mixture into the pan to a depth of about 1/2 inch. Allow to cool for about 20 minutes before lightly sprinkling with remaining ‘add ins’. Cut into bars and remove from pan
Granola bars consist of granola pressed and baked into a bar shape, resulting in the production of a more convenient snack. The product is most popular in the United States and Canada, Australia and New Zealand, parts of southern Europe, Brazil, Israel, South Africa and Japan. Granola is often eaten in combination with yogurt, honey, fruit (such as bananas, strawberries, and/or blueberries), milk, and/or other forms of cereal. It can also serve as a topping for various types of pastries and/or desserts.
Here at our office, the company-provided granola bars are at a premium. Those who arrive at the office early every morning get the lay of the land, patrolling the newsroom like hawks in search of prey. We decided to round up the best-sounding granola bars to conduct a blind taste test and determine which actually taste the best. Twenty-four brands and flavors were tested, ranging from the fruit-and-nut-heavy KIND bars to the classic Quaker granola bars. Winners and losers were crowned, and some tears were shed.
It is often combined into a bar form. Granola is often eaten in combination with yogurt, honey, fruit (such as bananas, strawberries, and/or blueberries), milk, and/or other forms of cereal. It can also serve as a topping for various types of pastries and/or desserts.
Categories: Camping, Restauant/Brand Clone Recipes, Specialty/Miscellanious. If you’re a fan of chewy granola bars, and of Quaker Chewy bars in particular, this recipe tastes so much like the real thing, you may find yourself eating a ‘whole box’ in one sitting, just to get all the little chocolate chips! Immediately turn out into the greased/lined pan. Taking the prepared second sheet of foil and the pan, apply pressure evenly across the pan, until you ‘flatten’ ‘ all of the granola mixture into the pan to a depth of about 1/2 inch. Allow to cool for about 20 minutes before lightly sprinkling with remaining ‘add ins’. Cut into bars and remove from pan.