The thyroid gland controls how quickly the body uses energy, makes proteins, and controls the body's sensitivity to other hormones. It participates in these processes by producing thyroid hormones, the principal ones being thyroxine (T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3), which is more active. These hormones regulate the growth and rate of function of many other systems in the body. T 3 and T 4 are synthesized from iodine and tyrosine.
Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency. It participates in these processes by producing thyroid hormones, the principal ones being thyroxine (T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3), which is more active. These hormones regulate the growth and rate of function of many other systems in the body. T 3 and T 4 are synthesized from iodine and tyrosine.
Having thyroid hormone levels that are too high (overactive thyroid gland). Sometimes the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. Think of your body as a car and your thyroid as the engine. An overactive thyroid makes your body idle too fast.
The thyroid gland covers the windpipe from three sides. Two hormones of the thyroid gland, T3 (thyroxine) and T4 (triiodothyronine), help the body to produce and regulate the hormones adrenaline (also called epinephrine) and dopamine. Hormones are chemical substances that help control certain cells and organs. 
1 Hypothyroidism: Low production of thyroid hormone. 2  Thyroid damage caused by autoimmune disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism. 3  Graves disease: An autoimmune condition in which the thyroid is overstimulated, causing hyperthyroidism. 1 Thyroid nodule: A small abnormal mass or lump in the thyroid gland. 2  Thyroid nodules are extremely common. 3  Few are cancerous. 4  They may secrete excess hormones, causing hyperthyroidism, or cause no problems. 5  Thyroid storm: A rare form of hyperthyroidism in which extremely high thyroid hormone levels cause severe illness.
Background. Thyroid hormone is responsible for the regulating the metabolic rate of every cell in the body Since every cell in the body depends on its metabolism to perform its function, when the thyroid system is malfunctioning it can affect every system of the body. 
Every cell in the body depends upon thyroid hormones for regulation of their metabolism. The normal thyroid gland produces about 80% T4 and about 20% T3, however, T3 possesses about four times the hormone strength as T4. The function of the thyroid gland is to take iodine, found in many foods, and convert it into thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body which can absorb iodine. These cells combine iodine and the amino acid tyrosine to make T3 and
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). It participates in these processes by producing thyroid hormones, the principal ones being thyroxine (T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3), which is more active. These hormones regulate the growth and rate of function of many other systems in the body. T 3 and T 4 are synthesized from iodine and tyrosine.
Your thyroid is a small gland at the base of your neck that makes thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormone controls many activities in your body, including how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. Diseases of the thyroid cause it to make either too much or too little of the hormone. Hypothyroidism is treated with medicine that gives your body the thyroid hormone it needs to work normally. The most common medicines are man-made forms of the hormone that your thyroid makes. You will likely need to take thyroid hormone pills for the rest of your life.