GRAVY & BROTH: Cooked gravy and broth will stay fresh and safe to eat for 1-2 days in your refrigerator. Freeze it into ice cube trays and you’ll have a handy burst of flavor to add to your next meal. PASTA: Cooked pasta keeps for 3-5 days in the refrigerator, although pasta in soups will swell after the first day. 
Store Leftovers Safely. Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or frozen for 3 to 4 months. Although safe indefinitely, frozen leftovers can lose moisture and flavor when stored for longer times in the freezer. 
The USDA says to eat refrigerated leftovers within 4 days. Be aware that how long you leave something out before refrigeration and the size of the container can shorten the edible lifetime. The gist is the longer it's warm, the more [likely] pathogens will be able to multiply to unsafe levels. 
Report Abuse. Hi !!! The answer is 1-2 days, whether it is fully cooked or raw...PLEASE READ... According to the American Meat Institute, ground beef has a shelf life of 1-2 days in the refrigerator. It can be stored in a freezer for 3-4 months (well sealed and uncooked). That said, your ground beef may not be too safe to eat if it's been in your frig longer than 2 days (regardless of it being thoroughly cooked).
Times are based on a refrigerator set at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Shelf life also depends on the freshness of foods at the time of purchase. 1  Cheese, hard: six months. 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months. 3  Olives and pickles: one month. 4  Fresh eggs (in shell): 3 to 5 weeks. 5  Cheese, soft, unopened: 3 to 4 weeks. 6  Cheese, soft, opened: 1 to 2 weeks. 7  Bacon, cooked: one week. 8  Hard-boiled eggs: one week
1 Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4
Meats and Poultry. 1  Raw sausage (pork, beef, or turkey): 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 3  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4
Once meat has been cooked and leftovers put in the refrigerator, how long will those leftovers keep? I'm thinking of lamb in particular at the moment, but advice for meats in general would be helpful, especially if you have sources to back it up. No longer than 3 days, as long as you put it in the fridge after you cooked it. If you reheat the whole thing, throw the remaining portion away-bacteria loves to be reheated.