In May 2013, Rikers Island ranked as one of the ten worst prisons in the United States, based on reporting in Mother Jones magazine. The North Infirmary Command, which used to be called the Rikers Island Infirmary, is used to house inmates requiring extreme protective custody, inmates with special health needs, mentally ill inmates, and inmates undergoing drug detoxification, as well as some regular inmates.
by Dan Slepian. A view of the Rikers Island prison complex on May 17, 2011 in New York City. Strauss-Kahn was arrested on May 14 on sexual assault charges stemming for an incident with a maid at a Manhattan hotel. Strauss-Kahn was expected to announce a presidential bid for France in the coming weeks. 
Most of the inmates in NYCD custody are housed on Rikers Island, which has 10 jails that together can house as many as 15,000 inmates at once. The Rikers facilities include a jail for sentenced males, another for sentenced and detainee females, and a detention center for adolescent males (ages 16 to 18). The North Infirmary Command on Rikers Island houses detainees with less serious medical problems and persons with AIDS not requiring hospitalization, as well as high security inmates. The average daily inmate population of New York City Department of Correction (NYCD) is approximately 11,400 individuals.
Posted Jun 24, 2014 2:28 PM CDT. (Newser) – News that Rikers Island prison is investigating the alleged smuggling of drugs and weapons by guards prompts Dateline producer Dan Slepian to recount his first visit to the facility in the course of his work. Maintaining security at a prison as huge as Rikers—figure about 10,000 prisoners on any given day—is of course a time-consuming challenge. But here, the concept of time takes on a whole new meaning, writes Slepian. Click for his full post.
It is also home to a large composting facility. Rikers Island has been referred to as the world's largest penal colony. For comparison, Europe 's largest correctional facility, Fleury-Merogis Mérogis prison sits on 180 (acres.0 73 km) 2 and 3,800 3800. prisoners The North Infirmary Command, which used to be called the Rikers Island Infirmary, is used to house inmates requiring extreme protective custody, inmates with special health needs, mentally ill inmates, and inmates undergoing drug detoxification, as well as some regular inmates.
The Village Voice has released gruesome images of violence coming from notorious Rikers Island. The graphic images —be warned—will turn your stomach, and further corroborate the Voice's ongoing documentation of out-of-control violence inside Rikers. Brutality inside the jail is the stuff of nightmares. 
Rikers Island, in the East River across from La Guardia Airport, serves as the principal jail complex for New York City. Credit Richard Perry/The New York Times. Continue reading the main story. Over the last year, The New York Times has been examining problems at Rikers Island, as well as the deeply troubled agency, the New York City Correction Department, that oversees the jail complex. Here is an explainer to help get you up to speed.
The Rikers Island complex, which consists of ten jails, holds local offenders who are awaiting trial and cannot afford, obtain, or were not given bail from a judge; those serving sentences of one year or less; and those temporarily placed there pending transfer to another facility. The North Infirmary Command, which used to be called the Rikers Island Infirmary, is used to house inmates requiring extreme protective custody, inmates with special health needs, mentally ill inmates, and inmates undergoing drug detoxification, as well as some regular inmates.
Rikers is a 400-acre island in the East River across from La Guardia Airport that serves as the principal jail complex for New York City. There are 10 jails on Rikers Island, including facilities for women and adolescents, as well as an infirmary, power plant and bakery. The Correction Department also operates four borough jails in Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens. Continue reading the main story. Over the last year, The New York Times has been examining problems at Rikers Island, as well as the deeply troubled agency, the New York City Correction Department, that oversees the jail complex. Here is an explainer to help get you up to speed.