A weighted average, or weighted mean, is an average in which some data points count more strongly than others, in that they are given more weight in the calculation. For example, the arithmetic mean of and is, or equivalently. 1 If numbers have mean, then. 2  Since is the distance from a given number to the mean, one way to interpret this property is as saying that the numbers to the left of the mean are balanced by the numbers to the right of the mean.
For a data set, the terms arithmetic mean, mathematical expectation, and sometimes average are used synonymously to refer to a central value of a discrete set of numbers: specifically, the sum of the values divided by the number of values. The harmonic mean is an average which is useful for sets of numbers which are defined in relation to some unit, for example speed (distance per unit of time).
The mean is the average you're used to, where you add up all the numbers and then divide by the number of numbers. The median is the middle value in the list of number … s. To find the median, your numbers have to be listed in numerical order, so you may have to rewrite your list first. 
The mean is the average you're used to, where you add up all the numbers and then divide by the number of numbers. The median is the middle value in the list of numbers. To find the median, your numbers have to be listed in numerical order, so you may have to rewrite your list first. Just remember the following: mean: regular meaning of average median: middle value mode: most often. (In the above, I've used the term average rather casually. The technical definition of average is the arithmetic mean: adding up the values and then dividing by the number of values.
Synonym Discussion of AVERAGE. average, mean, median, norm mean something that represents a middle point. average is the quotient obtained by dividing the sum total of a set of figures by the number of figures. First Known Use: 1732. average, mean, median, norm mean something that represents a middle point. average is the quotient obtained by dividing the sum total of a set of figures by the number of figures.
For example, per capita income is the arithmetic average income of a nation's population. While the arithmetic mean is often used to report central tendencies, it is not a robust statistic, meaning that it is greatly influenced by outliers (values that are very much larger or smaller than most of the values). 1 If numbers have mean, then. 2  Since is the distance from a given number to the mean, one way to interpret this property is as saying that the numbers to the left of the mean are balanced by the numbers to the right of the mean.
Typically, many individuals refer to average when they really mean the arithmetic average (mean). Average can mean the mean, the median and the mode, it can refer to a geometric mean and weighted averages. Although most people use the term average for this type of calcuation: Four tests results: 15, 18, 22, 20. 
4. around the middle of a scale of evaluation of physical measures. 5. relating to or constituting the most frequent value in a distribution. 6. relating to or constituting the middle value of an ordered set of values (or the average of the middle two in a set with an even number of values). Familiarity information: AVERAGE used as an adjective is common. • AVERAGE (verb). The verb AVERAGE has 3 senses: 1. amount to or come to an average, without loss or gain. 2. achieve or reach on average. 3. compute the average of. Familiarity information: AVERAGE used as a verb is uncommon. 
Full Definition of AVERAGE. 1. a: a single value (as a mean, mode, or median) that summarizes or represents the general significance of a set of unequal values b: mean 1b. 2. a: an estimation of or approximation to an arithmetic mean. First Known Use: 1732. average, mean, median, norm mean something that represents a middle point. average is the quotient obtained by dividing the sum total of a set of figures by the number of figures.