Birth control, also known as contraception and fertility control, are methods or devices used to prevent pregnancy. Planning, provision and use of birth control is called family planning. Birth control methods have been used since ancient times, but effective and safe methods only became available in the 20th century. The most effective methods of birth control are sterilization by means of vasectomy in males and tubal ligation in females, intrauterine devices (IUDs) and implantable contraceptives.
Birth control pill FAQ: Benefits, risks and choices. If you use the birth control pill — that is, an oral contraceptive — you're probably happy with its convenience and reliability. Still, you may have many questions about the potential effects of the birth control pill on your overall health. There are birth control pill regimens designed to prevent bleeding for three months at a time or for as long as a year. But it's possible to prevent your period with continuous use of any birth control pill. This means skipping the placebo pills and starting right away on a new pack. Continuous use of your birth control pills works best if you're taking a monophasic pill — with the same hormone dose in the three weeks of active pills
1 Hormonal methods of birth control that contain progestin, such as the hormonal IUD, can reduce heavy bleeding and cramping during periods and reduce anemia. 2  Use of birth control pills may improve acne, reduce pain during ovulation and reduce premenstrual symptoms. Some birth control methods have other health benefits in addition to the prevention of pregnancy. 1  Latex condoms protect against sexually transmitted infections (STIs) , including infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) .
Other population control methods. Other methods that have been used by the Chinese government to restrict rising population totals include birth control programs and economic changes. In the early '80's, sterilization target goals were set and made mandatory for people who had two children (Hilali 19). 
The Guttmacher Institute recently published a report examining how access to and the use of effective birth control affects women’s lives. The report is available online as a PDF; a summary with links to more information is also provided. Also check out OBOS’s Brief History of Birth Control and discussion of Global Access to Birth Control.
Download a PDF of this fact sheet here. Most women will use birth control pills at some time in their lives. But many women don’t know that birth control pills also can be used to treat a variety of female problems and can have some surprising health benefits. Birth control pills are made of synthetic (laboratory derived) versions of the two ovarian hormones: progesterone and estradiol. Other health benefits of birth control pills: Women who have used birth control pills have been found to have fewer cases of anemia (low red blood cells), ovarian cancer, and uterine cancer.
In Africa, 53% of women of reproductive age have an unmet need for modern contraception. Rwanda and Uganda have the highest unmet need for contraception rates. According to a study done by Nwachukwu and Obasi in Nigeria in 2008, modern birth control methods were used by 30% of respondents. Namibia, with a contraception use rate of 46% in 2006-07, has one of the highest rates in Africa, while Senegal with a rate of 8.7% in 2005 has one of the lowest rates.
Health Benefits of Birth Control Methods. Birth control prevents unwanted pregnancies. The medical risks of pregnancy and delivery are much higher than the risks of using any birth control method. Some birth control methods have other health benefits in addition to the prevention of pregnancy. 1  Latex condoms protect against sexually transmitted infections (STIs) , including infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) .