Colorants are introduced to the blended material to provide the veining apparent in natural stone. A protective coating, called a gel coat, is applied during the manufacturing process and this coating becomes the integral non-porous surface of the cultured stone product. Cultured Stone is the name given for a group of MasterCast Engineered Composites produced by a similar process yet yielding very different aesthetic characteristics. Cultured stone products include cultured marble, cultured onyx, and cultured granite. As a group, cultured stone products are manufactured by a casting process which combines a liquid polymer resin with an inert filler material
Description. Cultured granite is made to look and feel like granite. Cultured granite is made of polymer and fillers. Manufacturers use a glossy gel to give the finished product a smooth and shiny look. Pigments can be used to create a variety of colors, and the fillers create a look that mimics granite perfectly. Cultured Granite vs. Granite. Cultured granite is less expensive than granite because it is man made. Even though granite is a fairly common rock, it is still needs to quarried, transported and produced. Cultured granite is easily manufactured and distributed.
Cultured Granite contains large and small colored chips in an alumina trihydrate base which come together into a pattern like that of natural granite. 
Cultured stone is a blend of stone particles and resins that is combined with pigments to produce a wide range of colors and realistic, natural looking patterns – cultured marble, cultured granite, and cultured onyx among them. 1 Economical – In general, cultured marble is less expensive to fabricate and install than slab marble, but will increase the overall value of a home just as natural stone products will.
Unlike quarried stone, cultured stone is cast in molds to create specific pieces such as bathtubs, sinks, countertops, backsplashes, moldings and trim, shower walls and shower pans. The molds are lined with a special gel coat that bonds to the mixture, creating a very hard, transparent surface. 1 Economical – In general, cultured marble is less expensive to fabricate and install than slab marble, but will increase the overall value of a home just as natural stone products will.
Cultured marble is not a term heard very often. However, it is a product that many homeowners choose for the bathroom vanity. Surprisingly, many homeowners who are interested in granite countertops or vanity tops often choose cultured marble for its versatility in styles and shapes. Before you jump to make a decision about what material to choose for your vanity top, it is important that you discover all there is to know about cultured marble. 
About Cultured Products. Cultured Marble and Granite are man-made products composed of approximately 82% natural stone materials suspended in polymer resins which can be poured and molded into virtually any product you can dream up-From Vanity Tops to Tile, and Everything In Between! Veined Granite & Magna Granite are similar in composition to the rest of our cultured products, but feature patterning that's much more intricate and nearly indistinguishable from its natural stone inspirations.
Cultured Stone is essentially manufactured stone used as a decorative finish for the exterior and interior of your home. It is made up of Portland cement, lightweight natural aggregates and iron oxide pigments. 