Brie (/briː/ ; [bʁi]) is a soft cow's milk cheese named after Brie, the French region from which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). Marne it is pale in color with a slight grayish tinge under a rind of white. mold The curd is obtained by adding rennet to raw milk and warming it to a maximum temperature of 37 °C (99 °F). The cheese is then cast into molds, sometimes with a traditional perforated ladle called a pelle a à. Brie the 20 (cm 8) in mold is filled with several thin layers of cheese and drained for approximately 18. hours
1 Another way to serve it is to wrap Brie in aluminum foil and bake it in the oven till warm and soft in middle. 2  This makes the cheese easier to spread on bread or crackers and makes a nice contrast for cold fruit on the side. 3  The fat content is overestimated by most consumers. Tips. 1  Another way to serve it is to wrap Brie in aluminum foil and bake it in the oven till warm and soft in middle. 2  This makes the cheese easier to spread on bread or crackers and makes a nice contrast for cold fruit on the side. 3  The fat content is overestimated by most consumers.
Brie en Croute is French for Brie in a Crust.. To prepare Brie en Croute, roll out puff pastry or pie dough, lay a wheel of Brie Cheese in the center and fold up the edges to make a sealed parcel, then pop in a hot oven and bake at 325F for 10 to 15 minutes, until the dough browns. 
@vwiggins: maybe you should read how Brie, Camembert etc. are made, because GdD is actually right, the rind is composed of the same material (milk + bacteria + salt + rennet. Once coagulated it is put in molds and then sprayed with Penicillium). – nico Nov 10 '12 at 10:08. 
The other thing to consider is if you like the flavor of the crust. Some people think the white moldy crust on Brie has the most flavor. Others don’t like it at all and go right for the soft center. When I serve brie at a party, I leave the crust on and let my guests decide for themselves. Brie is a soft-ripened cow’s mild cheese that is said to have a bloomy rind. It gets its name from the town it originated in France. The outside casing is a white mold that often has an ammonia smell to it that makes it unappealing to some.
Brie (/briː/ ; [bʁi]) is a soft cow's milk cheese named after Brie, the French region from which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). marne The curd is obtained by adding rennet to raw milk and warming it to a maximum temperature of 37 °C (99 °F). The cheese is then cast into molds, sometimes with a traditional perforated ladle called a pelle a à. Brie the 20 (cm 8) in mold is filled with several thin layers of cheese and drained for approximately 18. hours
Report Abuse. manufactured cheap brie cheeses usually have a really bad crust so you shouldn't eat it. But my friend told me that if you have really good quality brie cheese, the crust is actually really good and you can eat it. 
Slice off the top and bottom. Stand the brie on its side and use a serrated knife to slice both circular ends off of the brie. Once you've made the cut, use your fingers to pry off the rind. If the brie is sufficiently firm, the top and bottom should be easy to cut off. Slice off the top. Place the brie on a cutting board and use a serrated knife to slice the top off of the brie. Once you've made the cut, use your fingers to pry off the rind. If the brie is sufficiently firm, the top
Email. Yep, you can eat the rind of any soft-ripened cheese like Brie or Camembert. But just so you know: Sometimes it won't taste so good. Soft cheese bruises like an apple, says Maxx Sherman, director of national sales for the Marin French Cheese Company, which makes a number of soft cheeses in Petaluma, California. 