Ultrasound exam. At a mid-pregnancy ultrasound, usually done between 16 and 20 weeks, your baby will be carefully examined. Quad screen (second-trimester prenatal screening). Find out what the multiple marker screening test can tell you. If you'd like to find out whether your baby's a boy or a girl, you usually can at the midpregnancy ultrasound (16 to 20 weeks), unless, for example, your child's hand is covering his genitals during the scan.
Fetal ultrasound is a test done during pregnancy that uses reflected sound waves to produce a picture of a fetus, the organ that nourishes the fetus (placenta), and the liquid that surrounds the fetus (amniotic fluid). The picture is displayed on a TV screen and may be in black and white or in color. 1 2nd-trimester fetal ultrasound is done to: 2  Estimate the age of the fetus (gestational age). 3  Look at the size and position of the fetus, placenta, and amniotic fluid. 4  Determine the position of the fetus, umbilical cord, and the placenta during a procedure, such as an amniocentesis or umbilical cord blood sampling.
Early Scan. When is it carried out: If you have experienced some problems such as bleeding in the first weeks of your pregnancy or you have previously suffered a miscarriage, you may be recommended to take an early scan. An early scan takes placebetween 6 weeks and 10 weeks of pregnancy. In the early stages of pregnancy, ultrasounds are used to confirm a uterine pregnancy and fetal heartbeat. Ultrasounds that are performed during the later stages of pregnancy are used to screen for placenta location, umbilical cord and fetal growth.
More Notes on Ultrasound in the First Trimester. An ultrasound can be done in the office of your practitioner or in your local hospital. While lying on your back, a technician will rub a warm gel on your tummy. The gel allows the transducer to slide more easily on your belly. In the early stages of pregnancy, ultrasounds are used to confirm a uterine pregnancy and fetal heartbeat. Ultrasounds that are performed during the later stages of pregnancy are used to screen for placenta location, umbilical cord and fetal growth.
Early ultrasound. If you've experienced problems, such as a previous miscarriage or bleeding in the first weeks of this pregnancy, your doctor or midwife may recommend an early ultrasound. This takes place when you're between six weeks and 10 weeks pregnant. First trimester combined screening. At the same time, as your dating ultrasound, you will be offered combined screening, to check for abnormalities. This is made up of: If you turn out to be less than 11 weeks pregnant when you have your dating ultrasound you will need to rebook for you
You'll be hopping and skipping to this doctor's appointment -- most women agree that an ultrasound is the one prenatal test they enjoy. An ultrasound is a painless diagnostic test that relies on sound waves, and most women will have at least one during pregnancy. Your first ultrasound will typically be done between 18 and 20 weeks, but you may have one before 12 weeks to confirm your due date. 
(Ultrasound waves are also used in the handheld instrument called a Doppler that your practitioner uses during your prenatal visits to listen to your baby's heartbeat .). You may have an early ultrasound at your practitioner's office at 6 to 10 weeks to confirm and date the pregnancy. Or you may not have one until the standard midpregnancy ultrasound between 16 and 20 weeks. If you'd like to find out whether your baby's a boy or a girl, you usually can at the midpregnancy ultrasound (16 to 20 weeks), unless, for example, your child's hand is covering his genitals during the scan.
Dating ultrasound. In most cases, where there are no problems, you'll have two ultrasounds during your pregnancy. The first will be your dating ultrasound which is booked between 10 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of your pregnancy. During your dating ultrasound, the sonographer will put gel on your belly and move a hand-held device, called a transducer, over your skin. You'll then be able to see a view of your baby. First trimester combined screening. At the same time, as your dating ultrasound, you will be offered combined screening, to check for abnormalities. This is made up of: If you turn out to be less than 11 weeks pregnant when you have your dating ultrasound you will need to rebook for you
Ultrasound dating of conception is not reliable for determining paternity because the ultrasound can be off by at least 5-7 days in early pregnancy. You may have an ultrasound between 18 to 20 weeks to evaluate dates, a multiples pregnancy, placenta location or complications. An ultrasound exam is a procedure that uses high-frequency sound waves to scan a woman’s abdomen and pelvic cavity, creating a picture (sonogram) of the baby and placenta. Although the terms ultrasound and sonogram are technically different, they are used interchangeably and reference the same exam.