Cook time will depend on the thickness of the fish, with a whole fish taking a little longer. A 1-inch thick fillet will take about 10 minutes. 1  Take care not to overcook or the fish will be mushy. 2  Check the fish after 10 minutes and then every couple minutes after that until its done. Microwave your fish. Cover your dish with a lid and place it in the microwave for 4-5 minutes depending on the thickness of your fillets. 1  Use a fork to carefully test the doneness of your fish by gently flaking away at the meat. 2  If the meat is white (or barely opaque) and flakes easily, the fish is done.
Juice the remaining lemon and drizzle over the fish. Put a 1-inch-high steamer rack in a 14-inch-flatbottomed wok. Add water to a depth of 3/4 inch and bring to a boil over high heat. Carefully put the bowl on the rack, cover, and steam for 8 to 10 minutes. Test the fish for doneness by poking the thickest party with a chopstick or fork; the fish should flake. If not, steam 1 to 2 minutes or until the fish just flakes. 
1 Make sure the water does not touch the bottom of the steamer. 2  Bring the water to a boil over high heat. 3  3. Place the plate holding the fish in the steamer, cover, and steam for about 8 minutes, until the fish flakes easily when tested with the tip of a knife. 4  4. 1 Bring the water to a boil over high heat. 2  3. Place the plate holding the fish in the steamer, cover, and steam for about 8 minutes, until the fish flakes easily when tested with the tip of a knife. 3  4. 4  While the fish is steaming, in a small bowl, stir together the soy sauce, wine, and 1 tablespoon of water.
1 3. Place the plate holding the fish in the steamer, cover, and steam for about 8 minutes, until the fish flakes easily when tested with the tip of a knife. 2  4. 3  While the fish is steaming, in a small bowl, stir together the soy sauce, wine, and 1 tablespoon of water. 4  Set aside. 5  5. 1 Bring the water to a boil over high heat. 2  3. Place the plate holding the fish in the steamer, cover, and steam for about 8 minutes, until the fish flakes easily when tested with the tip of a knife. 3  4. 4  While the fish is steaming, in a small bowl, stir together the soy sauce, wine, and 1 tablespoon of water.
Coarse salt, to taste. Put at least 1 inch of water in the bottom of a steamer, cover and bring to a boil over high heat. Lay the fish on the steamer's rack, making sure the rack is elevated above the water, and cover again. Steam 4 to 8 minutes, or until the fish is done. (A good-size halibut steak may take 10 or even 12 minutes.). Remove the fish to a warm platter and drizzle with olive oil and lemon juice. Cut into serving portions, sprinkle with coarse salt and serve. Makes 4 servings.
1 After steaming, discard the cooked herbs and cooking juices in the pan. 2  In a microwave-safe bowl, add cilantro, chilli, soy, sugar, wine, sesame oil, salt & pepper. 3  Microwave for 30 seconds to warm it up and release its flavors. 4  Pour this on top of the cooked, steamed fish. In a small pan or wok, heat up some cooking oil until smoking hot. Add scallion and ginger to the hot oil and fry for 10 seconds to pop the flavors. Pour this hot oil over the fish just seconds before serving. Another secret to restaurant-quality steamed fish is to steam on medium heat. 
Seal the sides as well. Repeat the process with the second pouch. Place the fish in the oven and cook between 25 to 30 minutes. Carefully remove the pouch – do not burn yourself – and let it cool down a bit. Open the top – very careful not to burn with the steam – and check if the fish is done. If it is not, seal it again and return it to the oven for a few more minutes
Wrap your fish. Loosely fold the sides of the foil forming a well-sealed packet. Bake in the oven or on the grill for 15 minutes for fillets or 25 minutes for a whole fish. Make sure to check the fish to be sure it is cooked completely and add additional time if necessary. Microwave your fish. Cover your dish with a lid and place it in the microwave for 4-5 minutes depending on the thickness of your fillets. 1  Use a fork to carefully test the doneness of your fish by gently flaking away at the meat. 2  If the meat is white (or barely opaque) and flakes easily, the fish is done.