1 Fry dough in the hot oil until sopes are just lightly browned, about 30 seconds per side. 2  Remove sopes with tongs and place on a paper towel-lined plate; cool just until sopes can be handled. 3  Pinch the edges of each sope together forming little 'boats'.
This is then topped with refried black beans and crumbled cheese, lettuce, onions, red or green sauce (salsa, made with chiles or tomatillos respectively), and acidified cream. Sometimes other ingredients (mostly meat) are also added to create different tastes and styles of sopes.
Sopas is delicious and it’s fairly easy to make. A few parts of chicken, some hotdogs, and macaroni can put a smile on the faces of most Filipino children or adults.
Chicken Sopas Recipe. Chicken Sopas is a soup dish filled with diced or shredded boneless chicken meat and elbow macaroni noodles. This chicken soup is a common breakfast or snack food among Filipino families particularly during the rainy season.
Directions. 1  Pour masa and salt into a bowl, add in enough water to moisten masa. 2  Form masa into balls the size of a large egg. 3  Place a piece of plastic wrap on the tortilla press or your kitchen counter. 4  Heat a griddle or comal on medium high, cook each sope for 1 minute. 5  Once all sopes are cooked and formed cover them with a dry towel. 6  Serve 7  ... N
Ingredients. 1  1 cup masa harina. 2  3/4 cup warm water. 3  1/4 cup vegetable oil. 4  1 teaspoon finely chopped serrano chile or 2 teaspoons finely chopped jalapeno (seeds too for extra heat). 5  1 teaspoon very finely chopped garlic (about 2 medium cloves).
These sopes are fried masa cakes and are delicious topped with savory meats and veggies. Sopes make a great appetizer because of their small size. Make them extra small and add minimal toppings for a perfect finger food. Or make sopes your main dish by topping them high with large chunks of cooked
Cook. Sopes are very traditional in mexican households. The toppings range from just beans and cheese, to eggs, shredded chicken or beef, picadillo, or even just guacamole. To form the sopes you will need either a tortilla press orflat plate or the bottom of a skillet.