In behavioral ecology an adaptive behavior is a behavior which contributes directly or indirectly to an individual's survival or reproductive success and is thus subject to the forces of natural selection. 
basically what an animal does to survive in the habitat Behavioral adaptations are different to physical adaptations because behavioral adaptations are (like the name suggests) changes in behavior that increase an organisms fitness/survival, whereas physical adaptations are changes to an organisms body structures. Behavioral adaptations are what living things do to survive. Behavioral adaptation is important because it helps living things survive their situation, it also helps to teach younger generations to do the same.
The major theme that unifies the study of animal behavior is an interest in how animals interact with each other and their environment, ultimately with respect to how these interactions influence an individual's survival and reproduction. 
Overview of Physical and Behavioral Adaptations: Adaptations are any behavioral or physical characteristics of an animal that help it to survive in its environment. These characteristics fall into three main categories: body parts, body coverings, and behaviors. Any or all of these types of adaptations play a critical role in the survival of an animal. Created with CAST's UDL Book Builder. A physical adaption is some type of structural modification made to a part of the body.
When we gain insight into animal behavior, we are in a stronger position to understand vexing conservation problems, such as how to save endangered species, assess environmental quality, design nature preserves, and evaluate the importance of human-related threats to survival in otherwise fit animals. Understanding how genes and the environment come together to shape animal behavior is also an important underpinning of the field. Genes capture the evolutionary responses of prior populations to selection on behavior.
In this lesson, students learn to differentiate between the structural and behavioral adaptations of animals. They learn about the importance such adaptations play in the role of the animal’s survival in specific climates or environments. Students will: identify adaptations that help plants and animals survive in various climates and environments. gain understanding of the different functions of adaptations. 
Animal behavior is the study of these and other questions about why animals behave the way they do. The study of animal behavior begins with understanding how an animal’s physiology and anatomy are integrated with its behavior. Both external and internal stimuli prompt behaviors — external information (e.g., threats from other animals, sounds, smells) or weather and internal information (e.g., hunger, fear). Understanding how genes and the environment come together to shape animal behavior is also an important underpinning of the field. Genes capture the evolutionary responses of prior populations to selection on behavior.
Animal behavior is the bridge between the molecular and physiological aspects of biology and the ecological. Behavior is the link between organisms and environment and between the nervous system, and the ecosystem. Behavior is one of the most important properties of animal life. Behavior plays a critical role in biological adaptations. Behavior is how we humans define our own lives. Behavior is that part of an organism by which it interacts with its environment. 
There's more to farming than dirt, cows, and a pair of bib overalls. Survival is based on instincts, common sense and ingenuity. It's most important to live in the now when surviving in the wilderness than to be worrying about the future or reliving the past. Body language is a type of behavior that tells other animals what state of mind you or that particular animal is in. Any sign of weakness, and you or that animal doesn't have long to live.