The epithelium of the villi is made up of tall columnar absorptive cells called enterocytes, and goblet cells, which secrete mucin, for lubrication of the intestinal contents, and protection of the epithelium. This shows the epithelium of part of a villus at high magnification.
The mucosa is characterized by numerous fingerlike villi that protrude into the lumen of the intestine. Enterocytes, which are columnar epithelial cells with basally located oval nuclei and an apical brush border mainly line the villi. The enterocytes located to the villi have mainly absorptive function.
The mucosa of the small intestine is lined by a simple columnar epithelium which consists primarily of absorptive cells (enterocytes), with scattered goblet cells and occasional enteroendocrine cells. In crypts, the epithelium also includes Paneth cells and stem cells.
More than one villus is known as villi. Villi are located in different areas of the body. Most commonly, the term is used to describe the many tiny, fingerlike structures that stick out and are located in groups over the entire mucous surface (a type of thin sheet of tissue) of the small intestine.
These structures are called villi and are 'finger-like projections of epithelial tissue which increase surface area.' The increased surface area created by the villi allow a greater number of epithelial cells to have access to nutrients in the small intestine, and therefore, increases absorption efficiency.
These villi are covered a surface epithelium, which, as seen in subsequent slides, can be described as a simple columnar epithelium. A medium power view of a portion of an intestinal villus reveals the single layer of tall cells, the simple columnar epithelium, that covers the villous surface.
Simple columnar epithelium lines much of the intestinal tract where it functions in the absorption of digested food. The pillar-like epithelial cells cover the finger-like projections (villi) of the intestinal surface. Observe the variation in appearance of the epithelial layer which is caused by different angles of cutting (refer to p. 6 of the lab manual). If possible, define the basement membrane underlying the bases of the cells.