A fertilizer or fertiliser (in British English) is any material of natural or synthetic origin (other than liming materials) that is applied to soils or to plant tissues (usually leaves) to supply one or more plant nutrients essential to the growth of plants. Potash is a mixture of potassium minerals used to make potassium (chemical symbol: K) fertilizers. Potash is soluble in water, so the main effort in producing this nutrient from the ore involves some purification steps; e.g., to remove sodium chloride (NaCl), i.e. common salt.
Fertilizer components and what each does for your plants. 1  The first number in a fertilizer formula is the nitrogen content..... 2  Nitrogen is used by plants for producing leaf growth and greener, lusher leaves. 3  The second number in a fertilizer formula is the phosphorus content..... 1 The second number in a fertilizer formula is the phosphorus content..... 2  Phosphorus is used by plant to increase fruit development and to produce a strong root system. 3  The third number in a fertilizer formula is the potassium (potash) content..... 4  Potassium is used by plants for flower color and size.
To calculate the pounds of nitrogen in a 50-lb bag of 10-10-10 fertilizer, multiply 50 by 0.10. Do the same for calculating the amounts of phosphate and potash. A 50-lb bag of 10-10-10 contains a total of 15 lbs of nutrients: 5 lbs nitrogen, 5 lbs phosphate and 5 lbs potash. The first number is the amount of nitrogen (N), the second number is the amount of phosphate (P 2 O 5) and the third number is the amount of potash (K 2 O). These three numbers represent the primary nutrients (nitrogen (N) - phosphorus (P) - potassium (K)).
All fertilizer labels have three bold numbers. The first number is the amount of nitrogen (N), the second number is the amount of phosphate (P 2 O 5) and the third number is the amount of potash (K 2 O). These three numbers represent the primary nutrients (nitrogen (N) - phosphorus (P) - potassium (K)).
The numbers on a bag of fertilizer tell you the percentages of available nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium found in the bag. So 12-8-10 fertilizer has 12-percent nitrogen, 8-percent phosphorous and 10-percent potassium. Without nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, the plant simply cannot grow because it cannot make the pieces it needs. It's like a car factory running out of steel or a road crew running out of asphalt. If any of the macronutrients are missing or hard to obtain from the soil, this will limit the growth rate for the plant.
Types of Fertilizer. The ratio on inorganic fertilizers represents the percentage of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium available in the fertilizer. A 20-20-5 fish pond fertilizer is 20 percent nitrogen (N), 20 percent phosphorus (P 2 0 5) and 5 percent potassium (K 2 0) by weight. The remaining percentage is inert material and binders. 
The first number represents the percentage of nitrogen in the product; the second number, P 2 O 5; the third, K 2 O. Fertilizers do not actually contain P 2 O 5 or K 2 O, but the system is a conventional shorthand for the amount of the phosphorus (P) or potassium (K) in a fertilizer. Potash is a mixture of potassium minerals used to make potassium (chemical symbol: K) fertilizers. Potash is soluble in water, so the main effort in producing this nutrient from the ore involves some purification steps; e.g., to remove sodium chloride (NaCl), i.e. common salt.
Most fertilizer formulas are stated on the package in the form of the percentages of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K), in that order. A 12-8-4 fertilizer formula contains 12 percent nitrogen, 8 percent phosphorus and 4 percent potassium by weight. A soil test also checks the soil pH, which is important for the delivery of nutrients in the soil. Low soil pH inhibits plants from using macronutrients, while high soil pH causes micronutrient deficiencies. For best results, follow the recommendations of your soil test on the use of lime, sulfur and fertilizers.
Complete fertilizer is a term used to identify fertilizers that contains nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium. In the national home garden trade, most fertilizers are complete. However, in Colorado the majority of gardens do not need phosphorus or potassium. 
In the case of nitrogen, the recycling of nitrogen from dead to living plants is often the only source of nitrogen in the soil. To make plants grow faster, what you need to do is supply the elements that the plants need in readily available forms. That is the goal of fertilizer. Most fertilizers supply just nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium because the other chemicals are needed in much lower quantities and are generally available in most soils. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium availability is the big limit to growth. Without nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, the plant simply cannot grow because it cannot make the pieces it needs. It's like a car factory running out of steel or a road crew running out of asphalt. If any of the macronutrients are missing or hard to obtain from the soil, this will limit the growth rate for the plant.