Jacksonville International Airport. 2400 Yankee Clipper Drive Jacksonville, FL 32218 904-741-4902 website. The closest airport to Amelia Island, this international airport is serviced by Delta and Airtran Airways airlines and serves all of the commercial, business, and recreational aviation needs in the area. 
The closest major airport in Florida to Hutchinson Island is the Ft. Lauderdale International Airport. The airport is about 100 miles south of Hutchinson Island or just under a 2-hour hour drive.So... Read More ». http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/2021986. The closest major airport to Parris Island is Jacksonville International, which is about 140 miles away. Other major airports are Charlotte Douglas and Hartfield-Jackson Atlanta International, whic... Read More ». http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/1952160.
Airport. Airport. The Fernandina Beach Municipal Airport (FBMA) is located on Amelia Island approximately three miles south of the downtown historic district of Fernandina Beach and less than two miles from Amelia Island's beautiful beaches, hotels, B and B's, vacation rentals, and resort accommodations. 
Spencer's Airpark Airport. Middleburg, FL. 48.98 mi. Search airports around Amelia Island FL within. Contact Us | Privacy Policy | My Account. Copyright 2001-2015, eachTown.com. All rights reserved. eachTown.com does not guarantee the accuracy or timeliness of any information on this site. Use at your own risk. 
Jacksonville International Airport is just 30 minutes from Amelia Island, Florida. This facility features flights from many major commercial airline carriers such as Delta, US Airways, Jet Blue and... Read More ». http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/2011786. The closest major airport to Parris Island is Jacksonville International, which is about 140 miles away. Other major airports are Charlotte Douglas and Hartfield-Jackson Atlanta International, whic... Read More ». http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/1952160.
Domestic airports near Amelia Island. 26 miles: Jacksonville, FL (JAX / KJAX) Jacksonville International Airport. 60 miles: Brunswick, GA (BQK / KBQK) Brunswick Golden Isles Airport. 67 miles: Saint Augustine, FL (UST) St Augustine. International airports near Amelia Island. 26 miles: Jacksonville, FL (JAX / KJAX) Jacksonville International Airport. 127 miles: Daytona Beach, FL (DAB / KDAB) Daytona Beach International Airport. 165 miles: Sanford, FL (SFB / KSFB) Orlando Sanford International Airport.
The nearest major airport is Jacksonville International Airport (JAX / KJAX). This airport has international and domestic flights from Jacksonville, Florida and is 26 miles from the center of Amelia Island. Another major airport is Brunswick Golden Isles Airport (BQK / KBQK), which has domestic flights from Brunswick, Georgia and is 60 miles from Amelia Island. St Augustine (UST) has domestic flights from Saint Augustine, Florida and is 67 miles from Amelia Island. International airports near Amelia Island. 26 miles: Jacksonville, FL (JAX / KJAX) Jacksonville International Airport. 127 miles: Daytona Beach, FL (DAB / KDAB) Daytona Beach International Airport. 165 miles: Sanford, FL (SFB / KSFB) Orlando Sanford International Airport.
Major airports near Amelia City, Florida: The nearest major airport is Jacksonville International Airport (JAX / KJAX). This airport has international and domestic flights from Jacksonville, Florida and is 28 miles from the center of Amelia City, FL. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Amelia City, FL, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot. NOTE: Amelia City may be a smaller town so be sure to check all locations and airports.