Knowledge center. Chickenpox (Chicken Pox) , also known as Varicella, is a very contagious infection caused by the varicella zoster virus. In several parts of the world it is just known as varicella. Patients develop a blister-like rash, which first appears on the face and trunk, and then spreads throughout the body
Symptoms & causes. Chickenpox, or varicella, is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, which is related to the herpes virus. The infection has three stages. It starts out with the appearance of little, itchy bumps. Those bumps turn into blisters filled with fluid. The final stage is the scabbing over of the bumps. In addition to the itchy bumps and scabs, chickenpox can cause fever, headache, dry cough or loss of appetite, according to the Mayo Clinic.
Shingles is caused by the same varicella zoster virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus stays dormant in the body and for reasons that are not fully know, reactivates years later. According to the CDC, one out of three people in the United States will get shingles. It starts out with the appearance of little, itchy bumps. Those bumps turn into blisters filled with fluid. The final stage is the scabbing over of the bumps. In addition to the itchy bumps and scabs, chickenpox can cause fever, headache, dry cough or loss of appetite, according to the Mayo Clinic.
Chickenpox facts. 1  Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus which also causes shingles. 2  Chickenpox is highly contagious and spreads by contact with someone with chickenpox. 3  Fever, malaise, and a rash (red spots, blisters, and crusted lesions) are all symptoms and signs of chickenpox. 1 Fever, malaise, and a rash (red spots, blisters, and crusted lesions) are all symptoms and signs of chickenpox. 2  Treatment for chickenpox is basically supportive. 3  Although usually self-limited, chickenpox can also cause more serious complications, including pneumonia, encephalitis, and secondary skin infections.
Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, a member of the herpes virus family. The same virus also causes herpes zoster, or shingles, in adults. Chickenpox is extremely contagious, and can be spread by direct contact, droplet transmission, and airborne transmission. 
Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox. When people are first infected with the varicella-zoster virus, usually as children, they get chickenpox. Years or decades later, the virus can reactivate and cause shingles. Anyone who has had chickenpox is at risk of shingles. 
Chickenpox (varicella) is a contagious illness that causes an itchy rash and red spots or blisters (pox) all over the body. Chickenpox can cause problems for pregnant women, newborns, teens and adults, and people who have immune system problems that make it hard for the body to fight infection. Chickenpox usually isn't a serious health problem in healthy children. Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It can spread easily. You can get it from an infected person who sneezes, coughs, or shares food or drinks. You can also get it if you touch the fluid from a chickenpox blister. A person who has chickenpox can spread the virus even before he or she has any symptoms.
Chickenpox, also known as varicella, is a highly contagious disease caused by the initial infection with varicella zoster virus (VZV). The disease results in a characteristic skin rash that forms small, itchy blisters, which eventually scab over. 
In this article. Chickenpox is a common illness caused by the varicella-zoster virus. Symptoms of chickenpox include fever and itchy spots or blisters all over the body. Chickenpox is usually mild and runs its course in five to 10 days, but it can cause more serious problems when teens and adults get it. 