New Ethnography is a recent development in the field of Anthropology. It is also known as Cognitive Anthropology or Ethnoscience.It accords special importance to empirical data as well as theoretical abstraction. 
Ethnography-or field research-is a sociological method that explores how people live and make sense of their lives with one another in particular places. The focus might be on people and the meaning they produce through everyday interactions, or places, and the organizational logics that guide our activities. Columbia provides an enormously rich environment for ethnographic research.
ethnography. (noun) A qualitative research method in which a researcher observes a social setting to provide descriptions of a group, society, or organization. 1 Plural: ethnographies. 2  Also called descriptive anthropology. 3  Ethnography used in a sentence: I completed an ethnography of a domestic violence shelter. 4  An (noun) ethnographer uses the research methodology of ethnography to produce (adjective) ethnographic or (adjective) ethnographical work (adverb) ethnographically.
Ethnography. Ethnography is a qualitative research design aimed at exploring cultural phenomena. The resulting field study or a case report reflects the knowledge and the system of meanings in the lives of a cultural group. An ethnography is a means to represent graphically and in writing, the culture of a people
The term ethnography has come to be equated with virtually any qualitative research project where the intent is to provide a detailed, in-depth description of everyday life and practice. While an ethnographic approach to social research is no longer purely that of the cultural anthropologist, a more precise definition must be rooted in ethnography’s disciplinary home of anthropology.
Definition: An ethnography is a descriptive account of social life and culture in a particular social system based on detailed observations of what people actually do. 
Critical ethnography: is a kind of ethnographic research in which the creators advocate for the liberation of groups which are marginalized in society. Critical researchers typically are politically minded people who look to take a stand of opposition to inequality and domination. The word 'Ethnography' is derived from the Greek ἔθνος (ethnos), ethnós meaning a, company later a, people nation ' -and graphy meaning field of. Study ethnographic studies focus on large cultural groups of people who interact over. time
The typical ethnography is a holistic study and so includes a brief history, and an analysis of the terrain, the climate, and the habitat. The word 'Ethnography' is derived from the Greek ἔθνος (ethnos), ethnós meaning a, company later a, people nation ' -and graphy meaning field of. Study ethnographic studies focus on large cultural groups of people who interact over. time
Ethnography (from Greek ἔθνος ethnos folk, people, nation and γράφω grapho I write) is the systematic study of people and cultures. It is designed to explore cultural phenomena where the researcher observes society from the point of view of the subject of the study. An ethnography is a means to represent graphically and in writing the culture of a group. The word 'Ethnography' is derived from the Greek ἔθνος (ethnos), ethnós meaning a, company later a, people nation ' -and graphy meaning field of. Study ethnographic studies focus on large cultural groups of people who interact over. time
Thus, ethnography may be defined as both a qualitative research process or method (one conducts an ethnography) and product (the outcome of this process is an ethnography) whose aim is cultural interpretation. The ethnographer goes beyond reporting events and details of experience. While an ethnographic approach to social research is no longer purely that of the cultural anthropologist, a more precise definition must be rooted in ethnography’s disciplinary home of anthropology.