A mixture of sugars and other carbohydrates, honey is mainly fructose (about 38-55%) and glucose (about 31%), with remaining sugars including maltose, sucrose, and other complex carbohydrates. Its glycemic index ranges from 31 to 78, depending on the variety. Adulteration of honey is the addition of other sugars, syrups or compounds into honey to change its flavor, viscosity, make it cheaper to produce, or to increase the fructose content in order to stave off crystallization.
Honey is also mostly sugar, but is only about 30 percent glucose and less than 40 percent fructose. Unlike sugar, these are typically found in the free form, meaning honey is digested a little differently than white sugar. The rest of honey is mainly comprised of about 20 other sugars, some of which are much more complex, and dextrin, a type of starchy fiber.
Honey /ˈhʌni/ is a sweet food made by bees using nectar from flowers. The variety produced by honey bees (the genus Apis) is the one most commonly referred to, as it is the type of honey collected by most beekeepers and consumed by people. Adulteration of honey is the addition of other sugars, syrups or compounds into honey to change its flavor, viscosity, make it cheaper to produce, or to increase the fructose content in order to stave off crystallization.
Carbohydrates are described by the number of sub-units they contain. Fructose and glucose are monosaccharides, that is, simple sugars. Sucrose, which is composed of fructose and glucose linked together, is a disaccharide; it comprises a little over 1% of the composition of honey. Honey contains other disaccharides which make up over 7% of its composition. About 3 to 4% of the composition of honey is made up of oligosaccha-rides. Examples of oligosaccharides found in honey include erlose, theanderose, and panose. These sugars are formed when nectar and honeydew are converted to honey.
Honey gets its sweetness from the monosaccharides fructose and glucose, and has about the same relative sweetness as granulated sugar. It has attractive chemical properties for baking and a distinctive flavor that leads some people to prefer it over sugar and other sweeteners. Adulteration of honey is the addition of other sugars, syrups or compounds into honey to change its flavor, viscosity, make it cheaper to produce, or to increase the fructose content in order to stave off crystallization.
Fructose, or fruit sugar, is a simple ketonic monosaccharide found in many plants, where it is often bonded to glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose. It is one of the three dietary monosaccharides, along with glucose and galactose, that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion. The name fructose was coined in 1857 by the English chemist William Miller. Pure, dry fructose is a very sweet, white, odorless, crystalline solid and is the most water-soluble of all the sugars. Fructose is found in honey, tree and vine fruits, flowers, berries, and most root vegetables. Commercially, fructose is frequently derived from sugar cane, sugar beets, and cor
The kind of sugar we eat too much of is known as the collective term free sugars. Free sugars are any sugars added to food or drinks, or found naturally in honey, syrups and unsweetened fruit juices. 
Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Fructose is also found in honey. It is classified as the sweetest of all the sugar
Fructose and Glucose. Honey contains additional loose molecules of fructose and glucose. Fructose is better known as the sugar found in fruit, and glucose is the same simple sugar that the body needs for energy. Honey is sometimes used as a liquid sugar substitute. However, substitute is not quite accurate because honey gets its sweetness from sugar; in fact, several types of sugar.