Polyphony Polyphony (polyphonic texture) is an important texture in all historic style periods. Polyphony contains two or more active melodies. In contrast to homophony, emphasis is placed upon the interplay between lines rather than on a single melody or a stream of chord sounds. The interplay of contour, motives, continuity features, and rhythms are important factors in polyphonic texture. Counterpoint Counterpoint is the interaction of voices in polyphonic texture. Imitative counterpoint occurs if one voice repeats or mimics the patterns just stated in another voice. A canonic process occurs if the anwering voice or voices repeat the lead voice exactly.
The terms monophony and polyphony have very straight-forward literal meanings. Monophony means music with a single part and a part typically means a single vocal melody, but it could mean a single melody on an instrument of one kind or another. Polyphony means music with more than one part, and so this indicates simultaneous notes. In practice, these simple definitions can be blurred by various performance techniques or refined by other terms. The principal example of monophony is plainchant, with its single unaccompanied vocal melody.
What do we mean when we say a piece of music has a polyphonic texture? Normally a polyphonic texture describes the blending together of two or more independent melody lines or voices to produce a piece of music. You can learn more about how music works at www.daveconservatoire.org.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Polyphonic music is music which includes multiple melodies or voices, in contrast with homophonic music, with a single melody, and harmony, in which chords harmonize with a leading melody or voice. 
There is often some confusion between the terms monophony and monody. Monody is a term with a definite historical origin. The 16th century madrigal was a polyphonic secular song form, with melodic interest shared between the (most frequently 5) voices. Polyphony means music with more than one part, and so this indicates simultaneous notes. In practice, these simple definitions can be blurred by various performance techniques or refined by other terms. The principal example of monophony is plainchant, with its single unaccompanied vocal melody.
Noun. 1. polyphony-music arranged in parts for several voices or instruments. concerted music, polyphonic music. music-an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner. counterpoint-a musical form involving the simultaneous sound of two or more melodies. polyphony. n, pl-nies. 1. (Music, other) polyphonic style of composition or a piece of music utilizing it. 2. (Phonetics & Phonology) the use of polyphones in a writing system.
Play (help·info). In music, polyphony is a texture consisting of two or more simultaneous lines of independent melody, as opposed to a musical texture with just one voice which is called monophony, and in difference from musical texture with one dominant melodic voice accompanied by chords which is called homophony. Also, as opposed to the species terminology of counterpoint, polyphony was generally either pitch-against-pitch / point-against-point or sustained-pitch in one part with melismas of varying lengths in another.
2. polyphonic-of or relating to or characterized by polyphony; polyphonic traditions of the baroque. polyphonous. music-an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner. polyphonic. adj. 1. (Music, other) music composed of relatively independent melodic lines or parts; contrapuntal. 2. many-voiced. 3. (Phonetics & Phonology) phonetics of, relating to, or denoting a polyphone.