So how much weight should you carry on a typical day-hike? Is it 10, 15, or 20 pounds? It all depends on the circumstances. If you’re hiking a dozen miles alone on a mellow trail, you can carry a sub-10 pound load of water, snacks, rain gear, headlamp, and the always essential map, compass or GPS. I learned this lesson the hard way on a 10-mile hike in New Hampshire that began four hours late, included a few frustrating wrong turns, and ended at the trailhead parking lot just before midnight. Besides an early start, how fast you move matters, too.
How long should I allow for an 8-mile hike? Naturally, that depends on a lot of factors, including the trail condition, how flat it is, and your level of fitness. A rule of thumb is to allow one hour to hike two miles; and another hour for each thousand feet of altitude you re gaining. So 8 miles over flat terrain will take 4 hours for a typical hiker. The usual rule of thumb is to walk at least 50 miles in your new boots before wearing them for an extended hike. Start with short walks. You don t want to get halfway into a 15-mile hike and realize you ve got a new blister forming. Wear the boots when you walk to work, to the grocery store, to do errands.
The Gregory Bald Trail climbs roughly 3000 feet. This is a strenuous hike for almost anyone. During week 3, you ll probably want to add a fourth day of walking into your schedule. Your long walk day, which preferably should be 7 days from your big hike, should now be in the 8 to 9 mile range. During the final week before your hike, you should still be walking on at least 2 or 3 days. Each of those walks should be in the 4 to 6 mile range. 6/12 Bobcat on the Appalachian Trail ....not bad for someone hiking her first long distance trail, especially for someone who was forced off the trail for two weeks after tearing a ligament in her foot. 6/7 Summer Hiking: How to Beat the Heat Summer hiking season is already upon us.
Back to questions at top. Naturally, that depends on a lot of factors, including the trail condition, how flat it is, and your level of fitness. A rule of thumb is to allow one hour to hike two miles; and another hour for each thousand feet of altitude you re gaining. So 8 miles over flat terrain will take 4 hours for a typical hiker. The usual rule of thumb is to walk at least 50 miles in your new boots before wearing them for an extended hike. Start with short walks. You don t want to get halfway into a 15-mile hike and realize you ve got a new blister forming. Wear the boots when you walk to work, to the grocery store, to do errands.
backpacking: 2 miles per hour, +1 hour for every 1000 feet of elevation climb. Use the formula, and then take a few walks. You should get a rough idea how your pace measures up to the formula and be able to adjust the formula accordingly. share | improve this answer. For example, how long does it take an average person walking at an average speed to walk a mile on the following types of trails: 1  a mostly flat, easy trail. 2  a moderate trail, with some elevation changes. 3  a strenuous hike, with significant elevation change or difficult terrain.
1 A reasonably fit person will hike about 2 mph (3.2 km/h) over varied terrain; add 5-10 min per hour for rest (or photos), and 1/2 to 1 hour for lunch. 2  By comparison, a moderately fast paced walk on a smooth, level path or sidewalk is 3 mph (4.8 km/h) or 20 min per mile. 3  Use this to plan your hikes. 1 A liter an hour is probably a high limit for a fast walker on a very hot day. 2  Considering a liter weighs more than 2 pounds, few hikers would carry 5 liters (1.3 US gal) for a 5 hour or 10 mile (16 km) hike unless they really had to.
Allow 1 hour for every 3 miles (5 km) forward, plus 1 hour for every 2000 feet (600 metres) of ascent. A lot of hikers in the UK use this as a guide of course bear in mind terrain and altitude! and of course this is not appropriate at higher altitudes. For example, how long does it take an average person walking at an average speed to walk a mile on the following types of trails: 1  a mostly flat, easy trail. 2  a moderate trail, with some elevation changes. 3  a strenuous hike, with significant elevation change or difficult terrain.