Not really. Some people even claim that cane is healthier than beet sugar. By the time they are fully refined into the white granular material that you see bagged in the marketplace, neither is anything more than just sucrose with all of the possibly healthy components removed.
The sugar we use daily is generally produced either from sugar cane or sugar beet.   Sugar beet is a root crop which, once harvested and processed, accounts somewhere … in the region of 30% of the world's sugar production.   It is also beginning to be processed for use as an alternative fuel. Some people even claim that cane is healthier than beet sugar. By the time they are fully refined into the white granular material that you see bagged in the marke … tplace, neither is anything more than just sucrose with all of the possibly healthy components removed.
I keep finding information about sugar in unexpected places. Previously as part of the Sugar Spirit project I read this from Sugar.org, the sugar industry's website: Sugar is simply separated from the beet or cane plant, and the result is 99.95% pure sucrose (sugar). The sucrose from sugar beets and sugar cane is not only identical to one another, but each is the same as the sucrose present in fruits and vegetables. But I've come across some contradictory statements in a different book.
Comments. Cane and Beet Sugar, Revisited. Sugar is simply separated from the beet or cane plant, and the result is 99.95% pure sucrose (sugar). The sucrose from sugar beets and sugar cane is not only identical to one another, but each is the same as the sucrose present in fruits and vegetables. But I've come across some contradictory statements in a different book.
Cane vs. Beet Sugar Nutrition. A field of sugar cane. Photo Credit teptong/iStock/Getty Images. Refined sugar can be made from sugarcane or sugar beets -- nutritionally they are identical -- but the refining process is different. Added sugars, whether from cane or beets, should be limited in your diet.
The sugar we use daily is generally produced either from sugar cane or sugar beet.   Sugar beet is a root crop which, once harvested and processed, accounts somewhere … in the region of 30% of the world's sugar production.   It is also beginning to be processed for use as an alternative fuel. Some people even claim that cane is healthier than beet sugar. By the time they are fully refined into the white granular material that you see bagged in the marketplace, neither is anything more than just sucrose with all of the possibly healthy components removed.
Brown cane sugar -- a combination of sugar and molasses, both inherent in the sugarcane plant -- is produced naturally as part of the process of refining white cane sugar by the traditional method, crystallization. Brown sugar from C & H Sugar Co. and other cane refiners uses the process, but beet sugar is different. SUGAR, SUGAR / Cane and beet share the same chemistry but act differently in the kitchen. Back to Gallery. Carolyn Weil and her crew at The Bake Shop in Berkeley were hard at work one morning, boiling down large pots of sugar syrup to make buttercream for the day's buns, cakes and confections.
Cane Sugar vs. Beet Sugar. Sugar (sucrose) is a naturally occurring carbohydrate found in every fruit and vegetable. Most of the sugar in the world comes from two sources: Sugar cane and beets, as it is easily extracted from both and both contain large quantities of sucrose. 99.95% sucrose in fact
Cane Sugar vs. Beet Sugar. Sugar (sucrose) is a naturally occurring carbohydrate found in every fruit and vegetable. Most of the sugar in the world comes from two sources: Sugar cane and beets, as it is easily extracted from both and both contain large quantities of sucrose. 99.95% sucrose in fact. The .05% difference is due in part to the fact that sugar cane and beets are different plants with different chemical makeups grown in different environments. Sugar cane is a tropical grass that grows abundantly in warm, moist and tropical climates and can reach 10-20 feet in height.