Please note, The-Shops.co.uk is a participative site where each person can indicate opening hours. Should you find any errors, please let us know. Usually the store is open Sunday. These times do not include public holidays. To see if your store is open these days, contact them. 
What is the number for B&M in bathgate west lothian. B&M Stores, Unit 2 Bathgate Retail Park, 24D Whitburn Rd, Bathgate, EH48 1HH. Contact details not listed. Please contact T: 01517285400 for more info. 
B & M in Bathgate. Discover big name brands at amazing prices at the B&M store in Bathgate. See below to find the store's location and opening and closing hours. With over 400 stores nationwide, B&M Stores is now one of the UK's leading multi-brand retailers. Visit the Bathgate B&M store to find fantastic savings on household goods, food and drink, toys, home and garden furniture and much, much more.
You may be travelling, sightseeing, or simply passing through – it doesn’t matter – we look forward to hearing from you and to offering you the comfort of our welcoming, family-run establishment. For bookings and enquiries, please contact us on 01506 653662. We very much look forward to hearing from you. 
B&M Home Store are larger store that stock more products ranging from DIY, painting & furniture. 
Please note, The-Shops.co.uk is a participative site where each person can indicate opening hours. Should you find any errors, please let us know. Usually the store is open Sunday. These times do not include public holidays. To see if your store is open these days, contact them. 
This is the B & M in Bathgate store information page, but please see below for nearby stores in this area: 1  Pound Stretcher in Bathgate. 2  Morrisons in Bathgate. 3  Tesco in Bathgate. 4  Co Op Food in Armadale. 5  WHSmith in Bathgate. 6  Argos in Bathgate. 7  Aldi in Bathgate. 8  Lidl in Bathgate. 9  Superdrug in Bathgate. 10  Iceland in Bathgate. With over 400 stores nationwide, B&M Stores is now one of the UK's leading multi-brand retailers. Visit the Bathgate B&M store to find fantastic savings on household goods, food and drink, toys, home and garden furniture and much, much more.
It’s never too early to start your Christmas shopping. Shop cards, gift bags and wrapping paper, all in-store now! Browse great multibuy deals and offers on Christmas decorations, crackers and tableware too! View Christmas Range. 
Saturday 7:30AM – 5:00PM PST. Shipping is free via UPS Ground or 3-Day Select for orders of $25 or more (excludes transmissions). If the transit time using UPS Ground Shipping will exceed 3 days to your location, we will upgrade the shipping service to UPS 3-Day Select, at no cost to you. Our almost 50 year commitment to Customer Service means our Customers deserve accurate, specific and professional answers, it is our aim to keep our operating efficiency high, and our responses personal. B&M Racing & Performance Products, 100 Stony Point Rd., Suite 125, Santa Rosa, CA 95401.