INTRODUCTION. Many of the more common family names of south-central Louisiana have their origins in Twelfth and Thirteenth Century Europe. They were taken-or given-to describe the man's place of residence, his occupation, his father's name or some physical characteristic of his. BERNARD: This name has the same meaning as Berard. The first Bernards to arrive in Louisiana from Canada were the brothers Michel and Pierre, who came to St. Martin and St. James parishes, respectively, in 1761.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Baudoin birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. 
Click on a circle in the chart to view Beaudoin birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. 
Click on a circle in the chart to view Beaudoin immigration records. You can find out when most of the Beaudoin families immigrated to Canada. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Beaudoin census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Beaudoin ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
Beaudoin is a surname of French origin. The name may refer to: 1  Alexandre Beaudoin (born 1978), Canadian forensic fingerprint scientist. 2  Andre Beaudoin (contemporary), Canadian Paralympian athlete. 
Meaning of Baudoin. German name. In German, the name Baudoin means-derived from baldwin, brave friend.The name Baudoin originated as an German name. The name Baudoin is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-derived from baldwin, brave friend.
Click on a place to view Beaudoin immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Beaudoin families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Beaudoin census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Beaudoin ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
Baudoin /bau-doin/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. The meaning of the name Baudoin is bold, brave friend. Baudoin is an alternate form of Baldwin (Old French, Old German). Compare surname Boudoin. Baudoin is a rare given name for males but a very popular surname for all people (#16665 out of 150436, Top 11%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Baudoin for boys. Baudoin has not made it into the Top 1000 so far. (2014 Birth Statistics).