Periodontitis. Periodontitis (per-e-o-don-TIE-tis) is a serious gum infection that damages the soft tissue and destroys the bone that supports your teeth. Periodontitis can cause tooth loss or worse, an increased risk of heart attack or stroke and other serious health problems.
Doctors and specialists in areas related to Gum disease: 1  Face / Facial / Oral Health Specialists: 2  Oral Pathology. 3  Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery. 4  Facial Plastic Surgery. 5  Ear, Nose & Throat Specialists: 6  Otolaryngology (Ear, Nose & Throat). 7  Pediatric Otolaryngology (Child Ear, Nose & Throat Specialist).
There are two types of gum disease 1  : Gingivitis (say jin-juh-VY-tus) is gum disease that affects only the gums, the soft tissue that surrounds the teeth. 2  Periodontitis (say pair-ee-oh-don-TY-tus) is more severe. 3  It spreads below the gums to damage the tissues and bone that support
Doctor and medical specialist list for Gum disease: The following types of doctors or medical specialists have been listed as possibly involved in diagnosis, treatment or managemen
Gum disease, also known as periodontal disease, exists in two forms: gingivitis and periodontitis. Both types of gum disease arise from a bacterial infection that is usually brought on by poor dental care. Gingivitis is a milder form of gum disease that causes irritated, bleeding gums.
Gum disease is an infection of the tissues and bones that surround and support the teeth. It is also called periodontal disease.
A periodontist is a dentist who specializes in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of periodontal disease, and in the placement of dental implants. Periodontists are also experts in the treatment of oral inflammation.
1 Gum Disease: Diagnosis and Treatment Gum disease is an inflammation and infection in the gums. 2  Over time, the disease destroys the tissues around the teeth, causing tooth loss and many other serious problems. 3  Kn…. 4  Healing Gum Disease With an Improved Diet Many people have some form of gum disease.