Making the world better, one answer at a time. Definition Of Strategic Policies: ''Strategic Policies Are a Set Of Plans & Forecasts Which Are To Be used In Emergency Conditions; To Help Businesses Adapt To be On The Top of The Competition''. Difference between Policy and Strategy The term policy should not be considered as synonymous to the term strategy. The difference between policy and strategy can be summa … rized as follows-Policy is a blueprint of the organizational activities which are repetitive/routine in nature.
Strategy includes processes of formulation and implementation; strategic planning helps coordinate both. However, strategic planning is analytical in nature (i.e., it involves finding the dots); strategy formation itself involves synthesis (i.e., connecting the dots) via strategic thinking.
Strategic Management Framework. An organization’s strategic management framework is the process by which its leaders define a strategy and set the course for long-term improvements. At VA, this is an essential process for transitioning into a high-performing 21st century organization. 
Business policies are the guidelines developed by an organization to govern its actions. They define the limits within which decisions must be made. Business policy also deals with acquisition of resources with which organizational goals can be achieved. Business policy is the study of the roles and responsibilities of top level management, the significant issues affecting organizational success and the decisions affecting organization in long-run. The term policy should not be considered as synonymous to the term strategy. The difference between policy and strategy can be summarized as follows-. 1  Policy is a blueprint of the organizational activities which are repetitive/routine in nature.
No matter which definition of strategy one uses, the decisions called for are the same. These decisions pertain to choices between and among products and services, customers and markets, distribution channels, technologies, pricing, and geographic operations, to name a few. Strategy also refers to the means by which policy is effected, accounting for Clauswitz famous statement that war is the continuation of political relations via other means. Given the centuries-old military origins of strategy, it seems sensible to begin our examination of strategy with the military view.
Strategic planning is an organization 's process of defining its strategy, or direction, and making decisions on allocating its resources to pursue this strategy. It may also extend to control mechanisms for guiding the implementation of the strategy. However, strategic planning is analytical in nature (i.e., it involves finding the dots); strategy formation itself involves synthesis (i.e., connecting the dots) via strategic thinking.
Strategy is important because the resources available to achieve these goals are usually limited. Strategy generally involves setting goals, determining actions to achieve the goals, and mobilizing resources to execute the actions. A strategy describes how the ends (goals) will be achieved by the means (resources).
A firm's strategic policy also known as Strategic management process is the one which is set by the firms to achieve long-term objectives. It contains Core strategy formulati … on, implementation and evaluation. 2 people found this useful. Difference between Policy and Strategy The term policy should not be considered as synonymous to the term strategy. The difference between policy and strategy can be summa … rized as follows-Policy is a blueprint of the organizational activities which are repetitive/routine in nature.
The end result is the organization's strategy, including a diagnosis of the environment and competitive situation, a guiding policy on what the organization intends to accomplish, and key initiatives or action plans for achieving the guiding policy. However, strategic planning is analytical in nature (i.e., it involves finding the dots); strategy formation itself involves synthesis (i.e., connecting the dots) via strategic thinking.