medicaid law: an overview. Medicaid is a medical assistance program jointly financed by state and federal governments for low income individuals and is embodied in 42 U.S.C. §1396 et seq. It was first enacted in 1965 as an amendment to the Social Security Act of 1935. Today, Medicaid is a major social welfare program and is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, formerly known as the Health Care Financing Administration. 
The Mississippi Division of Medicaid is a state and federal program created by the Social Security Amendments of 1965 (PL 89-97) , authorized by Title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide health coverage for eligible, low income populations. 
Medicaid eligibility for elderly, blind, and disabled residents of a State could be. linked to eligibility for the newly enacted. Federal Supplemental Security Income. Program (SSI). Eighteen million individu­. als were covered by Medicaid. 1980—Coverage of Medicare home. health services was broadened. 
CMS’ program history Medicare & Medicaid On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the bill that led to the Medicare and Medicaid. The original Medicare program included Part A (Hospital Insurance) and Part B (Medical Insurance). Today these 2 parts are called “Original Medicare.” Over the years, Congress has made changes to Medicare:
The 1965 Medicare Amendment to the Social Security Act. On July 30, 1965, President Johnson signed the Social Security Amendments which established Medicare and Medicaid, promising that they would improve a wide range of health and medical services for Americans of all ages.. 
Included in the Social Security program under Medicaid are dental services. These dental services are an optional service for adults above the age of 21; however, this service is a requirement for those eligible for Medicaid and below the age of 21. Therefore, if a person gifted $60,000 and the average monthly cost of a nursing home was $6,000, one would divide $6000 into $60,000 and come up with 10. 10 represents the number of months the applicant would not be eligible for medicaid.
South Dakota Medicaid. Medicaid is the nation’s publicly financed health and long-term care coverage program for low-income individuals. Medicaid was enacted in 1965 under Title XIX of the Social Security Act. Over time, federal Medicaid eligibility criteria has changed and covers more Americans living below or near poverty. The Department of Social Services (DSS) is the designated State Medicaid Agency for South Dakota. Other state agencies also administer programs funded by Medicaid in South Dakota, including the Departments of Human Services, Corrections, Education and Health.
As enacted, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) broadened Medicaid’s role, making it the foundation of coverage for nearly all low-income Americans with incomes up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) ($16,242 per year for an individual in 2015). 
President Johnson signing the Medicare program into law, July 30, 1965. Shown with the President (on the right in the photo) are (left to right) Mrs. Johnson; former President Harry Truman; Vice-President Hubert Humphrey; and Mrs. Truman. Photo courtesy of LBJ Presidential Library. 
The significance of Medicaid's role in providing health insurance cannot be overstated. Medicaid covered 12.0 percent of the total U.S. population in 1998, compared to 9.1 percent in 1978. The Medicaid program covers millions of low-income women, children, elderly people and individuals with disabilities. The Medicaid program was enacted in the same legislation that created the Medicare program-the Social Security Amendments of 1965 (P.L. 89-97)