The Tundra Biomes: There are two major tundra biomes—The Artic Tundra and the Alpine Tundra. Biomes play a crucial role in sustaining life on earth. For example, the Aquatic biome is home to millions of fish species and the source of the water cycle. It also plays a very important role in climate formation.
LOCATION: Taiga, also known as coniferous or boreal forest, is the largest terrestrial biome on earth. It extends in a broad band across North America, Europe, and Asia to the southern border of the arctic tundra. 
Biomes are very large ecological areas on the earth’s surface, with fauna and flora (animals and plants) adapting to their environment. Biomes play a crucial role in sustaining life on earth. For example, the Aquatic biome is home to millions of fish species and the source of the water cycle. It also plays a very important role in climate formation.
A biome is a large ecosystem where plants, animals, insects, and people live in a certain type of climate. If you were in northern Alaska, you would be in a frosty biome called the Arctic tundra. If you jumped on a plane and flew to Brazil, you could be in a hot and humid biome called the tropical rainforest. The world contains many other biomes: grasslands, deserts, and mountains, to name a few. Another type of tundra is the alpine tundra, which is a biome that exists at the tops of high mountains. Special features: This is the earth's coldest biome. Since the sun does not rise for nearly six months of the year, it is not unusual for the temperature to be below -30°F in winter.
Scientists divide the world into large natural areas called biomes. Desert and rainforest biomes are two that you’ve probably heard of. Each biome is known for certain kinds of plants and animals. But what’s really at the heart of a biome is its climate. Free An Introduction to Biomes Scientists divide the world into large natural areas called biomes. 900L-1040L Free Tundras It is crazy cold in the Arctic tundra. 900L-1040L Taigas The taiga is the world’s biggest biome.
Other animals that live in this biome include polar bears, Arctic foxes, caribou, and grey wolves. Plants that you might find include small shrubs and cushion plants, and the lichen which cover the many rocks on the tundra's terrain. The Arctic is also famous for the beauty of its flowers during early autumn. Another type of tundra is the alpine tundra, which is a biome that exists at the tops of high mountains. Special features: This is the earth's coldest biome. Since the sun does not rise for nearly six months of the year, it is not unusual for the temperature to be below -30°F in winter.
Biomes are regions of the world with similar climate (weather, temperature) animals and plants. There are terrestrial biomes (land) and aquatic biomes, both freshwater and marine. Would you like to know what the weather is like in different biomes around the world? 
A biome is NOT an ecosystem, although in a way it can look like a massive ecosystem. If you take a closer look, you will notice that plants or animals in any of the biomes have special adaptations that make it possible for them to exist in that area. You may find many units of ecosystems within one biome. Biomes play a crucial role in sustaining life on earth. For example, the Aquatic biome is home to millions of fish species and the source of the water cycle. It also plays a very important role in climate formation.
A biome is a geographical area that is very large in size. Each of these geographical areas has certain groups of animals and plants that are present within it. They are able to thrive there due to their ability to adapt in that particular type of environment. The geographic layout of a particular area is going to affect the biomes that are found there. The vegetation is important to explore. What is fascinating is discovering the types of adaptations that a living plant or animal goes though in order to continue thriving in a given biome.