An accounting degree is a degree awarded to students who have completed an accounting degree program at a college or university. Types of Accounting Degrees. There are three basic types of accounting degrees that can be earned: An associate degree in accounting takes approximately two years to complete. A bachelor degree in accounting can usually be earned in four years. And a master's degree in accounting can be earned in two years or less after completing a bachelor's program. A bachelor's degree is the most common requirement in the field.
50% of starting accountants make between $43,372 and $51,118 per year, while 80% make between $38,810 and $54,574. As we can see, $51,000 is good, just shy of the 75th percentile, but not atypical for the area: 25% of starting accountants make about that much or more. These two charts from the PayScale Research Center, say a Masters of Science in Accounting pays more, on average, but not enough to make up the lost $51,000 (plus cost of tuition!) of the lost year of working anytime soon: Median Salary by Years Experience-Degree: Master of Science (MS/MSc), Accounting (United States).
It is here that the accounting degree can help the first time accountant by earning an average of average of $50,500. This is well above the average of $41,701 for all four year degrees. This number is among the top three first year salaries for college graduates. According to the United States Department of Labor, the median salary for accountants in 2010 was $61,690. This is a healthy amount of money and includes all of the areas those with an accounting degree work in.
An associate degree in accounting prepares students for an entry-level role in accounting. Students learn accounting fundamentals, including the basics of debits and credits, how to record a journal entry and prepare monthly financial statements, and management of customer, supplier and vendor accounts. They learn to compute payroll taxes and prepare tax reports.
An accounting master's is good for $5,000 more to start, $7,000 per year over the first 4 years, $11,000 per year over years 5 to 9, etc. Somewhere about 7 to 10 years out, typically, is the breakeven point, where the lost income from the extra year is overcome by the higher annual wages. These two charts from the PayScale Research Center, say a Masters of Science in Accounting pays more, on average, but not enough to make up the lost $51,000 (plus cost of tuition!) of the lost year of working anytime soon: Median Salary by Years Experience-Degree: Master of Science (MS/MSc), Accounting (United States).
Both an MBA with a focus in accounting and a master's degree in accounting, such as the Master of Accounting (MAcc), will prepare you for managerial positions within the field. We’ll talk more about the differences between them, and how they can further your career, in the masters degrees section. CPA exam costs vary by state for the initial application fee (generally from $30 - $200) but in general you can expect your application and exam fees to cost around $1,000. If you choose an exam test prep course, such as Becker CPA Review, Kaplan CPA Review or Yaeger CPA Review, expect an average of $1,500.
Introduction to Accounting Degrees. If you have an aptitude for accounting and business, the field of accounting can offer you a variety of job opportunities. With a high school diploma or a two-year associate degree earned at a community or technical college, you could find employment as an accounting clerk. With this bachelor's degree, you will have more job opportunities open to you and will likely earn twice the salary of a person with an associate degree. The bachelor's degree in accounting includes about 36 credits of difficult accounting courses as well as another 20 credits in business courses.
The median-earning half of graduates with a master's in finance made between $58,600 and $83,900 out of the gate. Financial managers in the finance and insurance industry who held a master's degree in finance reported an average starting salary of $85,600 per year. Accountants and auditors with a master's in finance started out at $65,100 per year, on average. A master's degree in finance commands an even higher starting salary than a bachelor's. According to NACE, those graduating with a master's in finance earned an average of $73,000 per year to start in 2012.
Master's Degree Programs. Course work at the master's level will prepare you for management and administrative roles as well as often offer the credit hours required to sit for the CPA exam. Generally, students can pursue an MBA with a focus in accounting or the MAcc, the Master of Accounting. CPA exam costs vary by state for the initial application fee (generally from $30 - $200) but in general you can expect your application and exam fees to cost around $1,000. If you choose an exam test prep course, such as Becker CPA Review, Kaplan CPA Review or Yaeger CPA Review, expect an average of $1,500.