The Hawaiian Islands have many major landforms. These landforms  include Kilauea, Mauna Loa, and Mauna Kea volcanoes. Other major  landforms include the Waimea Canyon and Mt … . Lanaihale on the island  of Lanai.
Kilauea is the youngest and southeastern most volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii. Topographically Kilauea appears as only a bulge on the southeastern flank of Mauna Loa, and so for many years Kilauea was thought to be a mere satellite of its giant neighbor, not a separate volcano. In fact, the summit of Kilauea lies on a curving line of volcanoes that includes Mauna Kea and Kohala and excludes Mauna Loa. In other words, Kilauea is to Mauna Kea as Lo'ihi is to
Waimea Canyon on Kauai is one of the island's most dramatic landforms, and across the larger islands fertile mountain valleys, volcanic craters, deep canyons and waterfalls are also commonplace. Print this map. The lush, green islands of Hawaii are the visible tops of a chain of submerged volcanic mountains that stretch 3,100 miles from Hawaii, all the way to the Aleutian Trench in the North Pacific Ocean.
Hawaii is one of the 50 states of the United States. It is the newest of the states (it joined the union in 1959) and it is the only U.S. state that is an island archipelago. Hawaii is located in the Pacific Ocean to the southwest of the continental U.S., southeast of Japan and northeast of Australia. Hawaii is known for its tropical climate, unique topography and natural environment, as well as its multicultural population. The following is a list of ten geographic facts about Hawaii: 
For panoramic views of Oahu's Windward Coast and the cliffs of the Koolau Mountains, grab a sweater and head to the very windy Nuuanu Pali Lookout, located five miles northeast of downtown Honolulu along Pali Highway at an elevation of 1,186 feet. Oahu. A popular Oahu activity, says Frommer's, is hiking to the summit of the 750-foot Diamond Head Crater, which formed 350,000 years ago.
One way to take in these impressive Kauai landforms is by helitour. Two companies that specialize in finding hidden valleys and waterfalls are Safari Helicopters Hawaii (sarfarihelicopters.com) and Jack Harter Helicopters (helicopters-kauai.com). Pele is still very busy on the Big Island of Hawaii. Kilauea has been actively producing lava and adding to the Big Island’s real estate since 1983. In 1990, that led to the destruction of Kalapana, a coastal village just east of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park.
The Hawaiian Islands have many major landforms. These landforms include Kilauea, Mauna Loa, and Mauna Kea volcanoes. Other major landforms include the Waimea Canyon and Mt. Lanaihale on the island of Lanai. There are many kinds of landforms. They can be locations, such as islands; terrain, such as mountains or valleys; or t … hose having specific qualities caused by climate, such as deserts, swamps, and glaciers. Some landforms are created by the action of wind, water, and ice.
An island landform is land that is completely surrounded by water. It can be any. type of land. The island can also be surrounded different types of water such as a sea, ocean, river and lake. There are a lot of famous islands in the world. One of the most famous island landforms are the Hawaii islands. There are 100’s of islands in the State of Hawaii. They are all mostly gorgeous and tropical. Another famous island is the Galapagos Islands. It has many different types of species. It was made famous by the famous scientist and explorer Charles Darwin
Scientifically speaking, the landforms in Hawaii are the result of a “hot spot” beneath the ocean bed combined with the ever shifting plates of the Earth’s crust. The result is a chain of islands offering everything from lush tropical forests to active volcanoes still adding acreage to Pele’s latest home. Pele is still very busy on the Big Island of Hawaii. Kilauea has been actively producing lava and adding to the Big Island’s real estate since 1983. In 1990, that led to the destruction of Kalapana, a coastal village just east of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park.
Molokai. Only one of Molokai's five valleys, Halawa, is accessible. The highlights here are two waterfalls, which you can only visit by reserving a guided tour with an operator such as Molokai Fish and Dive (molokaifishanddive.com). Oahu. A popular Oahu activity, says Frommer's, is hiking to the summit of the 750-foot Diamond Head Crater, which formed 350,000 years ago.