If we were to total the urine output in a day, then we could expect to have at least 1.5 liters per day. Nevertheless, it is more advisable to have more fluid intake in order to increase the volume of our output. As for women, an output of 2 liters is considered normal while men can even go as much as 3 liters per day. This would give us a rough estimation of about 30 to 40 ml per hour. For children, the output rate is about 1ml/kg/hr. As for adults, some references do consider the same rate of urine output with children. This is because the rate 0.5ml/kg/hr is already considered the low normal amount.
You are less than the normal urine output per hour if you're producing less than 400ml of urine in a day. This condition is usually different from anuria in which you produce less than 50ml urine in a day. You may experience this situation for many different reasons. A normal person urinates anywhere between 800 and 2,000 ml per day. It means your normal urine output per hour should be anywhere between 33.3 and 83.3 ml. If it's not within this range, there's something wrong. However, you need to ensure that you're drinking no less than 2 liters of fluid per day. These numbers may change a bit considering your unique circumstance
For example, in an adult weighing 70 kg it equals 0.24 or 0.3 mL/hour/kg. Alternatively, however, the value of 0.5 mL/kg/h is commonly used to define oliguria in adults as well. Olig- (or oligo-) is a Greek prefix meaning small or few. Anuria is defined as less than 50mL urine output per day. Oliguria or hypouresis (both names from roots meaning not enough urine) is the low output of urine. In humans, it is clinically classified as an output more than 80 ml/day but less than 400ml/day.
If you're urinating more than the normal urine output per hour, it could be due to several different reasons. Remember, you're urinating excessively if your urine volume is more than 2.5 liters a day. This may happen due to the following reasons: A normal person urinates anywhere between 800 and 2,000 ml per day. It means your normal urine output per hour should be anywhere between 33.3 and 83.3 ml. If it's not within this range, there's something wrong. However, you need to ensure that you're drinking no less than 2 liters of fluid per day. These numbers may change a bit considering your unique circumstances.
If we were to base the normal urine output to an average adult person, then we could expect to have a result that is 0.5ml/kg/hr. This would give us a rough estimation of about 30 to 40 ml per hour. For children, the output rate is about 1ml/kg/hr. As for adults, some references do consider the same rate of urine output with children. This is because the rate 0.5ml/kg/hr is already considered the low normal amount.
Oliguria is defined as a urine output that is less than 1 mL/kg/h in infants, less than 0.5 mL/kg/h in children, and less than 400 mL or 500 mL per 24h in adults-this equals 17 or 21 mL/hour. Oliguria or hypouresis (both names from roots meaning not enough urine) is the low output of urine. In humans, it is clinically classified as an output more than 80 ml/day but less than 400ml/day.
Normal Urinary Output. The normal range for an adult urinary output is between 400 to 2,000 mL of urine daily -- with a normal fluid intake of about 2 liters per day. Values for normal urinary output may vary slightly between laboratories. A urine output of 500 mL per day is generally considered adequate for normal function. Factors other than kidney disease that can influence how much you urinate in a day include how much water you consume, the amount of fluid lost in perspiration, your caffeine and alcohol intake and any medications you've taken.
Confidence votes 334. The expected urine output for an adult is 0.5ml/kg/hr. This roughly equates to 30-40ml per hour in an average sized adult. For children, it is closer to 1ml/kg/hr. Text books recomend an adult should be 0.5 - 1 ml/kg/hr. What is the normal daily urine output of a 4 year old? The normal daily urine output for a 4 year old child is 600-700 ml.  This output can change in conditions where a child is dehydrated,  or drank extra fluids.