Programs store their instructions in RAM when they run, so RAM determines how many programs you can open at once, the size of the files you can open in programs, and, to some extent, how fast a program executes its instructions. It's a snap to figure out how much RAM you have in your computer. INSTRUCTIONS. Step 1: How can I find out how much RAM Memory my Laptop PC has. March 18, 2008. Views. Comments Comment. 6 Vote 6 Votes. Please sign in to vote on this Guide. Your computer uses RAM (random-access memory) for quick, short-term storage.
You can either check the owner's manual or look on your computer's desktop by following these steps: If you use a PC, The amount of installed memory will appear in the lower right side of the dialogue box. 1  Right click on the My Computer icon on your desktop. 2  Scroll down to Properties. 3  Select the General tab. 
Answers to Personal Computing Questions. Answer: Knowing how much RAM, or memory, your computer has is important because it determines what programs you can run on your machine. The more RAM you have, the more memory-intensive programs you can run. It also allows you to run more programs at one time. 
2. Once you've decided to upgrade the RAM, the hardest part is finding the correct memory for your system. Memory supplier Crucial offers handy tools to help you select the right memory. You can download a system scanner and let it find the upgrades available or simply choose your system from the Crucial Advisor tool. Put as much memory as the PC allows and you can afford. There will always be a demand for it now and in the future. I picked up my first laptop in 2009. It was a Lenovo G550. It used a Pentium processor which ran at 2.10 GHz and used 3 GB of memory. It also provided me with 300GB of storage.
Memory made for a specific brand of computer is only tested with that brand. So we can only guarantee compatibility with that brand and no other brand of computer. Nevertheless, if the memory meets the system specifications, you may install it to determine compatibility with your system. If you have an older computer or a slow computer, or if you’re having display problems or seeing notifications like “out of memory,” it may be time to upgrade. Improve your system with a memory upgrade. Kingston memory can speed up your system’s performance and also increase your computer’s lifespan.
Hi Everyone, I'm looking to buy more RAM for my laptop, my exact laptop is this: http://www.dabs.ie/products/lenovo-b5400-intel-core-i5-... I have no idea where to buy some more or what to look for. So if anyone could guide me to the right memory for my laptop, I would appreciate it. Thanks. 
Reliable memory for your computer. Memory is an important component of your computer and selection and management is vital for your system to operate properly. If you have an older computer or a slow computer, or if you’re having display problems or seeing notifications like “out of memory,” it may be time to upgrade. Improve your system with a memory upgrade. Kingston memory can speed up your system’s performance and also increase your computer’s lifespan.
If your desktop PC has slowed down, then memory (or the need for more) may be the culprit. Relax, a RAM upgrade is a lot easier than you think. We walk you through the steps, from figuring out how much and what kind you need to actually installing it. 
1 You can look up the specs for your system to figure out what memory types your computer takes. 2  I usually google for “modelnumber specs”, for instance I’d type in “nc8430 specs”. 3  You can use some of the other memory advisors, like Kingston or PNY, but their sites are a bit less useful. Other Options. 1  You can look up the specs for your system to figure out what memory types your computer takes. 2  I usually google for “modelnumber specs”, for instance I’d type in “nc8430 specs”. 3  You can use some of the other memory advisors, like Kingston or PNY, but their sites are a bit less useful.