California Association of Notaries is the state's #1 web site dedicated to the professional notary public. This site is dedicated to helping banks, credit unions, mortgage companies, title & escrow, closing companies and signing companies find a notary in their area as quickly as possible. We provide a complete guide to locate a notary public in your area. Our goal is to provide the Best of the Best. The California Association of Notaries loan signing agent and notary mortgage signing services database was created to assist those who are in need of professional and experienced notaries.
Certified Notary Signing Agent Testing is included when you join Notary-Services as a Professional Member. Notary-Services is a nationwide database for finding notaries. We have one and two year Professional Membership packages that include certification, membership, and search result listings. You must keep your Professional Membership current to retain your Certified Notary Signing Agent status. Companies on the Notary-Services Signing & Closing Company List know that our certification test covers Notary Public and Notary Signing Agent procedures, requirements, and loan document signing questions.
Basic Membership with Notary Rotary is free and is recommended for notaries who perform notarial duties for their employers. Premier Membership is recommended for professional notaries public, who are generally working as loan signing agents. Premier Membership annual fees currently range from $79 to $139 and include a number of benefits that should easily pay for themselves over the course of a year. 
We are a Professional Membership Association of commissioned civil law notary publics, who've joined together to promote continuing education and ethics in all acts where a notary public is involved. 
California Association of Notaries is a directory of mobile notaries and loan signing agents. Our notary database is designed to easily find mobile notary, public notaries or loan signing agents anywhere in California. We provide a complete guide to locate a notary public in your area. Our goal is to provide the Best of the Best. The California Association of Notaries loan signing agent and notary mortgage signing services database was created to assist those who are in need of professional and experienced notaries.
Membership in the Professional Civil Law Notaries Association is your declaration that you want to be a part of a group of professionals striving for higher standards. Membership has it's benefits! 
1 Certification Testing is available for Notary Signing Agents who maintain a Professional Membership with Notary Services. 2  You must keep your Professional Membership current to retain your Certified Notary Signing Agent status. 3  Additional web page emblem for Certified Notary Signing Agents. A Professional Membership is about 15 cents a day. We give the Professional Member five FREE additional listings and posting of a photograph or graphic of their choice. No other notary web service comes close to the low prices and services we offer.
Only $55 or as little as $15 a year for a Notary-Services Membership. A Professional Membership is about 15 cents a day. We give the Professional Member five FREE additional listings and posting of a photograph or graphic of their choice. No other notary web service comes close to the low prices and services we offer.
2 year Professional Membership with CNSA Certification and eBooks - $98. This combination includes a two-year Professional Level Membership, certification test for becoming a Certified Notary Signing Agent, and our Notary Public Training Course and Notary Signing Agent Training Course eBooks. Certification is now processed through the Notary Learning Center. Save $125. 
While it is not a requirement that a notary must be a member of a professional association, the following organizations may offer some useful information to further the career of notaries public. 