Ithala Game Reserve, 290 km 2 of rugged, mountainous thornveld in northern KwaZulu-Natal, about 400 km north of Durban. It is one of the youngest game parks in South Africa. 
This KwaZulu-Natal game reserve was the setting for many of South Africa's historic events, including the reign of Shaka and his successive Zulu kings and the gold mining enterprises in the early years of the 20th Century. Ithala Game Reserve offers an excellent auto trail and a variety of game activities. Ithala Game Reserve in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, is situated in the rugged, mountainous northern region which is home to a spectacular array of wildlife species.
Ithala Game Reserve. This magnificent game reserve is located in the Rugged Mountains North of Zululand, just below the Kingdom of Swaziland. Ithala Game Reserve is made up of 30,000 Hectares and is a host to a spectacular array of wildlife species. The name Ithala comes from the Zulu word ‘High place’
Ithala Game Reserve. This spectacular reserve, tumbling from the heights of the Ngotshe Mountains a thousand meters down into a deep valley, carved over the eons by the Phongolo River revealing the world's oldest rock formations makes Ithala Game Reserve a game viewers paradise. Its panoramic beauty aside, Ithala Game Reserve's most characteristic attribute is perhaps its astonishing geological diversity. Some of the oldest rock formations in the entire world are found at Ithala Game Reserve, dating back 3 000 million years.
Ithala Game Reserve overlooks the oldest rock formations in the world from the green heights of the Ngotshe Mountains. Rich in prehistoric artifacts and wildlife species, the scenic beauty of the area is geologically fascinating, and home to archeological findings and rocks dating back millions of years. Ithala Game Reserve is situated near Louwsburg in northern KwaZulu-Natal. It can be reached via Vryheid off the R69 or off the N2 via Pongola. Firstly the service I received from Judie was out of this world. Then our vacation we had a fantastic stay at Ithala, we received a warm welcome from their staff
Ithala Game Reserve is located within the rugged, mountainous thornveld of northern KwaZulu-Natal, the reserve's multitude of habitats host a spectacular array of wildlife species. Its panoramic beauty aside, Ithala Game Reserve's most characteristic attribute is perhaps its astonishing geological diversity. Some of the oldest rock formations in the entire world are found at Ithala Game Reserve, dating back 3 000 million years.
Ithala Game Reserve is a magnificent reserve, tumbling from the heights of the Ngotshe Mountains a thousand meters down into a deep valley, carved over the eons by the Phongolo River revealing the world`s oldest rock formations, is a game viewers paradise. Situated in the rugged, mountainous thornveld of northern KwaZulu-Natal, Ithala Game Reserve`s multitude of habitats host a spectacular array of wildlife species. Its scenic beauty aside, Ithala`s most characteristic feature is perhaps its astonishing geological diversity
Ithala Game Reserve is situated near Louwsberg in northern KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, rolling down from the Ngotshe Mountains into a deep river valley characterised by incredibly ancient rock formations. Ithala Game Reserve is an easy 5 hour drive from Johannesburg and a 4 hour drive from Durban. The roads to Ithala are tarred all the way. The nearest town is Louwsburg in northern KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.