How much does a bottle of patron cost? Patron is a pretty expensive bottle of alcohol if you ask me, but all i know is that a 2'6 of patron is almost up to $80, when original 2'6's are only like $27, but just be aw … are that it's very expensive .. Prices in the USA can range from just over a dollar (low quality shampoo from the dollar store) … to around sixty dollars for high end shampoos. For average shampoos, (in Canada) the price is around $3.50-5.00. + 9 others found this useful.
How much does a 20 ounce Gatorade bottle cost? Varies, in some vending machines it will cost $1.75, however it can go as low as about 75 cents if buying in bulk. Prices in the USA can range from just over a dollar (low quality shampoo from the dollar store) … to around sixty dollars for high end shampoos. For average shampoos, (in Canada) the price is around $3.50-5.00. + 9 others found this useful.
Gatorade is currently manufactured by PepsiCo and distributed in over 80 countries. Gatorade commands 46% of the worldwide sports drink market according to Euromonitor International. Product pitchman for the brand include: Derek Jeter, Dwyane Wade, Peyton Manning, Serena Williams and Usain Bolt. 
It depends on the brand, size, quality, and of course, what country you are in. Prices in the USA can range from just over a dollar (low quality shampoo from the dollar store) … to around sixty dollars for high end shampoos. For average shampoos, (in Canada) the price is around $3.50-5.00. + 9 others found this useful.
Gatorade contains 160 milligrams of sodium and 45 milligrams of potassium per serving, while Powerade contains 150 milligrams of sodium and 35 milligrams of potassium per serving. By comparison, Gatorade is slightly superior at replacing lost electrolytes. The original “Thirst Quencher” Gatorade and the traditional Powerade brands each contain 21 grams of sugar per 12-fluid-ounce serving, making them equal providers of the easily digestible nutrients. The type of sugar in each drink differs, however.
Since it is a sports drink, it contains both sugar and sodium in reasonable amounts (it has about 1tbl of sugar and 0.05% of your recommended sodium intake per 240ml-the nutr … itional analysis for Thirst Quencher). Although the sodium sounds quite low, if you drink 1200 mls of it in a day, you've had 25% of your salt intake. Clearly, if you are also consuming a lot of salt and sugar elsewhere in your diet, it might be wise to try to cut back on the Gatorade.
Gatorade comes in many sizes and flavors. It can also be purchased at cheaper prices at the large big box or discount stores, compared to premium grocery stores. Gatorade is sold individually for under $2.00, or in packs of six, eight or twelve. A pack of six is approximately $4, while a pack of eight is roughly $6. Finally, a pack of twelve is in the neighborhood of $9 to $11 dolla
How much does a 20 ounce Gatorade bottle cost? Varies, in some vending machines it will cost $1.75, however it can go as low as about 75 cents if buying in bulk. Although the sodium sounds quite low, if you drink 1200 mls of it in a day, you've had 25% of your salt intake. Clearly, if you are also consuming a lot of salt and sugar elsewhere in your diet, it might be wise to try to cut back on the Gatorade.
While palatable water is available for negligible cost, the sports drinks can cost several dollars when consumed regularly. Moreover, the manufacturers of Powerade and Gatorade (Coca-Cola and Pepsico respectively) adhere to high standards of quality in processing these drinks. 
On average, bottled Gatorade sells for $5 - $6 per gallon. But when purchased in powder form, your cost per gallon is as little as $1.38. A potential savings of more than 75%! 