1 process, procedure-A process is a set or series of actions directed to some end or a natural series of changes; a procedure is a series of actions conducted in a certain manner, an established way of doing something. procedure. n. 1. a way of acting or progressing in a course of action, esp an established method. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the established mode or form of conducting the business of a legislature, the enforcement of a legal right, etc.
Procedure Definition. A procedure is a series of steps, taken together, to achieve a desired result. It is a particular way of accomplishing something as in a repetitive approach or cycle to accomplish an end result. By now, I hope we have answered “what is procedure.” A procedure is a way that you achieve consistent results. Procedures can be called a Standard Operating Procedure, an SOP, a GMP, a work instruction or a best practice.
Full Definition of PROCEDURE. 1. a: a particular way of accomplishing something or of acting b: a step in a procedure. 2. b: a set of instructions for a computer that has a name by which it can be called into action. 3. a: a traditional or established way of doing things b: protocol 3a. procedure. noun pro·ce·dure \prə-ˈsē-jər\. Tweet. : a series of actions that are done in a certain way or order: an established or accepted way of doing something.
1 An experiment can only have one variable. 2  That is, you can change only one condition in each experiment. 3  For example, with the seed experiment, the variable is the temperature at which the seeds are kept before you plant them. 
A Function procedure is a series of Visual Basic statements enclosed by the Function and End Function statements. The Function procedure performs a task and then returns control to the calling code. When it returns control, it also returns a value to the calling code. Every Function procedure has a data type, just as every variable does. This data type is specified by the As clause in the Function statement, and it determines the data type of the value the function returns to the calling code. The following sample declarations illustrate this.
A “procedure” is a term used in a variety of industries to define a series of steps, taken together, to achieve a desired result. Procedures explain how to accomplish a task. A procedure is sometimes called a work instruction. By now, I hope we have answered “what is procedure.” A procedure is a way that you achieve consistent results. Procedures can be called a Standard Operating Procedure, an SOP, a GMP, a work instruction or a best practice.
A Procedure is designed to describe Who, What, Where, When, and Why by means of establishing corporate accountability in support of the implementation of a policy. For example, a manufacturing facility established a policy that all overtime shall be approved. A procedure can be created to establish “Who” can approve overtime (ranks, roles & responsibilities), What forms/systems need to be used, Where they are located, When overtime is applicable. And the Why refers to the management directive established via a P
1. A manner of proceeding; a way of performing or effecting something: standard procedure. 2. a. A series of steps taken to accomplish an end: a medical procedure; evacuation procedures. b. Computers A set of instructions that performs a specific task; a subroutine or function. 3. procedure. n. 1. a way of acting or progressing in a course of action, esp an established method. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the established mode or form of conducting the business of a legislature, the enforcement of a legal right, etc.