Mammal. Diet: Herbivore. Size: Height at the shoulder, 47 in (120 cm). Weight: 250 lbs (113 kg). Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The llama is a South American relative of the camel, though the llama does not have a hump. These sturdy creatures are domestic animals used by the peoples of the Andes Mountains. (Their wild relatives are guanacos and vicunas). Vicuñas native peoples have used llamas as pack animals for. centuries 
*Llama Banner, which is located in Manhattan, KS. * Llama Life II, which is located in Charlottesville, VA. *Backcountry Llama, http://www.bcllama.com A site that is packed with information about llamas and packing with them. *Useful Llama Items, which is located in Byron, IL. *Premier1, a sheep supplies place with fantastic items located in Iowa We have ordered from all of these companies and have found each to be courteous, helpful and prompt.
Llama Distribution. South America is the native location for the Llama. There are also more than 100,000 Llamas between the United States and Canada. There is fossil evidence to indicate that the Llama has been on Earth for more than 1 million years. They are able to easily adapt to changes in their environment. 
History of the Llama — North America. The llama is a relative newcomer in North America. After the presumed migration of the original camelid seed to Asia and South America, there were no camelids in North America until the importation of llamas as zoo exhibits into the United States in the late 1800s. Peru and Bolivia form the heart of this region with portions of Argentina, Chile, Colombia, and Ecuador forming the periphery. The llama is one of the four species known as New World camelids which inhabit the region.
Lama Medical Information. Normal Vital Parimeters for the Llama. Resting body temperature: 37.5-38.9 C. (99.5-102 F). Heart rate: 60-90 bpm. Respiratory rate: 10-30/minute. Gastric motility: 3-4 contractions/minute (This is more rapid than with ruminants). Tuberculosis: TB has been a difficult problem in the llama industry as well on the regulatory front. Tuberculin testing of the caudal tail fold is not considered reliable. Currently the preferred site for testing is with 0.1 ml PPD bovis in the fiberless postaxillary region. The standard 72 hour post injection reading in required
*Quality Llama Products, which is located in Lebanon, OR. *Useful Llama Items, which is located in Byron, IL. *Premier1, a sheep supplies place with fantastic items located in Iowa We have ordered from all of these companies and have found each to be courteous, helpful and prompt.
Llamas’ live in places such as the Andes Mountains which are located in South America, these mountains are extremely high and reach altitudes of 7,400 – 12,800 feet. 
Depending both on the nutrients contained in your hay and the condition of the llama, you may want to add grain as a supplement. We have our local coop mix up a grain mixture recipe that is originally from Triple J llama farms in WA. *Useful Llama Items, which is located in Byron, IL. *Premier1, a sheep supplies place with fantastic items located in Iowa We have ordered from all of these companies and have found each to be courteous, helpful and prompt.
The llama is native to the high puna of the South American Andes. Peru and Bolivia form the heart of this region with portions of Argentina, Chile, Colombia, and Ecuador forming the periphery. The llama is one of the four species known as New World camelids which inhabit the region.