Revanchism draws its strength from patriotic and retributionist thought and is often motivated by economic or geo-political factors. Extreme revanchist ideologues often represent a hawkish stance, suggesting that desired objectives can be achieved through the positive outcome of another war. A German revanchist movement developed in response to the losses of World War I. Pangermanists within the Weimar Republic called for the reclamation of the property of a German state due to pre-war borders or because of the territory's historical relation to Germanic peoples.
Revanchist justifications are often presented as based on ancient or even autochthonous occupation of a territory since  time immemorial , an assertion that is usually inextricably involved in revanchism and irredentism, justifying them in the eyes of their proponents. A German revanchist movement developed in response to the losses of World War I. Pangermanists within the Weimar Republic called for the reclamation of the property of a German state due to pre-war borders or because of the territory's historical relation to Germanic peoples.
process, but in the context of serving justice and, wherever possible, compensating the damage caused to the economy and the Cypriot people, asserted Anastasiades, in an evident allusion to an ongoing probe into the near-collapse of the economy and a host of scandals that have seen the light. The act of retaliating, especially by a nation or group to regain lost territory or standing; revenge. [French, from Old French. , to revenge : , re- +. , to avenge; see revenge .]. re·vanch′ism (-vaen′vän-chĭz, -väN′vaen-) vän. shĭz·n′re vanch. & ist. adj·n·re′vanch is. tic adj
Revanchist politics often rely on the identification of a nation with a nation-state, often mobilizing deep-rooted sentiments of ethnic nationalism, claiming territories outside of the state where members of the ethnic group live, while using heavy-handed nationalism to mobilize support for these aims. A German revanchist movement developed in response to the losses of World War I. Pangermanists within the Weimar Republic called for the reclamation of the property of a German state due to pre-war borders or because of the territory's historical relation to Germanic peoples.
Revanchism. Revanchism is a term used since the 1870s to describe a political manifestation of the will to reverse territorial losses incurred by a country, often following a war or social movement. Revanchism draws its strength from patriotic and retributionist thought and is often motivated by economic or geo-political factors. Revanchist politics often rely on the identification of a nation with a nation-state, often mobilizing deep-rooted sentiments of ethnic nationalism, claiming territories outside of the state where members of the ethnic group live, while using heavy-handed nationalism to mobilize support for these aims.
noun. A policy of seeking to retaliate, especially to recover lost territory: a recipe for deep future resentment, revanchism and renewed conflict. More example sentences. 1  Given the climate of hatred, violence, and revanchism ubiquitous in the refugee camps, the likelihood of meeting this requirement is nil. 1 Knock back your entire shot in one gulp, immediately inverting your glass over the table to allow the microscopic last drop to fall out, proving you're not a wuss or a reactionary revanchist Trotskyite provocateur.
revanchist (Noun). A revanchist person; occasionally, anyone seeking vengeance. revanchist (Adjective). Seeking revenge or otherwise advocating retaliation, especially against a nation which has previously defeated and humiliated the revanchist party in war. Originally referred to the French indignation over losing Alsace-Lorraine to Germany in the Franco-Prussian War. Origin: From. Compare later French revanchiste
Revanchism (from French: revanche,  revenge ) is a term used since the 1870s to describe a political manifestation of the will to reverse territorial losses incurred by a country, often following a war or social movement. A German revanchist movement developed in response to the losses of World War I. Pangermanists within the Weimar Republic called for the reclamation of the property of a German state due to pre-war borders or because of the territory's historical relation to Germanic peoples.
Definition of REVANCHE. : revenge; especially: a usually political policy designed to recover lost territory or status. — re·vanch·ism \-ˈvaeⁿ-ˈväⁿ-ˌshi\ zəm. noun
Definition of REVANCHIST. : one who advocates a policy of revanche. ADVERTISEMENT. 