Share. By Pierre Tristam. Definition: The arabica coffee bean is the Adam or Eve of all coffees, its origins dating back to about 1,000 BC in the highlands of the Kingdom of Kefa (present-day Ethiopia), where the Oromos tribe ate the bean, crushed it and mixed it with fat to make spheres the size of ping-pong balls. Commercially grown coffee bushes are pruned to a height of 1.5 to 2 meters. Coffee made from arabica beans has an intense, intricate aroma that can be reminiscent of flowers, fruit, honey, chocolate, caramel or toasted bread.
Marko Goodwin. Definition: Arabica coffee is coffee made from the fruit (commonly known as the cherries or beans) of the Coffea arabica varietal of coffee plant. Arabica coffee is generally much more expensive than Robusta coffee because it is harder and costlier to grow, it produces a lower yield and it is in higher demand. Many of the world's more expensive coffee blends are produced with only Arabica blends, while cheaper coffee blends tend to contain more Robusta.
Coffea arabica /əˈraebɪkə/ əˈræbɪkə is a species Of coffea originally indigenous to the forests of the southwestern highlands Of, ethiopia as also the mountainous regions Of. Yemen it is also known as the coffee shrub Of, arabia mountain, coffee or arabica. coffee Coffea arabica accounts for 75–80% of the world's coffee production. C. arabica takes about seven years to mature fully, and does best with 1.0–1.5 meters (about 40–59 inches) of rain, evenly distributed throughout the year.
Coffee is a brewed drink prepared from roasted coffee beans, which are the seeds of berries from the Coffea plant. Coffee plants are cultivated in over 70 countries, primarily in the equatorial regions of the Americas, Southeast Asia, India, and Africa. 
Arabica Coffee. Arabica is a type of coffee that originally came from Ethiopia, but is now widespread in much of the world, especially South America, Latin America, Africa and Southeast Asia. Arabica coffee beans are more expensive because the plant is less hardy than the Robusta coffee plant, and it is handled almost exclusively by hand as opposed to with harvesting machines (commonly used in robusta).
C. arabica is believed to be the first species of coffee to be cultivated. Wild plants grow between 9 and 12 m (29 and 39 ft) tall, and have an open branching system; the leaves are opposite, simple elliptic-ovate to oblong, 6–12 cm (2.4–4.8 in) long and 4–8 cm (1.6–3.2 in) broad, glossy dark green. Coffea arabica accounts for 75–80% of the world's coffee production. C. arabica takes about seven years to mature fully, and does best with 1.0–1.5 meters (about 40–59 inches) of rain, evenly distributed throughout the year.
a·rab·i·ca. n. 1. a. A species of coffee, Coffea arabica, originating in Ethiopia and Yemen and widely cultivated for its high-quality, commercially valuable seeds. 
Arabica got its name around the 7th century when the bean crossed the Red Sea from Ethiopia to present-day Yemen and the lower Arab peninsula (hence arabica). Arabica is also the Merlot of coffee, its mild taste a seductive evocation of sweetness, light and mountain air. Commercially grown coffee bushes are pruned to a height of 1.5 to 2 meters. Coffee made from arabica beans has an intense, intricate aroma that can be reminiscent of flowers, fruit, honey, chocolate, caramel or toasted bread.
Definition of ARABICA. 1. : an evergreen shrub or tree (Coffea arabica) yielding seeds that produce a high-quality coffee and form a large portion of the coffee of commerce. 2. : the seeds of arabica especially roasted and often ground. ADVERTISEMENT
The noun COFFEA ARABICA has 1 sense: 1. shrubby tree of northeastern tropical Africa widely cultivated in tropical or near tropical regions for its seed which form most of the commercial coffee. Familiarity information: COFFEA ARABICA used as a noun is very rare.