Dirt and germs frequently have been rubbed into this type of wound, which is why it is important to clean and irrigate an abrasion thoroughly with soap and water to prevent infection. Other terms for an abrasion include a scrape, a rug burn, a road rash, or a strawberry. An abrasion (scrape) is a shallow scrape on the skin surface and most commonly found on the hands, elbows, or knees. The wound is shallow and doesn't go far beneath the surface. Because an abrasion exposes millions of nerve endings, it can be very painful
A RealAge answered. An abrasion (scrape) is a shallow scrape on the skin surface and most commonly found on the hands, elbows, or knees. The wound is shallow and doesn't go far beneath the surface. Because an abrasion exposes millions of nerve endings, it can be very painful
Abrasions are the most common type of open wound. They usually are caused by something rubbing roughly against the skin. Abrasions do not bleed much. Any bleeding that occurs comes from capillaries (tiny blood vessels). An abrasion (scrape) is a shallow scrape on the skin surface and most commonly found on the hands, elbows, or knees. The wound is shallow and doesn't go far beneath the surface. Because an abrasion exposes millions of nerve endings, it can be very painful
Treatment protocols vary according to the wound cause(s) (see Table 1). 4. The most common chronic wounds are pressure (decubital) ulcers, venous insufficiency leg ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers, and diabetic foot ulcers (which may be a combination of the previous). Chronic cutaneous wounds, such as those caused by pressure, venous insufficiency, neuropathy, or arterial disease, may cause considerable pain and can be challenging to treat. Often severe pain interferes with treatment protocols because patients are unwilling or unable to comply with necessary regimens.
Wound Causes and Types. Wounds occur when the skin is broken or damaged because of injury. Causes of injury may be the result of mechanical, chemical, electrical, thermal, or nuclear sources. The skin can be damaged in a variety of ways depending upon the mechanism of injury. 1  Inflammation is the skin's initial response to injury
Causes and symptoms. Pain is the most common symptom of injury and disease, and descriptions can range in intensity from a mere ache to unbearable agony. Nociceptors have the ability to convey information to the brain that indicates the location, nature, and intensity of the pain. Pain that originates in peripheral nerves or the central nervous system rather than in other damaged organs or tissues. A hallmark of neuropathic pain is its localization to specific dermatomes or nerve distributions.
I think what you mean is specialized erotogenic nerve endings, or  nerve endings that produce sexual pleasure.   There are fewer than 1000 nerve endings in the vagina (in … cluding  those for the detection of touch, pain, heat, etc). The inner 2/3  of the vagina have very few nerve endings of any sort. The outer  1/3 contains 90% of all the nerves in the vagina, and almost all of  those are non erotogenic. The vagina has evolved this way to reduce  the pain of childbirth. The clitoris contains around 8000 nerve  endings, most of which are erotogenic, but some are also for pain  and heat detection.    The foreskin has approximately 20,000 erotogenic nerve endings.  This accounts for 85% of all sexual nerve endings in the male body.  The glans and shaft of the penis contain approximately 3500  erotogenic nerve endings. The journal articles supporting these  numbers are located here:
Tunneling wounds – which are wounds that have developed channels through the tissue and/or muscle – are also common complications in Stage IV wounds. Because this type of wound often goes beyond the nerve endings, pain levels in the patient may not match the severity of the wound. Stage IV wounds can come with a range of complications, including osteomyelitis, a bacterial infection in the bone. This is the most serious in terms of treatment and wound healing needs for a wound. Stage IV wounds may feature extensive loss or damage to tissue, muscles and bones, and often feature muscle and bone that is exposed.
Causes of a brachial plexus injury. Brachial plexus injury (BPI) is an umbrella term for a variety of conditions that may impair function of the brachial plexus nerve network. The majority of pediatric and adult brachial plexus injuries are caused by trauma. The most common inciting events may include: 