DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. Keflex is administered orally. Adults — The adult dosage ranges from 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses. The 750 mg strength should be administered such that the daily dose is within 1 to 4 grams per day. The usual adult dose is 250 mg every 6 hours. For the following infections, a dosage of 500 mg may be administered every 12 hours: streptococcal pharyngitis, skin and skin structure infections, and uncomplicated cystitis in patients over 15 years of age. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Keflex and other antibacterial drugs, Keflex should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Keflex (cephalexin) is administered orally. Adults — The adult dosage ranges from 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses. The 333 mg and 750 mg strengths should be administered such that the daily dose is within 1 to 4 grams per day. The usual adult dose is 250 mg every 6 hours. For the following infections, a dosage of 500 mg may be administered every 12 hours: streptococcal pharyngitis, skin and skin structure infections, and uncomplicated cystitis in patients over 15 years of age. Cystitis therapy should be continued for 7 to 14 days.
When treating bacterial infections, dosage guidelines for Keflex call for 250 mg to 1000 mg, taken four times a day for 7 to 14 days. The recommended dosage of Keflex for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis in children is 50 mg per kilogram of body weight, up to a maximum of 2000 mg, taken one hour before a surgical procedure is performed.
For the following infections,a dosage of 500 mg may be administered every 12 hours: streptococcalpharyngitis, skin and skin structure infections, and uncomplicated cystitisin patients over 15 years of age. Cystitis therapy should be continuedfor 7 to 14 days. 
Dosage of Keflex for Bacterial Infections. The recommended dose of Keflex for most types of bacterial infections is 250 mg to 1000 mg, taken four times a day for 7 to 14 days. For chronic or more serious infections, your healthcare provider may continue treatment for a longer period of time. The recommended dosage of Keflex for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis in children is 50 mg per kilogram of body weight, up to a maximum of 2000 mg, taken one hour before a surgical procedure is performed.
In children, the dose can range, depending on body weight, from 25 mg to 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day (mg/kg/day). The Keflex dose is divided and taken three to four times a day for 7 to 14 days. Children should generally be limited to 4000 mg or less per day. The recommended Keflex dosing for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis in adults is 2000 mg, taken one hour before a surgical procedure is performed. The recommended dosage of Keflex for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis in children is 50 mg per kilogram of body weight, up to a maximum of 2000 mg, taken one hour before a surgical procedure is performed.
Disclaimer: All of the information on this website is being presented as helpful reference material but should not be considered authoritative. 
If daily doses of Keflex (cephalexin) greater than 4 g are required, parenteral cephalosporins, in appropriate doses, should be considered. Pediatric Patients — The usual recommended daily dosage for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg/kg in divided doses. For streptococcal pharyngitis in patients over 1 year of age and for skin and skin structure infections, the total daily dose may be divided and administered every 12 hours. For the following infections, a dosage of 500 mg may be administered every 12 hours: streptococcal pharyngitis, skin and skin structure infections, and uncomplicated cystitis in patients over 15 years of age. Cystitis therapy should be continued for 7 to 14 days.