The Vikings came from three countries of Scandinavia: Denmark, Norway and Sweden. The name 'Viking' comes from a language called 'Old Norse' and means 'a pirate raid'. People who went off raiding in ships were said to be 'going Viking'. It was the start of a fierce struggle between English and Vikings. The English called the Viking invaders 'Danes' but they came from Norway as well as Denmark. Norwegian Vikings or 'Norse' sailed to Scotland, where they made settlements in the north and on the Orkney and Shetland islands. Vikings also settled on the Isle of Man. Vikings raided Wales, but few made homes there
Confidence votes 2.5K. Scandinavia (What we now call Denmark, Norway and Sweden.). The name Viking is a loanword from the native Scandinavian term for the Norse warriors who raided the coasts of Scandinavia, the British Isles, and other parts of Europe from the late 8th century to the 11th century.
The period from the earliest recorded raids in the 790s until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 is commonly known as the Viking Age of Scandinavian history. Vikings used the Norwegian Sea and Baltic Sea for sea routes to the south. The word viking was first popularised at the beginning of the 19th century by Erik Gustaf Geijer in his poem, The Viking. Geijer's poem did much to propagate the new romanticised ideal of the Viking, which had little basis in historical fact.
Where did the Vikings come from? The Vikings came from the countries which we know now as Denmark, Norway and Sweden. We refer to the area that these countries are located as Scandinavia. The Vikings lived mainly along the coastlines of these countries or along the rivers which ran into the seas.
Introduction to the Vikings in Britain. The Viking Age in Britain began about 1,200 years ago in the 9th Century AD and lasted for just over 200 years. About the year 800, bands of fierce raiders began to attack our coasts. They were the Vikings (also called the Danes although they didn't just come from Denmark. See below). The Vikings came across the North Sea, just as the Anglo-Saxons had done 400 years earlier. In time, like the Anglo-Saxons, the Vikings made their home here. 
The Norsemen came from Scandinavia. The vikings that went westwards to Iceland and Newfoundland came from what is now Norway. The vikings that went south to Normandy and the … British Isles came from what is now Denmark and south western Sweden. The name Viking is a loanword from the native Scandinavian term for the Norse warriors who raided the coasts of Scandinavia, the British Isles, and other parts of Europe from the late 8th century to the 11th century.
They were originally from Norway, Sweden and Denmark, but they later settled in Iceland, Greenland, Britain, Russia and even Newfoundland in Canada. They were originally from Norway, Sweden and Denmark, but they later settled in Iceland, Greenland, Britain, Russia and even Newfoundland in Canada. The name Viking is a loanword from the native Scandinavian term for the Norse warriors who raided the coasts of Scandinavia, the British Isles, and other parts of Europe from the late 8th century to the 11th century.
The period referred to as the Viking Age dates from around AD 800 to 1050. The homelands of the Vikings were in Scandinavia, but the countries of Scandinavia as we know them today did not exist until the end of the Viking Age. Wherever they lived, the Viking-age Scandinavians shared common features such as house forms, jewellery, tools and other everyday equipment. Trading Across the Globe. The Vikings created a trade network that spanned the globe as far east as the River Volga and Byzantium (Istanbul), west to Dublin and Newfoundland, and north to Greenland and the North Cape. There is also evidence that they had contacts with the Middle and Far East.