Spirillum is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria within family Spirillaceae. The taxonomic position of three other species provisionally bearing the Spirillum genus name (Spirillum minus, Spirillum pleomorphum, and Spirillum pulli) is uncertain and these have no standing in nomenclature.
Because Spirillum bacteria are large spirilla, they have the typical spirilla flagella long wavelength of over 3 micrometers and usually less than one full wave (this is in contrast to at least one large spirillum and those of medium or small diameter have flagella with several waves and a short wavelength). Cell Structure and Metabolism. Spirillum bacteria are large chemotrophic spirilla 1.4 to 1.7 micrometers in diameter and up to 60 micrometers in length, with anywhere from less than one to five helical turns.
Spirillum. a genus of gram-negative, spiral, and curved bacteria, including one species, S. mi´nus, that is pathogenic for guinea pigs, rats, mice, and monkeys and is the cause of rat-bite fever in humans. spi·ril·la. A member of the genus Spirillum. /Spi·ril·lum/ (spi-ril´um) a genus of gram-negative bacteria. The species S. mi´nus is pathogenic for guinea pigs, rats, mice, and monkeys and is the cause of rat-bite fever (sodoku) in humans. /spi·ril·lum/ (spi-ril´um) pl. spiril´la [L.] an organism of the genus Spirillum
Spirillum is a type of bacterium, invisible to the naked eye, that moves in a corkscrew-like fashion. Most types of bacteria possess flagella which are whip-like appendages that aid in their movement; spirillum have flagella on both ends, resulting in a characteristic spiral. It typically lives as individual cells, instead of being associated in clusters or chains. There is also a genus of gram-negative bacteria known as Spirillum, most members of which live in water with a large amount of organic matter, such as stagnant pools. A notable exception is Spirillum minus (S. minus), which is one of the two types of bacteria that can cause rat-bite fever. Most types of bacteria possess flagella, or whip-like appendages, that help them to move through solutions. Bacteria from this genus have unusual types of flagella
Description and Significance. Spirillum bacteria are thought to have been first described by van Leeuwenhoek in the 1670s and later by Muller. S. volutans is a large bacterium as well as an obligate microaerophile with a helical structure. Cell Structure and Metabolism. Spirillum bacteria are large chemotrophic spirilla 1.4 to 1.7 micrometers in diameter and up to 60 micrometers in length, with anywhere from less than one to five helical turns.
Spirillum winogradskyi is a gram-negative, bacterium from the genus of Spirillum which was isolated from the sulfidic sludge of a municipal wastewater treatment plant. 
Spirillum refers to a genus of Gram-negative bacteria in the family Spirillaceae. These bacteria are known for their elongated structure. In fact, Spirillum volutans (S. volutans), members of Spirillum are considered to be one of the largest species of bacteria. Read the following Buzzle article for some interesting facts about Spirillum.