Secured Credit Cards. Secured Credit Cards can be useful to establish a credit history or repair a bad credit history when the usage of the card is reported to the credit reporting agencies-Experian, TransUnion or Equifax. The credit limit on a Secured Credit Card is established by a security deposit instead of the cardholder’s credit history. Understand how Secured Credit Cards are similar, yet different, to more traditional credit cards so that you can chose the card that works best for you.
The credit limit for a Secured Credit Card is based upon the amount of a refundable security deposit that placed into an account by the consumer. This is different than a traditional, unsecured credit card where your credit limit is usually based on your credit score and credit report. The credit limit on a Secured Credit Card is established by a security deposit instead of the cardholder’s credit history. Understand how Secured Credit Cards are similar, yet different, to more traditional credit cards so that you can chose the card that works best for you.
If and when a cardholder does not make their regular payments on a Secured Credit Card, the card issuer can choose to use the funds held in the security deposit to cover the defaulted amounts. When this may occur and how the funds in the security deposit savings account are used can vary between cards and card issuers. The credit limit on a Secured Credit Card is established by a security deposit instead of the cardholder’s credit history. Understand how Secured Credit Cards are similar, yet different, to more traditional credit cards so that you can chose the card that works best for you.
Credit card issuers take a risk when issuing unsecured credit cards. If you max out your credit line, can’t pay the balance and declare bankruptcy, the bank has to cover that amount. Because of that, people with low credit scores or a limited credit history may be unable to win approval for a traditional credit card. Paying for Purchases. At the point of sale, a secured card works exactly like an unsecured card. You swipe it at a merchant location or type the number into the form for an e-commerce site, and the transaction goes through if you have enough money remaining on your credit line.
The biggest difference between a secured and an unsecured credit card is that secured cards require a security deposit from the cardholder, which functions as cash collateral against you defaulting on your payments. Think of a secured card as your credit line training wheels that allow you the benefits of owning a credit card while giving you the opportunity to build a history of responsible credit use with on-time payments.
A secured credit card uses money you place in a security deposit account as collateral. Your credit line is based on your income, ability to pay and the amount of your cash collateral deposit. For example, if you put $1,000 into the deposit account, your available credit line will be $1,000 if you have sufficient income and can demonstrate your ability to pay. (Note that a secured credit card is not the same thing as a prepaid card. Your initial deposit is simply collateral and doesn't count toward payments.) A security deposit gives lenders the confidence that you will pay them back, even if you have damaged credit or no credit history. A secured credit card can help you build or re-establish your credit. However, if you default on your payments, the card issuer may keep your deposit. This means that making your monthly payments on time is just as crucial with a secured credit card as with a traditional card.
Monthly Bills. Payments on a secured card also work like an unsecured card does, even though you’ve already funded the credit line. You get a bill every month, either in the mail or electronically, and pay the balance. If you can pay only the minimum, you’ll then accrue interest on the remaining amount. Paying for Purchases. At the point of sale, a secured card works exactly like an unsecured card. You swipe it at a merchant location or type the number into the form for an e-commerce site, and the transaction goes through if you have enough money remaining on your credit line.
A secured card requires you to put up the funds for your credit line. This serves as collateral to make sure you honor your agreement and pay your bill. Usually your credit line will be all or most of your security deposit. Paying for Purchases. At the point of sale, a secured card works exactly like an unsecured card. You swipe it at a merchant location or type the number into the form for an e-commerce site, and the transaction goes through if you have enough money remaining on your credit line.