A child may be adopted by an adult who is at least 10 years older than the child. An exception to this requirement may. be made if the adoptive parent is a stepparent, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, or first cousin of the child and, if that person is. married, is adopting jointly with his or her spouse. Code § 45.0410 The following persons may be adopted:• Any child under age 18 years of age, legally available and present in the territory• A person older than 18 but under 21 whose adoption is approved by the court Who May Place a Child for Adoption Citation: Ann.
Age does play a role in whether you can adopt. How big of a role age plays depends on a variety of factors, including the type of adoption that you are trying to get, the particular agency that you may be working with, the laws of the country you are adopting from, or the wishes of the birth mother. If you are seeking an international adoption, age can play a role in whether you can adopt, as well. Some countries have specific restrictions on the age of the adoptive parents. Some countries have a cutoff of age 45 or even younger.
Report Abuse. In many states, you can adopt the child of a family member and the child of your best friend at 18. Otherwise, it is 21. Yes, I know some of you will wonder about the child of a best friend. It is completely at the judge's discretion and many will allow it unless that best friend is otherwise unfit. In this case, however, the mother has indicated her preference for her friend to adopt the child-it's not just out of the blue.
Report Abuse. depends where you live but usually at the age of maturity 19 some places 21 in others you can adopt anyone until the age of maturity, such as if you your 22 and have a cousin that is 16-17 you can. mommy to be · 4 years ago. Thumbs up. Well I adopted my husbands daughter when she was 41 to make all things legal. We are in the process of adopting a woman who has been in all reality a part of our family for 30 years she will be 54 this year. As far as I know there is no age limit it only requires consenting adults. Wattsup · 2
The child can be up to 17, your age is a factor reviewed by the panel that assesses adoption criteria and is generally case by case. 
What is the maximum age a person can be adopted by a U.S. Citizen, the person adopted is from Scotland. Submitted: 6 years ago. 