Read on to find out how best to measure your goldfish tank temperature, the right temperatures for breeding goldfish, non-breeding aquarium temperatures, and the importance of air supply in warm water. Air supply. It’s important to realize that the hotter your goldfish’s water gets, the less oxygen there is in the water. Of course, goldfish need oxygen to live, so you must ensure that your tank has an adequate “aeration system” (a system of adding air into the water).
Temperatures for goldfish are a surprisingly complex issue. Goldfish are technically cold-water fish. However, just because goldfish can survive a wide range of temperatures does not mean they are healthy or happy at those temperatures. Goldfish in the wild, so to speak, can survive temperature ranges of forty to one hundred six degrees.
First, goldfish are exothermic, as are all fish. Their body temperature is determined largely by the temperature of the surrounding water. They absorb energy from the water (and to a far lesser extent, from sunlight) and they release energy back into the water. Goldfish in aquariums kept at 75 degrees will probably eat five to 10 times more fish food per month than goldfish kept at 58 degrees. Second, temperature directly affects other physical and chemical properties of water, which in turn affect the fish. Warmer waters hold lower concentrations of oxygen.
Therefore, to encourage your goldfish to lay eggs, you should lower the temperature of your tank in the winter months to between 10°C/50°F and 12°C/54°F. Then, when you want to induce breeding, gradually raise the temperature of the water to between 20°C/68°F and 23°C/74°F. Air supply. It’s important to realize that the hotter your goldfish’s water gets, the less oxygen there is in the water. Of course, goldfish need oxygen to live, so you must ensure that your tank has an adequate “aeration system” (a system of adding air into the water).
Because goldfish can survive under a wide range of temperatures. This website lists temperatures from 40 - 90o: http://www.fishlore.com/Profiles-Goldfis... . Considering they can be kept outdoors in ponds over winter (if pond is more than 18 deep), they can survive down to around 32o. 
Goldfish are considered cold-water fish, but although they can survive a wide range of temperatures, that does not mean they are happy or healthy in cold water. Goldfish can survive temperatures from forty degrees to one hundred six degrees, but the extremes will kill the goldfish if th e exposure lasts too long. In situations such as purchasing a goldfish in a store at seventy degrees, to place it in a pond outdoors, with a temperature of forty, it may take days or weeks of careful preparation to avoid a high chance of death. If the water is too cold, there are various heaters and thermostats available for aquariums.
Goldfish are exothermic, like all fish. Their body temperature is determined by the temperature of the water. This means that goldfish are at the mercy of the water temperature to regulate critical body functions. Simple functions such as locomotion are affected by water temperature. Goldfish in cool ponds move more slowly than goldfish in very warm ponds. In situations such as purchasing a goldfish in a store at seventy degrees, to place it in a pond outdoors, with a temperature of forty, it may take days or weeks of careful preparation to avoid a high chance of death. If the water is too cold, there are various heaters and thermostats available for aquariums.
Goldfish in an aquarium are influenced by the temperature of the water, just like they are in ponds. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Goldfish are cold-water fish and can withstand a wide variety of different temperatures, both in aquarium settings and in outdoor ponds. Changing out a quarter of the water from time to time with some that is many degrees cooler is perfect for the goldfish. This fish thrives in temperatures ranging from freezing all the way up to around 85 degrees, but will swim a lot slower at the uppermost and lowest ranges of temperature.
Room temperature is fine for the goldfish, keeping in mind that if the temperature in the room goes up past 90 degrees, so will the temperature of the water. Keeping the ambient temperature down around 70 degrees is perfect for year-round goldfish health. Changing out a quarter of the water from time to time with some that is many degrees cooler is perfect for the goldfish. This fish thrives in temperatures ranging from freezing all the way up to around 85 degrees, but will swim a lot slower at the uppermost and lowest ranges of temperature.
In terms of a minimum temperature, goldfish can survive in water that is close to freezing, however, you should really keep your tank temperature several degrees above this in order to encourage strong growth. The most important thing is that your tank temperature does not change suddenly. Air supply. It’s important to realize that the hotter your goldfish’s water gets, the less oxygen there is in the water. Of course, goldfish need oxygen to live, so you must ensure that your tank has an adequate “aeration system” (a system of adding air into the water).