Report Abuse. oxygenated blood is blood that carries oxygen. It is carried in arteries from the lungs to the left side of the heart and around the body. There is only one vein that carries oxygenated blood and that's the pulmonary vein. deoxygenated blood is blood that carries Carbon dioxide. It is carried in veins from the body to the right side of the heart and then to the lungs. There is only one artery that carries deoxygenated blood and that's the pulmonary artery.
On returning to the heart it is then pumped through the Lungs where carbon dioxide passes though the capillary walls into the lungs (in the alveoli) and oxygen passes from the lungs into the red blood cells. from the lungs it then passes back to the heart to be pumped back around the body.
Pulmonary circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart. It is what the Pulmonary Artery and the Pulmonary Veins do.
Oxygenated blood is blood in which oxygen is attached to the haemoglobin molecules in the red blood cells. It is bright red because the attached oxygen makes the normally blue haemoglobin molecules turn red. When blood has delivered oxygen to the cells, it is described as deoxygenated.
Arteries: These are large blood vessels that take oxygenated blood away from the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The aorta is the body's largest artery. Veins: These blood vessels take deoxygenated blood from around the body back to the heart and lungs to be oxygenated.
Systemic circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body, and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart. Is is what the arteries and veins do.
The difference between oxygenated and deoxygenated blood is that oxygenated has just been filled with oxygen from the lungs. Deoxygenated blood travels from the body back to the lungs to have oxygen resupplied.
First and foremost, the most basic difference between Veins and Arteries is that arteries take blood away from the heart, and then veins take blood back to the heart. Secondly, The veins that carry oxygenated blood around the body are red, while the veins that carry the deoxygenated blood away from the body are blue.