Education Requirements for the Paralegal. There are no universal requirements for a paralegal, but there are several possible educational paths a potential paralegal might take. Educational options include certificate programs and degree programs.
Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's degree in another field and a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or education and train them on the job. How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Certified Paralegal (CP) or Certified Legal Assistant (CLA) is the title of paralegals in the United States who have passed the Certified Paralegal Exam and have met additional education and experience requirements for certification as a CP or CLA. 
Most paralegals have completed a formal paralegal education program. However, some paralegals have only on-the-job paralegal training. Formal paralegal education programs may result in an associate degree, bachelor's degree, master's degree, or paralegal certificate. Many paralegals have completed all of their training before entering the profession, while others have completed their education while working their way up from the mailroom in a law firm.
1 Make sure you meet all the eligibility requirements to take the certification exam. 2  You may be eligible if you’ve completed a paralegal’s education through an approved program. 3  One year of legal experience with a bachelor’s degree in some areas also qualifies a person to take the exam. 1 The first step in becoming a certified paralegal is to learn more about the various credentialing bodies. 2  In many cases, achieving certification designates paralegals as a Certified Paralegal (CP), Certified Legal Assistant (CLA) or other since the terms paralegal and legal assistant in may cases may be identical.
Get certified. Though paralegal certification is not required by all employers, it will give you an advantage over competing candidates. If you have already graduated with a bachelor's or associate's degree in an unrelated field, it might be a good idea for you to become a certified paralegal. 1. Graduate from high school or pass the General Education Development (GED) exam. A paralegal education program will require a high school diploma or GED for admission. Some programs may not accept online high school diplomas either, so be sure to check with the paralegal program advisor to be sure. 1  You may need a copy of your high school transcripts or the diploma itself
Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job. How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Many paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's degree in another field and
Students in associate's and bachelor's degree programs take a basic core of general education courses in English, math, science and social studies as well as the required courses for paralegal work. There are some master's degree programs available, but this level of education is not required by most employers. There are no universal requirements for a paralegal, but there are several possible educational paths a potential paralegal might take. Educational options include certificate programs and degree programs.