Two-wire circuits are typically used in residential applications, so they should be fine for home offices. Offices with different types of data endpoints, such as telephones and modems, can use cross-connect wires. These may have either two-wire or four-wire circuits. Next to wire to connect to the public telephone system, there is wire to connect telephones and other endpoints such as modems and fax machines to the distribution system (likely a punch down block) via wall jacks.
When planning where to put your telephone jacks, the best place to start is the demarcation point between your wiring and the wiring of the telephone company: Disclaimer. This information is intended to assist customers of telephone service to understand the telephone wiring in their home. This information, if used properly, can be helpful in fixing or installing telephone wiring in your home. Use of this guide is at your own risk. 
This is the physical wire or other signaling medium connecting the user's telephone apparatus to the telecommunications network, and usually also implies a single telephone number for billing purposes reserved for that user. Those wires may be connected back to two telephone lines at the local telephone exchange, thus making those jacks RJ14 jacks. More often, only two of the wires are connected to the exchange as one telephone line, and the others are unconnected.
The most basic type of telephone wiring is the kind that most people are familiar with. Basic wiring that a telephone comes with, including wiring that is installed through telephone companies, is considered regular wiring. Regular telephone wiring is generally everything you will need to operate a basic phone line. The wire is more twisted than other cable types, including the Cat 3 and regular phone wiring, serving to reduce interference. It is used in advanced data transmission systems, including Token Rings, as well as Asynchronous Transfers.
The table below lists the three types of wire that are used to connect telephones and other endpoints to a distribution system, the bandwidths of each type, and the types of data endpoints with which they are suitable. Next to wire to connect to the public telephone system, there is wire to connect telephones and other endpoints such as modems and fax machines to the distribution system (likely a punch down block) via wall jacks.
Since the advent of cellular phones, telephone wire usage has shifted away form telephones and more toward computer usage. Every home phone---as well as many types of Internet equipment that connect to the phone jack---utilizes different types of phone wiring. The wire is more twisted than other cable types, including the Cat 3 and regular phone wiring, serving to reduce interference. It is used in advanced data transmission systems, including Token Rings, as well as Asynchronous Transfers.
A telephone line or telephone circuit (or just line or circuit within the industry) is a single-user circuit on a telephone communication system. Those wires may be connected back to two telephone lines at the local telephone exchange, thus making those jacks RJ14 jacks. More often, only two of the wires are connected to the exchange as one telephone line, and the others are unconnected.
A modular connector plug (6P6C) and socket (6P4C). A telephone plug is a type of connector used to connect a telephone set to the telephone wiring inside a building, establishing a connection to a telephone network. It is inserted into its counterpart, a telephone jack, commonly affixed to a wall or baseboard. 
In 1878, the Bell Telephone Company began to use two-wire circuits (called the local loop) from each user's telephone to end offices which performed any necessary electrical switching to allow voice signals to be transmitted to more distant telephones. Those wires may be connected back to two telephone lines at the local telephone exchange, thus making those jacks RJ14 jacks. More often, only two of the wires are connected to the exchange as one telephone line, and the others are unconnected.
Copper is the electrical conductor in many categories of electrical wiring. Copper wire is used in power generation, power transmission, power distribution, telecommunications, electronics circuitry, and countless types of electrical equipment. Copper and its alloys are also used to make electrical contacts. Electrical wiring in buildings is the most important market for the copper industry.