1 For Windows 7: Click the Start button. 2  Then, type On-Screen Keyboard into the search field. 3  In the list of results, click On-Screen Keyboard. 4  For Windows 8 and Windows 8.1: Move your pointer to the top-right or bottom-right corner of the screen to display the charms and click Search. 1 Click or tap Keyboard. 2  In the Keyboard Properties window, click or tap the ThinkPad F1-F12 keys tab. 3  Select or tap the option of your preference: 4  To disable the Fn Lock function, select or tap Default.
RE: How do i fix the sound on my lenovo laptop? ok so i enable my audio device on my lenovo laptop and it says the speaker and volume works good but when i use skype theres sound but when i watch a video on youtube theres no sound and so i need help fixing this sound? P.S. i have windows vista. If all else fails, go to control panel, system, device manager and find your audio card driver. Right click-uninstall and restart your computer. Once rebooted your sound drivers should re-install automatically. Good luck.
Best Answer: You should try using a different browser (IE, Firefox or Chrome) and see if it works with you-tube. Also, make sure to access the sound preferences from your task bar (right corner next to the clock). If all else fails, go to control panel, system, device manager and find your audio card driver. Right click-uninstall and restart your computer. Once rebooted your sound drivers should re-install automatically. Good luck.
JG. JG. On 64-bit Vista with latest updates, in a hurry to catch a streaming signal with sound only in headphones, I disabled one of the entries in the Sound control panel, which was the laptop's speakers. This was done by selecting the item and selecting Disable from the right click menu. To help explain this better, right click once the speaker icon next to the clock at the bottom right hand corner. Next left click Playback devices. Now a screen will pop up the (sound screen). Inside that screen right click once, then left click show disable devices. Now you will see the disabled devices.
Network connection settings. You can also activate or manage wireless network connections on Lenovo laptops via ‘Network Connections’ window. To access this window, 1  Go to ‘Control Panel’ from the Start menu. 2  The ‘Control Panel’ window will open. 3  Find ‘Network Connections’ option on the ‘Control Panel’ window. 4  Double-click on it. 5  Find ‘Wireless Network Connection’. 6  If the connection appears as disabled, then right-click on it. To access this window, 1  Go to ‘Control Panel’ from the Start menu. 2  Find ‘Network Connections’ option on the ‘Control Panel’ window. 3  Find ‘Wireless Network Connection’. 4  Select ‘Enable’ from the pull-down menu.
1 Go to Control Panel. 2  Change the view of Control Panel from Category to Large icons or Small icons. 3  Click or tap Keyboard. 4  In the Keyboard Properties window, click or tap the ThinkPad F1-F12 keys tab. 5  Select or tap the option of your preference: 6  To disable the Fn Lock function, select or tap Default. 1 Click or tap Keyboard. 2  In the Keyboard Properties window, click or tap the ThinkPad F1-F12 keys tab. 3  Select or tap the option of your preference: 4
There are several ways to connect your laptop to a TV. In most cases, you'll be able to connect one of these three connectors directly to your TV: VGA, DVI or HDMI. Additionally, unless you're using an HDMI connector, you'll need a 3.5mm audio RCA cable with a mini-jack splitter or a mini-jack connector in order to transmit an audio signal. Digital Visual Interface. If your computer has a DVI adapter, you’ll want to purchase a DVI male to male cable or a DVI to HDMI Adapter Cable. Use the DVI to HDMI cable when your HDTV supports HDMI but does not support DVI.
Hi-Def Multimedia Interface. If your laptop has an HDMI output,you'll want to purchase an HDMI cable. Simply plug the HDMI cable directly into your TV. Since an HDMI cable carries both an audio and visual signal, you won't need any additional cables. Digital Visual Interface. If your computer has a DVI adapter, you’ll want to purchase a DVI male to male cable or a DVI to HDMI Adapter Cable. Use the DVI to HDMI cable when your HDTV supports HDMI but does not support DVI.
Answers. Best Answer: Well if you have windows 7: 1. Click the start menu (the windows circle on the bottom left) 2. Click Control Panel 3. Click Hardware and Sound 4. Click Sound 5. RIGHT click on the open area WITHIN the box. There should be two things you can tick/click 6. Click Disabled devices 7. 