Protein purification is a series of processes intended to isolate one or a few proteins from a complex mixture, usually cells, tissues or whole organisms. Protein purification is vital for the characterization of the function, structure and interactions of the protein of interest. The purification process may separate the protein and non-protein parts of the mixture, and finally separate the desired protein from all other proteins.
Plasmid purification is a technique used to isolate and purify plasmid DNA from genomic DNA, proteins, ribosomes, and the bacterial cell wall. A plasmid is a small, circular, double-stranded DNA that is used as a carrier of specific DNA molecules. Plasmid purification is used to purify a library of plasmids that will be introduced into yeast, and then proteins produced from the plasmid will be screened for their ability to bind to a bait protein already found in the yeast strain.
Osmosis is the spontaneous net movement of solvent molecules through a semi-permeable membrane into a region of higher solute concentration, in the direction that tends to equalize the solute concentrations on the two sides. When a cell is submerged in water, the water molecules pass through the cell membrane from an area of low solute concentration to high solute concentration. For example, if the cell is submerged in saltwater, water molecules move out of the cell. If a cell is submerged in freshwater, water molecules move into the cell.
Precipitation (Molecular Biology). The solubility of a macromolecule is a complex function of a number of factors, such as pH, temperature, the chemical and physical nature of the macromolecular surface, and the nature of the precipitant (or solubilizer) used. The purposes of precipitating proteins out of solution may be varied. 
This depends on: 1  the stability of the target protein with respect to pH and the bufferring compound. 2  the purification procedure. 3  To avoid time and protein loss caused by an additional buffer exchange step, it is advisable to choose a buffer that is compatible with the first chromatography step (see chromatography). 1
Section 3.5 Purifying, Detecting, and Characterizing Proteins. A protein must be purified before its structure and the mechanism of its action can be studied. However, because proteins vary in size, charge, and water solubility, no single method can be used to isolate all proteins. 
Osmosis is the movement of a solvent across a semipermeable membrane toward a higher concentration of solute. In biological systems, the solvent is typically water, but osmosis can occur in other liquids, supercritical liquids, and even gases. When a cell is submerged in water, the water molecules pass through the cell membrane from an area of low solute concentration to high solute concentration. For example, if the cell is submerged in saltwater, water molecules move out of the cell. If a cell is submerged in freshwater, water molecules move into the cell.
Concentration. Definition. noun. (1) The measure of the amount of a sub-component (especially solute) in a solution. (2) The ratio of the mass or volume of a substance (solute) to the mass or volume of the solvent or solution. (3) The increase of strength of a pharmaceutical preparation. (4) The act or process of focusing or fixing of attention. (5) The product of something concentrated. Supplement. In chemistry, concentration of a solute in a solution can be done by chemical means, e.g. evaporation of the solvent, diffusion, and purifica
The histidine tag. The DNA sequence specifying a string of six to nine histidine residues is frequently used in vectors for production of recombinant proteins. The result is expression of a recombinant protein with a 6xHis or poly-His tag fused to its N-or C-terminus. 