The idea for commercial dog food was born. Spratt called his biscuit the “Patented Meat Fibrine Dog Cake.” His company began operations in America in the 1870s. Spratt appears to have been the first commercial producer of cat food, too. Commercial dog foods in the early 1940s could not maintain an Army dog in good working condition. So in November 1942, the Quartermaster Corps authorized the procurement of both commercial dog food and additional meat to supplement the diet.
¹. The commercial pet food industry started in 1860 with James Spratt's invention of the first dog biscuit in England. Made from vegetables, beef blood, wheat, and beet root, Spratt reportedly was inspired by observing sailors throwing hardtack to dogs at the docks. The commercial pet food companies do know a lot more about what cats need, but that still doesn't mean that the pet food industry is making food that is best for your cat.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The first commercial dog food was introduced in England about 1860, by James Spratt, an electrician from Ohio. He came up with a biscuit, shaped like a bone, made of wheat, vegetables, beetroot and beef blood. The growth in canned dog food really shot up in the 1930s, and by 1941, canned dog food represented 91% of the dog food market in the U.S. Because of WWII, tin wasn't available for canning, so dry food became popular again.. By 1946, dry dog food was king once again, and it has remained so to this day.
The idea for commercial dog food was born. Spratt called his biscuit the “Patented Meat Fibrine Dog Cake”. His company began operations in America in the 1870s. Spratt appears to have been the first commercial producer of cat food, too. Prior to the advent of Spratt’s Dog Cake, household pets were generally fed table scraps.
A History of Commercial Dog Food. A couple of ago, I took my dog for a visit to the vet, and as part of our annual exam, the veterinary technician asked me what I fed him. I mentioned the main source of food and said that we supplement with about 20% table scraps. She winced.
Dog food refers to food specifically intended for consumption by dogs. Like all carnivorans, dogs have sharp, pointed teeth, and have short gastrointestinal tracts better suited for the consumption of meat. The 1930s saw the introduction of canned cat food and dry meat-meal dog food by the Gaines Food Co. By the time WWII ended, pet food sales had reached $200 million. In the 1950s Spratt's became part of General Mills.
The variety of commercial dog food brands and individual dog food recipes now on the market, is quite overwhelming. We help you learn for yourself how to easily differentiate between the best commercial dog food and the worst dog food brands. 3. Check whether or not the type of meat is specified. All the best commercial dog foods will have the name of the meat or its meal form listed as the first ingredient on the label-If listed more than once before the fat source, this indicates a higher meat quotient (protein) and, therefore, a very nutritious dog food.
The next advance in commercial dog food was specialty diets, formulated for specific diseases or disorders in pets. Dr Mark Morris DVM, founder of Hill’s Pet Products (Science Diet) was the first in the field to develop this idea. The Purina Company quickly followed, along with several other companies. A couple of ago, I took my dog for a visit to the vet, and as part of our annual exam, the veterinary technician asked me what I fed him. I mentioned the main source of food and said that we supplement with about 20% table scraps. She winced.
A Brief History of Dog Food. The first commercial dog food was introduced in England about 1860. James Spratt, an electrician from Ohio, was in London selling lightning rods when he saw miserable street dogs ganged up along the piers waiting to being tossed mouldy hardtack biscuits and scraps of rotten food. The growth in canned dog food really shot up in the 1930s, and by 1941, canned dog food represented 91% of the dog food market in the U.S.Canned dog food fell out of favor (and supply) during World War II when a shortage of tin made canning difficult and expensive, and as the horse surplus dried up.
There are certainly much better cat foods out there now than when I was a child and some of them actually smell rather good. The commercial pet food companies do know a lot more about what cats need, but that still doesn't mean that the pet food industry is making food that is best for your cat. Cats have been living with humans for a very long time. When people started growing and storing grain, having cats around became a very good idea