Honeysuckles (Lonicera spp.) are typically included on lists of plants poisonous to dogs. Toxins in the sap and berries of honeysuckles can cause vomiting, diarrhea, and heart and breathing problems in dogs that eat the plants. Toxicity levels vary among honeysuckle species and cultivars, but, to keep your dog safe, try to prevent it from eating any kind of honeysuckle plant.
In the Wild. Coral honeysuckle leaves and berries. Lonicera sempervirens inhabits a wide variety of forests and successional habitats. Coral honeysuckle is widely known for its ability to attract butterflies and hummingbirds. In fact, the combination of its bright red tubular flowers with abundant nectar and little floral odor typifies the usual pattern for hummingbird-pollinated species.
The nectar of honeysuckle flowers is not poisonous. Honeysuckle (Lonicera spp.) are common across the United States. The two major classes of them include non-native Asian types and native North American varieties. Eating a few honeysuckle berries will likely only result in a bit of stomach upset. If large quantities of potentially poisonous berries are ingested, you may experience nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and rapid heartbeat. In extreme cases, respiratory suppression, coma and death have been reported. As a result, human ingestion of honeysuckle berries is not advised
The honeysuckle family is iffy for foragers. It has edible members and toxic members, edible parts, toxic parts, and they mix and match. Some are tasty, some can stop your heart. So you really have to make sure of which one you have and which part is usable and how. On the top of the common list is the Japanese Honeysuckle. It is the honeysuckle kids grew up with, picking the flowers for a taste of sweetness. Young leaves are edible boiled. In my native state of Maine there is the L. villosa, the Waterberry, some times called the Mountain Fly Honeysuckle, with edible berries.
. . . Coral honeysuckle leaves and berries. Lonicera sempervirens inhabits a wide variety of forests and successional habitats. Coral honeysuckle is widely known for its ability to attract butterflies and hummingbirds. In fact, the combination of its bright red tubular flowers with abundant nectar and little floral odor typifies the usual pattern for hummingbird-pollinated species.
Hummingbirds are attracted to the flowers on some of these plants, especially L. sempervirens and L. ciliosa (orange honeysuckle). Honeysuckle gets its name because edible sweet nectar can be sucked from the flowers. The name Lonicera stems from Adam Lonicer, a Renaissance botanist. 
I would like to plant it in my backyard, but do not plant anything that would be toxic to my dog if she decided to chew on it. Thank you. The Coral Honeysuckle Lonicera sempervirens (Coral honeysuckle) is a handsome evergreen vine that is a fine addition to your landscape. Ask Mr. Smarty Plants is a free service provided by the staff and volunteers at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center.
The native trumpet honeysuckle, also called coral honeysuckle (Lonicera sempervirens), features small red berries that mature in autumn. Orange honeysuckle (Lonicera ciliosa) is a twining form, native to western areas of the United States. It also features red berries. Eating a few honeysuckle berries will likely only result in a bit of stomach upset. If large quantities of potentially poisonous berries are ingested, you may experience nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and rapid heartbeat. In extreme cases, respiratory suppression, coma and death have been reported. As a result, human ingestion of honeysuckle berries is not advised
Coral honeysuckle (Lonicera sempervirens) has incredibly beautiful trumpet-shaped flowers with red and yellow hues. The native vine grows in eastern and central regions of North America. This first image is a closeup view of the reproductive portions of the flower which extend just beyond the fused petals. The berries in the next photo eventually turn bright red. Watch this video to learn more about Coral honeysuckle (Lonicera sempervirens). You’ll see lots more photos of this flower, the two different types of leaves growing on the vine, and the progression from flower to ripe berry.