Amber is one of Negan's wives, though she does not love Negan, she has to pretend, for her and her boyfriend's protection. When Amber slept with her boyfriend, Mark, behind Negan's back, Negan punished Mark and burnt his face, similar to Dwight and his relationship with Sherry, another wife of Negan. —Negan to Spencer before killing him. Negan is greeted by Spencer when he visits the Safe-Zone several times. During the most recent visit, Negan takes a bit of a liking to him after hearing how the Safe-Zone was formed and all the commodities the Safe-Zone offers.
Negan is a fictional character in the comic book series The Walking Dead. He is the leader of a group of over 50 survivors in Washington, DC called the Saviors, who subjugate other communities in the area for resources in return for their protection against zombies. IGN on their review of Negan's first appearance, the 100th issue said: The new villain already looks to be worthy addition to the book's cast. I didn't realize how much I missed having a truly awful antagonist like The Governor in this series until now.
Negan (pronounced KNEE-gan) is a main character first introduced in Issue 100 of Image Comics ' The Walking Dead and is the former leader of the Saviors and is a primary antagonist in the Comic Series. —Negan to Spencer before killing him. Negan is greeted by Spencer when he visits the Safe-Zone several times. During the most recent visit, Negan takes a bit of a liking to him after hearing how the Safe-Zone was formed and all the commodities the Safe-Zone offers.
In issue #100 of the comic series, Negan used a baseball bat named Lucille, wrapped in barbed wire, to smash Glenn's head in after he caught Rick, Carl, Michonne, Glenn, and Maggie heading from one community to another. On top of that, the group had to maneuver through what may have been barbed wire in the woods-Negan's bat is wrapped in barbed wire. He had to get it somewhere. Head smashing was also present enough in episode 5x09 to give us reason to believe Negan is around.
The character of Negan has been praised by both critics and fans as an antagonist of the series. IGN on their review of Negan's first appearance, the 100th issue said: The new villain already looks to be worthy addition to the book's cast. I didn't realize how much I missed having a truly awful antagonist like The Governor in this series until now.
Negan's original sin in the series was that he set up an elaborate protection racket and would travel around to various settlements, offering them safety (mostly from retribution from himself and his ragtag army) in exchange for a share of their rations and supplies. Rick similarly pledged to kill Negan, the leader of a brutal group of maniacs and killers called The Saviors, in the comic books. and it...didn't quite happen. That was in April's The Walking Dead #125, the conclusion to the epic All-Out War storyline.
Who is Negan? Comic Spoilers. Negan Explained! This is a complete character Breakdown of Negan and the Saviors from the Walking Dead Comic Universe! This video breaks down all the information that you need to know in case you haven't read the Image Comic or maybe just want a refresher on the topic
Negan runs into Rick while the latter was on his way to find Carl. Negan then tells Rick how eager he is to show him what he has done to his son. He is then attacked by Rick in a fit of rage before revealing that Carl is fine and he meant that he is eager to show Rick that he has done nothing to his son. IGN on their review of Negan's first appearance, the 100th issue said: The new villain already looks to be worthy addition to the book's cast. I didn't realize how much I missed having a truly awful antagonist like The Governor in this series until now.
Later, Negan, along with fifty other Saviors, snuck up on Rick's group and subdued Rick by surprise. They lined up all of the survivors from the van (Rick, Carl, Glenn, Maggie, Sophia, Michonne, and Heath), telling them that he wanted revenge for the Saviors that were killed. IGN on their review of Negan's first appearance, the 100th issue said: The new villain already looks to be worthy addition to the book's cast. I didn't realize how much I missed having a truly awful antagonist like The Governor in this series until now.
Later, Negan, along with fifty other Saviors, snuck up on Rick's group and subdued Rick by surprise. They lined up all of the survivors from the van (Rick Grimes, Carl Grimes, Glenn, Maggie Greene, Sophia, Michonne, and Heath), telling them that he wanted revenge for the Saviors that were killed. —Negan to Spencer before killing him. Negan is greeted by Spencer when he visits the Safe-Zone several times. During the most recent visit, Negan takes a bit of a liking to him after hearing how the Safe-Zone was formed and all the commodities the Safe-Zone offers.