Most people intuitively understand a business process to be a procedure or event with the purpose of reaching a goal. When looking at our. Airport we can find many different business processes and goals: 1  The goal of our passenger is to go on vacation. A business system that is to be modeled can span an entire organization. In this case, we talk about an organization model. It is also possible to consider and model only a selected part of an organization. In our case study, an IT system is to be integrated into the Passenger Services operation.
Business intelligence (BI) is a technology-driven process for analyzing data and presenting actionable information to help corporate executives, business managers and other end users make more informed business decisions. 
A business telephone system differs from an installation of several telephones with multiple central office (CO) lines in that the CO lines used are directly controllable in key telephone systems from multiple telephone stations, and that such a system often provides additional features related to call handling. A PBX is differentiated from a key telephone system (KTS) in that users of a key system manually select their own outgoing lines on special telephone sets that control buttons for this purpose, while PBXs select the outgoing line automatically or, formerly, by an operator.
Definition. A methodical procedure or process that is used as a delivery mechanism for providing specific goods or services to customers. 2 people found this helpful. With so many customers reporting lost or undelivered orders, management realize their business system on the mail order side needed to be overhauled.
Thus, the business administrative meaning of business system does not differ very much from our use of the term business system. We also refer to the 'results' of a business system as 'functionality'. For the analysis and modeling of a business system it is important to define system limits. A business system that is to be modeled can span an entire organization. In this case, we talk about an organization model. It is also possible to consider and model only a selected part of an organization. In our case study, an IT system is to be integrated into the Passenger Services operation.
A business telephone system is a multiline telephone system typically used in business environments, encompassing systems ranging from small key telephone systems to large-scale private branch exchanges. A PBX is differentiated from a key telephone system (KTS) in that users of a key system manually select their own outgoing lines on special telephone sets that control buttons for this purpose, while PBXs select the outgoing line automatically or, formerly, by an operator.
ERP is short for e nterprise resource planning. Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is business process management software that allows an organization to use a system of integrated applications to manage the business and automate many back office functions related to technology, services and human resources. The basic goal of using an enterprise resource planning system is to provide one central repository for all information that is shared by all the various ERP facets to improve the flow of data across the organization.
Generally these systems will illustrate business intelligence in the areas of customer profiling, customer support, market research, market segmentation, product profitability, statistical analysis, and inventory and distribution analysis to name a few. Business intelligence software is designed with the primary goal of extracting important data from an organization's raw data to reveal insights to help a business make faster and more accurate decisions.
Business intelligence, or BI, is an umbrella term that refers to a variety of software applications used to analyze an organization’s raw data. BI as a discipline is made up of several related activities, including data mining, online analytical processing, querying and reporting. 
The term business intelligence (BI) represents the tools and systems that play a key role in the strategic planning process of the corporation. These systems allow a company to gather, store, access and analyze corporate data to aid in decision-making. Business intelligence software is designed with the primary goal of extracting important data from an organization's raw data to reveal insights to help a business make faster and more accurate decisions.