A broken toe can not be placed in a brace/cast to hold the bones in place and it will take a long time before it heals. But if you only hurt you toe, then it will take a while to get better, but you should find out which it is before you try out. Source(s): Dale · 7 years ago. If your toe is broke, you will need a surgical or a post op shoe, you can obtain at a medical store. The bottom is cut like a rocker so your toe does not move when you walk, and it will take 4-6 weeks to heal. DEBRA O · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Taping two toes together keeps the broken toe straight while it heals. Bone will regrow, but it won't grow straight if your toe isn't kept straight. If the break doesn't require surgery, put ice on your toe every four hours for about 30 minutes each time for two days. The toe can begin to heal sooner if the swelling is brought down faster. As long as you have swelling, keep your foot propped up. You will need to give your toe four to six weeks to heal
A Dr. Bradley Dunlap, MD, Orthopedic Surgery, answered on behalf of NorthShore University HealthSystem. How long it takes to heal a broken pinky toe depends on where the break is located. Fractures of the small toe of the foot (not the metatarsal bone in the foot) tend to heal on their own if you modify your activities. 
“Buddy Tape”. To better stabilize your toe, wrap gauze around the broken toe and the next biggest toe. If you don’t have access to gauze, use any tape you have until you can get your hands on better materials. Place a Popsicle stick or cotton ball between the toes so the broken toe will heal in a straight position. A broken toe can be an unexpected and painful event. Depending on the injury, some toes heal faster than others. If you find yourself in this situation at odd hours of the night or somewhere where you can’t seem to get to a doctor, here are some tips that you could use until you reach medical help.
2. Wear a splint. After a reduction of your broken toe, a splint is often put in place to support and protect the toe while it heals properly. Alternatively, you may have to wear a supportive compression boot, but either way, you'll likely need the use of crutches over the short term (2 weeks or so). Get a cast. If more than one toe is broken or other bones of the forefoot are injured (such as the metatarsals), then your doctor might apply a plaster or fiberglass cast to your entire foot.
1 Following surgery, and especially with the help of a cast, severely broken toes take 6-8 weeks to heal, depending on the location and extent of the injury. 2  After such a long time in a cast, your foot may need some rehabilitation as described below. Get a cast. If more than one toe is broken or other bones of the forefoot are injured (such as the metatarsals), then your doctor might apply a plaster or fiberglass cast to your entire foot.
Read ahead to know more about broken toe healing period and the treatment for the same. Advertisement. ⇒ If you accidentally stub your toe on a rock or stumble over a roadside brick and chip a toe, it will take around 4 to 6 weeks to heal. However, pain and swelling will go away in 1 week.
Severe injuries may need to the toe to be put back into place (reducing) or even require surgery, but many toe injuries can be handled with over-the-counter medication and home treatment or buddy-taping. Most broken toes are able to heal fully within six weeks. 
In most cases, a broken toe can be immobilized by taping it to a neighboring toe. But if the fracture is severe — particularly if it involves your big toe — you may need a cast or even surgery to ensure that your broken toe heals properly. Most broken toes heal well, usually within four to six weeks. Less commonly, depending on the precise location and severity of the injury, a broken toe may become infected or be more vulnerable to osteoarthritis in the future. 1  Symptoms. 