*Adhesive. You can use most any diluted water-based glue, but favorite is Mod Podge Super Gloss. It’s thinner than the regular glossy Mod Podge and seems to absorb into paper and fabrics a little better. The finish is uber glossy and if you use a wet brush, it dries brush-stroke free. Stroke marks make the difference between something looking like a handmade treasure and a homemade craft project.
2. Cut your cut-outs. You can use whole pieces of paper, you can tear it, or you can cut your paper to make interesting shapes and designs. Use scissors or a craft knife to cut around out the shapes you desire, holding the scissors so that they are angled slightly to the right. Apply the glue. Use a paintbrush to brush a thin layer of glue onto your surface and onto the backs of the cut-outs. Make sure you apply the glue evenly and over the edges of the cut-outs. http://pad3.whstatic.com/images/thumb/2/2f/Decoupage-Step-7-preview-Version-2.jpg/550px-Decoupage-Step-7-preview-Version-2.jpg.
You can use just about any materials for decoupage, including cards, tissue paper, wrapping paper, paper shopping bags, magazine clippings, rice paper, thin fabric pieces, or (of course) decoupage paper. You can even Make Paper to use. Apply the glue. Use a paintbrush to brush a thin layer of glue onto your surface and onto the backs of the cut-outs. Make sure you apply the glue evenly and over the edges of the cut-outs. http://pad3.whstatic.com/images/thumb/2/2f/Decoupage-Step-7-preview-Version-2.jpg/550px-Decoupage-Step-7-preview-Version-2.jpg.
1 It you are using pictures on thicker paper, such as photos or greeting cards, give your decoupage project plenty of time to dry. 2  Use a utility knife to cut pictures with detailed edges. 3  Make sure the item you will be decoupaging is free of dust and dirt. 1 Watch for bubbles as your pictures dry. 2  If one forms, use a pin or utility knife to pop it and then use your fingers to smooth it down. 3  I have also read where you can try wetting the paper first, before you stick it to the decoupage medium. 4  I have never tried this so I can't talk from experience though.
Allow your decoupage to dry thoroughly-at least 24 hours-then apply a coat of clear varnish or in the case of paper pieces, a light coating of clear spray coating. For paper pieces and art board decoupage work, you can omit using a finish coating. gift wrap are ideal for creating smooth finishes on your decoupage crafts. You can use thicker materials and even non paper flat items to create your decoupage pieces if you wish. Your final results will have some texture that can be just as interesting and beautiful as a smooth finish.
Apply a medium coat of Mod Podge to the surface. Too little Mod Podge and you will get wrinkles – and you can always wipe away excess Mod Podge. Place your item(s) to be decoupaged on top of the Mod Podge and move onto step six. STEP SIX: Smooth, Smooth, Smooth. Mod Podge tissue paper carefully so that it doesn’t tear. Cut out your paper or whatever it is that you are planning to decoupage. Experiment with design elements to determine the layout of your piece. Add interest to your design by using large and small pieces, layering and overlapping elements and coordinating colors.
Using a paint brush, apply a thin layer of decoupage over the entire surface. Stretch your material over the wet decoupage glue and, with the same brush, apply a second light coat of decoupage over the surface of the material to seal it.
Here are some ideas for decoupage objects you can use. If you use old papers and pictures from books, magazines or gift wrap and apply them to a recycled item, you're making your project totally green! Boxes-wooden boxes, cardboard boxes, paper mache boxes, even some plastic boxes. gift wrap are ideal for creating smooth finishes on your decoupage crafts. You can use thicker materials and even non paper flat items to create your decoupage pieces if you wish. Your final results will have some texture that can be just as interesting and beautiful as a smooth finish.
Then you brush a thickish layer of Mod Podge on the top of the table. And then brush a layer of Mod Podge on the bottom of the wrapping paper. Place your wrapping paper on the top of your table and smooth out with the foam roller. Some people use a credit card to smooth out the paper but it tends to rip the fragile paper when it is damp with Mod Podge. 