The sex hormones: testosterone, estrogen, and progesterone. The hormones commonly considered to be sex hormones in the body are testosterone, estrogen, and progesterone. Testosterone is often referred to as a male hormone, and estrogen and progesterone are often referred to as female hormones.
Hormones can be considered chemical messengers. They are targeted at specific cells in the body, and their arrival in those cells causes specific activities to occur. One of the major tasks of hormones is to coordinate the activities of organ systems.
A hormone is a chemical messenger produced by a cell that effects specific change in the cellular activity of other cells (target cells). Unlike exocrine glands (which produce substances such as saliva, milk, stomach acid and digestive enzymes), endocrine glands do not secrete substances into ducts (tubes).
Target cells are specific to the hormone; a hormone specific to a target cell can only affect that target tissue because of the presence of receptors for the hormone on the target cells. Some endocrine glands are so complex and so specific that certain sections of the gland produce different hormones.
Cells must have specific membrane or intracellular receptors to which hormones can bind. Target cell response depends on three factors: blood levels of the hormone, relative numbers of target cell receptors, and affinity of the receptor for the hormone.
The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them.
Glands of the Endocrine System. Each gland of the endocrine system releases specific hormones into your bloodstream. These hormones travel through your blood to other cells and help control or coordinate many body processes.
A target cell responds to a hormone because it bears receptors for the hormone. In other words, a particular cell is a target cell for a hormone if it contains functional receptors for that hormone, and cells which do not have such a receptor cannot be influenced directly by that hormone.