Space debris smaller than an asteroid are called meteoroids. A meteoroid is a piece of interplanetary matter that is smaller than a kilometer and frequently only millimeters in size. Most meteoroids that enter the Earth’s atmosphere are so small that they vaporize completely and never reach the planet’s surface. Infographics artist Tim Lillis has put together a primer of sorts, in the form of an infographic, describing the different between a comet, asteroid, meteoroid, meteor and meteorite. Asteroids are generally larger chunks of rock that come from the asteroid belt located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
Asteroid vs Meteor. An asteroid is a relatively small, inactive, rocky body orbiting the Sun while a meteor is the light phenomena that takes place when a particle from a comet or asteroid (meteoroid) enters the Earth’s atmosphere and vaporizes. It is often also known as a shooting star. 
The terms asteroid, meteor, meteorite and meteoroid get tossed around recklessly, especially when two of them threaten the Earth on the same day. Here's a quick explainer: An asteroid is a rocky object in space that's smaller than a planet — they're sometimes called minor planets or planetoids, according to NASA. A meteor is an asteroid or other object that burns and vaporizes upon entry into the Earth's atmosphere; meteors are commonly known as shooting stars.. If a meteor survives the plunge through the atmosphere and lands on the surface, it's known as a meteorite. Meteorites are usually categorized as iron or stony.
An asteroid is a rocky object in space that's not as big as a planet and isn't a moon. There are millions of them, think the asteroid belt in space. A meteor is an asteroid that burns up as it enters the Earth's atmosphere, think shooting stars. A meteorite is a meteor that actually lands on the surface of Earth, think about Russia today. 
Asteroid: a large rocky body in space, in orbit around the Sun. Meteoroid: much smaller rocks or particles in orbit around the Sun. Meteor: If a meteoroid enters the Earth’s atmosphere and vaporizes, it becomes a meteor, which is often called a shooting star. Meteorite: If a small asteroid or large meteoroid survives its fiery passage through the Earth’s atmosphere and lands on Earth’s surface, it is then called a meteorite. Another related term is bolide, which is a very bright meteor that often explodes in the atmosphere. This can also be called a fireball. Summary. In short, the difference between asteroids and meteors all comes down to a question of location. Asteroids are always found in space. Once it enters an atmosphere, it becomes a meteor, and then a meteorite after it hits the ground.
Meteoroid-A small particle from an asteroid or comet orbiting the Sun. Meteor-A meteoroid that is observed as it burns up in the Earth’s atmosphere – a shooting star. Meteorite-A meteoroid that survives its passage through the Earth’s atmosphere and impacts the Earth’s surface. In summation, an asteroid is a relatively small object out in space. When an asteroid breaks through our atmosphere and burns up, it becomes a meteor. If the asteroid manages to get all the way through our atmosphere and actually hits the surface of the planet, it is classified as a meteorite. Meteor-A meteoroid that is observed as it burns up in the Earth’s atmosphere – a shooting star. Meteorite-A meteoroid that survives its passage through the Earth’s atmosphere and impacts the Earth’s surface. “ 1 Meteorite Strikes In Russia’s Ural Mountains”. “ 2 Asteroid To Make Close Call With Earth”.
What's the difference between a meteor, a meteorite, and an asteroid? In the Museum's Arthur Ross Hall of Meteorites, curated by Denton S. Ebel, chair of the Division of Physical Sciences (Earth and Planetary Sciences), the differences are clearly explained. 
Meteor: If a meteoroid enters the Earth’s atmosphere and vaporizes, it becomes a meteor, which is often called a shooting star. Meteorite: If a small asteroid or large meteoroid survives its fiery passage through the Earth’s atmosphere and lands on Earth’s surface, it is then called a meteorite. Another related term is bolide, which is a very bright meteor that often explodes in the atmosphere. This can also be called a fireball. In short, the difference between asteroids and meteors all comes down to a question of location. Asteroids are always found in space. Once it enters an atmosphere, it becomes a meteor, and then a meteorite after it hits the ground.