One-third of Clonazepam patients will develop tolerance to the drug in 2-4 weeks and will suffer from the Benzodiazepine Withdrawal Syndrome, a grouping of extremely painful symptoms that can last many months. Clonazepam is considered a ‘highly potent’ benzodiazepine with a rapid onset of action meaning that it reaches peak blood levels in one to four hours after oral administration, but leaves the body in 18-60 hours. Roche Pharmaceutical made $211 million in 2011 alone for sales of Clonazepam.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Klonopin sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Our Klonopin Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
4. KLONOPIN can cause abuse and dependence. 1  Do not stop taking KLONOPIN all of a sudden. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop, hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations), shaking, and stomach and muscle cramps. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN
Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. KLONOPIN can cause serious side effects, including: 1. KLONOPIN can slow your thinking and motor skills. 1  Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how KLONOPIN affects you. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN
Common side effects of Klonopin include drowsiness, dizziness, weakness, unsteadiness, depression, loss of orientation, headache, sleep disturbances, problems with thinking or memory, slurred speech, dry mouth, sore gums, runny nose, loss of appetite, diarrhea, constipation, and blurred vision. Our Klonopin Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 16. KLONOPIN can cause serious side effects, including: 17. 1. KLONOPIN can slow your thinking and motor skills. 18 • Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities. 19 until you know how KLONOPIN affects you. 24. 2. 
It belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. 
1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN all of a sudden. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop, hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations), shaking, and stomach and muscle cramps. 3  Talk to your doctor about slowly stopping KLONOPIN to avoid getting sick with withdrawal symptoms. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN
Klonopin Withdrawal The web site you are on now, The Road Back, offers information on how to get off Klonopin and reduce Klonopin withdrawal side effects. Many of you taking Klonopin were prescribed Klonopin for anxiety, general anxiety disorder, panic attacks, and possibly for other reasons. Klonopin Withdrawal Depression-A feeling of no hope. Klonopin Withdrawal Derealization-The feeling that things in one’s surroundings are strange, unreal, or somehow altered, as seen in schizophrenia. Klonopin Withdrawal Disorientation – A loss of sense of direction, position, or relationship with one’s surroundings.