Positive: 10 %. 1. HCLF / raw vegan / 801010 diet are all the same. First of all, many people may think these three diets are all the same and may generalize them into one ... Read more. Positive: 10 %. 43 thoughts on “ My Thoughts on the “HCLF” Raw Vegan Diet ” Laura January 29, 2015 at 6:08 pm.
1. HCLF / raw vegan / 801010 diet are all the same. First of all, many people may think these three diets are all the same and may generalize them into one category. Although they are similar, they are not all one diet. For those of you who don’t know what any of these things mean, I’ll break it down for you. A typical day for a HCLF diet would consist of possibly a raw till 4 meal (or more than 1 cooked meal because it’s all up to you) such as: giant smoothie for breakfast, fruit, nana ice cream or a big salad for lunch. And rice/potatoes/pasta/stir-fry/curry for dinner.
For the first few days of the HCLF vegan lifestyle, I had less than 1000 calories a day. After those few days, I realized that I could stomach way more food than I've ever eaten in my life. I eventually made my way up to 2500+ calories a day. A year ago I started eating 400 calories a day. It was high carb, but I wasn't feeling energetic at all. In April, I went on the vegan version of the high protein Atkins diet. Even though I was eating the same amount of calories, I had more intense cravings and gained back the weight that I lost.
Well… what happens to be on my mind today is the “High Carb Low Fat” (HCLF) raw vegan diet, and the fact that there are so many blogs, YouTube channels, Instagram accounts and websites out there dedicated to it and how it has “changed people’s lives for the better,” etc. I know that the response from the HCLF vegan community would be that I didn’t eat that way for long enough, or that I “didn’t eat enough fruit,” but my body would not have lasted longer on the diet and I am 100% positive that it was not for me.
HCLF vegan simply means that you are consuming a high amount of carbohydrates and a low amount of fat, and that you’re diet is vegan. HCLF also certainly does not require eating over 3000 calories a day. I eat around 1400 over under. I hope that anyone who reads this article sees my comment and understands this. I know that the response from the HCLF vegan community would be that I didn’t eat that way for long enough, or that I “didn’t eat enough fruit,” but my body would not have lasted longer on the diet and I am 100% positive that it was not for me.
I talk all about my experience on the HCLF raw vegan diet in my book, but for now I will tell you my thoughts on young girl’s wanting to emulate the raw vegan lifestyle because it looks appealing online…. It. I know that the response from the HCLF vegan community would be that I didn’t eat that way for long enough, or that I “didn’t eat enough fruit,” but my body would not have lasted longer on the diet and I am 100% positive that it was not for me.
I've been vegan for 3 years, and HCLF for almost the same amount of time. I love eating so much food, but I don't want to gain weight (I like the way I am now), so I guess I'm in a similar boat. I'm working my way up to 2500 cals a day :P. great job for you, though!! keep it up! A year ago I started eating 400 calories a day. It was high carb, but I wasn't feeling energetic at all. In April, I went on the vegan version of the high protein Atkins diet. Even though I was eating the same amount of calories, I had more intense cravings and gained back the weight that I lost.
(80/10/10). A HCLF vegan is a vegan that primarily eats carbs (from fruit!). Most of my diet is made up of raw fruits, raw vegetables, cooked vegetables, cooked carbs (rice quinoa, potatoes, corn), and beans, with a few nuts and seeds. 80/10/10 means that 80% of my diet is made up of carbohydrates, 10% fat, and 10% protein. Although I make a lot of raw vegan desserts on my blog, I DO NOT eat them everyday. The desserts that I make are a delicacy-I usually only make them for special occasions, and I eat them sparingly
Possible answer. Check out what I ate and my new recipe, a raw vegan dressing/dip/paste which is just amazing! I also filmed my jumping rope workout routine-for those of you. First of all, many people may think these three diets are all the same and may generalize them into one ... Read more. Positive: 10 %. 43 thoughts on “ My Thoughts on the “HCLF” Raw Vegan Diet ” Laura January 29, 2015 at 6:08 pm.