A relaxer is a type of lotion or cream generally used by people with tight curls or very curly hair which makes hair easier to straighten by chemically relaxing the natural curls. The active agent is usually a strong alkali, although some formulations are based on ammonium thioglycolate instead. 
One of the major reasons someone may prefer a no-lye relaxer is if her scalp is sensitive, as the chemicals in this type of relaxer can be milder on the scalp. This doesn't mean that it's better to use on children or that the chemicals cannot burn you (they can). And no, you cannot apply a lye relaxer over hair that's been processed with a no-lye relaxer (and vice versa)! However, you can apply a different relaxer to new growth if your current straightener isn't giving you the results you want.
Especially confusing can be knowing the difference between lye and no-lye relaxers. Here's the deal on chemical relaxers and how to find out which is best for you. About Lye Relaxers: The main, active ingredient in a lye-based relaxer is sodium hydroxide. And no, you cannot apply a lye relaxer over hair that's been processed with a no-lye relaxer (and vice versa)! However, you can apply a different relaxer to new growth if your current straightener isn't giving you the results you want.
No-lye relaxers contain guanidine hydroxide. A no-lye relaxer is a strong relaxer, and can easily damage hair and scalp if not correctly applied. Damage can include but is not limited to breakage, thinning, scalp irritation, and hair loss. Both lye and no-lye Relaxers are used to straighten African American hair. If either is used carelessly, it can cause severe damage to both the hair and the scalp. There are pros and cons to both types of relaxers. Know the facts before making a choice. 1  How to Apply a Conditioning Lye Relaxer.
Answer by Toynga. Confidence votes 985. No-lye relaxers does the same as the sodium hydroxide relaxer but no lye relaxers requires frequent conditioning and lye relaxers contain a oil base to protect the scalp from irritation. No. Sodium hydroxide contains lye which are known as lye relaxers. There are no base relaxers which are the preferred choice of Salon professionals because they are more gentl … e on the scalp. No lye relaxers are recommened for less resistant hair and requires frequent conditioning. 2 people found this useful.
Lye relaxers are also known as sodium hydroxide relaxers. A lye relaxer is the strongest of the two chemical relaxers. A lye relaxer has a pH of 10 to 14. Users must beware of this higher pH, and approach use with caution. Both lye and no-lye Relaxers are used to straighten African American hair. If either is used carelessly, it can cause severe damage to both the hair and the scalp. There are pros and cons to both types of relaxers. Know the facts before making a choice. 1  How to Apply a Conditioning Lye Relaxer.
About No-Lye Relaxers: The main, active ingredient in a no-lye based relaxer is calcium hydroxide or guanidine hydroxide. Although the pH level of a no-lye relaxer is typically lower than a lye-based one, no-lye relaxers are often associated with dryer hair due to potential calcium buildup. And no, you cannot apply a lye relaxer over hair that's been processed with a no-lye relaxer (and vice versa)! However, you can apply a different relaxer to new growth if your current straightener isn't giving you the results you want.
Definition: A chemical treatment designed to permanently alter hair's natural texture. A lye-based relaxer contains the active ingredient sodium hydroxide. A no-lye relaxer contains potassium hydroxide or calcium hydroxide. Relaxers straighten curly hair by breaking down the bonds in the hair shaft. If not used correctly, relaxers can cause serious and sometimes irreversible damage to the hair and scalp. 
It basically refers to the main ingredient that straightens the hair. Lye is sodium hydroxide. No lye usually contains calcium hydoxide, or some other base to straighten. As for good or bad, depends on the person. I don't like either, however, you may like both. 