(HealthCastle.com) A diet with iron rich foods along with iron supplements is often recommended for women with iron deficiency anemia. Absorption of iron from food is often influenced by multiple factors. One important factor being the form of iron. Heme Iron, found in animal sources, is highly available for absorption. Non-heme iron on the other hand, found in vegetable sources, is less available
Pin It. Iron is a vitally important nutrient for your body. It is one of the building blocks of hemoglobin, which carries oxygen throughout the body. Iron deficiencies are very common but have some serious symptoms. The symptoms include weakness, fatigue, vertigo, and hair loss. Beef is one of the most famous foods rich in iron. It is the first recommended food for people to eat when they are deficient. Beef liver is particularly wonderful as it contains more iron than any other part of the cow. 100 grams of beef liver give 6.5 mg of iron, which is 36% of your daily recommended intake.
Food. The richest sources of heme iron in the diet include lean meat and seafood [ 11 ]. Dietary sources of nonheme iron include nuts, beans, vegetables, and fortified grain products. In the United States, about half of dietary iron comes from bread, cereal, and other grain products [ 2, 3, 5 ]. Plants and iron-fortified foods contain nonheme iron only, whereas meat, seafood, and poultry contain both heme and nonheme iron [ 2 ]. Heme iron, which is formed when iron combines with protoporphyrin IX, contributes about 10% to 15% of total iron intakes in western populations [ 3-5 ].
Foods rich in iron include: 1  Red meat. 2  Pork. 3  Poultry. 4  Seafood. 5  Beans. 6  Dark green leafy vegetables, such as spinach. 7  Dried fruit, such as raisins and apricots. 8  Iron-fortified cereals, breads and pastas. 9  Peas. 
Iron-Rich Foods. Very good sources of heme iron, with 3.5 milligrams or more per serving, include: 1  3 ounces of beef or chicken liver. 2  3 ounces of clams, mollusks, or mussels. 3  3 ounces of oysters. Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1.
The best source of iron is red meat, especially beef and liver. Chicken, turkey, pork, fish, and shellfish also are good sources of iron. The body tends to absorb iron from meat better than iron from nonmeat foods. However, some nonmeat foods also can help you raise your iron levels. Examples of nonmeat foods that are good sources of iron include: 1  Iron-fortified breads and cereals. 
Heme iron is the form of iron that is more easily absorbed and maintained in the body. A person with an iron deficiency or anemia will have to eat less fish or seafood than other iron-rich foods because these contain the best type of iron in high amounts. These plant-based, iron-rich foods contain significant amounts of non heme iron. According to Vegetarian Times, non heme iron, while good for iron, needs to be consumed in higher amounts because it is not as easily absorbed or retained in the body.
Iron-deficiency anemia, the most common form of anemia, is a decrease in the number of red blood cells caused by too little iron. Without sufficient iron, your body can't produce enough hemoglobin, a substance in red blood cells that makes it possible for them to carry oxygen to the body's tissues. Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1.