During the song, Elphaba enchants a broomstick to levitate and, pursued by the Wizard's guards, rises from the stage above the angered citizens of Oz, who try in vain to bring her down.. The song is heavily cinematic and comes to a climax for the final verse. The song was recorded and performed twice on Fox's TV show Glee, sung by Rachel Berry and Kurt Hummel (Lea Michele and Chris Colfer, respectively). The song first appeared in  Wheels  and again in the series' 100th episode, sung by Rachel, Kurt and Mercedes Jones (played by Amber Riley).
Defying Gravity is the finale for the show 's first act, when Elphaba, who, until now, has seen the Wizard of Oz as a heroic figure who can give her life some noble direction, discovers that he is not at all what he seems. Kerry Ellis, who replaced Menzel as Elphaba in the West End production of Wicked, recorded a rock version of the song in 2008 as part of a single, Wicked in Rock, designed as a teaser for her debut album. Wicked in Rock is available at the Gershwin Theatre in New York City and on iTunes (Defying Gravity only).
The Zombies originally sang the song “Time Of The Season”. (“It’s the Time of the Season” is a quote from the chorus of the song, but the actual title of the song is a little bit shorter.) “Time of the Season” was a hit in 1968, reaching #3 on the Billboard charts. Cheap Trick sang the song “I Want You To Want Me”. The song was featured on Cheap Trick’s 2nd album, In Color, which was released in 1977. In 1979, a live version of the song “I Want You To Want Me” hit #7 on the Billboard charts. The song was on the charts for 19 weeks.
1 Steph Jones on his album Gravity 2009. 2  On season 13 of American Idol; C.J. Harris performed Gravity for his song in the Top 7 theme Competitor's choice. 3  On season 7 of The Voice, Chris Jamison auditioned with Gravity before choosing Adam Levine as his coach. At the 51st Annual Grammy Awards, the live version of Gravity that appears on Mayer's Where The Light Is: John Mayer Live In Los Angeles won the award for Best Solo Rock Vocal Performance.
Gravity  is a song by American singer-songwriter guitarist John Mayer and is featured on three of his releases: the 2005 live album Try! by the John Mayer Trio, his 2006 studio album Continuum, and his 2008 live album Where the Light Is: John Mayer Live in Los Angeles. At the 51st Annual Grammy Awards, the live version of Gravity that appears on Mayer's Where The Light Is: John Mayer Live In Los Angeles won the award for Best Solo Rock Vocal Performance.
Original Song is the sixteenth episode of Glee's second season and the thirty-eighth episode overall. It premiered on March 15, 2011. Preparations for Regionals place the New Directions with only a short amount of time to decide upon their setlist, to thrash their competition. Next thing, the New Directions can be seen discussing their original songs. Santana unveils the song she's co-written with Tina, a saucy ode to Sam called Trouty Mouth. Sam seems quite offended by the song, due to all the joking references to his mouth.
1,360 pages on this wiki. The  Gravity Falls Main Title Theme , composed by Brad Breeck, is the opening theme song played over the title sequence to Gravity Falls. It is often fan-dubbed as  You Made Me Realize , due to its strong similarities to the real You Made Me Realize song Breeck wrote for MTV's Awkward. Made Me Realize is commonly mistaken for the extended version of the Gravity Falls theme song. It is also stated on Breeck's website that the two songs are indeed different, and not related to each other. The official theme song is available on iTunes for $0.99.
Mayer suggested in an interview with the magazine Performing Songwriter that Gravity was the song he was always trying to write, using the example of Come Back to Bed (from Heavier Things) as being an early attempt at writing Gravity . At the 51st Annual Grammy Awards, the live version of Gravity that appears on Mayer's Where The Light Is: John Mayer Live In Los Angeles won the award for Best Solo Rock Vocal Performance.
(January 2009).  Defying Gravity  is the signature song from the musical Wicked, composed by Stephen Schwartz, originally recorded by Idina Menzel and Kristin Chenoweth on November 10, 2003, and released on December 16, 2003. The song was recorded and performed twice on Fox's TV show Glee, sung by Rachel Berry and Kurt Hummel (Lea Michele and Chris Colfer, respectively). The song first appeared in  Wheels  and again in the series' 100th episode, sung by Rachel, Kurt and Mercedes Jones (played by Amber Riley).
Gaston (song). 33,336 pages on this wiki.  Gaston  is a song sung by Gaston, LeFou, Gaston's buddies, and the villagers in Beauty and the Beast. It was sung to cheer up Gaston after Belle rejects his marriage proposal. It is most famous for the phrase No one (verb)s like Gaston. 