Howard Carter was born on May 9th, 1874 in the small town of Kensington, London, England. His father, an artist named Samuel John Carter who drew portraits (mostly of animals) for local landowners, trained Howard in the fundamentals of drawing and painting. He was Samuel Carter's youngest son. But Howard Carter developed an early interest in Egypt, so when he was 17 years old, under the influence of Lady Amherst, a family acquaintance, he set sail for Alexandria, Egypt.
Early life [edit]. Howard Carter was born in Kensington, London, the son of Samuel Carter, an artist, and Martha Joyce Carter. His father trained and developed Howard's artistic talents. Howard Carter spent much of his childhood with relatives in the Norfolk market town of Swaffham, the birthplace of both his parents. In 1907, after three hard years for Carter, Lord Carnarvon employed him to supervise Carnarvon's Egyptian excavations in the Valley of the Kings. The intention of Gaston Maspero, who introduced the two, was to ensure that Howard Carter imposed modern archaeological methods and systems of recording.
Howard Carter. Howard Carter (1874-1939), the renowned archaeologist who discovered the tomb of King Tutankhamun, was a private and stubborn man whose perfectionism frequently got him into trouble. COPYRIGHT 2004 The Gale Group Inc. Howard Carter (1874-1939), the renowned archaeologist who discovered the tomb of King Tutankhamun, was a private and stubborn man whose perfectionism frequently got him into trouble.
Through his father's connections, Howard Carter found a job working for an archaeologist who needed an artist to draw his findings. Howard headed to Egypt in 1891, at the age of 17, where he was to work on the Egypt Exploration Fund's excavation of the Middle Kingdom tombs at Beni Hassan. Early Life. Howard Carter was born on May 9, 1874, in Kensington, London. His father Samuel Carter was a successful artist. Howard was a sickly child, and was sent to live with his aunts in Norfolk. He had private home schooling, and had an artistic streak from an early age.
Howard Carter became famous because of a 4,000 year old man. He was the archaeologist who discovered the tomb of Tutankhamun. Howard Carter was born 9 May 1874 in Kensington, London to successful artist Samuel Carter. He was a sickly child and was sent to live with his aunts in Norfolk where he was given private home schooling. 
Here are some facts about Howard Carter, the English archaeologist who discovered the tomb of Tutankhmun. 1  Howard Carter was born on 9th May 1874 in Kensington, London. 2  His father, Samuel John Carter, was an artist. 3  As a child, Howard Carter was often unwell, and he spent a lot of time in Swaffham in Norfolk. 1 Howard Carter was born on 9th May 1874 in Kensington, London. 2  His father, Samuel John Carter, was an artist. 3  As a child, Howard Carter was often unwell, and he spent a lot of time in Swaffham in Norfolk. 4  He was home-schooled. 5  When he was 17 years old, Carter worked in Egypt as an archaeological artist.
Howard Carter was born on March 9 th, 1874 in Kensington, London, and grew up in Swaffam, a town in north the county of Norfolk, England, as the youngest son in a family of eight children. 