Cash dividends are profits paid to shareholders. Dividends on common stock are optional, but they are required for preferred stock. If a company issues additional dividend-paying common stock, it must either cut the dividend per share or increase the draw from retained earnings. Companies generally can’t cut preferred stock dividends, so issuing new preferred stock will cause retained earnings to fall. Even though retained earnings decrease because of additional dividends, stockholders’ equity might increase because the company raises cash when it issues new shares. It includes accounts for equity -- common and preferred stock -- and retained earnings, the accumulated profits of the corporation. The accounting equation requires that stockholders' equity be equal to assets minus liabilities.
The retained earnings account contains the accumulated net income of the business. When a dividend is issued to shareholders of common stock, a debit to retained earnings occurs to finance the payment. Since dividends are typically issued when profits are high, retained earnings and stockholders' equity may still increase during the reporting period due to net income offsetting the dividend payment. Related Reading: The Advantages of Issuing Common Stock vs. Long Term Debt. Common Stock Issue. Issuing common stock generates cash for a business, and this inflow is recorded as a debit in the cash account and a credit in the common stock account. The proceeds from the stock sale become part of the total shareholders' equity for the corporation but do not affect retained earnings.
Tracking the Accounts. Common stock and retained earnings appear in both the stockholders' equity section of your balance sheet and on the separate statement of stockholders' equity. The equity section of the balance sheet provides a snapshot of the accounts on a specific date. According to the Treasury Department, more than 1.5 million small businesses are organized as traditional corporations. When your business is a corporation, the common stock and retained earnings accounts both represent the owners' equity in the company.
A: Whether or not a dividend paid to shareholders affects the issuing company's retained earnings account depends entirely on the type of dividend. While cash dividends have a straightforward effect on retained earnings, the issuance of stock dividends is slightly more complicated. When a company wants to issue dividends to its shareholders but doesn't have excess cash on hand, it may choose to issue a stock dividend. Companies may also choose this option as a means of decreasing the value of existing shares, driving down the price to earnings (P/E) ratio and other important financial metrics. While a small stock dividend has a greater effect on the retained earnings account, the total worth of the company actually remains unaffected by stock dividends of any size.
Treasury stock shows up as a debit, or minus, in stockholders' equity on the corporate balance sheet. Other accounts in this section are credits, or pluses, for common stock authorized -- the initial number of shares created at par value -- and stock issued and outstanding, the number of shares sold to investors. Since both retained earnings and treasury stock are reported in the stockholders' equity section of the balance sheet, amounts available to pay dividends decline. The cost of treasury stock must be subtracted from retained earnings, reducing amounts the company can distribute to stockholders as dividends.
A public corporation can issue additional common stock and new or additional preferred stock. If you run a private company, you can issue stock through private placements or through an initial public offering. However performed, the effect is to increase stockholders’ equity. It includes accounts for equity -- common and preferred stock -- and retained earnings, the accumulated profits of the corporation. The accounting equation requires that stockholders' equity be equal to assets minus liabilities.
Paid-in Capital or Contributed Capital. Capital stock is a term that encompasses both common stock and preferred stock. Paid-in capital (or contributed capital) is that section of stockholders' equity that reports the amount a corporation received when it issued its shares of stock. There are 10,000 authorized shares, and of those, 2,000 shares have been issued for $50,000. At the balance sheet date, the corporation had cumulative net income after income taxes of $40,000 and had paid cumulative dividends of $12,000, resulting in retained earnings of $28,000.
Treasury stock is the name for previously sold shares that are reacquired by the issuing company. When a corporation buys back some of its issued and outstanding stock, the transaction affects retained earnings indirectly. Since both retained earnings and treasury stock are reported in the stockholders' equity section of the balance sheet, amounts available to pay dividends decline. The cost of treasury stock must be subtracted from retained earnings, reducing amounts the company can distribute to stockholders as dividends.