HI. HI. Go in to your email, open one and hit ctrl + P, choose print options from just under the printer selection drop down menu. Choose Page Setup (roughly in the middle of the Print window that opened), under the Paper tab change Landscape to Portrait, choose OK. You should be all set now if its an Outlook controlled setting that was causing the hic-up
Select the worksheet or worksheets for which you want to change the orientation. How to select worksheets. To select. Do this. A single sheet. Click the sheet tab. If you don't see the tab that you want, click the tab scrolling buttons to display the tab, and then click the tab. Click the File tab. Click Print. Keyboard shortcut You can also press Ctrl+P. In the Page Orientation drop-down box, under Settings, click Portrait Orientation or Landscape Orientation. When you are ready to print, c
Change the page orientation when you are ready to print. Select the worksheet, worksheets, or worksheet data that you want to print. Click the File tab. Click Print. Keyboard shortcut You can also press CTRL+P. In the Page Orientation drop-down box, under Settings, click Portrait Orientation or Landscape Orientation. When you are ready to print, click Print.
Change the page orientation when you are ready to print. Select the worksheet, worksheets, or worksheet data that you want to print. Click the File tab. Click Print. Keyboard shortcut You can also press Ctrl+P. In the Page Orientation drop-down box, under Settings, click Portrait Orientation or Landscape Orientation. When you are ready to print, click Print.
Microsoft Outlook-Prints in Landscape. There has been a sudden change in my Outlook e-mail-all HTML messages print only in landscape, not portrait. I have a new printer-Canon MX330 and everything has been fine until just recently when I noticed that e-mail prints as above. The same e-mail in G-mail prints in portrait
EU. I am not sure how I did it but it appears that each page in Outlook 2010 each message page is in landscape format. I am trying to return it to portrait. I can't seem to find where to change the default Message layout. 
1 Find your printer in the Devices and Printers window and right-click the icon with your mouse. 2  In the menu that appears, select Printing Preferences and find the option for Orientation in the preferences window. 3  Change the option to Landscape to set the printer to landscape mode as a default. You can also change the between Landscape and Portrait mode within the printer settings. Access the printer settings by following the steps below. 1  Open the Control Panel and then the Devices and Printers option.
Change mode in printer settings. You can also change the between Landscape and Portrait mode within the printer settings. Access the printer settings by following the steps below. 1  Open the Control Panel and then the Devices and Printers option. 2  Find your printer in the Devices and Printers window and right-click the icon with your mouse
Tech Ease. Printers can print in portrait or landscape mode. In portrait mode, which is the default, the printer prints pages that are 8.5″ wide and 11″ tall. In landscape mode, the page is turned on its side. This mode may be useful if you are trying to print a spreadsheet or sign that is wider than it is long