I think it means: 'promotional video' . As in like a music video. That's if to describe vedoes its used on sites a youtube or veoh. At least that's what my brother said when I asked him (he's a computer freak). A PV panel is a Photovoltaic conversion tool used for converting the sun's rays into usable electricity via an excitement of Protons and Electrons in a solar cell.
Present Value. The worth of a future amount of money at specific point in time. If one expects an investment to result in a cash flow at a certain time in the future, calculating the cash flow's present value will help the investor decide whether the investment results in a real profit. Present value of money is important in calculating bond yields, the value of annuities, and many other transactions. It is also used in comparing the value of two amounts of money existing in different times.
Photovoltaics (PV) are best known as a method for generating electric power by using solar cells to convert energy from the sun into electricity. The photovoltaic effect refers to photons of light knocking electrons into a higher state of energy to create electricity. 
Investopedia explains Present Value (PV). This may sound confusing, but it really is not. The basic idea is that receiving $1,000 now is worth more than receiving $1,000 five years from now, because a person who has money today can invest it and receive an additional return over the five years. Present value of money is important in calculating bond yields, the value of annuities, and many other transactions. It is also used in comparing the value of two amounts of money existing in different times.
PV=nRT is the ideal gas law. P is pressure, V is volume, n is the moles of the gas, R is a constant and is equals 8.314 J/K(mol), and T is temperature measured in Kelvin. 6 people found this useful. A PV panel is a Photovoltaic conversion tool used for converting the sun's rays into usable electricity via an excitement of Protons and Electrons in a solar cell.
Photovoltaics (PV) is the name of a method of converting solar energy into direct current electricity using semiconducting materials that exhibit the photovoltaic effect, a phenomenon commonly studied in physics, photochemistry and electrochemistry. Photovoltaics are best known as a method for generating electric power by using solar cells to convert energy from the sun into a flow of electrons. The photovoltaic effect refers to photons of light exciting electrons into a higher state of energy, allowing them to act as charge carriers for an electric current.
BREAKING DOWN 'Present Value-PV'. This sounds a bit confusing, but it really isn't. The basis is that receiving $1,000 now is worth more than $1,000 five years from now, because if you got the money now, you could invest it and receive an additional return over the five years. DEFINITION of 'Present Value-PV'. The current worth of a future sum of money or stream of cash flows given a specified rate of return. Future cash flows are discounted at the discount rate, and the higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the future cash flows.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: ok the PV stands for personal volume, that is the number of points that you have to earn your monthly bonus, it goes from 100 pv to 7500 pv. 
Best Answer: This is the ideal gas equation. P is the absolute pressure, T is temperature, V is volume, n is the number of moles, and R is the ideal gas constant, which will vary depending on the units of the other variables. It can also be writen as pV=RT, where V is the molar volume. Report Abuse. pV=nRT In this p=absolute pressure of the gas, V=Volume of gas taken T= Temperature n=Number of moles(no. of moles=given mass/atomic mass). R=ideal gas constant(it have different values according to units). ns · 8 years ago