Bundle branch block can affect the heart's rhythm. The heart has structures, like wires, that are called bundle branches. They are part of the heart's electrical pathway. When a branch is diseased, it is called blocked, because the electrical signals can't travel down the branch. 
A right bundle branch block (RBBB) is a heart block in the electrical conduction system. During a right bundle branch block, the right ventricle is not directly activated by impulses travelling through the right bundle branch. The left ventricle however, is still normally activated by the left bundle branch. 
Bundle Branch Block is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Bundle Branch Block, or a subtype of Bundle Branch Block, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. 
bundle branch block, bilateral heart block characterized by conduction disturbance in the right and left bundle branches; it may be alternate, intermittent, or permanent. Complete bilateral bundle branch block results in complete (third degree) atrioventricular block. trifascicular block an imprecise term referring to heart block characterized by failure of conduction, partial or complete, in all three of the fascicles of the intraventricular conduction system; i.e., there is simultaneous right bundle branch block, left anterior hemiblock, and left posterior hemiblock.
Print. A bundle branch block is either a complete or a partial interruption of the electrical pathways inside the wall of the heart between the two lower chambers (ventricles). Causes and Risk Factors. Bundle branch block is a common disorder. It occurs in many medical conditions. A right bundle branch block only occurs in medical conditions that affect the right side of the heart or lungs.
A bundle branch block is a defect of the bundle branches or fascicles in the electrical conduction system of the heart. 
bundle branch block. A bundle branch block is a disorder with the heart’s rhythm. Normally, the electrical impulse travels down both the right and left branches of the heart at the same speed so that both ventricles contract at the same time. 
Bundle branch block is a condition in which there's a delay or obstruction along the pathway that electrical impulses travel to make your heart beat. The delay or blockage may occur on the pathway that sends electrical impulses to the left or the right side of the bottom chambers (ventricles) of your heart. Bundle branch block sometimes makes it harder for your heart to pump blood efficiently through your circulatory system. There's no specific treatment for bundle branch block itself. However, any underlying health condition that caused bundle branch block, such as heart disease, will need to be treated
Heart block, AV bundle, or Bundle branch block is a disease of the electrical system of the heart, as opposed to coronary artery disease, which is a disease of the blood vessels of the heart. The heart of an individual with heart block beats irregularly and more slowly than normal. The terms bundle branch block and AV bundle refer to the Bundle of HIS-a bundle of cardiac muscle fibers that conduct electrical impulses that regulate heartbeat from the right atrium to the ventricles.
A bundle branch block is a delay or obstruction along the pathway that electrical impulses travel in your heart to make it beat. It is not an obstruction of blood flow in an artery or anywhere else. It indicates an “electrical” problem. (They go by names such as right bundle branch block, left bundle branch block, and first-degree, second-degree, and third-degree atrioventricular node blocks.) A bundle branch block can occur in people who appear healthy, but it can also be a sign of an underlying heart condition.