Medical Definition of DOBUTAMINE. : a strongly inotropic catecholamine administered intravenously in the form of its hydrochloride C18H23NO3·HCl especially to increase cardiac output and lower wedge pressure in heart failure and after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. 
A dobutamine stress echocardiogram may utilize one or more of four special types of echocardiography, as listed below: M-mode echocardiography. This, the simplest type of echocardiography, produces an image that is similar to a tracing rather than an actual picture of heart structures. If exercise on a treadmill is not an option (too much stress on the heart) due to a person’s medical condition, a doctor may use an intravenous medication called dobutamine. Dobutamine causes the heart to beat faster and will mimic the effects of exercise on the heart.
Dobutamine is a sympathomimetic drug used in the treatment of heart failure and cardiogenic shock. Its primary mechanism is direct stimulation of β1 receptors of the sympathetic nervous system. Dobutamine was developed in the 1970s by Drs. Ronald Tuttle and Jack Mills at Eli Lilly and Company, as a structural analogue of isoprenaline. Dobutamine is administered as a racemic mixture consisting of both (+) and (−) isomers; the (+) isomer is a potent β 1 agonist and α 1 antagonist, while the (−) isomer is an α 1 agonist. The administration of the racemate results in the overall β 1 agonism responsible for its activity
Sometimes medicine called dobutamine is used instead of exercise to stress your heart. For this test, you will lie on your back or left side on a bed or exam table, and a baseline echocardiogram will be done. EKG electrodes will be taped to your arms and legs to record your heart rate during the test. 
A dobutamine stress echocardiogram may utilize one or more of four special types of echocardiography, as listed below: M-mode echocardiography. This, the simplest type of echocardiography, produces an image that is similar to a tracing rather than an actual picture of heart structures. An echocardiogram is a noninvasive (the skin is not pierced) procedure used to assess the heart's function and structures. During the procedure, a transducer (like a microphone) sends out ultrasonic sound waves at a frequency too high to be heard.
Dobutamine use has been associated with increased blood pressure, allergic reactions and other serious side effects. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Dobutamine use has been associated with increased blood pressure, allergic reactions and other serious side effects. Talk to your doctor if you have questions regarding the potential side effects associated with dobutamine use.
A dobutamine stress echocardiogram is a diagnostic procedure that may be used when a doctor wants to assess the heart muscle under stress. If exercise on a treadmill is not an option (too much stress on the heart) due to a person’s medical condition, a doctor may use an intravenous medication called dobutamine. Dobutamine causes the heart to beat faster and will mimic the effects of exercise on the heart.
The dobutamine stress echo test involves the injection of a medication called dobutamine while you are closely monitored. The medication stimulates your heart in a similar way as exercise. Important: If you have a pacemaker/defibrillator, it must be checked at Cleveland Clinic before your dobutamine stress echo test. 
dobutamine. a synthetic catecholamine administered parenterally as the hydrochloride salt for inotropic support in short-term treatment of adults with cardiac decompensation due to depressed contractility resulting either from organic heart disease or from cardiac surgical procedures. a synthetic catecholamine used as the hydrochloride and administered parenterally for inotropic support in short-term treatment of