You might be wondering what the hell a legume is. Let us explain. A legume is a simple, dry fruit contained within a shed or a pod. The most well-known legumes are peas, beans, peanuts, and alfalfa (we have a full list below). No, not THAT bean. Contents. 1  1 Legume Index. 
A legume (/ˈlɛɡjuːm/ or /ˌləˈɡjuːm/) is a plant in the family Fabaceae (or Leguminosae), or the fruit or seed of such a plant. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Well-known legumes include alfalfa, clover, peas, beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob, soybeans, peanuts and tamarind. A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides. A common name for this type of fruit is a pod, although the term pod is also applied to a few other fruit types, such as that of vanilla (a capsule) and of radish (a silique)
The peanut flower is produced on a slender pedicel near the base of the plant. The peanut flower is produced on a slender pedicel near the base of the plant. The peanut flower is produced on a slender stalk near the base of the plant. The peanut flower is produced on a slender stalk near the base of the plant. The peanut flower is produced on a slender stalk near the base of the plant. The peanut flower is produced on a slender stalk near the base of the plant.
Confusion Over Peanuts. Looking only at these common distinctions, it can be difficult to determine whether a peanut is a legume or a nut; it contains two seeds, the pod is indehiscent, and the seed is not attached to the ovary wall. 
Legumes and Peanut Allergies. An allergy to peanuts does not increase your chances of being allergic to other legumes. This is true even for soy (a legume) which is one of the more common food allergies. Legume allergies do tend to run in families and have a genetic component. Siblings seem to share the allergy. 
A peanut is a herbaceous plant in the legume family, Fabaceae. It is native to South America, Central America and Mexico. Peanuts are annual herbaceous plants growing 30 to 50 cm (1 to 1.5 ft) tall. 
The most common legume allergy is to peanuts, but the legume family is broad and allergies can occur with other members of this family. It’s important to know the symptoms of this allergy in case you or a member of your family is experiencing a health episode related to that food allergy. 
Special Case: Peanuts. Peanuts are probably the sneakiest type of legumes, if only because of their name. Like other legumes, peanuts are problematic because they contain lectins and phytic acid, but peanuts also bring a new guest to the party: aflatoxins. 
Peanut Facts. While “nut” is in their name, peanuts are in fact legumes. Peanuts actually grow underground, as opposed to nuts like walnuts, almonds, etc. that grow on trees (and are sometimes referred to as tree nuts). 