Burgersfort hotels map. The location of each Burgersfort hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Burgersfort hotel map is available where all hotels in Burgersfort are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location. 3D map of Burgersfort in South Africa. You can also dive right into Burgersfort on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Burgersfort 3D map within your web browser.
Portion 26 of the farm Wildebeestkraal, Burgersfort, Highlands Meander, Mpumalanga. Set in manicured grounds, Lapeng is neatly tucked away between the mountains in a beautiful and tranquil environment close to Burgersfort. 322 JT portion 8 of 10 of the farm Elandsfontein, Belfast, 1100, Highlands Meander, Mpumalanga. Boasting a magnificent view over the Elands River Valley and offering self catering accommodation, Little Troutbeck is a 209ha working farm set 1900m above sea level in the mist belt of Belfast, 19km from Dullstroom.
Come to us for the best rates in Town. Burgersfort Lodge is situated in the heart of the New Platinum City of Burgersfort. Located on the border of the Bright Mpumalanga and the Loving Limpopo provinces. We offer airconditioned en-suite rooms for single double and multi-sharing occupancy. Situated on the foothills of the Steenkamps Mountain, De Eike Guesthouse offers affordable accommodation to companies in all surrounding developments in the area. With its breath taking view over lush green grassland and local farming the Guesthouse is a comfortable homecoming for anyone. Your home away from HOME.
Burgersfort is located in the valley of the Spekboom River at the edge of the Bushveld Complex in the Greater Tubatse Local Municipality, near the border of the two provinces Limpopo and Mpumalanga. The town was named after a hexagonal fort built there during the 1876-77 Second War against the Bapedi of Chief Sekhukhune, and was named after President TF Burgers of the ZAR. The region is rich in platinum and platinum group metals.
Cell: 076 472 5566. burgersfortlodge@gmail.com. Burgersfort Lodge is situated in the heart of the New Platinum City of Burgersfort. Located on the border of the Bright Mpumalanga and the Loving Limpopo provinces. We offer airconditioned en-suite rooms for single, double and multi-sharing occupancy. Tea & Coffee facilities are available in all our comfy rooms. 
Burgersfort is a place with a very small population in the province of Mpumalanga, South Africa which is located in the continent/region of Africa. Cities, towns and places near Burgersfort include Ga-Masamothane, Mahubahuba, Motlailane and Mohlarutse. 
Welcome to the Burgersfort google satellite map! This place is situated in Lydenburg, Mpumalanga, South Africa, its geographical coordinates are 24° 40' 0 South, 30° 20' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Burgersfort. See Burgersfort photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Burgersfort in South Africa. Burgersfort hotels map is available on the target page linked above. 3D map of Burgersfort in South Africa. You can also dive right into Burgersfort on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Burgersfort 3D map within your web browser.
About Lapeng Guest Lodge. Set in manicured grounds, Lapeng is neatly tucked away between the mountains in a beautiful and tranquil environment close to Burgersfort. The Lodge is built on what were previously agricultural lands. During this time, every tree and bush was removed and replaced with agricultural produce. 
Steelpoort is a mining town in Sekhukhune District Municipality in the Limpopo province of South Africa. It is located at the border with Mpumalanga province. 