The Last Three Exercises. The Around the World exercise is comparatively easy to perform, and it can be done to strengthen your arm and leg muscles as well as core muscles, which include the chest, back, abdomen, obliques and others. It comprises of 15 exercises, which have to be performed at a slow-motion pace. Lift your hands and feet up from the mat. The eighth Around the World exercise is the Bridged Leg Lifts. Lying on your chest, you have to lift your torso off the floor with your elbows. Support the lower body with your toes and then lift each leg from the floor.
Kettlebell workouts strengthen both your upper back and core muscles. The core muscles contain the lower back muscles, the oblique muscles and the upper and lower abdominal muscles. A workout that engages the core muscles as well as the upper back is the kettlebell row. To perform the kettlebell row, hold a bell in each hand and stand with knees bent and your butt in a seated position. Arms should be hanging down. 
Another great ab exercise is the Around the World Kettlebell exercise. For this one, you want to…. 1  brace your abs. 2  squeeze your glutes, do so throughout the entire exercise. 3  take the kettlebell behind your back, switch hands and bring the KB around front, handing off to the other hand in a continuous motion.
Muscles are how we move and live. All movement in the body is controlled by muscles. Some muscles work without us thinking, like our heart beating, while other muscles are controlled by our thoughts and allow us to do stuff and move around. There are over 650 muscles in the human body. They are under our skin and cover our bones. Muscles often work together to help us move.
Beginner Level of Difficulty. The around the world is a great shoulder exercise. This exercise targets the anterior, posterior and lateral deltoids in a rotational movement that also strengthens rotator cuff muscles. This exercise works as a great warm-up to any upper body work-out. Weight Plate. A weight plate is a single solid piece of metal without rotating parts. Weight plates typically range between 1lb and 55lb. A bumper plate is a weight plate that is coated in rubber so that it can be dropped on the floor safely during exercises like the deadlift, snatch and jerk.
The exercises work all the core muscle groups in the body. If you are a beginner, it is recommended that you do 10 repetitions for each exercise. If you are an advanced bodybuilder, 25 to 30 reps should suffice. The Around the World set starts with the Standard Crunch, and the second exercise is the Knee Up Crunch. In Knee Up Crunch, you have to lie on your back with bent knees and raise the feet a few inches above the mat. The Hip Lift is the next exercise, and it requires you to lie on your back with palms on the side. Lift your hands and feet up from the mat. The eighth Around the World exercise is the Bridged Leg Lifts. Lying on your chest, you have to lift your torso off the floor with your elbows. Support the lower body with your toes and then lift each leg from the floor.
1 Lay down on a flat bench holding a dumbbell in each hand with the palms of the hands facing towards the ceiling. 2  Tip: Your arms should be parallel to the floor and next to your thighs. 3  To avoid injury, make sure that you keep your elbows slightly bent. Main Muscle: Chest. 1  Lay down on a flat bench holding a dumbbell in each hand with the palms of the hands facing towards the ceiling. 2  Now move the dumbbells by creating a semi-circle as you displace them from the initial position to over the head. 3  Reverse the movement to return the weight to the starting position as you exhale.
Upper Body. If you’re looking to profoundly work out your shoulders, on the level of a Major League Baseball pitcher, you’ve come to the right exercise. The kettlebell halo works the deltoids in the shoulders and the pectorals in the chest, the muscles that lift the arms, notes online fitness instructor Ray Fleser. Your triceps, the muscle at the back of the upper arms, obviously play a role in controlling the heavy weight behind your head.
1 Start with both hands on the kettlebell in front of you, release the bell with one hand and use the other to move it behind your back. 2  At the same time, move the free hand behind your back and hand the kettlebell to it and move the bell back in front of you and hand it off back to the other hand. 