The boiling point of a liquid depends on both temperature and pressure. As pressure increases, so does the boiling temperature. Pressure cookers are used in cooking to raise the temperature at which liquids within will boil. Conversely, the lower atmospheric pressure on a mountain top makes it harder to get boiling water hot enough for good tea or coffee.
Boiling. A liquid boils at a temperature at which its vapor pressure is equal to the pressure of the gas above it. The lower the pressure of a gas above a liquid, the lower the temperature at which the liquid will boil
Boiling water. The boiling point of a substance is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the pressure surrounding the liquid and the liquid changes into a vapor. At that temperature, the vapor pressure of the liquid becomes sufficient to overcome atmospheric pressure and allow bubbles of vapor to form inside the bulk of the liquid. The standard boiling point has been defined by IUPAC since 1982 as the temperature at which boiling occurs under a pressure of 1 bar.
boiling point is the temperature at which the vapour pressure of a liquid is equal to the atmospheric pressure. so when air pressure is low, it equalises that air pressu … re easily at lower temperatures itself. so its boiling point lowers. Yes. There are two factors that determine a liquids boiling point: temperature and pressure. For water to be boiled at 20oC (room temperature-more or less), it would h … ave to be subjected to about 2.339 kilopascals.
When the ambient pressure is reduced to below the vapor pressure of the liquid, the liquid boils. Water typically boils at 100 degrees celsius when the pressure is equal to 1atm, but when the pressure is reduced using a vacuum pump, the water boils at room temperature. Materials. 1  150mL warm water in a 250mL beaker. 
The boiling point of water is 100°C or 212° F at 1 atmosphere of pressure (sea level), but water boils at a lower temperature as you gain altitude (e.g., on a mountain) and boils at a higher temperature if you increase atmospheric pressure (lived below sea level). Here's the answer to this common question. Answer: Short Answer: The boiling point of water is 100°C or 212° F at 1 atmosphere of pressure (sea level). Better Answer: The boiling point of water depends on the atmospheric pressure, which changes according to elevation.
Water boils under normal atmospheric pressure at 212°F (100°C). Imagine it at 221°F (105°C) but NOT boiling in a pressurized container. If the pressure is quickly reduced, the 221°F (105°C) water at normal pressure will now boil. For another example, put water at room temperature into a vacuum chamber and begin removing the air. Eventually, the boiling temperature will fall below the water temperature and boiling will begin without heating. As pressure increases, so does the boiling temperature. Pressure cookers are used in cooking to raise the temperature at which liquids within will boil. Conversely, the lower atmospheric pressure on a mountain top makes it harder to get boiling water hot enough for good tea or coffee.
The boiling point of a liquid is the temperature at which the vapour pressure of the liquid is equal to the environmental pressure surrounding the liquid. Since there is no … environmental pressure on the liquid in vacuum, its boiling point is directly above its freezing point. Yes. There are two factors that determine a liquids boiling point: temperature and pressure. For water to be boiled at 20oC (room temperature-more or less), it would h … ave to be subjected to about 2.339 kilopascals.
The boiling point of a liquid is the temperature at which its vapor pressure is equal to the pressure of the gas above it.The normal boiling point of a liquid is the temperature at which its vapor pressure is equal to one atmosphere (760 torr). The Microscopic View. Microscopic view inside a bubble in boiling water. A liquid boils at a temperature at which its vapor pressure is equal to the pressure of the gas above it. The lower the pressure of a gas above a liquid, the lower the temperature at which the liquid will boil