What is Leachate. Leachate is any liquid, such as rain, that comes into contact with garbage. To protect surface waters and groundwater around the landfill, leachate is contained, collected and treated. Although the landfill is operated in a manner to minimize leachate, over 22 million gallons were collected last year
A leachate is any liquid that, in the course of passing through matter, extracts soluble or suspended solids, or any other component of the material through which it has passed. The collection pipe network of a leachate collection system drains, collects, and transports leachate through the drainage layer to a collection sump where it is removed for treatment or disposal. The pipes also serve as drains within the drainage layer to minimize the mounding of leachate in the layer.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Landfill leachate is liquid that moves through or drains from a dump or organized trash collection site. Some leachate exists on its own, usually as a result of natural decomposition. liquids and chemicals that have been discarded also contribute. The biggest source of leachate in most places is rainwater, though. The most common source of leachate is rainwater filtering down through the landfill and aiding bacteria in the process of decomposition. When organic matter breaks down or decomposes, it needs oxygen; when water hits it, things tend to go a lot faster.
Leachate is a widely used term in the environmental sciences where it has the specific meaning of a liquid that has dissolved or entrained environmentally harmful substances that may then enter the environment. It is most commonly used in the context of land-filling of putrescible or industrial waste. The collection pipe network of a leachate collection system drains, collects, and transports leachate through the drainage layer to a collection sump where it is removed for treatment or disposal. The pipes also serve as drains within the drainage layer to minimize the mounding of leachate in the layer.
Leachate generation is a major problem for municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills and causes significant threat to surface water and groundwater. Leachate can be defined as a liquid that passes through alandfill and has extracted dissolved and suspended matter from it. 
In fact the term “leachate” is so often applied to landfill leachate, both within the waste management industry and outside, that it is easy to forget that leachate is the term used for any liquid produced by the action of “leaching”. Leaching occurs when water percolates through any permeable material. The purpose of this section of our web site is to inform newcomers about the most common liquid referred to as, leachate – landfill leachate.
Leachate. Leachate starts as rainfall. Rain falling on the top of the landfill is the main contributor to the generation of leachate, and is by far the largest contributor for modern sanitary landfills which do not accept liquid waste. 
Leachate from a landfill varies widely in composition depending on the age of the landfill and the type of waste that it contains. It usually contains both dissolved and suspended material. The generation of leachate is caused principally by precipitation percolating through waste deposited in a landfill. The collection pipe network of a leachate collection system drains, collects, and transports leachate through the drainage layer to a collection sump where it is removed for treatment or disposal. The pipes also serve as drains within the drainage layer to minimize the mounding of leachate in the layer.
The Definition of Leachate. Leachate is the liquid that drains or ‘leaches’ from a landfill. It varies widely in composition regarding the age of the landfill and the type of waste that it contains. It usually contains both dissolved and suspended material. The purpose of this section of our web site is to inform newcomers about the most common liquid referred to as, leachate – landfill leachate.
When landfill waste degrades and rain rinses the resulting products out, leachate is formed. The black liquid contains organic and inorganic chemicals, heavy metals as well as pathogens; it can pollute the groundwater and therefore represents a health risk. Nowadays, leachate can be recirculated into the landfill or it can be treated in sewage treatment plants. New inorganic polymers remove heavy metals as well as color and turbidity from the liquid.