Is it possible to develop an allergy to dissolvable stitches six months after surgery. I had a breast reduction done six months ago and has developed rashes around the suture wounds and across the areolas on both breasts. I also have constant fever,scratching nausea,tiredness etc. 
A Monocryl suture is often used for soft tissue wound closures. Monocryl sutures are not approved for use in cardiovascular procedures. The doctor will most likely choose a curved needle for Monocryl suturing, although the degree of curvature will be based on the location of the wound, its depth and personal preference. A Monocryl™ suture is also available in an antibacterial form. These destroy the bacteria that may come into contact with the stitches and inhibit the growth of colonies of naturally occurring bacterium within the wound. This may promote a faster healing time.
You could have developed an allergic reaction to the sutures and this usually depends on the composition of the sutures. They are catgut (plain/chromium), vicryl monocryl or vicryl rapidel. This is more so because you have developed the rash on the suture lines. Anti histamines from the mainstay of therapy. Though short courses of steroids are given for more severe symptoms. Discuss with your doctor regarding this. 
Monocryl is a synthetic, absorbable suture, manufactured and trademarked by Ethicon. It is composed of poliglecaprone 25, which is a copolymer of glycolide and epsilon-caprolactone. It comes both dyed (violet) and undyed (clear), and is a monofilament suture. It is generally used for soft-tissue approximation and ligation. At 1 week, its in vivo tensile strength is at 50-60% undyed (60-70% dyed), at 2 weeks its 20-30% undyed (30-40% dyed), and is essentially completely hydrolyzed by 91–119 days. When removed from the package, it has a high degree of memory, or coil.
Monocryl™ sutures are made from a polymer material called poliglecaprone 25, a mixture of a glycolide and epilson-caprolactone. The synthetic material is designed to cause minimal damage to soft tissue when the suture is passed through it. This suture is also biodegradable. A Monocryl™ suture is also available in an antibacterial form. These destroy the bacteria that may come into contact with the stitches and inhibit the growth of colonies of naturally occurring bacterium within the wound. This may promote a faster healing time.
Both are absorbable however vicryl is braided and monocryl is non-braided. It is thought that non-braided sutures cause less reactivity in the body and are not as prone to becoming infected because they lack the grooves and rough surface for things to adhere. Non-Braided or Monofilament Sutures have a single strand such as Monocryl, PDS,and Ethilon Nylon. Often times it will be surgeon preference when choosing a braided or non-braided suture. 4-0 vicryl and 4-0 monocryl are by far the most common sutures used from sewing the skin.
Examples of absorbable suture include Monocryl, Vicryl, Chromic, and PDS. The amount of time it takes a suture to break down in the body depends on a few factors such as suture type, size and the location it is placed. Non-Braided or Monofilament Sutures have a single strand such as Monocryl, PDS,and Ethilon Nylon. Often times it will be surgeon preference when choosing a braided or non-braided suture. 4-0 vicryl and 4-0 monocryl are by far the most common sutures used from sewing the skin.
Sutures, stitches and staples are used for the same purpose-to close wounds or surgical incisions-but they are not the same. For sutures, doctors use a thread or strand of material to perform wound closure. Types of Sutures and Stitches. Sutures can be either absorbable or nonabsorbable. Absorbable sutures are intended to be broken down by the body over time and eventually dissolve completely. Some materials used to make absorbable sutures are derived from animal products that have been specially processed.
Most likely they used something called Vicryl or Monocryl for the skin. These take actually a couple of months to fully dissolve. A suture called Chromic, which is highly unlikely that they used that for skin on your abdomen, would dissolve in a few weeks. It takes a while for you skin and tissues below to granulate and form scar tissue which will keep your incision closed. You don't want those stitches dissolving too soon.