Stopping Oracle Net Listener. To stop an Oracle Net listener: Run the following command to determine the listener name and Oracle home directory for the Oracle Net listener that you want to stop: This command displays a list of the Oracle Net listeners running on the system. The output of this command is similar to the following:
Hi. First you have to shut your database like oracle if you have. then on primary node give command smitty clstop to stop cluster. give same command on other node to stop cluster. after few minute it will release vg and service ip. then u can shutdown your server using shutdown-F command. To Restart the server
The IBM® PowerHA® SystemMirror® V7 Cluster software is the next evolution of IBM AIX® clustering. To provide tighter integration with the AIX operating system, a new kernel level layer was developed that is called Cluster Aware AIX (CAA). This IBM® Redbooks® Solution Guide is intended to assist with the rapid deployment of a IBM PowerHA® SystemMirror® V7 cluster by using the new clmgr command-line interface.
Stopping Oracle Net Listener. To stop an Oracle Net listener: Run the following command to determine the listener name and Oracle home directory for the Oracle Net listener that you want to stop: On Mac OS X: On other platforms: This command displays a list of the Oracle Net listeners running on the system.
Move a Resource Group. Depending on the cluster setup, the resource group WILL NOT fail over to the standby server because you have manually offlined the resource. If you want it to fail over, stop the cluster using smitty clstop, or manually online the resource on the other node. [edit] Log files. /tmp/hacmp.out-The default log for hacmp. HACMP cluster nodes can run on different versions of the OS. HACMP can run with different cersions of the cluster software. You might find that when you attempt to patch hacmp, you get errors.
This section demonstrates how to configure two AIX nodes, btcppesrv5 and btcppesrv6, into a HACMP cluster. 1. Configure two AIX nodes to allow the user root to use the rcp and remsh commands between themselves without having to specify a password. 2. Log in as user root on AIX node btcppesrv5. 3. Enter the following command to create an HACMP cluster. # smit hacmp. Perform the following steps.
1. This article describes how to setup a two-nodes-cluster with IBM's standard cluster solution for AIX. Although the name has changed to Power HA with Version 5.5 and to Power HA System Mirror with version 7 IBM's cluster solution is still widely known as HACMP. This article refers to version 5.5. Introduction. This article describes how to setup a two-nodes-cluster with IBM's standard cluster solution for AIX. Although the name has changed to Power HA with Version 5.5 and to Power HA System Mirror with version 7 IBM's cluster solution is still widely known as HACMP. This article refers to version 5.5.
IBM PowerHA (formerly HACMP) is IBM's solution for high-availability clusters on the AIX Unix and Linux for IBM System p platforms and stands for High Availability Cluster Multiprocessing. IBM's HACMP product was first shipped in 1991 and is now in its 20th release-PowerHA SystemMirror for AIX 7.1♦. PowerHA is an RSCT aware client. RSCT is distributed with AIX. RSCT includes a daemon called group services that coordinates the response to events of interest to the cluster (for example, an interface or a node fails, or an administrator makes a change to the cluster configuration).