Dana Point, Calif. in Orange County south of the Los Angeles, has even better weather than L.A., most say. As you stroll the wharf or take a whale watching cruise in the spring to the see the whale migrations off the Pacific Coast, you need a jacket for the breezes. But knowing that the average daytime high in March is around 68 degrees provides an idea of what you are in for--absolutely fabulous weather.
Dana Point sea water temperatures peak in the range 18 to 22°C (64 to 72°F) on around the 5th of September and are at their lowest on about the 3rd of February, in the range 13 to 17°C (55 to 63°F). Statistics for 15 Oct (1981–2005) – mean: 18.5 °C, range: 17.3 °C to 20.2 °C. Warm in and out of the water temperature at Dana Point today, but forecast to be overcast. With sea temperatures of 23 °C and a wind chill of 24 °C, most surfers will choose a shorty or a summer suit or just board shorts.
Dana Point, California, gets 13 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 0 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 35. On average, there are 275 sunny days per year in Dana Point, California. The July high is around 76 degrees. The January low is 43. Our comfort index, which is based on humidity during the hot months, is a 55 out of 100, where higher is more comfortable. The US average on the comfort index is 44.
Dana Point, CA Weather. Dana Point, CA climate is mild during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 60's and cool during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 50's. The warmest month of the year is August with an average maximum temperature of 78.80 degrees Fahrenheit, while the coldest month of the year is December with an average minimum temperature of 43.60 degrees Fahrenheit.
The highest average temperature in San Juan Capistrano is August at 71.7 degrees. The coldest average temperature in San Juan Capistrano is December at 55.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in San Juan Capistrano occurs in February with 2.6 inches. The San Juan Capistrano weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The San Juan Capistrano, CA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The San Juan Capistrano, CA air quality index is 54% greater than the California average and 71% greater than the national average.
California Weather. Dana Point, CA climate is mild during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 60's and cool during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 50's. The warmest month of the year is August with an average maximum temperature of 78.80 degrees Fahrenheit, while the coldest month of the year is December with an average minimum temperature of 43.60 degrees Fahrenheit.
The highest average temperature in Dana Point is August at 71.7 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Dana Point is December at 55.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Dana Point occurs in February with 2.6 inches. The Dana Point weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data.
The summer month have only scant, odd little rain showers that are considered unusual. With the average daytime high temperature never below 67 all year and never above 79 degrees, Dana Point provides dream weather. At night during even the warmest months you may see the temps drop to the average lows of 60 degrees, which is by no means uncomfortable, and actually makes for great sleeping weather. As you stroll the wharf or take a whale watching cruise in the spring to the see the whale migrations off the Pacific Coast, you need a jacket for the breezes. But knowing that the average daytime high in March is around 68 degrees provides an idea of what you are in for--absolutely fabulous weather.
Weather history in other popular US cities: New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, Philadelphia, Phoenix, San Diego. 