A torus is a surface formed by revolving a circle about a line. Often, tori (the plural of torus) are doughnut shaped, as in the main image here. It is formed by revolving a circle about the z-axis. It can also be described as a ring-shaped surface with a hole. A torus with one hole is simply referred to as the torus. A torus with two holes is called the 2-torus or the double torus, one with three holes is the 3-torus or triple torus. A torus with holes is the-torus. Mathematically, we can describe tori using several different equations.
In geometry, a torus (plural tori) is a surface of revolution generated by revolving a circle in three-dimensional space about an axis coplanar with the circle. The flat torus is a torus with the metric inherited from its representation as the quotient, R 2 / L, where L is a discrete subgroup of R 2 isomorphic to Z 2. This gives the quotient the structure of a Riemannian manifold.
The single-holed ring torus is known in older literature as an anchor ring.. It can be constructed from a rectangle by gluing both pairs of opposite edges together with no twists (right figure; Gardner 1971, pp. 15-17; Gray 1997, pp. 323-324). In one dimension, a line bends into circle, giving the 1-torus. In two dimensions, a rectangle wraps to a usual torus, also called the 2-torus. In three dimensions, the cube wraps to form a 3-manifold, or 3-torus. In each case, the-torus is an object that exists in dimension.
Torus palatinus is a benign peculiarity wherein there is a bony outgrowth on the palate. It is a normal bump on the roof of the mouth. It is one of the most common exostosis involving the oral cavity. It is not cancerous, nor it is painful or sore. 
Torus mandibularis (pl. tori mandibulares) (or mandibular torus (pl. mandibular tori) in English) is a bony growth in the mandible along the surface nearest to the tongue. Mandibular tori are usually present near the premolars and above the location of the mylohyoid muscle 's attachment to the mandible. 
Definition of TORUS. 1. : a large molding of convex profile commonly occurring as the lowest molding in the base of a column. 2. : the thickening of a membrane closing a wood-cell pit (as of gymnosperm tracheids) having the secondary cell wall arched over the pit cavity. 3. 
(2,8) torus link. In knot theory, a torus knot is a special kind of knot that lies on the surface of an unknotted torus in R 3. Similarly, a torus link is a link which lies on the surface of a torus in the same way. Each torus knot is specified by a pair of coprime integers p and q. A torus link arises if p and q are not coprime (in which case the number of components is gcd (p, q)). A torus knot is trivial (equivalent to the unknot) if and only if either p or q is equal to 1 or −1. The simplest nontrivial example is the (2,3)-torus knot, also known as the trefoil knot. A torus knot is trivial iff either p or q is equal to 1 or −1. Each nontrivial torus knot is prime and chiral. The (p, q) torus knot is equivalent to the (q, p) torus knot. This can be proved by moving the strands on the surface of the torus, which is nicely illustrated here.
It is a compact 2-manifold of genus 1. The ring torus is one way to embed this space into three-dimensional Euclidean space, but another way to do this is the Cartesian product of the embedding of S 1 in the plane. This produces a geometric object called the Clifford torus, a surface in 4-space. The flat torus is a torus with the metric inherited from its representation as the quotient, R 2 / L, where L is a discrete subgroup of R 2 isomorphic to Z 2. This gives the quotient the structure of a Riemannian manifold.