Delete Browsing History Dialog Box. The temporary Internet files in Internet Explorer 11, sometimes called the cache, are the copies of text, images, and other data from recently viewed websites that are stored on your hard drive. Difficulty: Easy. Time Required: Deleting temporary Internet files in Internet Explorer usually takes less than a minute. Here's How: Open Internet Explorer 11. On the very right-hand side of the browser, click on the gear icon, also called the Tools icon, followed by Safety, and finally Delete browsing history...
To delete the files in the Temporary Internet Files folder yourself, go to the  Let me fix it myself  section. To delete the files in the Temporary Internet Files folder automatically, click the Fix this problem button or link, click Run in the File Download dialog box, and then follow the steps in the Fix it wizard. Microsoft Fix it 50472. Note This wizard may be in English only
1 Under Browsing History, click the Delete button. 2  In the Delete Browsing History window, click the Delete Files button. 3  When asked if you are sure you want to delete all temporary Internet files, click Yes. 4  To close the windows, click Close, then Ok. 5  Open Internet Explorer. 6  Select the Tools menu. 1 In the Delete Browsing History window, click the Delete Files button. 2  When asked if you are sure you want to delete all temporary Internet files, click Yes. 3  To close the windows, click Close, then Ok. 4  Click the Windows Start menu. 5  Select Control Panel, (or Settings and then Control Panel).
To delete the files in the Temporary Internet Files folder automatically, click the Fix this problem button or link, click Run in the File Download dialog box, and then follow the steps in the Fix it wizard. Microsoft Fix it 50472. Note This wizard may be in English only. 1 Exit Internet Explorer. 2  Exit any instances of Windows Explorer. 3  Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Internet Options. 4  On the General tab, click Delete Files under Temporary Internet Files. 5  In the Delete Files dialog box, click to select the Delete all offline content check box. 6  Click OK two times.
1 Windows 7 and Windows Vista. 2  Video: How to delete the contents of the Temporary Internet Files folder in Internet Explorer. 3  uuid= e96148e0-52db-4f55-9637-eb5c1dce1322 VideoLink=. 4  Click Start. , 5  click Control Panel, click Network and Internet, and then click Internet Options. 1 Exit Internet Explorer. 2  Exit any instances of Windows Explorer. 3  Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Internet Options. 4  On the General tab, click Delete Files under Temporary Internet Files. 5  In the Delete Files dialog box, click to select the Delete all offline content check box. 6  Click OK two times.
1 In the Temporary Internet Files section of the Internet Properties window, click the Delete Files... button. 2  A new Delete Files window appears. 3  In the Delete Files window, optionally check the Delete all offline content checkbox to also remove temporary files IE has saved for offline viewing. 4  Click OK. 
1 In the Delete Browsing History window, click the Delete Files button. 2  When asked if you are sure you want to delete all temporary Internet files, click Yes. 3  To close the windows, click Close, then Ok. 4  Open Internet Explorer. 5  Select the Tools menu. 6  Select Internet Options. 7  Select the General tab. 1 In the Delete Browsing History window, click the Delete Files button. 2  When asked if you are sure you want to delete all temporary Internet files, click Yes. 3  To close the windows, click Close, then Ok. 4  Click the Windows Start menu. 5  Select Control Panel, (or Settings and then Control Panel).
1 Video: How to delete the contents of the Temporary Internet Files folder in Internet Explorer. 2  uuid= e96148e0-52db-4f55-9637-eb5c1dce1322 VideoLink=. 3  Click Start. , 4  click Control Panel, click Network and Internet, and then click Internet Options. To delete the files in the Temporary Internet Files folder automatically, click the Fix this problem button or link, click Run in the File Download dialog box, and then follow the steps in the Fix it wizard. Microsoft Fix it 50472.
3. Click the General tab. Click on the Settings button under the Browsing History section. 4. Click on the View Files button. The Internet Explorer history will display in a separate window, pulling data from the Temporary Internet Files folder on your computer. 1  Finding the files manually. 2  You can use the file explorer to navigate to the files on your hard drive without having to use Internet Explorer. 3  Files are typically stored at: C ...
Steps to delete temporary internet files: 1  Download and install Remo MORE application on your computer. 2  Launch it and select  Optimize  option from main window. 3  From the next screen select  Privacy Cleaner  option as shown in. 4  Now, here you have to click on  Clean Browser Junk  option as shown in. 