We have all experienced the pain of a bad PowerPoint presentation. And even though we promise ourselves never to make the same mistakes, we can still fall prey to common design pitfalls. The good news is that your PowerPoint presentation doesn’t have to be ordinary. One framework that can be useful when making design decisions about your PowerPoint slide design is Baddeley and Hitch’s model of working memory. As illustrated in the diagram above, the Central Executive coordinates the work of three systems by organizing the information we hear, see, and store into
2. Create your first slide. If you want a title page for your presentation, you can use the default title page template provided by PowerPoint. If you want to change the format of the slide, you can pick from among the options in the Slide Layout toolbar. 12. When you want to view your presentation as a series of slides, click on the Slide Show tab and then click on From Beginning top left. 1  To filter through your slides, click the left and right arrows on your keypad to go back and forward, respectively.
1) Don’t let PowerPoint decide how you use PowerPoint. Microsoft wanted to provide PowerPoint users with a lot of tools. But this does not mean you should use them all. Here are some key things to look out for: 1  Make sure that preset PPT themes complement your needs before you adopt them. 8) Crop images into custom shapes. Besides creating custom shapes in your presentation, you can also use PowerPoint to crop existing images into new shapes. Here's how you do that: 1  Click on the image and select Format in the options bar. 2  Choose Crop, then Mask to Shape, and then choose your desired shape.
If you're wanting to make a much better presentation than PowerPoint—or Prezi—could ever allow, though, these tools are perfect. They'll let you put together a hand-drawn animated video in minutes, ready to show off your ideas better than bullet points ever could. Or maybe you're pitching something to a brand new client and you're looking to make an impact. You know they've heard other proposals, and you want yours to stand out from the rest. Or maybe, you're struggling to figure out how to get a PowerPoint presentation to look nice in the first place. We've already looked at the absolute basics of making a presentation, and seen how you can make a presentation in any app. But perhaps you want more
NOTE: This is aimed more towards people in middle/highschool who have to do presentation assignments and stuff. This is by no means how you MUST do your presentations. This is just to guide some people away from just using a professional looking template in powerpoint. 
No matter what the topic, a PowerPoint presentation can help you communicate an idea to an audience. Learn the basics before proceeding. These methods will teach you how to create a presentation from a PowerPoint template or create a fully customized presentation. Here are some steps to get you started. 12. When you want to view your presentation as a series of slides, click on the Slide Show tab and then click on From Beginning top left. 1  To filter through your slides, click the left and right arrows on your keypad to go back and forward, respectively.
You know the drill: fire up PowerPoint, or Keynote, create some slides, try some new fonts, maybe play with a new template. And yet, you're still feeling unenthused. You want something new, something different. Maybe you're putting together the monthly sales report, and you're presenting it to your bosses yet again. Or maybe you're pitching something to a brand new client and you're looking to make an impact. You know they've heard other proposals, and you want yours to stand out from the rest. Or maybe, you're struggling to figure out how to get a PowerPoint presentation to look nice in the first place. We've already looked at the absolute basics of making a presentation, and seen how you can make a presentation in any app. But perhaps you want more
Create a presentation. Click the File tab, and then click New. Do one of the following: Click Blank Presentation, and then click Create. Apply a template or theme, either from those built-in with PowerPoint 2010, or downloaded from Office.com. See Find and apply a template in this article. Save a presentation. Click the File tab, and then click Save As. In the File name box, type a name for your PowerPoint presentation, and then click Save. Note By default, PowerPoint 2010 saves files in the PowerPoint Presentation (.pptx) file format. To save your presentation in a format other than .pptx, click the Save as type list, and then select the file format that you want