Report Abuse. It should take you four years before you are fully qualified as an electrician. You will be making no less than $32,000 a year with an average salary range of $48,000. Your earnings will even grow further by becoming a master electrician. Basically, I am at a University and now I want to begin trade school to become an electrician. I want to know how long does it take to become to finish the program, how long does it take to become a master electrician, and if my math and english credits will transfer to a trade school. Also, Is an electricians...
Becoming a fully licensed electrician is a great goal and is a fantastic career choice for anyone. The industry is constantly expanding and there will be a huge need for trained and experienced electricians within the next 10-15 years. That being said, training to become an electrician does take quite a bit of time. Although it varies, depending on the contract, the average apprenticeship lasts between 3 and 5 years. During this time you will learn important and practical on the job skills that you absolutely need to succeed as a career electrician. You will also be required to take courses on electrical theory.
Before asking the question that how long does it take to become an electrician, one must work under a licensed electrician for a good year to get a hold of all the tricks and techniques. This is the right way of learning and becoming a professional and licensed electrician. Over all the process usually takes 5 years of apprenticeship and a requirement of working under a licensed electrician for at least 1 or 1.5 years to become a licensed electrician. A total of 144 hours of training, studies inside a classroom environment and you will have to do 2,000 hours of an on-ground duty with a trained
1 Since it will take 3, 4 or more years to become a journeyman electrician, it is best to start young. 2  Vocational / technical high school education is ideal for many trade occupations, due to the amount of time needed to become proficient and knowledgeable electrician. 3  With that, solid wages and benefits follow. 
3. Enter an electrician apprentice program. Most states require at least two years, and in most cases up to four years, of apprenticeship with a master or licensed electrician before one can take the examination to become a licensed electrician. During an apprenticeship, one earns the title of journeyman electrician.
Step 4. Apply to take the master electrician exam in your state after you have met the experience requirements. In most states, you can also take an exam to become a licensed master electrician in a number of specialty areas such as signs, alarms or telecommunications. Those experience requirements still will apply.
depends on how long it takes you to learn. you can go to a trade high school or college and take the trade for 4 years and come out making some good dough, and already have ye … ars of being an apprentice. No. A journeyman is an electrician that has completed his four year apprenticeship (four years of experience and four periods of schooling). This allows him to legally … complete jobs with permits that are to be inspected for compliance with the electrical code.
At the end of your apprenticeship you will need to take a state exam in order to obtain your electricians license. Check out the requirements in your state. Once you’ve passed the exam you will be a licensed electrician and will qualify for standard pay rates rather than the 40-70% you earned as an apprentice. Although it varies, depending on the contract, the average apprenticeship lasts between 3 and 5 years. During this time you will learn important and practical on the job skills that you absolutely need to succeed as a career electrician. You will also be required to take courses on electrical theory.