Carisoprodol is a muscle relaxer commonly prescribed for the treatment of pain resulting from muscle spasms and injuries. Prescribed use is kept as short as possible to prevent carisoprodol dependence. However, if carisoprodol is used for an extended period of time or in greater than recommended doses, carisoprodol addiction treatment may become necessary to avoid a period of withdrawal when the drug usage ceases. Carisoprodol, sold under the brand names Soma and Vanadom, is often used with physical therapy for the relief of musculoskeletal pain. Taken as prescribed, carisoprodol blocks the sensation of pain sent from the patient's nerves to the brain.
WHY is this medicine prescribed? Carisoprodol, a muscle relaxant, is used with rest, physical therapy, and other measures to relax muscles and relieve pain and discomfort caused by strains, sprains, and other muscle injuries. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information.
Carisoprodol is used to relax certain muscles in your body and relieve the discomfort caused by acute (short-term), painful muscle or bone conditions. However, this medicine does not take the place of rest, exercise, physical therapy, or other treatments that your doctor may recommend for your medical condition. 
Carisoprodol is used short-term to treat muscle pain and discomfort. It is usually used along with rest, physical therapy, and other treatments. It works by helping to relax the muscles. Side Effects. Dizziness, drowsiness, or headache may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects.
9 Reviews. Carisoprodol is the generic form of the prescription drug Soma, which is used to relax muscles and help alleviate pain from muscle spasms. Carisoprodol belongs to a group of drugs known as muscle relaxants. It was originally approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2007. Soma is manufactured by Meda Pharmaceuticals.
Carisoprodol is used short-term to treat muscle pain and discomfort. It is usually used along with rest, physical therapy, and other treatments. It works by helping to relax the muscles. 
Carisoprodol is a centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxant of the carbamate class and produces all the effects associated with barbiturate receptor ligands. It is slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in ethanol, chloroform and acetone. The drug's solubility is practically independent of pH. Carisoprodol is manufactured and marketed in the United States by Meda Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Soma, and in the United Kingdom and other countries under the brand names Sanoma and Carisoma.
Soma (Carisoprodol). Soma is the trade name for the prescription drug carisoprodol. Carisoprodol is a centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxant that is a colorless, crystalline powder with a bitter taste. Soma is sold under the name Sanoma or Carisoma in other countries. Carisoprodol is available by itself or mixed with aspirin or codeine and caffeine (Soma compound with codeine).
Carisoprodol is used to relax certain muscles in your body and relieve the discomfort caused by acute (short-term), painful muscle or bone conditions. However, this medicine does not take the place of rest, exercise, physical therapy, or other treatments that your doctor may recommend for your medical condition. 