The name Amethyst is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Amethyst is: Jewel. Also 'Against intoxication.' A purple or violet gemstone. According to ancient Greek superstition an amethyst protected its owner against the effects of strong drink. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 3. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Amethyst (disambiguation) . Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. drunkenness Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions.
Amethyst Gemstone meaning. Crystalline quartz in shades of purple, lilac or mauve is called amethyst, a stone traditionally worn to guard against drunkeness and to instill a sober mind. The word amethyst comes from the Greek meaning without drunkenness and amethyst is believed to protect one from poison. 
Amethyst comes from the Greek word amethustos, which translates to not drunken. The name comes from a story in Greek mythology when Dionysus swore revenge on all mortals who … did not celebrate by getting drunk. 2 people found this useful. The clear dark purple color is the one that is in most demand. It is also found in blue purple range.It is also ontarios rock    Violet Quartz   Amethyst (SiO2) is a violet or purple variety of quartz often used as an ornament.
Amethyst gets its name from two Greek words “A” means ‘not’ and “Methustos” means’ intoxicated’. This gemstone is popular with the name Jamunia in India. With the hardness of 7 on the Moh’s Scale of hardness, this gemstone is mainly mined in Sri Lanka, Africa, Australia, Uruguay, India, Brazil and South America. 
Amethyst gets its name from the Greek word amethustos, meaning not drunken. It comes from a mythological story of the God Dionysus and his tormenting of a young girl named A … methyst. The clear dark purple color is the one that is in most demand. It is also found in blue purple range.It is also ontarios rock    Violet Quartz   Amethyst (SiO2) is a violet or purple variety of quartz often used as an ornament.
The name comes from the Greek a (not) and methuskein (to intoxicate), a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from drunkenness; the ancient Greeks and Romans wore amethyst and made drinking vessels of it in the belief that it would prevent intoxication. The clear dark purple color is the one that is in most demand. It is also found in blue purple range.It is also ontarios rock    Violet Quartz   Amethyst (SiO2) is a violet or purple variety of quartz often used as an ornament.
Amethyst is called Jamunia in Hindi. At many places it is known as Billor. It is worn as substitute of Blue Sapphire. This substitute is found in abundance in nature. It is colorless. The Amethyst with dark color in the center is considered to be the best. Hence, it is called as Jamunia. Amethyst is also seen to have redness in purple color or with hue of blue color. This sub-stone is considered unique and equally attractive.
WHAT IS AMETHYST MEANING. Amethyst is a type of quartz stones. Its characterized by a violet color, which can vary from dark purple to pink. Russian writer Alexander Kuprin noted that the amethyst color resembles violets blossoming in the woods at the foot of the Libyan mountains.
You have searched the English word Amethyst meaning in Urdu نیلم یاقوت Neelam Yaqoot. Amethyst meaning has been search 44612 (forty-four thousand six hundred and twelve) times till 10/20/2015. You can also find Amethyst meaning and Translation in Urdu, Arabic, Hindi, Spanish, French and other languages. 