As the biggest carved stone Buddha in the world, the Leshan Giant Buddha is featured in poetry, song and story. The sculpture stands about 71 meters (233 feet) high and has three meter (11 feet) long fingers on each of its enormous resting hands. Today it is a popular tourist attraction in China. The Buddha statue situated at the center of an artificial lake in the city of Hyderabad is one of India’s most famous Buddha statues. This figure stands at a full 17 meters (56 feet) tall and weighs 320 tons.
Finished in 1995, the figure is the 3rd largest statue in the world, standing a total of 120 meters (394 feet) high including the 10m (30 ft) base and a 10m (30 ft) high lotus platform. Visitors to the Buddha statue can take an elevator to a platform where an observation deck is situated. The Laykyun Setkyar is the second tallest statue in the world at 130 meters including a 13.5 meter throne. It was built on top of Po Kaung Hills near the city of Monywa in central Myanmar. At its foot lies the largest reclining Buddha statue in the world.
Finished in 1995, the figure is one of the world’s tallest statues, standing a total of 120 meters (394 feet) high including the 10m (30 foot) base and 10m high lotus platform. Visitors to the Buddha statue can take an elevator to a platform where an observation deck is situated. The Buddha statue situated at the center of an artificial lake in the city of Hyderabad is one of India’s most famous Buddha statues. This figure stands at a full 17 meters (56 feet) tall and weighs 320 tons.
The biggest Buddha statue in the world will soon begin to rise in India's poorest state, Bihar. Construction of the vast image, which will stand nearly twice as high as America's Statue of Liberty, is due to begin in September and be completed in 2005. Printer Friendly. Email to a Friend. 
Ushiku Daibutsu. For centuries the Great Buddha statues in Kamakura and Nara reigned supreme as the largest bronze statues in Japan. Although the Daibutsu of Nara, cast 2,000 years ago by orders of the Emperor Shomu, was Japan’s largest at 50 feet, I have always been partial to the Daibutsu of Kamakura, cast in 1252. Standing Buddha in Japan is one of the tallest Buddha statues in the world. Spring Buddha Temple is the tallest standing buddha statue as well as
Not far from the city of Chengdu in Sichuan Province, China, sits the Leshan Giant Buddha statue. Carved into the side of Mt. Lingyun, the colossal statue is over 1,300-years-old and is considered to be the largest stone Buddha in the world, and by far the tallest pre-modern statue. As the biggest carved stone Buddha in the world, Dafo is featured in Chinese poetry, song and story. For the ancient Chinese, building a statue of this size and stature was a way of thanking their gods.
The Spring Temple Buddha is the largest statue in the world. The total height of the monument is 153 meter (502 ft) including a 20 meter (66 ft) lotus throne and a 25 meter (82 ft) building. Construction of the Spring Temple Buddha was planned soon after the Bamiyan Buddhas were blown up by the Taliban in Afghanistan. The Laykyun Setkyar is the second tallest statue in the world at 130 meters including a 13.5 meter throne. It was built on top of Po Kaung Hills near the city of Monywa in central Myanmar. At its foot lies the largest reclining Buddha statue in the world.
The World's Biggest Buddhas. The image of the Buddha is one of the world's most familiar icons, representing wisdom and compassion. From time to time, people have been moved to erect really big buddhas. Some of these are among the largest statues in the world. Which of the giant buddhas of Asia is the biggest? Some say it's the Leshan Buddha of Sichuan Province, China, a seated stone giant 233 feet (71 meters) tall. 
It is the largest stone Buddha in the world and it is by far the tallest pre-modern statue in the world. The Mount Emei Scenic Area, including Leshan Giant Buddha Scenic Area has been listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996. At 71 metres (233 ft) tall, the statue depicts a seated Maitreya Buddha with his hands resting on his knees. His shoulders are 28 metres wide and his smallest toenail is large enough to easily accommodate a seated person.