A drainage basin or catchment basin is an extent or an area of land where surface water from rain, melting snow, or ice converges to a single point at a lower elevation, usually the exit of the basin, where the waters join another waterbody, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland, sea, or ocean. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.
Purpose. A drainage basin is an area of land where water from rain or snow melt drains downhill into a body of water such as a river, lake, wetland or ocean. The drainage basin includes both the streams and rivers that convey the water as well as the land surface from which water drains into those channels. 
GCSE Revision-Rivers-Drainage Basins & Processes. Rivers begin in upland areas and flow downhill, becoming deeper and wider until they reach the sea. Opposite is a typical diagram of a drainage basin and it shows its main feature. A drainage basin is part of the water cycle where water is transferred in a continuous cycle between the sea, atmosphere and the land. As the river flows downstream its characteristics change through the three main sections of. Drainage Basin-The area drained by a river and its tributaries. River Processes. Erosion is the wearing away of the riverbed and banks .It can involve the wearing away of rocks and particles being carried by a river.
River Basins. A river basin is an area of land drained by a river and its tributaries. River basins have typical features, these include: Tributaries-smaller rivers flowing into a larger river. A Watershed-an area of highland surrounding the river basin. A confluence-where a river joins another river. Source-the start of a river
River drainage basins. A river basin or drainage basin is an area of land drained by a river and its tributaries [tributary: Streams or rivers which join another river.] . The edge of the drainage basin is known as the watershed [watershed: The place that divides two river basins.] 
The drainage basin includes both the streams and rivers that convey the water as well as the land surfaces from which water drains into those channels, and is separated from adjacent basins by a drainage divide. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.
Purpose. A drainage basin is an area of land where water from rain or snow melt drains downhill into a body of water such as a river, lake, wetland or ocean. The drainage basin includes both the streams and rivers that convey the water as well as the land surface from which water drains into those channels. 
Drainage Basin. A drainage basin is an area of land that contributes the water it receives as precipitation to a river or network of rivers. A drainage basin is an area of land that contributes the water it receives as precipitation to a river or network of rivers. Drainage basins are defined by topographical features, called drainage divides, which determine the direction the water flow
Drainage Basins. A drainage basin, or catchment as it is also called, is the part of the land surface that is drained by a single river system. Most precipitation that falls on a drainage basin will eventually reach a main river and flow to the sea. A drainage divide, on either side of which water will flow to separate basins, marks the perimeter of a catchment. The characteristics of such a basin, that is, the size, shape, vegetation cover, soil, and bedrock, determine how fast rainfall reaches a main river and the frequency and severity of flooding.
Each drainage basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a perimeter, the drainage divide making up a succession of higher geographical features (such as a ridge, hill or mountains) forming a barrier. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.