The Great Pyramid of Giza (also known as the Pyramid of Khufu or the Pyramid of Cheops) is the oldest and largest of the three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis bordering what is now El Giza, Egypt. It is the oldest of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, and the only one to remain largely intact. It is thought that, at construction, the Great Pyramid was originally 280 Egyptian cubits tall (146.5 metres (480.6 ft)), but with erosion and absence of its pyramidion, its present height is 138.8 metres (455.4 ft). Each base side was 440 cubits, 230.4 metres (755.9 ft) long.
The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdom to the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The three largest and best-preserved of these were built at Giza at the beginning of the Old Kingdom. The most well-known of these pyramids was built for the pharaoh Khufu. It is known as the 'Great Pyramid'. 
Constructed between 2589 and 2504 B.C., the Egyptian pyramids of Khufu, Khafre and Menkaure, built in that order, are a testament to ancient planning and engineering. How these pyramids were built is a source of speculation and debate. 
It is believed the pyramid was built as a tomb for Fourth Dynasty Egyptian pharaoh Khufu (often Hellenicised as Cheops) and was constructed over a 20-year period. Khufu's vizier, Hemon, or Hemiunu, is believed by some to be the architect of the Great Pyramid. It is thought that, at construction, the Great Pyramid was originally 280 Egyptian cubits tall (146.5 metres (480.6 ft)), but with erosion and absence of its pyramidion, its present height is 138.8 metres (455.4 ft). Each base side was 440 cubits, 230.4 metres (755.9 ft) long.
The largest and most well-known pyramids in Egypt are the Pyramids at Giza, including the Great Pyramid of Giza designed for Pharaoh Khufu. For centuries, people have theorized how the great pyramids were built. 
Depends on the pyramid and the period it was built. The stone  blocks used on the Step Pyramid of Djoser weighed on average 0.5  ton. The Great pyramid at Giza an average bl … ocks weighed in at 2.5  tons although some weighed up to 70 tons. Later pyramids were often  made from mud brick. Answer by 2599112328U. Because it was built in honor of a pharaoh and he wanted it to be big so he would be remembered. It was also tall so that the deceased pharaoh could reach Ra, the god of the sun in the sky.
The most famous Egyptian pyramids are those found at Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu at Giza is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence. 
The average height of pyramids is somewhere around 100 feet to 200 feet. The biggest in the world today is called Khufu's Pyramid, which is part of the world-famous Egyptian P … yramids. It is popularly known as the Great Pyramid of Giza, which measures 450 high and covers approximately 13 acres of land. Answer by 2599112328U. Because it was built in honor of a pharaoh and he wanted it to be big so he would be remembered. It was also tall so that the deceased pharaoh could reach Ra, the god of the sun in the sky.
The Great Pyramid of Giza was built for the Fourth Dynasty Pharaoh Khufu (or Cheops), and was completed around 2560 B.C. It is part of a complex of 3 large pyramids in the Giza Necropolis located in modern Cairo, Egypt. The Great Pyramid is the largest of the three pyramids, and it is part of its own smaller complex that also contain 3 small pyramids that were built for Khufu's wives. There is no wonder why the Great Pyramid of Giza was on the list of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. It is a testament to human ingenuity and strength, and its size and near-perfect proportions must have been awe-inspiring to behold.