Developed from the Federal Government’s ILR scale by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, the ACTFL proficiency scale has 4 main levels (Novice, Intermediate, Advanced and Superior. The first three levels are each subdivided into 3 sub-levels (Low, Mid and High). The ACTFL scale provides a great deal of definition, especially at the lower levels of proficiency usually achieved in foreign language learning. It is widely used in many arenas, but particularly in academia.
Entitlement to Foreign Language Proficiency Pay (FLPP) is established for officers and enlisted members receiving basic pay and certified by the individual service secretary to be proficient in foreign language. Each service secretary certifies FLPP annually based on: 1  Qualifications in a career linguist duty specialty. 
Entitlement to Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus (FLPB) is established for officers and enlisted members receiving basic pay and certified by the individual service secretary to be proficient in foreign language or dialect. Each service secretary certifies FLPP annually based on: 
Proficiency is commonly measured using guidelines developed by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). The ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines measure proficiency on a scale of ten levels: Novice Low, Mid, and High; Intermediate Low, Mid, and High; Advanced Low, Mid, and High; and Superior. Assessments for World Languages Washington students are not required to take any statewide tests in world languages, but the World Languages Program can provide technical assistance to schools and districts that would like to assess their students’ language proficiency.
1 Vocabulary-The set of words in a given language that a speaker is familiar with, which can be subdivided into: a) words which are recognized upon hearing or reading; and b) words which a person feels comfortable using in speech. 1 ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines ACTFL recognises ten different levels of proficiency: novice, intermediate, advanced, and superior, of which the first three are each subdivided into low, mid, and high. 2  Common European Framework of Reference for Languages CEFR recognises six levels: A1, A2, B1, B2, C1 and C2.
It is the standard grading scale for language proficiency in the Federal service. It was originally developed by the Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR), which included representation by United States Foreign Service Institute, the predecessor of the National Foreign Affairs Training Center (NFATC). It grades people's language proficiency on a scale of 0-5. The designation 0+, 1+, 2+, 3+, or 4+ is assigned when proficiency substantially exceeds one skill level and does not fully meet the criteria for the next level. This totals 11 possible grades. ILR Level 3 – Professional working proficiency [edit]. Professional working proficiency is rated 3 on the scale. Level 3 is what is usually used to measure how many people in the world know a given language.
We provide the opportunity for you to test your proficiency level in various foreign languages. We have based this test on the standard grammar and vocabulary that you would find in any language-learning materials. We offer these tests for self-evaluation purposes only. Unlike achievement tests or other kinds of tests, proficiency tests are not dependent on particular class content, course materials, or language software programs. Instead, a proficiency test is intended to measure your command of a language regardless of your background in that language.
Characteristics of Proficiency-Oriented Language Instruction Proficiency-oriented language instruction is a general framework for organizing instruction, curriculum, and assessment, rather than a method or a theory. 
As the exclusive licensee of the American Council for the Teaching of Foreign Languages, only LTI can offer you the highest standard of excellence, accuracy and reliability in a foreign language proficiency exam. 
Language proficiency or linguistic proficiency is the ability of an individual to speak or perform in an acquired language. As theories among pedagogues as to what constitutes proficiency go, there is little consistency as to how different organizations classify it. Additionally, fluency and language competence are generally recognized as being related, but separate controversial subjects. 1 ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines ACTFL recognises ten different levels of proficiency: novice, intermediate, advanced, and superior, of which the first three are each subdivided into low, mid, and high. 2  Common European Framework of Reference for Languages CEFR recognises six levels: A1, A2, B1, B2, C1 and C2.