Fecal or Faecal Microbiota Transplant FMT is the process of implanting the beneficial intestinal bacteria and yeasts from a healthy donor into the gut of a person who is lacking the essential Microflora they need for their gut to function properly. 
Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT) is often referred to as stool transplant. It has also been called fecal transfusion, fecal transplant, fecal enema and human probiotic infusion (HPI). The process involves transplantation of fecal bacteria from a healthy donor to a suffering patient. 
The FMT files that are associated with FoxPro specify data formats that are used by the language and are used to validate data that has been entered into associated FoxPro tables. The Microsoft Schedule+ software application has also been known to use the .fmt file suffix. These FMT files contain print files that are to be printed from the Schedule+ software. The Sandisk Sansa portable media player also uses the .fmt file extension. These FMT files are format files that are used by the Sansa for playback of audio recordings.
The purpose of fecal transplant is to replace good bacteria that has been killed or suppressed, usually by the use of antibiotics, causing bad bacteria, specifically Clostridium difficile, or C. diff., to over-populate the colon. Fecal transplant has been used in the U.S., sporadically since the 1950′s, without much regulation. It has gained popularity in the U.S. in the past few years, although experts estimate that total number of treatments to date in the U.S. remains below 500 patients.
Fecal Microbiota Transplant. Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT) is a procedure in which fecal matter, or stool, is collected from a tested donor, mixed with a saline or other solution, strained, and placed in a patient, by colonoscopy, endoscopy, sigmoidoscopy, or enema. Fecal transplant has been used in the U.S., sporadically since the 1950′s, without much regulation. It has gained popularity in the U.S. in the past few years, although experts estimate that total number of treatments to date in the U.S. remains below 500 patients.
FMT, also called fecal transplant, and known as a stool transplant is the process of transplanting fecal bacteria from a healthy individual into a recipient as a treatment for Clostridium difficile infection (C.diff) . Clostridium difficile produces side effects that range from diarrhea to pseudomembranous colitis. However, the recent position by specialists in infectious diseases and other societies is moving away from fecal transplant as a last-resort treatment and toward acceptance of FMT as standard therapy for relapsing C.diff.
Files that contain the .fmt file extension are most commonly associated with the FoxPro data-centric programming language. These FMT files contain print files that are to be printed from the Schedule+ software. The Sandisk Sansa portable media player also uses the .fmt file extension. These FMT files are format files that are used by the Sansa for playback of audio recordings.
Beginning in 2000, hypervirulent strains of C. Diff. have emerged, which seem to be linked to antibiotics that are commonly used in empiric treatments. FMT is also referred to as fecal bacteriotherapy, fecal transfusion, fecal transplant, stool transplant, fecal enema and human probiotic infusion. FMT involves restoration of the colonic flora by introducing healthy bacterial flora through infusion of stool, obtained from a healthy human donor. However, the recent position by specialists in infectious diseases and other societies is moving away from fecal transplant as a last-resort treatment and toward acceptance of FMT as standard therapy for relapsing C.diff.
Your body has a lot of necessary (good) bacteria in its gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT) involves taking stool from a healthy person and transferring it into a person suffering from a disease caused by reduced amounts of the necessary (good) bacteria.
Fecal microbiota transplantation or FMT is the transfer of fecal material containing bacteria and natural antibacterials from a healthy individual into a diseased recipient. FMT involves restoration of the colonic microflora by introducing healthy bacterial flora through infusion of stool, e.g. by enema, orogastric tube or orally in the form of a capsule containing freeze-dried material, obtained from a healthy donor.