The price of prosciutto varies greatly depending on the manufacturer and where it is made. Some American made prosciuttos can be found for as low as $13 per pound whereas Prosciutto de Parma can fetch up to $30 per pound. Pre-sliced and packaged prosciutto is also sometimes sold with the prepackaged deli meats. 
Prosciutto di Parma is typically sold as a boneless leg aged 14 to 30 months. It may also be sold bone-in or pre-sliced and packaged. A typical boneless leg weighs between 15 and 17 pounds and will yield an 85 to 90 percent servable portion. By this definition, Prosciutto di Parma is the gold standard of Italian prosciutto and it has been for centuries: Parma ham has been crafted with the same painstaking care since Roman times.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Prosciutto can be kept in the refrigerator for forty days according to the website of the consortium of prosciutto di Parma producers. If your refrigerator is kept shut and only opened briefly to retrieve items and remains below 41 degrees you can store it for up to 7 days. If spoilage occurs after the … second day, send it to the bin, food is not bound by time.
My husband just scored a whole boneless Prosciutto di Parma that had been stored for about four months in a refrigerator. He has trimmed the outside by 1\4 inch or so. It has as a distinct aroma and a soft chewy slightly salt\sweet taste. 
The two famous types of Italian prosciutto crudo are: prosciutto crudo di Parma, from Parma, and prosciutto crudo di San Daniele, from the San Daniele del Friuli area, in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region. Prosciutto may also be made using the hind leg of other animals, in which case the name of the animal is included in the name of the product, for example prosciutto cotto d'agnello (lamb prosciutto). The process of making prosciutto can take from nine months to two years, depending on the size of the ham.
I've had some parma prosciutto for a month -- texture is fine, smell is fine. Is it ok? 
1 It takes time to prepare prosciutto. 2 days for bleeding, 10 days in a flavoured brine and at least 365 spent drying. 2  If you cut anything short you will end up with a prosciutto that is either too wet or too dry. 3  Don’t be afraid of mould. 