The Great Dismal Swamp is located in northeastern North Carolina and southern Virginia. It is a mixture of waterways, swamps, and marshes. Unlike most swamps, it is not located near a river. It is a coastal plain swamp. Trees like cypress, black gum, juniper, and water ash are common. Animals commonly found in the Great Dismal Swamp include black bears, white-tailed deer, opossums, raccoons, and cottonmouth snakes.
Natchez Trace. Cypress Swamp is located on the Natchez Trace Parkway at milepost 122.0. Water tupelo and bald cypress trees can live in deep water for long periods. After taking root in summer when the swamp is nearly dry, the seedlings can stay alive in water deep enough to kill other plants.
Cypress swamp vegetation: The dominant canopy vegetation in cypress wetlands includes bald cypress and water tupelo trees. Pond cypress and black gum trees are also common on the uplands of the Southeastern coastal plain.
The Great Dismal Swamp is located in northeastern North Carolina and southern Virginia. It is a mixture of waterways, swamps and marshes. Unlike most swamps, it is not located near a river. It is a coastal plain swamp. Trees like cypress, black gum, juniper, and water ash are common. Animals commonly found in the Great Dismal Swamp include black bears, white-tailed deer, opossum, raccoons, cottonmouth snakes.
Cypress swamps are found in the southern United States. They are named for the bald cypress tree. Bald cypress trees are deciduous trees with needle-like leaves. They have very wide bases and  knees  that grow from their roots and stick up out of the water. Bald cypress trees can grow to 100 to 120 feet tall.
Cypress swamps are found in the southern United States. They are named for the bald cypress tree. Bald cypress trees are deciduous trees with needle-like leaves. They have very wide bases and  knees  that grow from their roots and stick up out of the water. Bald cypress trees can grow to 100 to 120 feet tall.
Well-known cypress swamps: Florida's Big Cypress Swamp, located south of the Florida Everglades, is one of the largest cypress swamps in the U.S. The area spans 5,000 square kilometers of cypress domes, dwarf cypress and cypress strands (including Corkscrew Swamp).