Yes we have at least two special angels. Our guardian angel is the one who is exclusively responsible in watching over us, guiding us, our constant companion and a true friend and the other angel is the working to help us to feels god’s love, mercy and god thought/message for us. Find out the name of your Guardian Angel. We have 7 seven Angels assigned for each day. 1. St. Michael – Sunday = is the Commander-in-Chief of all the hierarchies of the Heavenly Hosts. His name was the war-cry of the good angels in the battle fought in heaven against the enemy and his followers that defeated Lucifer.
Guardian Angels, Who is my Guardian Angel. Guardian Angel – a messenger of God, it’s the angel assigned for a particular person to protect, guide and guard, the concept of tutelary angels and their hierarchy was extensively developed in Christianity in the 5th century by Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite. Find out the name of your Guardian Angel. We have 7 seven Angels assigned for each day. 1. St. Michael – Sunday = is the Commander-in-Chief of all the hierarchies of the Heavenly Hosts. His name was the war-cry of the good angels in the battle fought in heaven against the enemy and his followers that defeated Lucifer.
Miscellaneous Information: Cassiel, (Hebrew: Kafziel) Speed of God is the latin name of an angel in post-biblical Judeo-Christian mythology, particularly that of the Cabbala. Unlike many other angels, Cassiel is known for simply watching the events of the cosmos unfold with little interference. 
Unlike many other angels, Cassiel is known for simply watching the events of the cosmos unfold with little interference. He is the angel of solitude and tears, and is said to preside over the deaths of kings. He is often included in lists as being one of the seven archangels and often associated with the Seventh Heaven. In rabbinic literature, the Kabbalah is the only text to relate the identity of angels with souls. Tradition differs as to how many classes of angels exist although all relate the number of angel classes to the heavens in a one-to-one ratio. One of the older and most common views, divides angels into seven classes.
In Judaism, Samael is said to be the angel of death, one of the seven archangels, the ruler over the Fifth Heaven, and commander of two million angels. Yalkut Shimoni (I, 110) presents Samael as Esau's guardian angel. According to The Ascension of Moses Samael is also mentioned as being in 7th Heaven: Rabbinical writings describe Samael as the guardian angel of Esau and a patron of Edom (or, the Roman empire). He is considered in Talmudic texts to be a member of the heavenly host (with often grim and destructive duties).
In Jewish mysticism and Mesopotamian mythology, Cassiel is associated with the planet Saturn and the direction north. He is the controller of the moon ,the karma and time. In the magical text Berit Menuchah, Cassiel is associated with Kefitzat Haderech, the ability to travel quickly through space. In rabbinic literature, the Kabbalah is the only text to relate the identity of angels with souls. Tradition differs as to how many classes of angels exist although all relate the number of angel classes to the heavens in a one-to-one ratio. One of the older and most common views, divides angels into seven classes.
1 In the television show Supernatural, the character Castiel, is an Angel of the Lord. 2  Despite being purportedly based on Cassiel, Castiel is more associated with Thursday as opposed to Saturday like Cassiel. 3  He first appears in season 4 of the show. In rabbinic literature, the Kabbalah is the only text to relate the identity of angels with souls. Tradition differs as to how many classes of angels exist although all relate the number of angel classes to the heavens in a one-to-one ratio. One of the older and most common views, divides angels into seven classes.
Cassiel (Hebrew קפציאל Qafsiel Kaziel) is the Latin name of an archangel in post-biblical Judeo-Christian religion, particularly that of the Kabbalah. In rabbinic literature, the Kabbalah is the only text to relate the identity of angels with souls. Tradition differs as to how many classes of angels exist although all relate the number of angel classes to the heavens in a one-to-one ratio. One of the older and most common views, divides angels into seven classes.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cassiel The angel for Saturday March 4, 1989 Cassiel is the ruling Prince of the Seventh Heaven who appears as the Angel of Temperance and Prince of the Order of Powers. The Angel of Saturn is said to bind together the unity of the Eternal Kingdom. Cassiel is the Angel ruling over games of chance and luck, and as such can become a source of our good fortune. Cassiel is a patron Angel for the investor, stock broker, or gambler. Self-discipline and temperance are the two sources of good fortune, or luck, and when they are lacking, bring our sadness and anger.