Transplant Shock Symptoms. Transplanting key lime trees causes the plant stress even when you do everything correctly. Symptoms of transplant shock include wilting or yellowing leaves, retarded growth, dieback, premature leaf drop or any combination of these. Transplant shock can be fatal if left untreated. Recovery can take weeks or months, and the key lime may produce few if any fruit until it fully recovers. Transplant shock is often caused by problems with roots being injured during transplanting, planting too shallowly or too deeply or improper irrigation.
If you need to transplant your lime tree, it would be wise to do it now before the weather warms up. Have the area where you are going transplant it to ready by digging the hole twice the size of the rootball you have taken. Pick a spot that is in full sun and protected from strong winds.
Key lime fruit production may be drastically reduced by transplant shock. Transplanting trees seems like a straightforward process -- dig a hole, set the tree in it and fill the hole with dirt. Successfully transplanting key lime trees (Citrus aurantifolia) requires careful planning and thought to avoid transplant shock, however.
To lessen the stress on your lime tree when tranplanting, you can spray the tree with a Yates product called Droughtshield. This product will improve the tree’s survival and recovery after transplanting by reducing water loss by up to 50%.
There is an excellent book on Citrus by Alan Gilbert that explains in detail how to transplant an older citrus tree. The book is called Citrus A Guide to Organic Management, Propagation, Pruning, Pest Control and Harvesting.
When taking the lime tree out of the ground, take as large a root ball as is possible. Lift the root ball with soil attached onto a sheet of plastic and carry it to its new location in your garden. Place the tree into the hole and backfill with the existing soil.
Planting citrus. The smaller the tree the easier it is to plant and the less risk you will have of transplant shock problems. Small trees means 15 gallon containers or smaller. Dig a hole twice the diameter of your container and the same depth.