Instructions to remove Open Broadcaster Software with advanced uninstall tool: 1  Download the program here and install it on your computer. 2  Launch the uninstaller, find and select Open Broadcaster Software application on the installed program list. 3  Click Analyze icon to start the first stage of removal. If you are Windows 7 users: 1  Click on Windows button at the bottom-left corner of the desktop. 2  Select Control Panel, and click on Uninstall a program. 3  Find and locate Open Broadcaster Software on the list of installed programs. 4  Right click on the program and select Uninstall. 5  Complete the removal with the instructions.
The best QUICK way to remove Open Broadcaster Software is to use Advanced Uninstaller PRO. Here is how to do this: 1. If you don't have Advanced Uninstaller PRO already installed on your Windows PC, install it. Advanced Uninstaller PRO will automatically uninstall Open Broadcaster Software. 8. After uninstalling Open Broadcaster Software, Advanced Uninstaller PRO will offer to run a cleanup. Click Next to proceed with the cleanup.
Open Broadcaster Software is Windows program. This page is about how to remove it from your computer. The program usually installs in the C:\Program Files (x86)\OBS folder (same installation drive as Windows). OBS.exe is the Open Broadcaster Software's main executable file and it takes around 1.00 MB (1049600 bytes) on disk. Advanced Uninstaller PRO will automatically uninstall Open Broadcaster Software. 8. After uninstalling Open Broadcaster Software, Advanced Uninstaller PRO will offer to run a cleanup. Click Next to proceed with the cleanup.
Or, you can uninstall OBS Multiplatform from your computer by using the Add/Remove Program feature in the Window's Control Panel. 1  On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 1 When you find the program OBS Multiplatform, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program).
1 When you find the program Open Broadcaster Software, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 4  Follow the prompts. 1 Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 2  Follow the prompts. 3  A progress bar shows you how long it will take to remove Open Broadcaster Software.
I know how to uninstall this software, but I want to reinstall it without it knowing my settings from before. In otherwords, just like I downloaded OBS for the first time. 
Or, you can uninstall Open Broadcaster Software from your computer by using the Add/Remove Program feature in the Window's Control Panel. 1  On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 1 Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 2  Follow the prompts. 3  A progress bar shows you how long it will take to remove Open Broadcaster Software.
1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program OBS Multiplatform, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 1 When you find the program OBS Multiplatform, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program).
1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program Open Broadcaster Software, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 1 Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 2  Follow the prompts. 3  A progress bar shows you how long it will take to remove Open Broadcaster Software.