to use Windows UI on one screen and the desktop on the other. Second screen only-The main PC display will be disabled and only the secondary screen is used. For traditional Desktop mode: 1  Go to the Control Panel and choose Display. 2  Choose Change Display Settings on the left. 3  In the Change Display Settings window, click and drag the virtual monitors to mimic your physical setup. 4  Click OK to finish. 1
How to get your external monitor to show a different desktop. Presentations, software, hardware, presentations, screen Add comments. When you plug in a second monitor to Macintosh computer, it may display an exact copy or ‘mirror image’ of what is on your first display. This is called mirroring. If you’d like to see different things on each screen, so the second screen gives you more desktop space, you need to turn mirroring off. Here’s how. 1.Go to’ system preferences’ in the Apple menu, and then to ‘ displays’ and click on the ‘arrangement’ tab.
You can leave your email open on one monitor, for example, while composing a business document on the other. To get the monitors to show different things, each monitor must be attached to a separate video port on your computer. Step 1. Attach the second monitor to the extra VGA or DVI port on your computer. Most new desktops have two VGA or DVI video outputs, while laptops have an external video port that you can use with a second monitor. You can also use an HDMI port to connect a second display. Step 2. Right-click on the Windows desktop, and select Screen Resolution from the pop-up menu. Select the monitor you want to use as your main display, and then check the box next to Make This My Main Display.. The main display contains the left half of the extended desktop. When you move your cursor to the right edge of the main display, it jumps to the second monitor. Step 5.
You need to use an Extended Desktop instead of a Mirrored Desktop. Hopefully your driver and your graphics chip on your laptop will support it. Go To Windows 7 Display Control Panel: 1  On the Windows taskbar, click. . 2  Click Control Panel. 3  Click Appearance and Personalization. 4  Click Personalization. 
Connect the monitor, flat panel, or projector to the laptop's external video connection on the back of the computer. An example of a VGA connector for a computer monitor and VGA port on a laptop is shown to the right. Once connected, your laptop may automatically switch to the new external display, or you may be required to press a key or keys on the keyboard to switch to the external display. Some laptops can output video to both the laptop and the external display, or to a single display at a time. Laptops with this feature can toggle between the two modes when the appropriate function key is pressed. Tip: Newer laptops and monitors may use a DVI or HDMI connection.
1 Set up the orientation of the monitors. 2  In both PCs and Macs, you can opt whether you want the second screen to mirror your laptop screen or to act as an extension of the first. 3  Access the Control Panel on your PC or System Preferences on your Mac. 1 Extra options in Windows 8: With Windows 8, you can choose between a traditional desktop view or the new metro menu. 2  But when you connect your laptop to a second desktop screen, you can actually have your proverbial cake and eat it too by running both at the same time.
Best Answer: Well, regardless of the type of connection (HDMI, VGA, etc.), you should find a port on both the laptop and external monitor that matches the cable being used for data transfer. Plug the cable into both of those ports. Note: on laptops, the ports are often labeled with their names. You will have to configure the position of it in relation to your laptop monitor by opening the display properties. Drag monitor 2 to the area of relation that it actually is to monitor 1 in reality. Click apply, but not OK. Then, move your mouse between the two monitors to test your alignment.
1 Get the right cable. 2  When you connect an external monitor to a laptop computer, you have to run a cable between the two devices. 3  Make sure that you get a monitor cable that matches the sockets on your laptop and monitor. 4  Tell your operating system you’re using a second screen. 1 Extra options in Windows 8: With Windows 8, you can choose between a traditional desktop view or the new metro menu. 2  But when you connect your laptop to a second desktop screen, you can actually have your proverbial cake and eat it too by running both at the same time.
1 On Macs*, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized. 2  Set up the orientation of the monitors. 3  In both PCs and Macs, you can opt whether you want the second screen to mirror your laptop screen or to act as an extension of the first. 1 Extra options in Windows 8: With Windows 8, you can choose between a traditional desktop view or the new metro menu. 2  But when you connect your laptop to a second desktop screen, you can actually have your proverbial cake and eat it too by running both at the same time.