If you are cooking at high temps, carryover can be up to 10°F. If you are cooking at low temps, it might not go up the full 5°F. But 5°F is a good rule of thumb for most roasts. Medium rare is the best temp for beef, lamb, venison steaks, roasts, and duck breasts. Food scientists have equipment to measure tenderness and juiciness.
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
Whole beef cuts usually have bacteria only on the surface, but it is possible for harmful bacteria to be present in the internal portions, so cooking the meat to an internal temperature of 145°F is sufficient to kill the bacteria. (The surface of the meat will be at a much higher temperature; usually 160°F or above). Traditional guidelines for doneness state that beef cooked very rare, rare, or medium-rare should have an internal temperature ranging between 115ºF to 140°F. Many people prefer beef cooked rare (especially steak), but this decision is up to the consumer and is certainly not recommended by the USDA
Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. Continue roasting the meat until the internal temperature has reached 5 or 10 degrees below the desired doneness
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly. 160 degrees F. 71 degrees C. When eggs are part of the recipe it is necessary that the internal temperature of the baking item reach at least 160 degrees F. (71 degrees C.) in order to kill any dangerous bacteria.
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). The table below is from an American reference book and pertains to beef and lamb. In lieu of gradations and ranges, the United States Department of Agriculture recommends a temperature of at least 63 °C (145 °F) for beef, veal, lamb steaks and roasts in order to prevent foodborne illness.
Beef-Lamb-Veal Roasts-Steaks-Chops. For roasts of lamb, beef, or veal: place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the steak will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. 160 degrees F. 71 degrees C. When eggs are part of the recipe it is necessary that the internal temperature of the baking item reach at least 160 degrees F. (71 degrees C.) in order to kill any dangerous bacteria.
Ground beef must be cooked until the internal temperature reaches a minimum of 160°F to ensure that dangerous bacteria are destroyed. Ground beef dishes, such as meatloaf, should be checked for doneness with a meat thermometer. Traditional guidelines for doneness state that beef cooked very rare, rare, or medium-rare should have an internal temperature ranging between 115ºF to 140°F. Many people prefer beef cooked rare (especially steak), but this decision is up to the consumer and is certainly not recommended by the USDA