If you are looking for an airlock for your wine making process we have a variety of wine airlocks to choose from. Wine airlocks help in the protection of your wine, with water that acts as a barrier keeping bugs and other little nasty creatures out of your batch.
Fermentation Lock used in making wine shown by http://www.perryhenderson.com/search-... Perry Henderson MBA 512.791.7462 REALTOR® on the Live Well Team at Prudential Texas Realty in Austin, TX. It just feels right working with Perry Henderson and the Live Well Team at Prudential Texas Realty.
Overview. Fermentation locks are commonly referred to as air locks. What these locks provide is a barrier to gasses outside of the fermentation container. There are two main types of fermentation locks that include dry fermentation locks and wet fermentation locks. Within these two categories, there are a few materials that are widely used including glass, ceramic, and plastics.
The fermentation lock or airlock is a device used in beer brewing and wine making that allows carbon dioxide released by the beer to escape the fermenter, while not allowing air to enter the fermenter, thus avoiding oxidation. There are two main designs for the fermentation lock, or airlock.
If an air-lock is used during this growth stage, the yeast becomes stymied by the lack of oxygen and unable to multiply to sufficient numbers. The result is a long drawn-out, sluggish fermentation that can produce some slight off-flavors in your wine. All symptoms of over-worked yeast.
The S-Shape Airlock. This air lock is meant to show pressure. Most of the time it is used for secondary fermentation where the pressure coming out of the secondary fermentation is slower (or not as strong) then in primary. A great way to use these is with wine.
Wet Fermentation locks utilize water or fluids for creating a sealed barrier between the interior and exterior gasses. There are two main variations for shape which include an s-shape bubbler and 3-piece design. Both designs are attached to the carboy with the use of a cork or rubber stopper.