appendage. n. 1. an ancillary or secondary part attached to a main part; adjunct. 2. (Zoology) zoology any organ that projects from the trunk of animals such as arthropods. 3. (Botany) botany any subsidiary part of a plant, such as a branch or leaf. 1. Something added or attached to an entity of greater importance or size; an adjunct. See Synonyms at attachment. 2. Biology A part or organ, such as an arm, leg, tail, or fin, that is joined to the axis or trunk of a body.
An arthropod is an invertebrate that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed attachments called appendages. Arthropods are animals belonging to the Phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, crustaceans,... Arthropod is a term that literally means  jointed foot. ... jointed appendages ... 1. jointed appendages and segmentation allow for greater movement and protection ... We have legs that bend with feet that bend and toes that bend. ... We have arms that bend, with hands that bend, with finger
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting.
The arthropod leg is a form of jointed appendage of arthropods, usually used for walking. The appendages of arthropods may be either biramous or uniramous. A uniramous limb comprises a single series of segments attached end-to-end.
nerves near the kidney s (or in the renal ... The researchers say these results confirm that RDN ... Presence of jointed appendages. Trilobites, which flourished during Cambrian Period and were important animals in marine ecosystems for the remainder of the Paleozoic Era, had a pair of appendages on each body segment. 3 sections-head, thorax and abdomen. Exoskeleton. 
: any of a phylum (Arthropoda) of invertebrate animals (as insects, arachnids, and crustaceans) that have a segmented body and jointed appendages, a usually chitinous exoskeleton molted at intervals, and a dorsal anterior brain connected to a ventral chain of ganglia. — arthropod adjective. 
Full Definition of APPENDAGE. 1. : an adjunct to something larger or more important: appurtenance. 2. : a usually projecting part of an animal or plant body that is typically smaller and of less functional importance than the main part to which it is attached; especially: a limb or analogous part (as a seta). 3. [appendant] : a dependent or subordinate person. See appendage defined for English-language learners.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an appendage, in relation to the body of a human or animal, is any part protruding from the torso or trunk. An example of an appendage is an arm or leg. An appendage is defined as an extra part that is attached to something. An example of an appendage is a leaf added to a dining table for extensio
For example, an exoskeleton, jointed appendages, and a segmented body are all ... jointed appendages and an exoskeleton are the most distinctive arthropod traits. ... Jointed, appendages ,biological ,biology dictionary,biology terminology,biology terms,biology abbreviations ... animals with jointed appendages or feet ... Arthropod is a term that literally means  jointed foot. ... jointed appendages ... 1. jointed appendages and segmentation allow for greater movement and protection ... We have legs that bend with feet that bend and toes that bend. ... We have arms that bend, with hands that bend, with finger