Follow colored jute to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow colored jute to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following colored jute in your eBay Feed. colored jute. 
Jute is a long, soft, shiny vegetable fibre that can be spun into coarse, strong threads. It is produced from plants in the genus Corchorus, which was once classified with the family Tiliaceae, more recently with Malvaceae, and has now been reclassified as belonging to the family Sparrmanniaceae. It falls into the bast fibre category (fiber collected from bast, the phloem of the plant, sometimes called the skin) along with kenaf, industrial hemp, flax (linen), ramie, etc. The industrial term for jute fiber is raw jute. The fibers are off-white to brown, and 1–4 metres (3–13 feet) long.
1 See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 2  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 3  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 4  Send: E-mail your color to others. 5  Print: Print your color. 1 Goes Great With: See colors that combine well with your chosen color. 2  More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 3  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 4  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 5  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks
colored jute twine. Follow colored jute twine to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow colored jute twine to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following colored jute twine in your eBay Feed. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
Jute is one of the most affordable natural fibers and is second only to cotton in amount produced and variety of uses of vegetable fibers. Jute fibers are composed primarily of the plant materials cellulose and lignin. It falls into the bast fibre category (fiber collected from bast, the phloem of the plant, sometimes called the skin) along with kenaf, industrial hemp, flax (linen), ramie, etc. The industrial term for jute fiber is raw jute. The fibers are off-white to brown, and 1–4 metres (3–13 feet) long. Jute is also called the golden fiber for its color and high cash value
Trimweaver 2mm colored Jute Twine is great for packaging and other crafts. Jute or Burlap is eco-friendly and will add that natura ... l touch to your products. Get Maya Road's new natural Jute Craft Cording in colorful new rolls. Each roll of Maya Road's Cording has over 100 yards on a rol ... l. This twine cording is thicker than traditional baker's twine and similar in dimension to Maya Road Twine Cording
1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 5  Send: E-mail your color to others. 6  Print: Print your color. 1 Goes Great With: See colors that combine well with your chosen color. 2  More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 3  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 4  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 5  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks