These crystals, which are like very fine sand, irritate the bladder. In male cats, the crystals may plug the urethra (the tube that carries urine from the bladder, through the penis, to the outside of the body). This is a life-threatening condition, since the cat would be unable to urinate. In the past, crystals and stones made of struvite were more common in cats. As a result, diets were developed to minimize the risk of forming struvite. These diets were low in magnesium and cats eating them produced an acidic (low pH) urine.
Stones may actually form anywhere in the entire urinary tract. The urinary stones in cats can be found in the kidneys, ureters (tiny tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder), bladder, or urethra (the tube from the bladder to the outside of the animal). They can also obstruct the outflow of urine. In the past, crystals and stones made of struvite were more common in cats. As a result, diets were developed to minimize the risk of forming struvite. These diets were low in magnesium and cats eating them produced an acidic (low pH) urine.
Crystals in Neutered Male Cats. Straining in the litter box could mean your furry friend has a urinary obstruction. Male kitties, neutered or not, can suffer from crystals in their urine, though crystals occur more frequently in fixed ones. Crystals in the urine are dangerous to cats, causing infection and inability to urinate. They require veterinary care and diagnosis to properly treat
Proper diet will acidify the urine. However, if your cat's crystals are not struvite, acidification may actually make recurrence more likely. Therefore, if at all possible, the crystals in the urine should be analyzed for their composition. This is the most important step in preventing future problems. 2.
So has a vet has seen your cat? Crystals can cause a blockage in male cats, they will not be able to pass urine. It can come on quickly and be life threatening. As far as dry cat food, intact males need to be on a low magnesium diet, read the labels, it will usually say urinary tract formula. Iams makes one, so does Purina, 9 Lives and Science Diet. 
Bacterial infections are the most common cause of cystitis in dogs and humans, but most cats with cystitis do not have bacteria in their urine. Neutering of male cats has been proposed as a potential cause, but this has been disproved as an initiating factor. However, if your cat's crystals are not struvite, acidification may actually make recurrence more likely. Therefore, if at all possible, the crystals in the urine should be analyzed for their composition. This is the most important step in preventing future problems. 2.
Bladder stones are rock-like deposits of minerals, crystals and organic material that are found in a cat ’s bladder. They can remain small in size or grow to be several millimeters in diameter, and may rub against the bladder walls, causing inflammation. Bladder stones can also lead to blockage of the urethra and can interfere with a cat’s ability to urinate. There are several types of minerals that form stones under different conditions in a cat’s urinary tract.
1. The most common type of crystals present in the urine are called struvite. These are dissolvable in acidic urine. Therefore, acidification of your cat's urine can be a significant means of prevention. It has been shown that environmental stress can produce the opposite of acidic (alkaline) urine. However, if your cat's crystals are not struvite, acidification may actually make recurrence more likely. Therefore, if at all possible, the crystals in the urine should be analyzed for their composition. This is the most important step in preventing future problems. 2.
--------------------. I just lost my 16 year old male neutered cat to cancer. He had crystals twice in his lifetime and flushing him out by the vet took care of it. He was neutered as a kitten and it is true, as others have pointed out, that a lot of males have a very small bladder, which he did. As you have already read in my previous posts that my kitty osi passed away due to formation of crystals in his bladder earlier this mo. What i would like to know is how to prevent this in the future. Apparently this is a problem to male cats that are neutered. I would like to in the future adopt another male cat.