Generally, ductwork can tack on additional $2,000 to $3,000, and that will vary depending on the home. However, if you are simply replacing your air conditioning unit, then there may be little to no added cost for this component. Adding other updates, like a new thermostat, may also increase the total price. Tags: central air condition installation west palm beach, How Much Does it Cost to Install Central Air Conditioning in West Palm Beach, installation cost of central air condition.
The cost to install a window air conditioner averages between $150 and $300, depending on the size you need. Installing a window air conditioning unit can bring added comfort for a reasonable price, but it will be less powerful than a central air conditioning system. Most homeowners report spending between $3,675 and $7,155 to have air conditioning installed. This price is more typical of a central A/C unit installation rather than a window air conditioner addition which typically averages about $300. Your total cost for the job will depend on the type of system you choose
Central Air Average Costs. The actual cost of central air installation depends on a number of factors, including the size of the home as well as the unit’s tonnage and SEER rating. 1  In a 2,000 square foot home with existing ductwork, central air conditioning costs $3,000 to $5,000 installed.
1 In a 2,000 square foot home with existing ductwork, central air conditioning costs $3,000 to $5,000 installed. 2  If ductwork is additionally required, costs could reach $6,000 to $10,000 or more. 3  Mini-split central air conditioner prices average $1,500 to $3,000 installed. The actual cost of central air installation depends on a number of factors, including the size of the home as well as the unit’s tonnage and SEER rating. 1 
The price to install central air conditioner units with heating unit is between $6,500 and $15,000. The HVAC installation costs are for complete heating and cooling system and labor cost. To get little more accurate price in your area, check out the links below. If you’re planning to buy air conditioners with higher seer rating and more Ton the HVAC price will be higher than this. Central ac units with 5 tons and 18 seer rating would cost about 3 to 5 grand or even more. This is just air conditioner units.
A condensate water drain line has to run from both evaporator coils to a plumbing drain or outside the house. The cost of a high efficiency 3 Ton central air conditioner for the first floor only with new furnace housing would be about $9,000 without the extra ductwork if you don't have any. With a two story home your probably about 2000 sq ft. If you already have central heat. $2000 to $2500 If you need heat and air w/ductwork your looking at around $6000.
For example, homes with forced hot air heating will have the duct work necessary for a fast and easy installation, when the project involves the running of ducts however the prices climb significantly. The average price to install a central air conditioner will range from $2650 to upwards of $15K. This installation cannot be considered a DIY project, and it is traditional for a homeowner to hire a contractor for the job. For a central air conditioning installation, the basic points of payment include: 1  Contractor-this will be the individual who performs the manual J assessment of the home to determine the appropriate size for the unit(s).
Pricing for air conditioning will vary depending on a number of factors, but, in the long run, it will always be a better option than sticking to window air units. The national average cost is between $4,500 and $6,200, but it could be much higher (or lower) depending on your individual situation. Tags: central air condition installation west palm beach, How Much Does it Cost to Install Central Air Conditioning in West Palm Beach, installation cost of central air condition.
Central air conditioner unit with 10 years warranty is more expensive than a central ac unit with 5 year warranty. Some central air conditioner units will have 5 year warranty on parts and other will have 10 years warranty on the air conditioner compressors. There seems to be little confused above the warranty. If you’re planning to buy air conditioners with higher seer rating and more Ton the HVAC price will be higher than this. Central ac units with 5 tons and 18 seer rating would cost about 3 to 5 grand or even more. This is just air conditioner units.