The frontal lobe is the part of the brain that controls important cognitive skills in humans, such as emotional expression, problem solving, memory, language, judgment, and sexual behavior. It is, in essence, the “control panel” of our personality and our ability to communicate.
frontal. adj. 1. of, at, or in the front. 2. (Anatomy) of or relating to the forehead: frontal artery. 3. (Anatomy) of or relating to the anterior part of a body or organ. 4. (Physical Geography) meteorol of, relating to, or resulting from a front or its passage: frontal rainfall.
Full Definition of FRONTAL. 1. : of, relating to, or adjacent to the forehead or the frontal bone. 2. a: of, relating to, or situated at the front. 3. : parallel to the main axis of the body and at right angles to the sagittal plane. 4. : of or relating to a meteorological front.
Frontal lobe syndrome is a brain disorder that is usually caused by physical damage to the front of the brain. Severe head trauma, infections, strokes, and certain chronic disorders can all impair the delicate nerve connections and tissue in a section of the frontal lobe.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or frontotemporal degenerations refers to a group of disorders caused by progressive nerve cell loss in the brain's frontal lobes (the areas behind your forehead) or its temporal lobes (the regions behind your ears).
Location: Frontal and upper area of the cortexFunction: Carries out higher mental processes such as thinking, decision making, and planning. You use your frontal lobe nearly everyday. You use it to make decisions, such as what to eat or drink for breakfast in the morning, as well as for thinking or studying for a test. The frontal lobe is also where our personality is formed and where we can carry out higher mental processes such as planning.
The frontal lobes are considered our emotional control center and home to our personality. There is no other part of the brain where lesions can cause such a wide variety of symptoms (Kolb & Wishaw, 1990).