The lipid profile is used as part of a cardiac risk assessment to help determine an individual's risk of heart disease and to help make decisions about what treatment may be best if there is borderline or high risk. The results of the lipid profile are considered along with other known risk factors of heart disease to develop a plan of treatment and follow-up. Depending on the results and other risk factors, treatment options may involve lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise or lipid-lowering medications such as statins.
Cholesterol is a type of fat, found in your blood. It is produced by your body and also comes from the foods you eat (animal products). Cholesterol is needed by your body to maintain the health of your cells. Too much cholesterol leads to coronary artery disease. However, if the test is drawn as part of a total lipid profile, it requires a 12-hour fast (no food or drink, except water). For the most accurate results, wait at least two months after a heart attack, surgery, infection, injury or pregnancy to check cholesterol levels.
Reference Range. The standard lipid profile, as recommended by the Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III), consists of direct measurement of total cholesterol, HDL-C, and triglycerides, with a calculated LDL-C, obtained after a 9-hour to 12-hour fast. The standard lipid profile, as recommended by the ATP III, consists of direct measurement of total cholesterol, HDL-C, and triglycerides, with a calculated LDL-C, obtained after a 9-hour to 12-hour fast. The Friedewald formula used to calculate the LDL level in the blood is as follows:
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. Cholesterol Tests: the Good, Bad, the Fatty. Cholesterol is a form of fat that's not all bad -- a certain amount is essential for life. Cholesterol helps provide stability to the outer membranes of our bodies' cells. But cholesterol can have harmful effects. LDL -- or bad -- cholesterol can deposit in blood vessel walls
Hence, higher levels of HDL cholesterol are more often related to lowered chances of developing heart conditions. A lipid profile which is also known as a lipid panel is a type of blood test conducted by a doctor to test the levels of cholesterol in one’s blood. A lipid profile will normally indicate the following: 
Lipid profile (cholesterol and triglycerides). Also known as: Cholesterol test, Triglycerides test. Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein. Lipoprotein analysis (lipoprotein profile or lipid profile) measures blood levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides
Therefore increased levels of HDL cholesterol are generally related to lowered risk to developing heart ailments. A lipid profile or a lipid panel is a type of blood test that is used to check the levels of cholesterol in the blood. A lipid profile typically indicates the following: 1  HDL cholesterol. 2  Total cholesterol. 3  Triglycerides, which is a type of fat that is usually increased by alcohol and sweets. 4  LDL cholesterol. Lipid profile normal values. – by admin 0. Lipid refers to the fatty substances that are present in the outer linings or membranes of the cells in animals as well as in the blood circulation. It is commonly referred to as
High: At or above 240 mg/dL. If your total cholesterol is high, you have twice the risk for heart disease as a person with normal total cholesterol. Here is the adult range for HDL cholesterol: Normal: 35 to 65 mg/dL for men, 35 to 80 mg/dL for women. If your number is less than 25 mg/dL, your risk for coronary heart disease is doubled. 