Definition (NCI). The total volume of air in the lungs after maximum inhalation. Definition (NCI_CDISC). The total volume of air in the lungs after maximum inhalation. Definition (MSH). The volume of air contained in the lungs at the end of a maximal inspiration. Definition (NCI). The maximum volume of air a subject can inhale into the lungs after a tidal exhalation (IRV plus TV). Definition (MSH). The maximum volume of air that can be inspired after reaching the end of a normal, quiet expiration.
total lung capacity the amount of gas contained in the lung at the end of a maximal inhalation. Subdivisions of total lung capacity: TLC, total lung capacity; V, tidal volume; IC, inspiratory capacity; FRC, functional residual capacity; ERV, expiratory reserve volume; VC, vital capacity; RV, residual volume. the amount of heat absorbed by a body in being raised 1°C. total lung capacity. the amount of gas contained in the lung at the end of a maximal inspiration. virus neutralizing capacity. the ability of a serum to inhibit the infectivity of a virus.
Lung volumes are directly measured; Lung capacities are inferred from lung volumes. The average total lung capacity of an adult human male is about 6 litres of air, but only a small amount of this capacity is used during normal breathing. Tidal breathing is normal, resting breathing; the tidal volume is the volume of air that is inhaled or exhaled in only a single such breath. Specific changes in lung volumes also occur during pregnancy. Functional residual capacity drops 18–20%, typically falling from 1.7 to 1.35 litres, due to the compression of the diaphragm by the uterus.
Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1). individual takes a maximal inspiration and then exhales as fast as possible. The important value is the fraction of the total forced vital capacity expired in 1 second. Normal individuals expire approx. 80% of their vital capacity in this time
Tidal volume –V T The normal to-and-fro respiratory exchange of 500 cc; vital capacity is the maximum amount of exhalable air; after a full inspiration, which added to the residual volume, is the total lung capacity. 
total lung capacity (TLC). Definitions: 1. the inspiratory capacity plus the functional residual capacity; the volume of air contained in the lungs at the end of a maximal inspiration; also equals vital capacity plus residual volume. The definition information for total lung capacity is provided by Stedman's
Lung volumes and lung capacities refer to the volume of air associated with different phases of the respiratory cycle. Specific changes in lung volumes also occur during pregnancy. Functional residual capacity drops 18–20%, typically falling from 1.7 to 1.35 litres, due to the compression of the diaphragm by the uterus.
total lung capacity (TLC), the volume of gas in the lungs at the end of a maximum inspiration. It equals the vital capacity plus the residual capacity. Lung physiology The total volume of air contained in the lungs at the end of maximum respiration. See Lung volumes. Cf Functional residual capacity, Vital capacity. the amount of heat absorbed by a body in being raised 1°C. total lung capacity. the amount of gas contained in the lung at the end of a maximal inspiration. virus neutralizing capacity. the ability of a serum to inhibit the infectivity of a virus.