There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells. Simple epithelium is one cell thick; that is, every cell is in direct contact with the underlying basement membrane. In general, it is found where absorption and filtration occur. The thinness of the epithelial barrier facilitates these processes.
1 Simple epithelium  a single layer of cells; found in areas where diffusion, osmosis, filtration, secretion and absorption occur. 2  Stratified epithelium  contains two or more layers of cells; protects underlying tissues; found where there is wear and tear. 1 Arrangement of Layers. 2  Simple epithelium  a single layer of cells; found in areas where diffusion, osmosis, filtration, secretion and absorption occur. 3
Best Answer: Squamous epithelium has two types, simple and stratified. Simple squamous epithelium consists of one layer of thin, flat epithelial cells resting on a basement membrane formed of connective tissue. It is found in such places as the alveoli of the lung and lining blood vessels. Squamous epithelial cells are flat, tightly adherent to each other, thin, and have a smooth surface. Stratified Epithelial Tissue-at least two layers of cells. Named by shape of the cells in the superficial layer. 1) Stratified squamous epithelium consists of several layers of cells in which the top layer is flat, bottom layers vary from cuboidal to columnar. Its function is protection.
An average adult has about 600 million alveoli, giving a total surface area of about 100m², so the area is huge. The walls of the alveoli are composed of a single layer of flattened epithelial cells, as are the walls of the capillaries, so gases need to diffuse through just two thin cells. Water diffuses from the alveoli cells into the alveoli so that they are constantly moist. 
1. 2. 3. The walls of the alveoli are composed of a single layer of flattened epithelial cells, as are the walls of the capillaries, so gases need to diffuse through just two thin cells. The alveoli walls are kept moist by water diffusing from the surrounding cells.
In larger organisms, simple diffusion is not an efficient way of transporting gases between cells in the body and the gas exchange surface. In many animals a blood circulatory system carries gases to and from the gas exchange surface. Gas exchange occurs as a result of respiration, when carbon dioxide is excreted and oxygen taken up, and photosynthesis, when oxygen is excreted and carbon dioxide is taken up.
1 Simple signifies a single layer of epithelial cells.  2 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 3  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. 
Even though alveoli are so small there are huge numbers of them which results in a large surface area for gas exchange. Also the wall of the alveoli is made up of a single layer of thin cells and so are the capillaries, this creates a short diffusion distance for the gases. Summary: 1  Great numbers increase the surface area for gas exchange. 2  Wall made up of single layer of cells and so are the walls of the capillaries so diffusion distance is small allowing rapid
Both Alveolus and capillary are lined by a single layer of flat cells that provide an excellent example of simple Squamous Epithelium. Figures A and B at right are light and electron micrographs of sections taken through an Interalveolar Septum-a wall separating two adjacent alveoli-in the lung of the macaque. The epithelial cells that line capillaries are routinely referred to as endothelial cells, and the capillary epithelium is called an Endothelium-a term reserved for the layer of flat cells lining blood vessels, lymph vessels, and other cavities.