Lyme disease is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks of the Ixodes genus. Usually, the tick must be attached for 36 to 48 hours before the bacteria can spread. Lyme disease, also known as Lyme borreliosis, is an infectious disease caused by bacteria of the Borrelia type. The most common sign of infection is an expanding area of redness, known as erythema migrans, that begins at the site of a tick bite about a week after it has occurred.
The symptoms of Lyme disease in dogs differ from those in people, and usually occur much later after the tick bite. Clinical illness in dogs usually occurs 2 to 5 months after a bite from an infected tick. Cats can develop Lyme disease, but it occurs rarely in them, even in endemic areas. The tick-borne spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi causes Lyme disease. It often causes symptoms of lameness and fever. It is very treatable with antibiotics. There are vaccines available for dogs.
Lyme disease is caused by a bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi and is spread by ticks. Ticks become infected with the bacteria by feeding on infected mice and other small animals. When an infected tick bites other animals, it can transmit the bacteria to these animals. Lyme disease is transmitted by the deer tick (blacklegged tick) and a small group of other closely related ticks. The deer tick is small and may bite animals and people without being detected. Lyme disease affects a variety of species, including dogs, cats, and people
Lyme disease is one of the most common tick-transmitted diseases in the world but only causes symptoms in 5-10% of affected dogs. It is caused by a spirochete (bacteria) species of the Borrelia burgdorferi group. 
Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer. Lyme disease, also known as Lyme borreliosis, is an infectious disease caused by bacteria of the Borrelia type. The most common sign of infection is an expanding area of redness, known as erythema migrans, that begins at the site of a tick bite about a week after it has occurred.
Lyme disease is a tick-borne disease affecting both dogs and humans. Named after Lyme, Connecticut, where the disease was reported in epidemic proportions in the mid-1970s, the disease was first discovered in the United States in humans in 1975 and in dogs in 1984. 
Canine Lyme disease is one of the most common diseases transmitted by ticks. It can be very debilitated if left untreated. Dogs develop this condition whenever a tick bites them and passes along the Borrelia burgdorferi bacteria. However, the tick can’t pass the bacteria immediately. 
Lyme disease, named for a town in Connecticut where it was first properly discovered in the mid-1970s, is easier to spot and more dangerous in humans than it is in dogs. Lyme disease in dogs is far less common, but it can be a problem, particularly in areas with high tick concentrations. In America, problem areas for Lyme disease include New England, the upper Midwest, and the West Coast. Symptoms of Lyme disease. When they do show up, signs of Lyme disease in dogs may include a number of symptoms held in common with other diseases and disorders, so proper diagnosis is key. The symptoms of Lyme disease in dogs include pain and swelling in the joints.
Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete, Borrelia burgdorferi. A spirochete is a type of bacterium. Lyme disease is transmitted to dogs through the bite of a tick. Once in the blood stream, the Lyme disease organism is carried to many parts of the body and is likely to localize in joints. 