China is the largest producer of sesame in the world accounting for more than 40% followed by India with about 15% share. Though, India is the largest cultivator of sesame crop in terms of acreage, low yields kept her in the second place in terms of output. Further, production of sesame in India has persistently been declining from mid-2000s. China is not only the largest producer but also the largest consumer in the word. It is widely preferred for its qualities of high drought tolerance and the highest oil content in the seeds. There mainly two distinct types of sesame seeds are popular viz., white and black though a few other varieties varying from red to rose or from brown or grey are also available.
India is the largest producer of sesame in the world as well as exporter. But production of sesame in India has remained largely in the range of 5.5 to 6.5 lakh tons a year during past two decades except for an occasional spurt in output either to a high of 8-9 lakh tons or below 5 lakh tons. It is widely preferred for its qualities of high drought tolerance and the highest oil content in the seeds. There mainly two distinct types of sesame seeds are popular viz., white and black though a few other varieties varying from red to rose or from brown or grey are also available.
West Bengal is the single largest sesame producer accounting for over 40% of total sesame produced in the country. Sesame production, within the country, is mainly concentrated in four states including West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat accounting for more than 70% of the total production. Seeds: sesame seeds are used in various food and snack preparations as well as in salad dressing. Oil: Sesame seeds contain the highest oil compared to any other oilseed to an extent of 50% and above.
Seventy percent of the world's sesame crop is grown in Asia, with Africa growing 26% (Hansen, 2011) The largest producers are China and India, each with an annual harvest around 750,000 tonnes followed by Myanmar (425,000 tonnes) an d Sudan (300,000 tonnes). 
Sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) is one of the oldest cultivated plants in the world. It was a highly prized oil crop of Babylon and Assyria at least 4,000 years ago. Today, India and China are the world's largest producers of sesame, followed by Burma, Sudan, Mexico, Nigeria, Venezuela, Turkey, Uganda and Ethiopia. Sesame seeds (approximately 50% oil and 25% protein) are used in baking, candy making, and other food industries. Oil from the seed is used in cooking and salad oils and margarine, and contains about 47% oleic and 39% linoleic acid.
A poor sesame harvest for the world's largest producer, India, over the last two years is said to be one reason for the 70% jump in the crop's price. Many market observers also attribute the increase to China's growing imports of the small seed. 
Sesame seed Sesame Seed is the most sought after vegetable oil in the world as its industrial ingredients can be used for the production of margarine, canned sardine, corned beef, soap making and ink and is well preferred to other vegetable oils because of its lack of odour, chemical composition, colour and taste. The increasing use of Sesame seeds for industrial use, has resulted in its leading the oil and fats market such that Nigeria being the second largest producer of sesame seed in Africa, and ranking seventh in the World, with an estimated production of 120,000 metric tones annually.
China is the largest producer of sesame in the world accounting for more than 40% followed by India with about 15% share. Though, India is the largest cultivator of sesame crop in terms of acreage, low yields kept her in the second place in terms of output. Seeds: sesame seeds are used in various food and snack preparations as well as in salad dressing. Oil: Sesame seeds contain the highest oil compared to any other oilseed to an extent of 50% and above.
Sesame oil is used as a salad or cooking oil and in shortening, margarine and soap. It is often considered the “queen” of vegetable oils. The outstanding characteristic of sesame oil is its stability and keeping quality as well as resistance to rancidity. 
II. Sesame seeds (approximately 50% oil and 25% protein) are used in baking, candy making, and other food industries. Oil from the seed is used in cooking and salad oils and margarine, and contains about 47% oleic and 39% linoleic acid.