1 tsp of table salt is much more salt than 1 tsp of kosher salt. The tiny grains pack together much closer, giving you more salt. That said, sea salt is typically closer to the size of kosher salt granules; so use that. There is no hard and fast ratio. If the grains are smaller use a little less; if bigger use a little more. Finally, if the recipe calls for salt by weight, then they are all equivalently interchangeable. You can substitute between kosher, table and sea salt. The issue in the amount for substitution is the difference of size in the grains of salt cause volume measurements to not equal the same amount of salt.
Koshering salt, usually referred to as kosher salt in the US, is a variety of edible salt with a much larger grain size than some common table salt. Like common table salt, kosher salt consists of the chemical compound sodium chloride. Unlike some common table salt, kosher salt typically contains no additives such as iodine, although some brands will include anticaking agents in small amounts. Additive-free nonkosher salt is also readily available. The term kosher salt comes from its use in making meats kosher by removing surface blood, not from its being made in accordance with the guidelines for kosher foods as written in the Torah, as nearly all salt is kosher, including ordinary table salt. Grain of kosher salt taken at 60x magnification.
Kosher salt, so named because it's used in the process of koshering meats, has a larger grain than table salt. It usually contains no additives, though some kosher salts do contain iodine, which is more commonly found in table salts. 
One salt manufacturer considers the term ambiguous, and distinguishes between kosher certified salt and koshering salt: Koshering salt has the small, flake-like form useful in treating meat, whereas kosher certified salt is salt that has been certified as such by an appropriate religious body. The term kosher salt comes from its use in making meats kosher by removing surface blood, not from its being made in accordance with the guidelines for kosher foods as written in the Torah, as nearly all salt is kosher, including ordinary table salt. Grain of kosher salt taken at 60x magnification.
Diffen › Food › Cooking. Kosher salt is one of the most commonly used varieties of edible salt in commercial kitchens today. Kosher salt has a much larger grain size than regular table salt, and a more open granular structure.Sea salt, obtained by evaporating seawater, is used in cooking and cosmetics. Historically called bay salt, its mineral content gives it a different taste than table salt. Kosher salt gets its name not because it follows the guidelines for kosher foods as written in the Torah but because of its use in making meats kosher, by helping to extract the blood from the meat.
How Coarse is Kosher Salt? While Kosher salt is much more coarse than table salt overall, there is a bit of variation in crystal size among different brands of Kosher salts. If you use one particular brand for any length of time, you'll probably start to develop a feel for how much salt you're using. Kosher salt has a cleaner, lighter taste than ordinary table salt. The iodine that's added to table salt imparts a slightly metallic flavor, but kosher salt is free of additives. (Also see: Iodized Salt).
Handling. All salt is technically kosher. Kosher salt is really a misnomer for kosher ing salt, as its large grains make it more effective at drawing out liquid from meat during the koshering process. But that's not why chefs like to use it. 
Kosher salt is different in two key ways from table salt: (a) it has larger, irregular crystals with lots of surface area, and (b) it does not contain additives (like iodine) that table salt usually has. Table Salt and Kosher Salt. Very few recipes specifically call for kosher salt. Usually, people use a ratio of 1.5:1 or 2:1 for kosher salt to table salt. This can differ between brands, so be sure to check the side of the box! Storing. It’s best to keep kosher salt in a jar or in a salt pig next to the stove; you’ll find that its crystals are too big for a salt shaker.