Small containers are portable, making it possible for you to move your garden indoors or outdoors, or even take it with you if you relocate. Container gardening helps you avoid soil problems, and fertilizer stays in the container near your plant's roots.
Be sure the soil is uniformly moist before planting. Plant in containers as you would in the garden. If you are planting a mixed container, ignore spacing requirements and plant densely; you will need to prune plants once they fill in.
If you're growing plants in large containers, you'll be shocked at how much potting soil you need to fill each container. However, you don't have to fill the whole container with soil. Most vegetable roots penetrate only 10 to 12 inches into the soil. Add more than that and you're simply wasting soil.
Step 1. Use any clean containers for your plants. Match the size of the container with the plant you will grow in it. Containers for root crops need to be deep, and tomatoes and peppers need sturdy containers that will not topple over when the plants are top-heavy with fruits.
Another approach is to buy carrot seeds that are compatible to your container size. As an example, do not plant carrot seeds in a 2-inch deep container that will mature into 6-inch long carrots. Soil used for carrots is very simple and only requires two ingredients. These ingredients are all-purpose potting soil or seasoned compost and sand. Mix equal part of both
For larger vegetables like tomatoes and eggplants, you should use a five gallon container for each plant. You can grow these plants in two gallon containers, however you need to give the plants considerably more water.
These mixes can be purchased from garden centers. When you add your soil to your container, leave a 2 inch space between the top of the soil and the top of the container. You will be able to add 1/2 inch or so of mulch later.
Simply get a small (3 to 4 inch) diameter unglazed terra cotta pot. Use clay to seal up the drainage hole in the bottom. Then, bury the pot in your container so that the rim of the pot is even with the surface of the surrounding potting soil.