River delta. A river delta is a landform that is formed at the mouth of a river, where the river flows into an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, or reservoir. Deltas are formed from the deposition of the sediment carried by the river as the flow leaves the mouth of the river. 
The Mississippi River Delta region is a 3-million-acre (12,000 km2) area of land that stretches from Vermillion Bay on the west, to the Chandeleur Islands in the Gulf of Mexico on the southeastern coast of Louisiana. The Mississippi River Delta is not to be confused with the Mississippi Delta region, an alluvial plain located some 300 miles (480 km) northward in western Mississippi along the Mississippi River.
Passionate about all things Australian. A river delta is the landform occurring at the river mouth, where the river meets the sea. It is largely a result of the silt brought down by the river system. The river spreads out in a fan shape into many channels called distributaries, which form outlets and islands. It is a landform that is created at the mouth of a river where that river flows into an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir or another river. Deltas are formed from the depos … ition of the sediment carried by the river as the flow leaves the mouth of the river. 60 people found this useful.
A river delta is a landform that forms from deposition of sediment carried by a river as the flow leaves its mouth and enters slower-moving or standing water. This occurs where a river enters an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir, or (more rarely) another river that cannot transport away the supplied sediment. Despite a popular legend, this use of the word delta was not coined by Herodotus. This alluvium builds up to form the river delta. When the flow enters the standing water, it is no longer confined to its channel and expands in width. This flow expansion results in a decrease in the flow velocity, which diminishes the ability of the flow to transport sediment.
Save. River deltas are little streams that branch out from the mouth of the river into a sea, lake or ocean, giving it the appearance of an uprooted tree. Many of the world&#039;s biggest rivers also have river delta formations, including the Nile and Mississippi rivers. 
A river delta is a section of a river that separates into channels as it enters another body of water. The delta includes the land between channels and the marshlands and other wetlands formed in the area. The Okavango Delta in Botswana is an exception, because it does not enter another body of water. 
A river delta is low-lying plain or landform that occurs at the mouth of a river near where the river flows into the ocean or other body of water. Deltas are important to both human activities and fish and other wildlife because they are normally home to very fertile soil as well as a large amount of vegetation. Prior to understanding deltas it is first important to understand rivers. Rivers are defined as fresh bodies of water that generally flow from high elevations toward the ocean, lake or another river. In some instances however, they do not make it to the ocean-they instead flow into the ground.