Chest pain may also be caused by problems in your lungs, esophagus, muscles, ribs, or nerves, for example. Some of these conditions are serious and life threatening. Others are not. If you have unexplained chest pain, the only way to confirm its cause is to have a doctor evaluate you.
Myocardial infarction (heart attack). This reduction in blood flow through heart blood vessels causes the death of heart muscle cells. Though similar to angina chest pain, a heart attack is usually a more severe, crushing pain usually in the center or left side of the chest and is not relieved by rest. Sweating, nausea, shortness of breath, or severe weakness may accompany the pain. Myocarditis.
Chest Pain on the Left Side and Heart Attack. Chest pain on the left side of the body is a classic sign that you may soon experience a heart attack. In most cases this pain is combined with other side effects. The pain in the chest is often described as pressure, squeezing, or fullness within the chest cavity. In some cases a burning sensation and pain will accompany these side effects. Numbness, pain, prickling or other sensations are commonly felt in the left arm, though these side effects can transfer over to the right.
Pain on the left side of the chest is more likely to be caused by heart problems such as angina or heart attack, simply because the left side is where the heart is located. However even minor conditions like excess gas or acid reflux can lead to temporary pain on the left side.
Symptoms of Heart Related Chest Pain Pressure, tightness or fullness in the chest. Crushing searing pain that radiates to your neck, jaw, shoulders and arms, particularly the left arm. Pain that lasts more than a few minutes, it can go away and come back again and varies in intensity.
Chest pain on the left side can be caused by a variety of conditions so it is important to evaluate your symptoms to determine if your pain requires medical attention. When a person starts feeling chest pain it's likely that they will be concerned.