n/a. The highest average temperature in Hobart is July at 77.4 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Hobart is February at 29.8 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Hobart occurs in January with 0 inches. The Hobart weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data.
Hobart in Summer. Hobart’s summer months-December, January and February-are warm rather than hot, with average daily highs of around 22°C. Sometimes the temperature does rise, but don’t expect the heat you would find on mainland Australia in the summer. Hobart in Autumn. March, April and May are autumn months in Hobart, and can be beautiful as the countryside changes colour. Daytime temperatures average out at around 18-20°C for much of the autumn, but by May temperatures will have fallen to 14°C with overnight lows of a chilly 4°C.
Tasmania and Hobart experience four distinct seasons. Its climate is described as mild temperate maritime. The warmest months are December, January, February and March with average temperatures of around 21°C. With an annual average of 626 millimetres of rainfall, Hobart is Australia's second-driest capital city. Rainfall is spread fairly evenly throughout the year, although the winter months are the wettest
Summer (December-February) is festival time in Hobart. Average summer temperatures range between 17-23°C and it's a perfect time to enjoy the outdoors. Over the New Year period the Hobart waterfront comes alive at the Taste of Tasmania Festival and the thrilling finish to the Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race. The warmest months are December, January, February and March with average temperatures of around 21°C. With an annual average of 626 millimetres of rainfall, Hobart is Australia's second-driest capital city.
The warmest months are in January and February with an average air temperature range of 12.2 °C (54 °F) up to 26.4 °C (80 °F). Throughout the year there is an average of 8.3 days a year over 30 °C (86 °F). The average temperature in summer ranges from 12.5 to 21 °C with drier non-sea breeze days as warm as 27 °C, with around 16 hours of sunshine per day. In winter, temperature ranges from 6 to 13 °C, and only 8 hours of sunshine. Relative humidity averages over 60% for the year in the afternoon.
1 The annual mean temperature in Hobart, Tasmania, Australia is mild at 12.9 degrees Celsius (55.1 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  Average monthly temperatures vary by 8.9 C (16 F) which is a very low range. Hobart, Tasmania Average Temperatures Chart. The average temperature charts use a fixed scale so that you can easily compare temperatures between two or more locations. Simply line up the charts in separate tabs in your browser and toggle between tabs to visualise the differences.
Tasmania has a cool temperate climate with four distinct seasons. Summer lasts from December to February when the average maximum sea temperature is 21 °C (70 °F). On land, maximum temperatures average 20 °C (68 °F) to 24 °C (75 °F) along the coast and in the lowlands, such as around Launceston. The hottest areas of the state are in the valleys west of Hobart, where summer temperatures regularly rise above 25 °C (77 °F). The average temperature in summer ranges from 12.5 to 21 °C with drier non-sea breeze days as warm as 27 °C, with around 16 hours of sunshine per day. In winter, temperature ranges from 6 to 13 °C, and only 8 hours of sunshine. Relative humidity averages over 60% for the year in the afternoon.
Hobart: Annual Weather Averages. January is the hottest month in Hobart with an average temperature of 18°C (64°F) and the coldest is July at 8°C (46°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 10 in September. The wettest month is March with an average of 50mm of rain. 
Average Temperatures in Hobart, Tasmania, Australia. 1  The annual mean temperature in Hobart, Tasmania, Australia is mild at 12.9 degrees Celsius (55.1 degrees Fahrenheit). Hobart, Tasmania Average Temperatures Chart. The average temperature charts use a fixed scale so that you can easily compare temperatures between two or more locations. Simply line up the charts in separate tabs in your browser and toggle between tabs to visualise the differences.