The surgeon's assistants role is carried out by a doctor of medicine, nurses specialized in perioperative nursing who have completed registered nurse first assistant programs, surgical physician assistants and surgical assistants which are certified, licensed or registered. In the United States surgeon's assistants are credentialed as surgical physicians assistant's, registered nurse first assistants, nurse practitioners, licensed assistant surgeon, licensed surgical assistant and certified or registered surgical assistants.
Duties and Responsibilities. Surgical assistants help surgeons to do their jobs safely and effectively. They may assist with any surgical discipline, such as neurosurgery, orthopedic surgery, trauma surgery, or plastic surgery. Surgical assistants determine what equipment is needed for any given surgical procedure. 
Surgical assistants provide support to surgeons before and during an operation and a limited amount of care to patients after an operation. They may specialize in areas like orthopedic surgery, neurosurgery, cardiac surgery and obstetric surgery. 
A surgical assistant works under the direction and supervision of a surgeon. Surgical assistants help by holding the incision open for better access, suction or swab blood during the procedure and assist with suturing the incision at the end of the operation. Also called first assistants or non-physician surgical assistants, these professionals provide a second pair of hands for the operating surgeon. As a member of the sterile team, the surgical assistant may not leave the operating room or come into contact with anything that is not sterile during
The Association of Surgical Assistants recommends that surgical assistants graduate from surgical assisting programs accredited by CAAHEP through ARC/STSA, which is a collaborative effort of AST, ACS, and SASA. EDUCATION The American College of Surgeons strongly supports adequate education and training of all surgical assistants, supports the accreditation of all surgical assisting educational programs, and supports examination for certification of all graduates of accredited surgical assistant educational programs.
Surgeon’s Assistants (SAs) are highly skilled, credentialed surgical health professionals who work under the direction of licensed surgeons performing surgical procedures. SAs work exclusively within the surgical care team environment as described by the American College of Surgeons. In the United States surgeon's assistants are credentialed as surgical physicians assistant's, registered nurse first assistants, nurse practitioners, licensed assistant surgeon, licensed surgical assistant and certified or registered surgical assistants.
Surgical assistant positions are ideal for individuals who want to be involved in caring for people after surgery, but who do not want the high-pressure job of the surgeon. Surgical assistants can have a demanding job that requires both personal and professional skills. A surgical assistant might be responsible for sterilizing instruments. A surgical assistant may be tasked with ensuring the incision is closed and dressed properly to reduce the risk of infection. A surgical assistant is responsible for prepping an operating room before a procedure.
3. Postoperative. The surgical assistant applies any other specific dressing material such as splints or casts, assesses skin integrity, assists in transfer of the patient, and follows the patient to recovery if needed or directed by surgeon. 4. Specialty Procedures. EDUCATION The American College of Surgeons strongly supports adequate education and training of all surgical assistants, supports the accreditation of all surgical assisting educational programs, and supports examination for certification of all graduates of accredited surgical assistant educational programs.
A Surgical Assistant is one of the best tools a Surgeon has. Surgical Assistants provide a second set of senses for the Doctor. You anticipate his or her needs, provide information and tools, and assist with surgical procedures. Your job as a Surgical Assistant starts before the Surgeon ever enters the room.
The first assistant on a surgical procedure is defined as the individual providing primary assistance to the primary (main) surgeon, during a surgical procedure. This individual CANNOT be involved in any other role or function, during the surgical procedure (i.e. first or second scrub and/or passing instruments). 1 The ABSA designation is Surgical Assistant-Certified (SA-C) . 2  The Surgical Assistant-Certified (SA-C) may function in the role of either a first or second assistant, as determined by the primary surgeon, depending on the operative