The Israeli Shekel is the currency of Israel. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Israel Shekel exchange rate is the ILS to USD rate. The currency code for New Shekels is ILS, and the currency symbol is ₪. Below, you'll find Israeli Shekel rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take ILS rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. 
As nouns the difference between shekel and zuz is that shekel is a currency unit of both ancient and modern israel while zuz is an ancient hebrew silver coin, one quarter of a shekel. As nouns the difference between money and shekel is that money is a legally or socially binding conceptual contract of entitlement to wealth, void of intrinsic value, payable for all debts and taxes, and regulated in supply while shekel is a currency unit of both ancient and modern israel.
Denominations made in this currency are marked with the shekel sign, ₪. The Israeli new shekel has been in use since 1 January 1986 when it replaced the old shekel that was in usage between 24 February 1980 and 31 December 1985, at a ratio of 1000:1. This makes the shekel one of only twenty or so world currencies for which there are widely available currency futures contracts in the foreign exchange market. It is also a currency that can be exchanged by consumers in many parts of the world.
As nouns the difference between weight and shekel is that weight is the force on an object due to the gravitational attraction between it and the earth (or whatever astronomical object it is primarily influenced by) while shekel is a currency unit of both ancient and modern israel. As nouns the difference between money and shekel is that money is a legally or socially binding conceptual contract of entitlement to wealth, void of intrinsic value, payable for all debts and taxes, and regulated in supply while shekel is a currency unit of both ancient and modern israel.
Other countries and currencies. The Israeli New Shekel is the currency in Israel (IL, ISR). The Indian Rupee is the currency in India (IN, IND). The Israeli New Shekel is also known as the Israeli Sheqel. The symbol for ILS can be written NIS, and ₪.
DEFINITION of 'ILS (Israeli New Shequel)'. The currency abbreviation or currency symbol for the Israeli new sheqel (ILS), the currency for Israel. The new sheqel is made up of 100 agorot. This symbol represents a combination of the first letters in Hebrew for the words sheqel and hadash. 
As nouns the difference between mina and shekel is that mina is the myna bird or mina can be (historical) a monetary unit of ancient greece and the middle east, originally equivalent to the weight of a mina of silver while shekel is a currency unit of both ancient and modern israel. As nouns the difference between money and shekel is that money is a legally or socially binding conceptual contract of entitlement to wealth, void of intrinsic value, payable for all debts and taxes, and regulated in supply while shekel is a currency unit of both ancient and modern israel.
The Israeli new shekel (Hebrew: שֶׁקֶל חָדָשׁ Shekel H̱adash Arabic: شيقل جديد šēqel ǧadīd listen (help·info)) (sign : ₪ ; acronym: ש״ח and in English NIS; code: ILS) (pl. sheqalim – שְׁקָלִים;) is the currency of the State of Israel. It is also used in the Palestinian territories of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. This makes the shekel one of only twenty or so world currencies for which there are widely available currency futures contracts in the foreign exchange market. It is also a currency that can be exchanged by consumers in many parts of the world.
ISRAELI NEW SHEKEL-ILS. The Israeli new shekel, symbol NIS, code ILS, is also seen spelled as the new sheqel, is the official currency for the State of Israel, a middle eastern country of nearly 8 million people. 