Rich in modern recreational facilities and historical significance, Fort Washington blossoms with flowering dogwood in the spring. The park takes its name from the temporary fort built by George Washington’s troops in the fall of 1777, before heading to Valley Forge. The park is popular with hikers and picnickers. Birders enjoy the seasonal migration of raptors from the Observation Deck.
Fort Washington is a census-designated place and suburb of Philadelphia in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 5,446 at the 2010 census. On July 17, 1856, Fort Washington was the site of one of the worst train accidents in the United States when two North Pennsylvania Railroad trains collided with one another near the Sandy Run station (later renamed to Camp Hill, now the defunct Fellwick Station).
Located along the Hudson River, Fort Washington Park also offers spectacular views of the new Jersey Palisades and the George Washington Bridge along its 160-acre ribbon of dramatic cliffs, meadows, and wooded areas. 
Display/hide their locations on the map Churches in Fort Washington include: Fort Foote Baptist Church (A), Fort Washington United Methodist Church (B), Christ Missionary Baptist Church (C), Riverside Baptist Church (D), Fort Washington Church (E), Grace Church (F), Saint Johns Church (G). Banks with branches in Fort Washington (2011 data): 1  Capital One, National Association: Olde Forte Village Center Branch at 980 East Swan Creek Road, branch established on 1993/12/06.
The community is named for Fort Washington, which upon its completion in 1809 was the only defensive fort protecting Washington, D.C. The fort is a stone structure and offered a good field of range for cannon fire at enemy advances on the Potomac River. Until the founding of the Oxon Hill post office about 1960, the Fort Washington area generally used the mailing address Washington, D.C. , except for the few years that Friendly had a post office. About 1980 the postal service split the Fort Washington area from Oxon Hill, defining it as a separate town name.
Fort Washington, Maryland is located in Prince Georges County. Zip codes in Fort Washington, MD include 20744, 20749, and 20750. More Fort Washington information. Local news for Fort Washington, MD continually updated from thousands of sources on the web.
The Fort Washington area was settled by many German immigrants. One such person was Philip Engard who immigrated in 1728. Engard purchased 100 acres (40 ha) on what was to be named Susquehanna Road and Fort Washington Avenue. On July 17, 1856, Fort Washington was the site of one of the worst train accidents in the United States when two North Pennsylvania Railroad trains collided with one another near the Sandy Run station (later renamed to Camp Hill, now the defunct Fellwick Station).
The Fort Washington Office Park was also home to the Fort Washington Expo Center. Opened in 1993, the Expo Center hosted some of the region's biggest consumer and trade shows, and at 290,000 square feet (27,000 m 2), was the largest such suburban venue in the northeastern United States. On July 17, 1856, Fort Washington was the site of one of the worst train accidents in the United States when two North Pennsylvania Railroad trains collided with one another near the Sandy Run station (later renamed to Camp Hill, now the defunct Fellwick Station).
Find up to date information about Fort Washington in the latest Town Crier. Fort Washington Facebook Link. All checks to FW must now be made out to Clovis Unified School District (not CUSD). Checks to the Parent Association should be made out to FWPA. 
Fort Washington is an unincorporated area and census-designated place in Prince George's County, Maryland. It borders the capital of the United States of America, Washington, D.C. , situated just south of the downtown district. Until the founding of the Oxon Hill post office about 1960, the Fort Washington area generally used the mailing address Washington, D.C. , except for the few years that Friendly had a post office. About 1980 the postal service split the Fort Washington area from Oxon Hill, defining it as a separate town name.