A fracture is a partial or complete break in a bone. In the ankle, fractures involve the far or distal ends of the tibia, the X-ray image of an ankle fracture​ fibula, or both bones. The tibia is the shinbone and is located on the inner, or medial, side of the leg. The fibula is located on the outer, or lateral, side of the leg
For the ancient jewelry type, see Fibula (brooch) . The fibula (/ˈfɪbjʉlə/) or calf bone is a leg bone located on the lateral side of the tibia, with which it is connected above and below. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the slenderest of all the long bones. 
Fracture, Ankle, Distal Fibula. You have a fracture (broken bone) of the end of the fibula bone. This is one of two bones that support the ankle joint. 
Click to read more below. The fibula is the long, thin and lateral bone of the lower leg. It runs parallel to the tibia, or shin bone, and plays a significant role in stabilizing the ankle and supporting the muscles of the lower leg. Compared to the tibia, the fibula is about the same length, but is considerably thinner. 
The distal fibula is the lower part of the fibula bone. A cast is often used to treat a distal fibula fracture. Swelling may occur as a result of a fractured distal fibula. Feet are able to pivot because of the ankle joint, which is made up of the tibia and talus, along with the distal fibula. The distal fibula is the lower portion of the fibula, located at the ankle. Feet are able to pivot because of the ankle joint, which is made up of the tibia and talus, along with the distal fibula. The tibia is on the inside of the ankle, and the talus is at the bottom of the ankle.
The distal fibula is the lower part of the fibula, which is one of the bones that forms the lower leg. This bone, along with two other bones, helps form one of the joints of the ankle. Young children have a growth plate in their distal fibulas. If a growth plate is broken, it can lead to deformities in adulthood. The distal fibula is the lower portion of the fibula, located at the ankle. Feet are able to pivot because of the ankle joint, which is made up of the tibia and talus, along with the distal fibula. The tibia is on the inside of the ankle, and the talus is at the bottom of the ankle.
Background. Lower leg fractures include fractures of the tibia and fibula. Of these two bones, the tibia is the only weightbearing bone. Fractures of the tibia generally are associated with fibula fracture, because the force is transmitted along the interosseous membrane to the fibula. The skin and subcutaneous tissue are very thin over the anterior and medial tibia and as a result of this, a significant number of fractures to the lower leg are open. The tibia and fibula articulate at the proximal tibia-fibular syndesmosis. Fractures of the tibia can involve the tibial plateau, tibial tubercle, tibial eminence, proximal tibia, tibial shaft, and tibial plafond.
Functional Anatomy. The distal tibia, distal fibula, and talus bones make up the ankle joint. These 3 bones are bound together by the joint capsule and surrounding ligaments. The anatomic relationship of the tibial plafond (joint surface of the distal tibia) to the talus is important for ankle stability. The lateral complex consists of the distal fibula, the lateral facet of the talus, and the lateral collateral ligaments of the ankle and subtalar joints. Lateral malleolus injury (most common type of fracture involving the ankle) typically occurs with supination external rotation forces.