Synopsis. Jazz trumpeter and singer Chet Baker was born on December 23, 1929, in Yale, Oklahoma. He rose to stardom in the 1950s with Gerry Mulligan's quartet and then as a bandleader, but encountered personal and professional difficulties after developing a heroin addiction. Baker was in the midst of a late-career resurgence when he fell from an Amsterdam hotel window to his death on May 13, 1988. Chesney Henry Chet Baker Jr. was born on December 23, 1929, in Yale, Oklahoma, and moved to the Los Angeles area with his family at age 10. The son of musically inclined parents, he sang in church choirs and tried his hand at trombone before turning to trumpet at age 13
Chet Baker was a primary exponent of the West Coast school of cool jazz in the early and mid-'50s. As a trumpeter, he had a generally restrained, intimate playing style and he attracted attention beyond jazz for his photogenic looks and singing. But his career was marred by drug addiction. 
Chesney Henry  Chet  Baker, Jr. (December 23, 1929 – May 13, 1988) was an American jazz trumpeter, flugelhornist and vocalist. Baker earned much attention and critical praise through the 1950s, particularly for albums featuring his vocals (Chet Baker Sings, It Could Happen to You). Jazz historian David Gelly described the promise of Baker's early career as  James Dean, Sinatra, and Bix, rolled into one.. His well-publicized drug habit also drove his notoriety and fame; Baker was in and out of jail frequently before enjoying a career resurgence in the late 1970s and '80s.
Chet Baker started his career in the late forties. He became famous with the Gerry Mulligan Quartet in 1952. His solo in My funny valentine is a classic of the west coast jazz in the fifties. When Mulligan was arrested in 1953, Chet led the group until 1955, when he went to Europe. He also sang on many records. Born Chesney Henry Baker Jr. on 23 December 1929, in Yale, Oklahoma, Chet Baker was the son of Vera Baker and Chesney H. Baker Sr. The family moved to California in about 1939. A couple of years later, around the time that the US entered World War II, young Chet began playing the horn
About Chet Baker. Chet Baker was a primary exponent of the West Coast school of cool jazz in the early and mid-'50s. As a trumpeter, he had a generally restrained, intimate playing style and he attracted attention beyond jazz for his photogenic looks and singing. But his career was marred by drug addiction
Soundtrack | Composer | Music Department. Chet Baker started his career in the late forties. He became famous with the Gerry Mulligan Quartet in 1952. His solo in My funny valentine is a classic of the west coast jazz in the fifties. When Mulligan was arrested in 1953, Chet led the group until 1955, when he went to Europe. He also sang on many records.
Early Years. Chesney Henry Chet Baker Jr. was born on December 23, 1929, in Yale, Oklahoma, and moved to the Los Angeles area with his family at age 10. The son of musically inclined parents, he sang in church choirs and tried his hand at trombone before turning to trumpet at age 13. Baker was in the midst of a late-career resurgence when he fell from an Amsterdam hotel window to his death on May 13, 1988. Chesney Henry Chet Baker Jr. was born on December 23, 1929, in Yale, Oklahoma, and moved to the Los Angeles area with his family at age 10.