The causes of adrenal cancer are not known, but it is more likely to occur in the cortex, the outer portion of the adrenal gland, than in the medulla, the central portion of the gland. The adrenal glands produce several hormones, which can be produced in excess when cancer is present. 
1 Adrenocortical carcinoma is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the outer layer of the adrenal gland. 2  Having certain genetic conditions increases the risk of adrenocortical carcinoma. 3  Symptoms of adrenocortical carcinoma include pain in the abdomen. After adrenocortical carcinoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the adrenal gland or to other parts of the body. The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the adrenal gland or to other parts of the body is called staging.
Adrenal cortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare disease. It is caused by a cancerous growth in the adrenal cortex, which is the outer layer of the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands lie on top of the kidneys. They play an important role in the endocrine system, which is the system that makes and regulates hormones. ACC is also known as adrenocortical carcinoma. The adrenal cortex makes hormones that regulate metabolism and blood pressure. It also produces cortisol and the male hormones known as androgens. Treating an Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma. Your doctor will develop a treatment plan based on your condition, sex, age and overall physical health. He may also stage your cancer. Staging tells your doctor how advanced your cancer is. This can help determine the right treatment.
Scientists do not know exactly what causes most adrenal cortical tumors. Over the past few years, they have made great progress in learning how certain changes in a person's DNA can cause cells in the adrenal to become cancer. 
There are 3 types of cancerous adrenal tumors: adrenal cortical carcinomas, neuroblastomas, and some pheochromocytomas. Most of these tumors cause an overproduction of specific hormones, including aldosterone, cortisol, estrogen, and testosterone. It's the overproduction of these hormones that cause symptoms. 
Adrenocortical tumors usually make extra amounts of one or more adrenal hormones, which may cause symptoms. Certain inherited disorders increase the risk of adrenocortical cancer. These include Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, and Carney complex.Adrenocortical cancer may also be called adrenal cortical carcinoma. Adrenocortical cancer is a rare disease in which cancer forms in the cortex (outer layer) of an adrenal gland. There are two adrenal glands. One sits on top of each kidney. 
Adrenocortical carcinoma is also called cancer of the adrenal cortex. A tumor of the adrenal cortex may be functioning (makes more hormones than normal) or nonfunctioning (does not make hormones). The hormones made by functioning tumors may cause certain signs or symptoms of disease. In stage IV, the tumor can be any size and has spread: 1  to fat or organs and to lymph nodes near the adrenal gland; or. 2  to other parts of the body. 3  Adrenocortical carcinoma commonly spreads to the lung, liver, bones, and peritoneum (the tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers most of the organs in the abdomen).
Adrenocortical carcinoma, also adrenal cortical carcinoma (ACC) and adrenal cortex cancer, is an aggressive cancer originating in the cortex (steroid hormone-producing tissue) of the adrenal gland. 
Adrenal cortical cancer. The type of cancer that develops in the cortex of the adrenal gland is called adrenal cortical carcinoma. It is also known as adrenocortical cancer (or carcinoma) or just adrenal cancer. In this document, the term adrenal cancer is used to mean cancer that starts in the adrenal cortex. Adrenal cancer most often is discovered when: 1  It is found accidentally on an imaging test done looking for something else.
Adrenocortical tumor (ACT) is a cancer of the adrenal glands, which are triangle-shaped glands located on both kidneys. These glands produce many chemicals, called hormones. The hormones help the body cope with stress, control blood pressure and keep a proper balance of sodium, potassium and water. 