The act of breathing is part of the respiratory system, a complex process where air travels into and out of the lungs. Respiration is slightly different, where exercise causes muscles to release energy in the form of glucose. 
The respiratory system. Respiration is the chemical process that releases energy from food in cells. Breathing or ventilation is the process that gets air into and out of the lungs: breathing in (or inhalation) is called inspiration. breathing out (or exhalation) is called expiration. The human respiratory system has several main parts. The table summarises these and lists their functions. 
The ribs have two functions that are important to the respiratory system. They protect the thoracic cavity. They also can aid in contraction and expansion of the cavity in order to exhale/inhale. 
Diaphragm is composed of voluntary muscles and stretches to the lower-most part of rib cage. Diaphragm is the structure that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities that is comprised of the heart, ribs, and lungs and is particularly accountable for the respiratory operations. The diaphragm can be separated into 3 sections: the sternal, costal, and lumbar segments.
The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity containing the heart and lungs, from the abdominal cavity and performs an important function in respiration: as the diaphragm contracts, the volume of the thoracic cavity increases and air is drawn into the lungs. 
Best Answer: Diaphragm: Expands downwards into the abdominal cavity to allow for the lungs to expand as we inhale. As the diaphragm contracts the air is expelled from the lungs. Ribs: The ribs protect the lungs and expand as you inhale to fascillitate space for the lungs to expand like the diaphragm. The ribs then contract expelling the air in the lungs. Altogether now: The diaphragm relaxes and expands downward into the abdominal cavity as the ribs relax to also expand for an increase in air space for the lungs to take in O2
Report Abuse. the diaphragm causes breathing when u breath in ur diaphragm lowers which in turn draws air into ur lungs. this causes ur lungs to expand like a balloon. there for your ribs expand to make room for larger lungs that is the relationship to lungs diaprhagm and ribs when u breath. Ribs: The ribs protect the lungs and expand as you inhale to fascillitate space for the lungs to expand like the diaphragm. The ribs then contract expelling the air in the lungs.
The respiratory system is the system in the human body that enables us to breathe. The act of breathing includes: inhaling and exhaling air in the body; the absorption of oxygen from the air in order to produce energy; the discharge of carbon dioxide, which is the byproduct of the process. Contraction of the diaphragm muscle – causes the diaphragm to flatten, thus enlarging the chest cavity. Contraction of the rib muscles – causes the ribs to rise, thus increasing the chest volume. The chest cavity expands, thus reducing air pressure and causing air to be passively drawn into the lungs.