Helenite, also known as Mount St. Helens obsidian, emerald obsidianite, and ruby obsidianite, is a synthetic gemstone made from the fused volcanic rock dust from Mount St. Helens. Helenite was first discovered accidentally after the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980. Workers from the Weyerhaeuser Timber Company were attempting to salvage equipment damaged after the volcanic eruption.
Save. jewel image by Galyna Andrushko from Fotolia.com. A man-made glass created from the fused volcanic rock dust from Washington state's Mount St. Helens volcano, Helenite is also referred to as Mount St. Helens obsidian, emerald obsidianite and gaia stone. Properties of Helenite. Helenite is now available in a number of colors, including greens that range from deep emerald to aqua, red, pink, blue and light purple. The glass falls into the gem species silicate, has a hardness of 5 and a density of 2.4.
[1]. Helenite is a man-made material with properties similar to obsidian. This similarity has led to Mount St. Helens obsidian, emerald obsidianite, ruby obsidianite, and a number of other similar terms being used for the material. [2]. Helenite is used in many types of jewelry, including rings, pendants, earrings, and brooches. Depending upon color, it can be an attractive stone. It has a hardness of just 5 to 5 and chips about as easily as obsidian or window glass.
From this volcanic ash and rock is created Mount St Helen's Jewelry, a fused silica similar to obsidian, with the natural color of the evergreen forests that once surrounded the mountain. These memories and colors are preserved for eternity in hand cut stones set in exquisite jewelry. 
As word of the discovery spread, jewelry companies took note and began to find ways to reproduce the helenite. Helenite is made by heating rock dust and particles from the Mount St. Helens area in a furnace to a temperature of approximately 2,700 °F (1,480 °C). Although helenite and obsidian are both forms of glass, helenite differs from obsidian in that it is man-made. Helenite was first discovered accidentally after the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980. Workers from the Weyerhaeuser Timber Company were attempting to salvage equipment damaged after the volcanic eruption.
Hand made jewelry is jewelry that is made by hand without the use of machines molds or casting. In a hand made piece of jewelry all materials must be shaped formed and assembled. 
Helenite hails from volcanic rock that is rich in aluminum, iron and silica, with traces of chromium and copper. Color variations of helenite are obtained by adding trace elements of additional minerals; red helenite is created with gold, while blue helenite is made using cobalt or aquamarine silica chip. Properties of Helenite. Helenite is now available in a number of colors, including greens that range from deep emerald to aqua, red, pink, blue and light purple. The glass falls into the gem species silicate, has a hardness of 5 and a density of 2.4.
Helenite is a trade name used for a man-made glass that is produced by melting volcanic ash from the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens. It is sold as facet rough, faceted stones, tumbled stones, and mounted in finished jewelry. [2]. Helenite is used in many types of jewelry, including rings, pendants, earrings, and brooches. Depending upon color, it can be an attractive stone. It has a hardness of just 5 to 5 and chips about as easily as obsidian or window glass.