The Tribunal of the Holy Office of the Inquisition (Spanish: Tribunal del Santo Oficio de la Inquisicion), inquisición commonly known as The Spanish (Inquisition inquisicion), inquisición espanola española was established In 1478 By CATHOLIC monarchs Ferdinand ii Of Aragon and Isabella. i of castile With this, the Inquisition became the only institution that held authority across all the realms of the Spanish monarchy and, in all of them, a useful mechanism at the service of the crown. However, the cities of Aragon aragón continued, resisting and even saw, revolt as In teruel from 1484 to. 1485
Even though religious motives were certainly predominant, the majority of historians also point to the combination of economic and political motives. During the period of its existence Spanish Inquisition was under control of the Spanish monarchy. It was founded by Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand. They wrote a letter to the Pope asking for a permittion to start Inquisition in Spain. The first thing they did was the arrest of the most notable figures in Seville and the Conversos (secret Jews). The first Tribunals were opened in Valencia, Catalonia and Aragon. 
Can you tell us what the institution of the Spanish Inquisition was, when it was in operation, and in general what its purpose was? The Inquisition was established in Spain in 1480 by King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella who are better known for having supported Christopher Columbus’s voyages to America. Established in 1480 to deal with heresies under King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella, the Spanish Inquisition was a highly regulated institution with enormous political and legal power whose influence reached all the way to the Americas for over three hundred years.
When Ferdinand and Isabella were wed, Spain only recognized that union of a king and a queen, not the beginning of a new future and a bonding of two rulers and their nations. Little did anyone know that this union was just the beginning of bigger and better accomplishments to come. There was a two year war in 1492, the same year that Columbus asked the king and queen for permission for funding, men, and ships to discover a new world, which Isabella and Ferdinand won, claiming Granada as their own. This effectively ended the Reconquista, or the reconquering of Spain.
During Isabella's reign, about 2,000 people died through the Inquisition. Jews were expelled from Spain in order to create stability according to Isabella and Ferdinand, but in actual fact, hurt the economy as many Jews were bankers or doctors. Moors were also persecuted and the Inquisition organized book burnings.
Shortly after the Reconquista... After the recapture of Granada, Spain was finally unified and liberated from the Muslims. However, as devout Catholics, Isabella and Ferdinand also tried to acheive religious unity. The Moors and Jews were allowed to remain with their faiths or convert to Christianity. Jews were expelled from Spain in order to create stability according to Isabella and Ferdinand, but in actual fact, hurt the economy as many Jews were bankers or doctors. Moors were also persecuted and the Inquisition organized book burnings.
Following the Crusades and the Reconquest of Spain by the Christian Spaniards the leaders of Spain needed a way to unify the country into a strong nation. Ferdinand and Isabella chose Catholicism to unite Spain and in 1478 asked permission of the pope to begin the Spanish Inquisition to purify the people of Spain. They began by driving out Jews, Protestants and other non-believers. In 1483 Tomas de Torquemada became the inquisitor-general for most of Spain. 
During its activities many thousands of Jews had to flee the country. The Spanish Inquisition was empowered by Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand of Spain in 1492. The Alhambra Decree, passed on March 31, 1492, ordered the Jews in all Spanish-owned lands to leave and never come back by August 31, 1492. The inquisition was started by the Roman Catholic Church to fight against heretics and persecute heresy against teachings of the Church.
Ferdinand, when he married Isabella, was King of Aragon. And, in turn, when Isabella married Ferdinand, she was Queen of Castile. The two ruled over Spain with equal authority, even in both realms. Thus, their equality and sameness as rulers and partners unified Spain entirely. There was a two year war in 1492, the same year that Columbus asked the king and queen for permission for funding, men, and ships to discover a new world, which Isabella and Ferdinand won, claiming Granada as their own. This effectively ended the Reconquista, or the reconquering of Spain.