Skunks may use an old fox or woodchuck burrow, or dig their own. Sometimes they den in a hollow log or under a building. One of the chambers is used as a nest, with the skunk adding dried leaves and grass. Skunks mate in late Winter or early Spring. A litter may have four to seven young. About six weeks after they are born, their mother will take them hunting.
Striped skunks nest in burrows; males will usually den alone, while several females will share a multichambered den. They’ll often use an old burrow dug by a woodchuck or fox, or build one in an old log or under a building. Gaps in a home’s foundation, as well as underneath wood or scrap piles, are also potential homes.
Skunks are legendary for their powerful predator-deterrent—a hard-to-remove, horrible-smelling spray. A skunk's spray is an oily liquid produced by glands under its large tail. To employ this scent bomb, a skunk turns around and blasts its foe with a foul mist that can travel as far as ten feet (three meters).
Striped skunks are native to North America, and can be found in Northern Mexico, throughout the United States, and as far north as Central Canada. Other species of skunks, such as the spotted skunk and the hog-nosed skunk, can be found further south, ranging from Canada to Central and South America. Stink badgers, which resemble the hog-nosed skunk, are strictly found in the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia.
Skunks dig up ground-nesting bees and eat almost everything they find in the nest. Opportunistic hunters, the skunk will catch mice, snakes, toads, and other small amphibians and mammals they come across. Skunks also eat dead animals and remains left by foxes, coyotes, wolves, etc.
Skunks are opportunistic eaters with a varied diet. They are nocturnal foragers who eat fruit and plants, insects, larvae, worms, eggs, reptiles, small mammals, and even fish. Nearly all skunks live in the Americas, except for the Asian stink badgers that have recently been added to the skunk family.
Skunks usually nest in burrows constructed by other animals, but they also live in hollow logs or even abandoned buildings. In colder climates, some skunks may sleep in these nests for several weeks of the chilliest season.