While this is fine health-wise, it can cause the pizza to dry out faster. You can also freeze the pizza. Pizza stored in the refrigerator is typically good for three or four days. You can keep it in the freezer for up to two months. So the next time you are at a party and are reaching for that now-cold piece of pizza, remember that it is a prime place for dangerous bacteria to grow. 
Question: Last night, I ordered in some pizza and then fell asleep for a few hours before I could put away the leftovers. The pizza was sitting on the counter for a total of about 6 hours before I put it in the fridge. It still smells fine — is it safe to eat?. Answer: Sorry, but you're out of luck. 
According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), perishable food, including pizza, is not safe to eat if you've left it sitting out in room temperature overnight. This holds true even if your pizza doesn't have any meat products on it, the USDA notes. While you might not get sick from eating pizza that's more than four days old, you'll increase your risk for foodborne illness by doing so. Throw away any pizza that's been sitting out in room temperature for more than two hours. The FDA notes that if you keep leftover pizza in the freezer instead of the fridge, it's safe to keep it for one to two month
Cooked food sitting at room temperature is in what the USDA calls the Danger Zone, which is between 40 ° F and 140 ° F. In this range of temperatures, bacteria grows rapidly and the food can become unsafe to eat, so it should only be left out no more than two hours. 
Some foods can be left out in room temperature for periods of time and still be safe to eat without the risk for foodborne illness or food poisoning. While pizza should be refrigerated, whether or not it's cooked, leaving it out in room temperature for short periods of time is generally okay. While you might not get sick from eating pizza that's more than four days old, you'll increase your risk for foodborne illness by doing so. Throw away any pizza that's been sitting out in room temperature for more than two hours. The FDA notes that if you keep leftover pizza in the freezer instead of the fridge, it's safe to keep it for one to two months
The pizza box will not burn at this temperature, but you will be able to keep the pizza safe. When you are done with the pizza, store it in a sealed container in the refrigerator. Many people like to store the pizza in its cardboard box. While this is fine health-wise, it can cause the pizza to dry out faster. You can also freeze the pizza. Pizza stored in the refrigerator is typically good for three or four days. You can keep it in the freezer for up to two months
Pizza take out has limits as to how long it can set out and still be decent to eat. The meat, cheese, and sauce on a pizza can all grow dangerous bacteria if left at room temperature too long. Here are some guidelines to use with ordered pizza when storing it for a later meal. Remember, Pizza Is Perishable! Many people like to store the pizza in its cardboard box. While this is fine health-wise, it can cause the pizza to dry out faster. You can also freeze the pizza. Pizza stored in the refrigerator is typically good for three or four days.
Pizza can be left in room temperature for up to two hours -- or one hour in hot temperatures above 90 degrees Fahrenheit -- and still be safe to eat, according to the USDA. While you might not get sick from eating pizza that's more than four days old, you'll increase your risk for foodborne illness by doing so. Throw away any pizza that's been sitting out in room temperature for more than two hours. The FDA notes that if you keep leftover pizza in the freezer instead of the fridge, it's safe to keep it for one to two months
That includes heat-up and cool-down time -- so for example, if you let t … he turkey sit at room temperature for 30 minutes, then put it in the refrigerator, it will be ok as long as it gets to 40 within an hour and a half (total time under 40 is two hours or less). The same goes for cooked turkey. Fresh-brewed tea can sit at room temperature for up to eight hours if unsweetened. The flavor will begin to sour in sweetened tea after about six hours. The sour taste whi … ch develops is bacteria growth and thus tea that sits too long at room temperature should be avoided.