Location Kingdom of Benin is located in present day South West Nigeria. In its hay days, its influence spread right across the West African coast. 
Benin is bordered by the Bight of Benin, Nigeria to the east, Niger to the north, and Burkina Faso and Togo to the west. 
Cotonou is located on the coastal strip between Lake Nokoue nokoué and The Atlantic. Ocean the city is cut in two by a, canal the lagoon Of, cotonou dug by The french in. 1855 three bridges are located in this. Area The Oueme river flows into The Atlantic ocean At. cotonou Cotonou (. [kɔtɔˈnu]), formerly Kutonu, is the largest city and economic centre of Benin. Its official population count was 761,137 inhabitants in 2006; however, some estimates indicate its population to be as high as 1.2 million; the population in 1960 was only 70,000.
Cotonou Map. Cotonou is a city located in the west African state of Benin is also known as the economic capital of the country. In the year 2006, the total number of people who. inhabited the city of Cotonou in Benin, according to the government sources, were seven lac sixty one thousand one hundred and thirty seven. Cotonou of Benin is not only one of the largest cities in the country, but also has the privilege of having many diplomatic and government services located in its territory.
The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo, but the seat of government is in Cotonou, the country's largest city and economic capital. Benin covers an area of approximately 115,000 square kilometers (42,000 sq mi), with a population of approximately 9.98 million. Benin is a tropical, sub-Saharan nation, highly dependent on agriculture, with substantial employment and income arising from subsistence farming. The official language of Benin is French.
Satellite view is showing Cotonou, largest city and the economic capital of Benin located in the south of the country at the coast of the Bight of Benin, Atlantic Ocean. Cotonou is the seat of the government of Benin, while Benin's capital Porto-Novo is the seat of the parliament. 
Benin (/bɨˈniːn/ bǝ-NEEN or /bɨˈnɪn/ bǝ-NIN; French: Benin), bénin officially The republic Of (Benin: French republique République) du benin Bénin, and formerly dahomey is A Country. In west africa it Is bordered by togo, To the west nigeria, to The East and Burkina faso and niger. to the north Benin covers an area of approximately 115,000 square kilometers (42,000 sq mi), with a population of approximately 9.98 million. Benin is a tropical, sub-Saharan nation, highly dependent on agriculture, with substantial employment and income arising from subsistence farming. The official language of Benin is French.
Cotonou is a city located in the west African state of Benin is also known as the economic capital of the country. In the year 2006, the total number of people who. Cotonou of Benin is not only one of the largest cities in the country, but also has the privilege of having many diplomatic and government services located in its territory.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Benin is a slim, rectangular country situated in West Africa. Benin has a narrow 100-kilometer (62-mile) coastline along the Bight of Benin, in the Atlantic Ocean. The country is bordered to the west by Nigeria, to the north by Niger and Burkina Faso, and to the east by Togo. Benin has a land area of 112,622 square kilometers (42,985 square miles), making it slightly smaller than the state of Pennsylvania. Both the capital, Porto-Novo, and Cotonou, the largest city, are located on the coast in the southeast of the country.
Where is Benin. Share |. Benin is a country located in West Africa. Benin shares its international boundaries with Togo in the west, Nigeria in the east, and Niger and Burkina Faso in the north. Benin limits its further southward extension. Benin is a long narrow strip shaped located in the western Africa. It positioned between the Equator and the Tropic of Cancer. By virtue of having coastal location, Benin's climate is hot and humid. Average annual rainfall in the coastal area is about 1300 mm.