BEST ANSWER. Alma Kee, Agent, Tampa, FL. Forgot to answer your question... on a Short Sale you normally MUST close within 30 or 45 days of the approval so it's possible you may have to close within 45 days or it could take 6 months or a year or it may never close. If you have time contraints, you must be in a home by a certain date...don't do a Short Sale! Once you and the Seller agree on terms and have a ratified contract it will take the first lender 45+ days to respond. Most lenders want agents to put 90-120 days in the contract. If it closes in 2-3 months, that is excellent
If you are selling a short sale and are fortunate to have everything go well, you might get a favorable response in 30-45 days and be able to close in 30-45 days after that. However, the short sale process can also take many months. So my perspective is from the inside as the owner, not the real estate agent. On my properties, it varied by the bank and by the type of property. When you ask, how long does it take to close a short sale, I can say, it you have an agreed upon price, the closing is just about like any other. You go through the closing steps and it takes whatever it takes to do your inspections, loan approval, lining up the closing, etc
Short Sales tend to be a better deal for the homeowner than for the Buyer. You'll wait MONTHS for the homeowner's Lender to approve the short sale; maybe as long as Six or Seven Months. Meanwhile, you're stuck in a contract to buy that home. So my perspective is from the inside as the owner, not the real estate agent. On my properties, it varied by the bank and by the type of property. When you ask, how long does it take to close a short sale, I can say, it you have an agreed upon price, the closing is just about like any other. You go through the closing steps and it takes whatever it takes to do your inspections, loan approval, lining up the closing, etc
I have even experienced vast differences in approval times within the same bank. Typically it takes 30-90 days to obtain short sale approval from a lender, and once the approval is obtained, then it takes 10-30 days to close escrow depending on whether the deal is all cash or there is a loan involved. It can take from 30 days up to a year. Make sure that a lawyer is involved, they will know right away if the property will close based on the bank. answer by Lisa Purcell | Visit My Website | Contact Me. Unfortunately there is no general rule of thumb when it comes to short sale time frames.
How long does it take to complete a short sale? Varying from lender to lender, it can take two weeks or as long as 60 days to receive an approval of a short sale from a lender. Even with an approval, it may take 2-4 months for the home to be sold. During the short sale process, you are allowed to live in the home.
It can be hard to understand just why a short sale takes so long. Three or four months may seem like a long time when traditional sales often close in 30-60 days. It is a good idea to remember that in a short sale you are asking the lender to take less for the property than you owe on the mortgage. 
The time to close varies. A guide line would be 2 weeks for cash on a bank owned foreclosure and 2 months on a non approved short sale, 1 month on an approved short sale. If you have a home that fits you and your price is 50-70% of previous market value hang in there until you succeed. 