The summons is called a subpoena for production of evidence in some U.S. states that have sought to reduce the use of non-English words and phrases in court terminology. The subpoena duces tecum is similar to the subpoena ad testificandum, which is a writ summoning a witness to testify orally. However, unlike the latter summons, the subpoena duces tecum instructs the witness to bring in hand books, papers, or evidence for the court. The term subpoena duces tecum is used in the United States, as well as some other common law jurisdictions such as South Africa and Canada.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A motion to quash is a request to a court to render a previous decision of that court or a lower judicial body null or invalid. It can arise out of mistakes made by any lawyer in a court proceeding
Best Answer: A motion to quash means you are asking the court to disregard something. For instance, a motion to quash a subpoena means that you are asking the court to relieve a witness who has been subpoenaed to testify at court of the duty to show up. In your case, I am guessing that the on-line computer has cut off the name of the motion due to a lack of space. · just now. Report Abuse. It probably means that the defendant has filed a motion to Quash. Most likely the motion to Quash the indictment, where the defendant states that there is some error in the indictment that makes it invalid.
Best Answer: Motion to quash is usually used with regard to someone being subpoenaed, and it means to make void, overthrow, anul, or vacate. So if I subpoena you, and you don't want to testify, then your attorney could try to file a motion to quash my subpoena, essentially anulling my subpoena. Hope this helps. 
A lawyer may file a motion to quash if a mistake has been on the part of a court, or if an attorney believes that the issuance of some court document like a subpoena was not done in a legal manner. For example, a party that receives improper service of process may file a motion to quash. A motion to quash is a request to a court to render a previous decision of that court or a lower judicial body null or invalid. It can arise out of mistakes made by any lawyer in a court proceeding
To overthrow; to annul; to make void or declare invalid; e.g., quash a subpoena.. Unreasonable, obviously irregular, or oppressive subpoenas, injunctions, indictments, and orders can be quashed by a court. For example, if jurors have been selected improperly, the court can quash the proceedings. When the application to quash is made on the part of the defendant, the court generally refuses to quash the indictment when it appears some enormous crime has been committed. Com. Dig. Indictment, H; Wils. 325; 1 Salk.
A subpoena duces tecum (or subpoena for production of evidence) is a court summons ordering the recipient to appear before the court and produce documents or other tangible evidence for use at a hearing or trial. The summons is known by various names in different jurisdictions. The term subpoena duces tecum is used in the United States, as well as some other common law jurisdictions such as South Africa and Canada.
Quash Law & Legal Definition. Quash means to nullify, void or declare invalid. The procedure is used in both criminal and civil cases when there is an irregularity or defect in procedures. A motion to quash is often made in regard to the issuance of a subpoena. There are various reasons which may be given for why a subpoena should be quashed.