Share. This is a list or table of elements that are radioactive. All elements have radioactive isotopes. This table contains the elements that have no stable isotopes. Each element is followed by the most stable known isotope and its half-life. This list is sorted by increasing atomic number. Reference: International Atomic Energy Agency ENSDF database (Oct 2010)
Uus. Uuo. These elements are radioactive. They either have no stable naturally occurring isotope, or else are entirely artificial (all artificial elements have no stable isotopes). Click any element below to see all the samples of that element. Text and images Copyright (c) 2010 by Theodore W. Gray. 
radioactive element, an element subject to spontaneous degeneration of its nucleus accompanied by the emission of alpha particles, beta particles, or gamma rays. All elements with atomic numbers greater than 83 are radioactive. Naturally occurring radioactive elements include radium, thorium, and uranium. Several radioactive elements not found in nature have been produced by the bombardment of stable elements with subatomic particles in a cyclotron. Compare stable element. See also radioactivity.
Alpha decay is one type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms (or decays) into an atom with a mass number decreased by 4 and atomic number decreased by 2. By contrast, there are radioactive decay processes that do not result in a nuclear transmutation. The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in a process called gamma decay, or be used to eject an orbital electron by its interaction with the excited nucleus, in a process called internal conversion.
Radioactive Chemical was the latest chemical that came with the Superhero Pack. You can find it in your world, when you are holding the Geiger Counter. It has no use but to craft the Xenonite Crystal, by mixing 200 Radioactive Chemicals with 200 Haunted Chemicals and 200 Unearthly Chemical in a Chemical Combiner. When found, it gives you the Irradiated mod, which prevents you from finding any source of radiation and makes you vibrate for 30 minutes. 
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting radiation. A material that spontaneously emits such radiation — which includes alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays and conversion electrons — is considered radioactive. By contrast, there are radioactive decay processes that do not result in a nuclear transmutation. The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in a process called gamma decay, or be used to eject an orbital electron by its interaction with the excited nucleus, in a process called internal conversion.
Some radioactive elements glow because of their radioactive decays. They emit electrons or alpha particles, changing from one kind of element to another, and as the electrons in the atoms rearrange themselves to the new atom's configuration, they emit light. Radium was used for watch dials because it glows green. Thorium, a naturally ocurring radioactive element, is used in making mantles for gas and kerosene lamps because thorium oxide glows brightly when heated. The radioactive elements uranium and plutonium are used in the generation of electricity in nuclear power plants.
A chemical element or element is a chemical substance consisting of atoms having the same number of protons in their atomic nuclei (i.e. the same atomic number, Z). There are 118 elements that have been identified, of which the first 94 occur naturally on Earth with the remaining 24 being synthetic elements. Isotopes are atoms of the same element (that is, with the same number of protons in their atomic nucleus), but having different numbers of neutrons. Most (66 of 94) naturally occurring elements have more than one stable isotope.
Radioactive elements have a lot of important uses and they also cause some dangerous problems if they are not handled properly. Henri Becquerel first found out about radioactive elements late in the 19th century by placing some photograpic film under uranium salts. Thorium, a naturally ocurring radioactive element, is used in making mantles for gas and kerosene lamps because thorium oxide glows brightly when heated. The radioactive elements uranium and plutonium are used in the generation of electricity in nuclear power plants.
There are 80 elements that have at least one stable isotope and 38 that have exclusively radioactive isotopes, which decay over time into other elements. Iron is the most abundant element (by mass) making up the Earth, while oxygen is the most common element in the crust of the earth. Isotopes are atoms of the same element (that is, with the same number of protons in their atomic nucleus), but having different numbers of neutrons. Most (66 of 94) naturally occurring elements have more than one stable isotope.