A key code is a series of alphanumeric characters used by locksmiths to create a key. There are two kinds of key codes: blind codes and bitting codes. Each number in the bitting code corresponds to a cut on the key blade. For example, a bitting code of 11111 with Depth and Spacing Number 46 specifies a Kwikset key with five shallow cuts.
A Purchase Key is used to unlock or activate a product in to the fully licensed mode. The length of the two key codes are not the same. So if you have a shorter or longer key code than what you're being prompted for, then you're using the wrong key code. .rpt Inspector 1. 
These are codes that require a chart or computer program to translate the blind code to a bitting code, which is used to create the actual key. Most key codes are blind codes, and publication of code books or software are restricted to licensed locksmiths in most jurisdictions for security reasons. Each number in the bitting code corresponds to a cut on the key blade. For example, a bitting code of 11111 with Depth and Spacing Number 46 specifies a Kwikset key with five shallow cuts.
1 Disassembly-if your lock code is not on the face it is often stamped on the barrel of the lock-this will require the lock assembly being taken apart. 2  Reading the code from an existing keys cuts. 3  Cuts are made in a number of depths and if not to worn often the code can be read by a locksmith from an existing key. 1 You still have the tag that was attached to the original set of keys that came with your car. 2  You have an original of key that fits and the code is stamped on the key. 3  A previous owner wrote the keys code on paper work that came with the car.
Don't waste your time searching key code tables. Key Codes is a little utility that displays the key code, unicode value, and modifier keys state for any key combination you press. If you're a developer, this might be useful to you. 
In other cases it's next to impossible and copying an existing key is the only simple answer. Finding your lock/key code can be easy. 1  You still have the tag that was attached to the original set of keys that came with your car. 2  You have an original of key that fits and the code is stamped on the key. 3  A previous owner wrote the keys code on paper work that came with the car. 1
The key code for an ignition key is different for each make and  model of car. The thing to do is contact the dealership or a  locksmith to find the correct key code for the … make and model of  the vehicle in question. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A key code is a promotional code or a key used on games to see its legal or what not.
The product key is a usually unique, alphanumeric code of any length required by many software programs during installation. Product keys are also sometimes called CD keys, key codes, product codes, or installation keys. 
Keyboard Keys and Key Code Values. The following tables list all the keys on a standard keyboard and the corresponding key code values and ASCII key code values that are used to identify the keys in ActionScript: 1  Letters A to Z and standard numbers 0 to 9. 2  Keys on the numeric keypad. 3  Function keys. 4  Other keys. The following table lists the keys on a standard keyboard for the letters A to Z and the numbers 0 to 9, with the corresponding key code values that are used to identify the keys in ActionScript: Letter or number key. Key code. ASCII key code.