vitiligo is a total absence of skin pigment on a certain area of skin. So, that area will be totally white, like milk. Usually patchy with irregular edges, and flat. I've seen a lot of it on hands, but not too sure about other parts of the body. 
A. Vitiligo on the neck is a loss of skin color in patches. The loss of skin color tends to progress, and may even cover the entire skin. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. 
Vitiligo can also affect other parts of the body where you have pigment. For example, patches of hair may turn white. Some people lose the colour on the inside of the mouth, or even the colour in their eyes.What does vitiligo look like?The main sign of vitiligo is a loss of colour on one or more parts of your body. 
Introduction. Vitiligo is a long-term condition that causes pale, white patches to develop on the skin due to the lack of a chemical called melanin. Vitiligo can affect any area of your skin, but most commonly occurs on skin exposed to the sun, such as your face, neck and hands. 
Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a disorder in which white patches of skin appear on different parts of the body. This happens because the cells that make pigment (color) in the skin are destroyed. These cells are called melanocytes (ma-LAN-o-sites). Melanin is the pigment that gives the skin its characteristic color. Vitiligo is caused by a loss of pigment in the skin, due to destruction of pigment-forming cells known as melanocytes. Although vitiligo affects all races equally, it is more noticeable in dark-skinned people. Vitiligo can cause cosmetic problems.
Causes of Vitiligo. Melanin is the pigment that gives the skin its characteristic color. Vitiligo is caused by a loss of pigment in the skin, due to destruction of pigment-forming cells known as melanocytes. The exact cause of the destruction of these cells is not known. 
1 Vitiligo is a disease in which the pigment cells of the skin, melanocytes, are destroyed in certain areas. 2  Vitiligo results in depigmented, or white, patches of skin in any location on the body. 3  Vitiligo can be focal and localized to one area, or it may affect several different areas on the body. Melanin is the pigment that gives the skin its characteristic color. Vitiligo is caused by a loss of pigment in the skin, due to destruction of pigment-forming cells known as melanocytes. Although vitiligo affects all races equally, it is more noticeable in dark-skinned people. Vitiligo can cause cosmetic problems.
Vitiligo on the back is a loss of skin color in patches. The loss of skin color tends to progress, and may even cover the entire skin. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. A. 
Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a disorder in which white patches of skin appear on different parts of the body. This happens because the cells that make pigment (color) in the skin are destroyed. These cells are called melanocytes (ma-LAN-o-sites). 
Vitiligo is a medical condition affecting your skin’s color. When you have vitiligo, the cells that produce your skin color (also called pigment) are destroyed, and can no longer produce pigment. As a result, some of your skin loses its color in a process called depigmentation. You are also more likely to develop the skin condition if you have an autoimmune disease such as: 1  alopecia areata (baldness). 2  pernicious anemia (inability to absorb vitamin B12). 3  hyperthyroidism (an overactive thyroid). 4  lupus. 5  rheumatoid arthritis. 6  type 1 diabetes.