The Last Word. How long it takes to become an art teacher depends on whether you already hold a bachelor's degree or if you have years of experience. It could happen right away or it could take eight or nine years. The Not-So-Traditional Method. Many states, such as Florida, allow anyone with a bachelor's degree to become a teacher as long as she passes a basic test in her subject area. This test includes questions about art techniques, mediums and history.
The Traditional Method. Most teachers become certified by earning a bachelor's degree in education from an accredited college of education. This usually takes about four years. Earning a bachelor's degree will allow you to teach grades one through high school. Although you can specialize in one artistic discipline, you will have to become well-versed in all aspects of art. The Not-So-Traditional Method. Many states, such as Florida, allow anyone with a bachelor's degree to become a teacher as long as she passes a basic test in her subject area. This test includes questions about art techniques, mediums and history.
To apply for certification, an art teacher must have a bachelor's degree, valid teaching license and a minimum of three years of work experience. Certification may take up to three years and entails demonstrating knowledge by means of a four-part portfolio and completion of six computer-based assessments. 
Traditionally, many aspiring art teachers complete a bachelor's degree program in art education. However, students can also become art teachers by obtaining a bachelor's degree in art and then completing a teacher education program. Many students concentrate in a specific art-related field, such as art history, graphic arts, painting or digital art. Art teachers need to show proficiency in various styles and subjects. They should be able to demonstrate basic skills in oil painting, watercolor, clay, charcoal and other types of art mediums. Colleges and universities offer a variety of art courses in which students can explore their interests.
Bachelor's Degree. All potential art teachers are required to have a minimum of a bachelor's degree. Teaching art at the elementary school level usually involves obtaining a bachelor's degree in elementary education, augmented by classes in the arts. At the high school level, many teachers opt for obtaining a bachelor's degree in the arts, augmented by classes in education. The path to becoming an art teacher can have several entry points. Some begin by earning a bachelor's in education, while others choose to earn a degree focused on the arts. Whichever path you choose, you must earn a minimum of a bachelor's degree, and in some cases, a master's degree may be necessary.
The most basic college degree to become a school teacher is called a Bachelor Degree. It usually takes 4 years to complete a Bachelor's Degree in Education. My sister completed a Bachelor's Degree in Physical Education at Florida State University in about 4 years in 1968. If you have your Bachelor's you can take a test to be certified as a teacher and began teaching. If you are just getting started it will take 4 years to get your Bachelor's ma … ybe more or less it depends on he amount of classes you take per semester. After you graduate you will have to become certified
However, not all schools that offer education degrees offer an art education degree, so you could double major in general education and art. Most student teachers spend one or two semesters in a K-12 art classroom, teaching under the direction of an experienced art teacher. During this time, student teachers plan lessons, teach students how to create art projects and learn how to grade art projects fairly. The work environment of an art teacher depends on the type of art being taught and the age of the students involved. The environment for a college-level line drawing class, for instance, will probably be a quiet studio with good lighting and lots of open space for drawing tables.
It takes four years of University study to become a teacher. There are two options: 1) Complete a three year undergraduate degree (not necessarily related to education) and then do their Post Grad in teacher training (PGCE.). 2) Complete a four year BA Education degree which includes school placements and gives you Qualified Teacher Status. The usual route is either a degree in education (3 years) or a subject degree (3 years)+1 year PGCE. Subject degree must be 2:1 or above-I think. There is training on the job, but not many schools do this and I think you might still have to have a degree. Also, you must have English and Maths GCSE level C minimum.
Join Date: Dec 2005. Posts: 421. Usual route is to get a degree which is normally 3 years and then do a 1 year PGCE which is largely spent in schools. You can also get on a graduate training program where the school employs you and oversees most of your training in conjunction with a loal teacher training institution. The usual route is either a degree in education (3 years) or a subject degree (3 years)+1 year PGCE. Subject degree must be 2:1 or above-I think. There is training on the job, but not many schools do this and I think you might still have to have a degree. Also, you must have English and Maths GCSE level C minimum.