The extreme points of Japan include the coordinates that are farthest north, south, east and west in Japan, and the ones that are at the highest and the lowest elevations in the country. The highest point in Japan is the summit of Mount Fuji at 3,776.24 m (12,389 ft). At 150 m (492 ft) below sea level, the bottom of Hachinohe mine is the country's lowest point.
Shikoku is the smallest of Japan's main islands with a total area of 7,260 square miles (18,800 sq km). This area is made up of main island as well as the small islets surrounding it. It is located to the south of Honshu and to the east of Kyushu and has a population of 4,414,955 (2005 estimate) (map). • Kyushu. Kyushu is the third largest island of Japan and it is located to the south of Honshu (map). It has a total area of 13,761 square miles (35,640 sq km) and a 2006 population of 13,231,995 people. The largest city on Kyushu is Fukuoka and it is divided into seven prefectures.
Japan is an island nation located in eastern Asia to the east of China, Russia, North Korea and South Korea. Its capital is Tokyo and it has a population of 126,475,664 people (July 2011 estimate). Japan covers an area of 145,914 square miles (377,915 sq km) that is spread out over its more than 6,500 islands. Four main islands make up Japan however and they are where its main population centers are located. • Kyushu. Kyushu is the third largest island of Japan and it is located to the south of Honshu (map). It has a total area of 13,761 square miles (35,640 sq km) and a 2006 population of 13,231,995 people. The largest city on Kyushu is Fukuoka and it is divided into seven prefectures.
Honshu is home to Tokyo and many of Japan’s other largest cities, including Yokahama, Osaka, Nagoya, Kobe, Kyoto, Kawasaki, Saitama, Hiroshima and Sendai. Hokkaido, the second largest Japanese island and northernmost prefecture, accounts for nearly a quarter of Japan’s arable land. 
Japan Geography. The archipelago of Japan contains over 4,000 islands stretching along the Pacific coast of East Asia, with four major islands (sometimes referred to as the Home Islands): Hokkaido, Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku. Honshu is the main island of Japan, and largest at 810 miles (1,300 km) in length. Dominated by mountains and volcanoes, the massive earthquake of March 2011 moved Honshu 7.9 ft (2.4 m). The second largest, Hokkaido, is also the northernmost of Japan's islands; while on the other end, Kyushu is the most southwesterly. Shikoku is the smallest and least populous of the four main islands
Honshu is the largest island and the Japanese core area which includes Tokyo and Osaka-Kyoto. Honshu is the world's seventh largest island. Shikoku and Kyushu are in the south (Kyushu is in the extreme southwest and Shikoku is to its east). Besides these four islands, Japan includes 2,000 additional smaller islands.
Kyushu. Kyushu is Japan's third-largest island and the southernmost of the main four. Despite being separated by a small gulf from Honshu, Kyushu is well-connected by rail and bus service to Honshu. Honshu. When you look at a map of Japan, you can see the divides between its four main land masses. Honshu is central, with Tokyo in the central part of the island. The main island is also home Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto and Nagoya, and the majority of Japan's population lives here. Most international flights to Japan arrive through Tokyo or Osaka, so Honshu is the most frequently visited island, partly by default
The Japanese archipelago consists of thousands of islands, but the Japan of world maps -- the bow-shaped country in the Pacific curling around the east coast of continental Asia -- is made up of four main islands: Hokkaido, Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku. Honshu. When you look at a map of Japan, you can see the divides between its four main land masses. Honshu is central, with Tokyo in the central part of the island. The main island is also home Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto and Nagoya, and the majority of Japan's population lives here. Most international flights to Japan arrive through Tokyo or Osaka, so Honshu is the most frequently visited island, partly by default