Flickr/Jason Tester Guerrilla Futures. Uber has made some lofty claims about just how much its drivers can make a year. Uber has said its UberX drivers can make a median income of $90,000 a year in New York, as long as they drive over 40 hours per week. It s ays drivers can make up to $60,000 per year in Dallas. UberX is the startup's cheaper tier service. 
Uber driver pay varies depending on where you live and how many hours you drive. I make between $20 and $25 an hour in Los Angeles. Studies across the nation show that Uber drivers make over $19 an hour on average. In New York City, the average Uber driver makes over $30 an hour. There is also no such thing as an Uber driver salary. As described above, drivers are paid a portion of the fare for every ride that is given. As promised, here is an example of my pay for one 10 ½ hour day: $256.30 / 10.5 hours = $24.41 an hour.
Business Insider wrote a piece called  Here's How Much Money You Can Really Earn As An Uber Driver . Uber claims $15/hour. The article states that after tolls, Uber's 20% cut, gas, car insurance, vehicle financing, and self employment taxes, the driver really only made $54.50 for 12 hours of driving. After UberX cut rates in 48 cities in January, we surveyed drivers two weeks after changes to see how this affected income. We heard back from drivers in 35 of the 48 markets. 80% said their hourly income has decreased and 54% said requests seem about the same.
With uberX, essentially anyone with a car can sign up to be a driver. And Uber makes it pretty easy to do. The first step is to head on over to this website. If you're at least 21 years old, have a license, personal auto insurance, and a four-door car in good condition, you can sign up to be a driver. The next step is passing Uber's background check. If you pass the background test, Uber requires you to take an online training course that covers standard operating procedures, how to get five stars, and what not to do. Upon completing the course, Uber will send you a phone. From start to finish, the registration process takes about two weeks.
As I already explained, how much money an Uber driver makes depends on numerous factors. As a practical example, let’s assume you make $20 an hour after taxes and expenses, and you work 40 hours a week, like a regular full-time job: $19 x 40 hours/week= $760 a week. There is also no such thing as an Uber driver salary. As described above, drivers are paid a portion of the fare for every ride that is given. As promised, here is an example of my pay for one 10 ½ hour day: $256.30 / 10.5 hours = $24.41 an hour.
Now I drive an Uber X after two years as a black car Uber driver. I currently receive a little less than $1500 a week for my five eight to nine hour nights. I do not pay into Social Security or Medicaid or anything other than my income tax. Perhaps I should, but my income is stretched so tight I am very conservative. After UberX cut rates in 48 cities in January, we surveyed drivers two weeks after changes to see how this affected income. We heard back from drivers in 35 of the 48 markets. 80% said their hourly income has decreased and 54% said requests seem about the same.
If you want to make a living off of Uber, you're going to have to drive an insane number of hours. In order to make $75,000 a year driving for uberX in San Francisco, you'd have to work 3,000 hours per year, which is effectively a 58-hour work week, financial journalist Felix Salmon concluded. If you pass the background test, Uber requires you to take an online training course that covers standard operating procedures, how to get five stars, and what not to do. Upon completing the course, Uber will send you a phone. From start to finish, the registration process takes about two weeks.
Depending on whom you ask, driving for Lyft or UberX is either a gold mine or an exploitative labor practice. Uber last year infamously claimed many of its drivers made more than $90,000 per year, but it did not account for the cost of driver expenses like gas and car maintenance. My story is I don't really make that much as an Uber driver. Guess people have the misconception of Uber drivers making tons of money due to their advertising. In reality, it ranges from $3 to $35 an hour depending on the distance of the ride.