Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: seppuku (Noun). A form of ritual suicide by disembowelment using a blade, practiced by Japanese samurai, especially to rid oneself of shame, as a means of protest or, formerly, as a method of capital punishment. Origin: From 切腹, せっぷく. Part of the samurai bushido honor code, seppuku was either used voluntarily by samurai to die with honor rather than fall into the hands of their enemies, or as a form of capital punishment for samurai who had committed serious offenses, or performed for other reasons that had brought shame to them.
Noun. 1. seppuku-ritual suicide by self-disembowelment on a sword; practiced by samurai in the traditional Japanese society. harakiri, hara-kiri, harikari. self-annihilation, self-destruction, suicide-the act of killing yourself; it is a crime to commit suicide. 
Sometimes, particularly during the Tokugawa shogunate, seppuku was used as a judicial punishment. Daimyo could order their samurai to commit suicide for real or perceived infractions. Likewise, the shogun could demand that a daimyo commit seppuku. Battlefield seppukus were usually quick affairs; the dishonored or defeated samurai would simply use his short sword or dagger to disembowel himself, and then a second (kaishakunin) would decapitate him.
Seppuku. Ritual suicide by disembowelment carried out by samurai. Literally means stomach cutting.. The samurai committing seppuku would shove a dagger such as a tanto into their stomach while another samurai acted as their second by lopping off their head. 6. Seppuku. Seppuku is the ancient art of killing yourself if you get super pissed and can’t find anybody else to kill. Ninjas use all sorts of crap to kill themselves—guns, ropes, knives, lasers, spears, etc.—and don’t even think twice about it.
Share. By Kallie Szczepanski. Seppuku, also known less formally as harakiri, is a form of ritual suicide that was practiced by the samurai and daimyo of Japan. It involves cutting the stomach open, which was believed to immediately release the samurai's spirit to the afterlife. Likewise, the shogun could demand that a daimyo commit seppuku. Battlefield seppukus were usually quick affairs; the dishonored or defeated samurai would simply use his short sword or dagger to disembowel himself, and then a second (kaishakunin) would decapitate him.
Harakiri (or hara-kiri) most often refers to a form of seppuku (or ritual suicide), often miswritten as harikari. It may also refer to: 
harakiri-ritual suicide by self-disembowelment on a sword; practiced by samurai in the traditional Japanese society. hara-kiri, harikari, seppuku. self-annihilation, self-destruction, suicide-the act of killing yourself; it is a crime to commit suicide. 
Seppuku with ritual attire and second (staged). Seppuku (切腹 or せっぷく) , stomach-or abdomen-cutting, is a form of Japanese ritual suicide by disembowelment. Seppuku was originally reserved for samurai. The practice of committing seppuku at the death of one's master, known as oibara (追腹 or 追い腹, the kun'yomi or Japanese reading) or tsuifuku (追腹, the on'yomi or Chinese reading), follows a similar ritual. The word jigai (自害) means suicide in Japanese. The usual modern word for suicide is jisatsu (自殺) .
It is commonly pointed out that hara-kiri is a vulgarism, but this is a misunderstanding. Hara-kiri is a Japanese reading or Kun-yomi of the characters; as it became customary to prefer Chinese readings in official announcements, only the term seppuku was ever used in writing. The practice of committing seppuku at the death of one's master, known as oibara (追腹 or 追い腹, the kun'yomi or Japanese reading) or tsuifuku (追腹, the on'yomi or Chinese reading), follows a similar ritual. The word jigai (自害) means suicide in Japanese. The usual modern word for suicide is jisatsu (自殺) .