Malignant hypertension: Introduction. Malignant hypertension: Malignant hypertension is a condition characterized by very high blood pressure and swelling of the optic nerve. This type of hypertension is more common in people with kidney problems such as narrowed kidney blood vessels. Prognosis for Malignant hypertension. Prognosis for Malignant hypertension: The prognosis depends on how soon treatment is delivered after the onset of the condition. Prompt treatment can limit or prevent complications such as organ damage due to the high blood pressure. More about prognosis of Malignant hypertension.
In many people, high blood pressure is the main cause of malignant hypertension. Missing doses of blood pressure medications can also cause it. In addition, there are certain medical conditions that can cause it. Normal blood pressure is below 140/90. A person with malignant hypertension has a blood pressure that's typically above 180/120. Malignant hypertension should be treated as a medical emergency.
High blood pressure, in general, makes it difficult for kidneys to filter wastes and toxins from the blood. It is a leading cause of kidney failure. Malignant hypertension can cause your kidneys to suddenly stop working properly. 1 | 2. Normal blood pressure is below 140/90. A person with malignant hypertension has a blood pressure that's typically above 180/120. Malignant hypertension should be treated as a medical emergency.
Malignant hypertension is extremely high blood pressure that develops rapidly and causes some type of organ damage. Normal blood pressure is below 140/90. A person with malignant hypertension has a blood pressure that's typically above 180/120. Malignant hypertension should be treated as a medical emergency.
High blood pressure or hypertension can result in many various diseases, which can endanger your life. Learning how to cure high blood pressure is almost impossible, but it is manageable. You will know how to treat and keep this disease under control along with the causes and symptoms. 
Prehypertension is an American medical classification for cases where a person's blood pressure is elevated above normal, but not to the level considered hypertension (high blood pressure). Only extremely elevated blood pressure (malignant hypertension) can, in rare cases, cause headaches, visual changes, fatigue, or dizziness, but these are nonspecific symptoms which can occur with many other conditions. Thus, blood pressures above normal can go undiagnosed for a long period of time.
There are two primary hypertension types. For 95 percent of people with high blood pressure, the cause of their hypertension is unknown — this is called essential, or primary, hypertension. When a cause can be found, the condition is called secondary hypertension. 1  Essential hypertension. 2  This type of hypertension is diagnosed after a doctor notices that your blood pressure is high on three or more visits and eliminates all other causes of hypertension.
High Blood Pressure (Hypertension). A condition present when blood flows through the blood vessels with a force greater than normal. Also called high blood pressure. Hypertension can strain the heart, damage blood vessels, and increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, kidney problems, and death. PubMed Health Glossary. 
High blood pressure is a common condition in which the long-term force of the blood against your artery walls is high enough that it may eventually cause health problems, such as heart disease. 