English Meaning: The name Ella is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ella is: Abbreviation of Eleanor and Ellen: Beautiful fairy. A names begining with El or ending with ella. Famous bearer: American jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald; American poet Ella Wheeler Wilcox. In French the meaning of the name Ella is: Medieval given name meaning all. German Meaning: The name Ella is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Ella is: From the Old German name Alia, meaning all.
Notes: Ella is a name with Spanish origins. The meaning of the name Ella is young girl. Ella can also be the short form of Eleanor, likely a combination name of “Aenor” and “other.” Ella may also be a Greek name when a variation of Hellas (Greece). In Hebrew, Ella means goddess. A very famous Ella is jazz and blues singer Ella Fitzgerald.
It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Ella is other, foreign. Originally a short form of names containing ali (compare Eleanor). Also pet form of Alice, Ellen, Elvira and Isabella. It can also derive from the German name Alja meaning entire. In Hebrew Ella means goddess. The name was introduced to Britain by the Normans.
Origin of the name Ella: Brought to England by the Normans, Ella originated as a short form of any of the various names containing the Germanic element ali (foreign, other). Alternatively, Ella is now taken as a variant of Ellen (light). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Ella : | Edit. Of Germanic origin. Derived from (name) prefix alia- meaning 'alien/other'. It can also be a short form of Elizabeth, meaning covenant with God, or Eleanor/Ellen, meaning light.
In Greek mythology, Ella (Greek: ἕλλα) was the daughter of Athamas and Nephele. The name may be a cognate with Hellas (Greek: ἑλλάς), the Greek name for Greece, which said to have been originally the name of the region round Dodona. It is also a common short name for names starting with El -, such as Eleanor, Elizabeth, Elle, Ellen, Ellie, or Eloise. The Hebrew Ella אלה has two meanings.
American Meaning: The name Ella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ella is: Abbreviation of Eleanor and Ellen: Beautiful fairy. A names begining with El or ending with ella. In French the meaning of the name Ella is: Medieval given name meaning all. German Meaning: The name Ella is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Ella is: From the Old German name Alia, meaning all.
Another source indicates the name is a Norman version of the Germanic short name Alia, which was short for a variety of German names with the element ali -, meaning other.. It is also a common short name for names starting with El -, such as Eleanor, Elizabeth, Elle, Ellen, Ellie, or Eloise. The Hebrew Ella אלה has two meanings.