Peace, Love... is different than Viva La Juicy or Couture Couture, but you still feel they belong to the same brand. Peace, Love is less sweet than Viva... or Couture... and what's the greatest in it in my opinion, it's the poppy smell. I really can smell a poppy.
Pamela Skaist-Levy, who founded Juicy Couture along with Gela Nash-Taylor, described the fragrance as like something Barbie might wear, and that is exactly what it is: bright, perky, sweet and young.
Couture Couture is a scent inbetween Juicy Couture and Viva la Juicy! It has similiar note from Juicy Couture but it's not white, it's dark red-and it has a sweetness of Viva la Juicy! in the beginning.
Never afraid to stand out in a crowd, Juicy Couture captures the cheeky boldness of a girl who marches to the beat of her own drum. Juicy Couture smells like Couture with a blend of water hyacinth, princess lily, and sweet caramel.
Juicy Couture presents Viva La Juicy, an enticing scent of wild berries and mandarins, honeysuckle, gardenia, and jasmine. To round it out, amber, caramel, vanilla, sandalwood, and praline add just the right touch of sweetness.
Let's put it this way: I like it because is woody. On Couture Couture what you smell is the plum, grape and the honeysuckle in the opening. It softens up a little after 6-8 minutes, then you smell more of the sandalwood. It is true that it does not evolve very much on your skin.
Couture Couture by Juicy Couture is an oriental floral fragrance for women introduced in 2009. Top notes are mandarin orange, African orange flower and grapefruit; middle notes are jasmine, honeysuckle and plum; base notes are amber, vanilla and sandalwood.
Iv found so far with all juicy scents (iv tried viva la juicy, peace love juicy, and couture couture) that they last throughout the entire day with one application so i might suggest that you try the roller ball of the scent you want to try (around $20)and see how you like it before you splurge on a larger bottle.
New fragrance by Juicy Couture was designed in hippie style and it takes us back to the 60es and free minded Malibu. Peace Love & Juicy Couture is, we can freely say, hippie phase of the brand, which does not distance itself from style of the brand with the new flacon design and cheerful notes.
I love Juicy Couture fragrances so I bought this as a blind buy (also because the description said floral, and i love floral scents.) On me this smells just like fresh cut grass, and I DO NOT like that. Actually cut grass is one of my allergies.