Hi There My Daughter is 9 and recently had the same problem. I did a lot of research into this. It's not advisable for them to wear anti perspirant but you can get them deodorising body sprays but often this doesn't mask the very pungent pre pubescent smell. We have got round this with Crystal deodorant-Pit Roc. It's completely natural and stops the bacteria that that makes the smell
Please enable Javascript to watch this video. (PIX11) -- Deodorant vs. antiperspirant: Dr. Steve tells us which one fits the types of excessive sweating, cures odor issues, and tells us when kids should start using deodorant. WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DEODORANT AND ANTIPERSPIRANT. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i was thirteen or fourteen when i started wearing deodorant, that's when most guys start, ask him if he wants to wear deodorant, if so buy him some, if not don't bother and wait until he reaches puberty. hope this helps. 
It may also help to have your child avoid certain aromatic foods, like onions, garlic, and spicy dishes. If these methods don't solve the problem, it's fine for your child to start using deodorant or even antiperspirant, Shu says. In most cases, however, a mild deodorant should be enough. Body odor at this age is usually a sign that the body is maturing and the hormones are changing, says Shu. When your child's more mature sweat comes into contact with dirt and normal skin bacteria, body odor can result — just as it does for adults. Also, people vary in terms of how active their sweat glands are.
deodorant but what deodorant to use. I have done a lot of research on when kids should start using deodorant. In my opinion if the kids are using a safe natural deodorant it should be whenever the children begin to develop odor that showering once a day will not contain. This can be 5 years old or earlier in some cases. 10 most extreme places on Earth. Children begin to start producing body odor around the same time that they begin puberty. Age of puberty onset varies, and may be from 8 to 14 in girls and about 9 to 15 in boys. These are broad averages, and body odor production does not necessarily begin at the very first signs of puberty
Your nine-year-old son and his 15-year-old brother come in from playing an intense game of soccer. They both reek. You expect if from your teenager, but isn't it too early for your nine-year-old to be smelling this foul? No -- anyone of any age can potentially develop body odor. So at what age should someone start using deodorant? Some people, some children, in fact, sweat more than others do. When sweat forms on the body, it reacts with the bacteria that everyone has on their skin -- resulting in an unpleasant odor [source: McCarthy ]. 
My oldest daughter started wearing deoderant when she was about 8. My second daughter is now 8 and wearing deoderant but my 6 year old thinks it's cool so she will put it on when her sisters do. I don't think it is that big a deal so I just let her. It will only reinforce good hygene for the future. I dont remember when I started wearing deoderant but I think it was older than the 3rd grade. I only know that my mom had me start using it when I started having Body Odor. So I say when she starts to have BO than start using it.
You probably didn't think you'd be buying deodorant for your child this early in the game — and body odor is certainly less common at ages 5 to 8 than at age 12. Body odor at this age is usually a sign that the body is maturing and the hormones are changing, says Shu. When your child's more mature sweat comes into contact with dirt and normal skin bacteria, body odor can result — just as it does for adults. Also, people vary in terms of how active their sweat glands are.