Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It depends on the length of your cycle (28 days is average). So based on an average 28 day cycle it is around 14 days after your period that you would ovulate. Try using a website that you record your period dates on and it will predict your most likely day of ovulation. Your fertile period starts about 4-5 days before ovulation, and ends about 24-48 hours after it. This is because sperm can live in your body for approximately 4 to 5 days, and the egg can live for 24 to 48 hours after being released. You are most fertile on the day before and the
A. By convention, the first day of your period is the first day of your menstrual cycle. Around day 7 several eggs start to develop in your ovaries. However, only one egg will predominate and be release when you ovulate. For the average menstrual cycle, which is 28-32 days ovulation occurs on day 14. 
Report Abuse. It depends on how long your cycle is. Most women ovulate about 14 days before the first day of their NEXT period -- so if you have 28 day cycles, that would be about 14 days after your period starts ... but if you have 32 day cycles, it would be about 18 days after your period starts. Pippin · 7 years ago.
You ovulate 14 days BEFORE your period, not after (unless you have a 28 day cycle, then it's the same thing). Find out how long your cycle is by counting from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. Then subtract 14 from that and that's what day you ovulate on. If you buy ovulation predictor kits, you should start testing on cycle day 10 (about 3 days after your period ends or 10 days after it starts.) If you started your period on the 15th, you should ovulate about the 28th. Buy OPT and chart your BBT.
There is not a way to know for certain how long after your period you will ovulate, however. Ovulation does not occur in relation to the previous period, but rather to the next period. You will ovulate 14 days prior to the start of your next menstrual cycle. This means, then, that if you have a 28-day cycle, you will ovulate roughly 14 days after your period, and 14 days prior to the start of your next period. If you have a 31 day cycle, however, you will ovulate roughly 17 days after your period, and, again, 14 days prior to the start of your next period. If you are trying to conceive, you should begin to have intercourse roughly 4-5 days prior to ovulation, as the sperm can live in the body for about 5 days. 
Every women is different and when you ovulate depends on how long your cycle is and if you are regular. But in general, if you have a 28 day cycle you would ovulate on or around day 14. To be safe, most trying to conceive guidelines will use day 10-20 as your fertile window. (Day 1 being the first day of your period). 
Taking the “perfect”t 28 day cycle as our example again, if your cycle lasts 28 days, you will ovulate approximately 14 after your period and 14 days before your next period. It gets a little tricky when your not on the “perfect” 28 day cycle. 
Best Answer: usually about 14 days. If you buy ovulation predictor kits, you should start testing on cycle day 10 (about 3 days after your period ends or 10 days after it starts.) If you started your period on the 15th, you should ovulate about the 28th. Buy OPT and chart your BBT.
Your chances of getting pregnant just after your period depend on how short your menstrual cycle is, and how long your period lasts. One of your ovaries will release an egg (ovulation) about 12 to 14 days before your period starts. The first day of your period, when you start bleeding, is counted as the first day of your cycle. If you have a 28-day cycle, you'll usually ovulate some time between day 12 and day 16 of your cycle. 
on average a woman ovulated during the mid-point of her cycle. The middle between periods. If you have a regular cycle of 28 days you usually ovulate on day 14. So go from your first day of your period 2 months ago and count to the first day of your period last month, then divide by 2. That is around when you ovulated. 