Recipe by: sakuraiiko. This is my family recipe for Chicken Katsu-Japanese style fried chicken. Can also be used to make Tonkatsu, just use pork cutlets instead of chicken. Serve with white rice and tonkatsu sauce.. 1 Dip them into the egg, and then press into the panko crumbs until well coated on both sides. 2  Heat 1/4 inch of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Place chicken in the hot oil, and cook 3 or 4 minutes per side, or until golden brown.
Much like its close cousin tonkatsu (pork), chicken katsu is basically fried chicken cutlet coated with crispy Japanese panko (bread crumbs), served with a tonkatsu dipping sauce, which you can purchase from Japanese or Asian food stores. Chicken Katsu. Chicken Katsu is Japanese fried chicken cutlet with bread crumbs/panko. Easy chicken katsu recipe, served with Tonkatsu sauce. In the United States, when people think of Japanese food, a few items spring to the minds: sushi, sashmi, chicken teriyaki, ramen, and tonkatsu.
1 Place the flour, egg and panko crumbs into separate shallow dishes. 2  Coat the chicken breasts in flour, shaking off any excess. 3  Dip them into the egg, and then press into the panko crumbs until well coated on both sides. 4  Heat 1/4 inch of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 1 Dip them into the egg, and then press into the panko crumbs until well coated on both sides. 2  Heat 1/4 inch of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Place chicken in the hot oil, and cook 3 or 4 minutes per side, or until golden brown.
Chicken katsu is widely seen on most Japanese, Korean, and Hawaiian restaurant menus. Deep fried chicken pieces with a side of dipping sauce can fulfill a good meal. Normally, chicken katsu is either served on a bed of cabbage slices or placed next to a scoop of rice. (Can also be served with Curry and rice). 5. Get your wok or a large skillet heated with the cooking oil. Once the oil is hot and sizzling, slowly drop the chicken pieces into the pan. Use the sides of the pan to drop the pieces; this is to avoid any oil splattering.
Chicken Katsu is the delectable and delicious entree served at L and L Hawaiian BBQ in Vallejo, CA. I'd cut my left arm off for it when i'm hungry. Go to L and L and spend all your money on Chicken Katsu. Oh yeah, its chicken, fried chicken, with katsu sauce. Best Answer: It's basically fried chicken strips. Except the chicken on the inside isnt and processed like chicken nuggets. Katsu is a very sweet dipping sauce, very similar to a thick honey / teriyaki sauce.
The chicken katsu roll is a fantastic example of how you can blend two traditional Japanese dishes into one. This roll is also great for new-comers who may be uncertain about consuming raw fish! For this tutorial, you will need: 1  1-2 Skinless chicken breasts. 
Tonkatsu is also popular as a sandwich filling (katsu sando) or served on Japanese curry (katsu karē). Tonkatsu is sometimes served with egg on a big bowl of rice as katsudon. In Nagoya and surrounding areas, miso katsu, tonkatsu eaten with a miso-based sauce, is a specialty. Saengseonkkaseu (생선가스 fish katsu) is a Korean fish cutlet modeled on the Japanese dish. Tonkatsu in Korea is known as donkkaseu (돈까스) or donkaseu (돈가스), a simple transliteration of the Japanese word to Korean.
Tangy, sweet and full of flavor, Kikkoman Katsu Sauce is a classic! This sauce is the traditional Japanese accompaniment for tonkatsu — Japanese-style breaded pork cutlets. It's made from a specially balanced blend of applesauce, onion, tomato paste, carrots and traditionally brewed Kikkoman Soy Sauce that adds flavor to meat and poultry.