Answer: Stringhalt is a rare lameness that causes a horse to lift his hind legs higher and more rapidly than usual when he's moving. One or both hind legs may be affected, and the lameness varies from mild (just a muscle spasm) to so severe that the horse actually kicks himself in the belly when he tries to move. 
This is one condition that has perplexed equine veterinarians for centuries. Stringhalt can develop in a horse seemingly overnight with no apparent cause, and often there is no standard treatment. In other words, it can be a horse owner’s worst nightmare. There’s good news, though – stringhalt isn’t a typical lameness.
Stringhalt Stringhalt is a layman's term used to describe a gait abnormality that involves exaggerated flexion of one or both upper pelvic limbs (including the hock and stifle). In severe cases, affected limbs may be elevated rapidly and violently strike the horse's abdomen, making normal ambulation difficult. Stringhalt. Stringhalt is a layman's term used to describe a gait abnormality that involves exaggerated flexion of one or both upper pelvic limbs (including the hock and stifle).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Stringhalt is a sudden flexion of one or both hind legs in the horse, most easily seen while the horse is walking or trotting. It is most evident when the horse is backing up slowly, turning on the affected leg, or suddenly frightened. It can involve one or both hind legs of the horse. Australian stringhalt is differentiated from classical stringhalt by the severity, occurrence of outbreaks, distinct seasonal pattern and the ability of affected horses to recover spontaneously. This condition is characterised by the sudden exaggerated flexion of either one or both hocks.
Definition of STRINGHALT. : a condition of lameness in a horse's hind legs caused by muscular spasms and resulting in excessive flexion of the hock. — string·halt·ed \-ˌhȯl-təd\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
Stringhalt seems to make horses yank their legs up and halt them there momentarily before taking their next step. This is the outward sign of neurologic disease, sometimes caused by toxicity, sometimes of unknown origin. If time doesn't cure it, the prognosis is poor. 
Stringhalt or springhalt is an involuntary, greater-than-normal flexion of the hock while the horse is in motion and may affect one or both hind limbs. Stringhalt is apparently not painful and does not cause lameness in the usual sense.Some horses show a very mild hyperflexion of the hock during walking, while others jerk the leg up so violently that it strikes the abdomen and then pounds to the ground. Some horses show signs at each step, others only occasionally.