The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The middle layer of the heart wall is the myocardium, which is the cardiac muscle – a layer of involuntary striated muscle tissue surrounded by a framework of collagen. The myocardium is also supplied with blood vessels, and nerve fibers by way of the epicardium that help to regulate the heart rate.
Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs and enters the heart through the left atrium. Blood passes from the left atrium through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle. The left ventricle, the largest and most muscular of the four chambers, is the main pumping chamber of the heart. When the left ventricle contracts, blood is pumped through the aortic valve into the main artery of the body (aorta)
Your heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood to your body. Your heart is at the center of your circulatory system. This system consists of a network of blood vessels, such as arteries, veins, and capillaries. These blood vessels carry blood to and from all areas of
Oxygen-poor blood travels from organs and tissues to the heart through veins. The vena cava is the major vein that returns blood to the right atrium of the heart. The vena cava superior returns blood from the head, neck, upper extremities, and chest. The vena cava inferior returns blood from the lower extremities, the pelvis, and the abdomen. Blood passes from the left atrium through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle. The left ventricle, the largest and most muscular of the four chambers, is the main pumping chamber
Below are the four valves of the heart: Next Heart Anatomy: Blood Vessels. The heart is the organ that helps supply blood and oxygen to all parts of the body. It is divided by a partition or septum into two halves, and the halves are in turn divided into four chambers. Heart Anatomy: Valves. 1  Aortic Valve-prevents the back flow of blood as it is pumped from the left ventricle to the aorta. 2  Mitral Valve-prevents the back flow of blood as it is pumped from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
1 The right ventricle receives blood from the right atrium and pumps it to the lungs, where it is loaded with oxygen. 2  The left atrium receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it to the left ventricle. 3  The left ventricle (the strongest chamber) pumps oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body. The heart pumps blood through the network of arteries and veins called the cardiovascular system. The heart has four chambers: 1  The right atrium receives blood from the veins and pumps it to the right ventricle. 2  The right ventricle receives blood from the right atrium and pumps it to the lungs, where it is loaded with oxygen. 3  The left atrium receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it to the left ventricle
All rights reserved. The aorta is the largest artery in the body. The aorta begins at the top of the left ventricle, the heart's muscular pumping chamber. The heart pumps blood from the left ventricle into the aorta through the aortic valve. Three leaflets on the aortic valve open and close with each heartbeat to allow one-way flow of blood. 
Deoxygenated blood returns via veins to the venae cavae, re-entering the heart's right atrium. Of course, the heart is also a muscle, so it needs a fresh supply of oxygen and nutrients, too, Phillips said. The cardiovascular system circulates blood from the heart to the lungs and around the body via blood vessels. 
The blood enters the left atrium and is pumped into the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the oxygen-rich blood is pumped to the rest of your body through the aorta. The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood to your body. Like all of your organs, your heart needs oxygen-rich blood.