When the Taliban took control of the Swat Valley in Pakistan, one girl spoke out. Malala Yousafzai refused to be silenced and fought for her right to an education. On Tuesday, October 9, 2012, when she was fifteen, she almost paid the ultimate price.
The activist and co-author of “I Am Malala: How One Girl Stood Up for Education and Changed the World” relished “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,” the first book she read in the hospital when recovering from an attack by the Taliban.
Malala Yousafzai is a 16 years student from Swat, Pakistan. She is studying in 8th class. She wrote a diary for BBC in early 2009 with a different name Gul Makai, she wrote about the critical situation in Swat at that time. She later on became famous and worked for children rights in
Titled I Am Malala, the book will tell the story of the young advocate for women's education who was shot in the face at point-blank range by Taliban gunmen on Oct. 9 in Pakistan’s Swat Valley. Follow @NBCNewsWorld. The bullet passed through her head, neck and stuck in her shoulder but miraculously spared her life.
Summary. When the Taliban took control of the Swat Valley in Pakistan, one girl spoke out. Malala Yousafzai refused to be silenced and fought for her right to an education. On Tuesday, October 9, 2012, when she was fifteen, she almost paid the ultimate price.
Malala Yousafzai, the 17-year-old who survived a Taliban attack less than two years ago to become an international advocate for education, is releasing a new edition of her bestselling memoir,  I Am Malala  for young readers around the world.
Malala Yousafzai is a 16 years student from Swat, Pakistan. She is studying in 8th class. She wrote a diary for BBC in early 2009 with a different name Gul Makai, she wrote about the critical situation in Swat at that time. She later on became famous and worked for children rights in
When I almost died it was just after midday.. When the Taliban took control of the Swat Valley in Pakistan, one girl spoke out. Malala Yousafzai refused to be silenced and fought for her right to an education. On Tuesday, October 9, 2012, when she was fifteen, she almost paid the ultimate price.