Rock Smash is a HM Move for all of the Pokemon pokémon. Games Rock smash enables you to break rocks to collect, items Fight, pokemon pokémon or access. Hidden areas when used, In Battle rock smash can lower'your opponent s. Defense stat To Find rock Smash In, pokemon'pokémon ruby you ll Need to. Visit. mauville city ad
To get HM06 Rock Smash, you need to go to Mauville City, go inside the house right of the Pokemart, talk to the professor dude, talk to him, blah blah blah, you get the HM06 Rock Smash!
How to get: After you beat the Mauville city gym, go to the house to the right and through the gate of the pokemart.The guy in there will give you rock smash. How to use: Te … ach it to one of your Pokemon and walk in front of a rock and click on it.
He will give you rock smash, but you need the boulderbadge to use it.   You need to go up the kindle road on island #1 to the first cave, there is an old man in the cave that gives you the hm rock smash. When you get to one island go north all the way to the ember spa.
Defeat the Gym Leader in the Mauville City Gym. In order to use Rock Smash to break rocks around the world, you'll need to earn the Dynamo Badge at the Mauville City Gym. The Gym is an Electric-type Gym, so come prepared with a few Ground-type Pokemon. pokémon
You'll find Rock Smash from a man in Mauville City, but you won't be able to use it outside of battle. In order to use Rock Smash, you'll need to defeat the Gym Leader at the Mauville City Gym and earn the Dynamo Badge.
Rock Smash is a HM Move for all of the Pokemon pokémon. Games Rock smash enables you to break rocks to collect, items Fight, pokemon pokémon or access. Hidden areas when used, In Battle rock smash can lower'your opponent s. defense stat
4. Defeat the Gym Leader in the Mauville City Gym. In order to use Rock Smash to break rocks around the world, you'll need to earn the Dynamo Badge at the Mauville City Gym. The Gym is an Electric-type Gym, so come prepared with a few Ground-type Pokemon. pokémon
Rock Smash is a key ability in Pokemon Pokémon, emerald and is required to advance in several parts of the. Story'you ll Find Rock smash from a man In Mauville, city but you'won t be able to use it outside of. battle