Going back 7 years, the background check looks at: 1  County courthouse records for every county of residence for the last 7 years. 2  Federal courthouse records going back 7 years. 3  The multi-state criminal database going back 7 years. The background check and driving record check looks at the following criteria. (Source: Uber). 1  A minimum of 1 year U.S. licensing history (if under 23 years old, must have at least 3 years licensing history).
Background check and driving record check criteria. The background check and driving record check looks at the following criteria. (Source: Uber). 1  A minimum of 1 year U.S. licensing history (if under 23 years old, must have at least 3 years licensing history). 2  A clean Motor Vehicle Report (MVR) with no more than 3 incidents in the past 3 years
The source's subsequent conversations with Valleywag and Whisper, which put us in touch with the driver, speak to a corporate culture of laissez-faire gone wrong: [Uber's] background check is done through a third party called Hirease. It consists of filling out your name, address, DL & SSN online. That's it. Every taxi company I worked for required drug screening and livescan fingerprinting at the local police department before being issued a taxi driver permit. 
1k Views. The background check process for Uber specifically takes between 3 to 5 days; however the entire application process takes between 1 to 2 weeks. That is what i have seen in my experience. Take a look at our infographic if you have any more questions about the specifics. 6.5k Views. Lyft takes about two weeks. Based on some of the Uber drivers I've encountered, I don't think they even do background checks. I had a driver from West Africa who told me he had only been in the US for less than a week.
Uber is getting flack for its background checks—but at least it's doing them, unlike many other corners of the sharing economy. 
Uber states that they do in the US: This includes a three-step criminal background screening for the U.S. — with county, federal and multi-state checks that go back as far as the law allows [Uber website linked to above]. However note that a certain amount of skepticism exists regarding the robustness of these checks: 
And in California, Uber and other companies like it helped kill a law that would have required drivers to undergo a background check by the state’s Justice Department, as is required of taxi drivers. Uber, a five-year-old company that has raised about $2.7 billion in cash and is valued by investors at over $40 billion, is in the limelight these days. It is expanding at breakneck speed, hiring thousands of drivers in more than 250 cities worldwide, with rumors of an eventual public offering.
Uber says it should take 7-10 days, but that time frame may vary depending on the number of driver applications Uber and their background check partner are dealing with at the moment. “My background check is taking forever. The background check and driving record check looks at the following criteria. (Source: Uber). 1  A minimum of 1 year U.S. licensing history (if under 23 years old, must have at least 3 years licensing history).