The occurrence of one or more extra or missing chromosomes leading to an unbalanced chromosome complement, or, any chromosome number that is not an exact multiple of the haploid number. Definition from: GeneReviews from the University of Washington and the National Center for Biotechnology Information. 
Normal females have two X chromosomes, while normal males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. The characteristics of the chromosomes in a cell as they are seen under a light microscope are called the karyotype. It does not include a difference of one or more complete sets of chromosomes, which is called euploidy. An extra or missing chromosome is a common cause of genetic disorders, including some human birth defects. Some cancer cells also have abnormal numbers of chromosomes.
Aneuploidy Changes in chromosome number can occur by the addition of all or part of a chromosome (aneuploidy), the loss of an entire set of chromosomes (monoploidy) or the gain of one or more complete sets of chromosomes (euploidy). Aneuploidy. Aneuploidy-the abnormal condition were one or more chromosomes of a normal set of chromosomes are missing or present in more than their usual number of copies. Monoploidy-the loss of an entire set of chromosomes. Euploidy-an entire set of chromosomes is duplicated once or several times.
Numerical abnormalities (aneuploidy from GHR,) can occur with either the autosomes or the sex chromosomes. Monosomy is the absence of a chromosomal region or entire chromosome resulting in only one copy of the genetic material. Sex chromosome Aneuploidy: Turner syndrome (45,X). Turner syndrome (45,X) is caused by complete or partial absence of the second sex chromosome. Approximately 50% have complete loss
aneuploid. adj. 1. (Genetics) (of polyploid cells or organisms) having a chromosome number that is not an exact multiple of the haploid number, caused by one chromosome set being incomplete. n. 2. (Genetics) a cell or individual of this type. an·eu·ploid. adj. Having a chromosome number that is not a multiple of the haploid number for the species. n. A cell or an organism characterized by an aneuploid chromosome number.
Aneuploidy is the presence of an abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell, such as having 45 or 47 chromosomes when 46 is expected. It does not include a difference of one or more complete sets of chromosomes, which is called euploidy. An extra or missing chromosome is a common cause of genetic disorders, including some human birth defects. Some cancer cells also have abnormal numbers of chromosomes. Aneuploidy originates during cell division when the chromosomes do not separate properly between the two cells
Aneuploidy: gain or loss of a chromosome(s) such that the number of chromosomes is not a multiple of 23 (the human haploid number). Can be due to two main mechanisms: 1) Non-disjunction. 1  Definition: failure of chromosomal separation in anaphase of either meiosis or mitosis. 1 Can occur during meiosis or mitosis. 2  Normally, individuals are disomic for each gene (meaning the dosage of each gene is two). 3  Common aneuploid abnormalities are monosomy (loss of one chromosome) and trisomy (gain of an extra chromosome).
Aneuploidy. Aneuploidy is the second major category of chromosome mutations in which chromosome number is abnormal. An aneuploid is an individual organism whose chromosome number differs from the wild type by part of a chromosome set. For example, the aneuploid condition 2 n − 1 is called monosomic (meaning “one chromosome”) because only one copy of some specific chromosome is present instead of the usual two found in its diploid progenitor. The aneuploid 2 n + 1 is called trisomic ,2 n − 2 is nullisomic, and n + 1 is disomic.