Presbyesophagus is a term used to describe an abnormal shape of the swallowing tube (esophagus) that occurs in some individuals. In this situation, the esophagus appears wavier than a typically straight esophagus. This change may impact esophageal movement (motility). The term presbyesophagus (presby is Latin for old) was originally used to describe a change in esophagus movement related to aging even though there has been limited evidence that aging by itself causes trouble swallowing. Some people with presbyesophagus have trouble swallowing liquids or solids or have heartburn. A sensation of food being stuck or slow to pass through the esophagus is often described. Many people, however, experience no symptoms at all.
Some people with presbyesophagus have trouble swallowing liquids or solids or have heartburn. A sensation of food being stuck or slow to pass through the esophagus is often described. Many people, however, experience no symptoms at all. Your doctor will likely perform a physical examination and use a variety of tests to determine the cause of your swallowing problem. These tests could include a barium swallow x-ray, an upper endoscopy (EGD), or an esophageal motility test (manometry).
Presbyesophagus is a term used to describe an abnormal shape of the swallowing tube (esophagus) that occurs in some individuals. In this situation, the esophagus appears wavier than a typically straight esophagus. This change may impact esophageal movement (motility). The term presbyesophagus (presby is Latin for old) was originally used to describe a change in esophagus movement related to aging even though there has been limited evidence that aging by itself causes trouble swallowing. The treatment options for presbyesophagus will be based on the severity of your symptoms. Treatments may include: 1  Medications: If you have heartburn symptoms your doctor may prescribe medications to neutralize or reduce stomach acids or medications to improve esophagus muscle movement (promotility medication).
Presbyesophagus is a term used to describe an abnormal shape of the swallowing tube (esophagus) that occurs in some individuals. In this situation, the esophagus appears wavier than a typically straight esophagus. This change may impact esophageal movement (motility). The term presbyesophagus (presby is Latin for old) was originally used to describe a change in esophagus movement related to aging even though there has been limited evidence that aging by itself causes trouble swallowing. How is presbyesophagus diagnosed? Your doctor will likely perform a physical examination and use a variety of tests to determine the cause of your swallowing problem. These tests could include a barium swallow x-ray, an upper endoscopy (EGD), or an esophageal motility test (manometry).
Presbyesophagus is a term used to describe an abnormal shape of the swallowing tube (esophagus) that occurs in some individuals. In this situation, the esophagus appears wavier than a typically straight esophagus. This change may impact esophageal movement (motility). The term presbyesophagus (presby is Latin for old) was originally used to describe a change in esophagus movement related to aging even though there has been limited evidence that aging by itself causes trouble swallowing. Your doctor will likely perform a physical examination and use a variety of tests to determine the cause of your swallowing problem. These tests could include a barium swallow x-ray, an upper endoscopy (EGD), or an esophageal motility test (manometry).
An esophageal motility disorder is any medical disorder causing difficulty in swallowing, regurgitation of food and a spasm-type pain which can be brought on by an allergic reaction to certain foods. The most prominent one is dysphagia. 
Presbyoesophagus is term that has been traditionally used to describe the manifestations of degenerating motor function in the aging oesophagus. 