Avian chlamydiosis — An illness in pet birds and poultry caused by Chlamydia psittaci. It is also known as parrot fever in birds. Chlamydia psittaci — An organism related to bacteria that infects some types of birds and can be transmitted to humans to cause parrot fever. Humans can also spread the disease by person-to-person contact, but that is very rare. The symptoms usually develop within five to 14 days of exposure and include fever, headache, chills, loss of appetite, cough, and tiredness. In the most severe cases of parrot fever, the patient develops pneumonia.
Parrot fever is a rare infectious disease that causes pneumonia in humans. It is transmitted from pet birds or poultry. The illness is caused by a chlamydia, which is a type of intracellular parasite closely related to bacteria. Parrot fever is also called chlamydiosis, psittacosis, or ornithosis. Humans can also spread the disease by person-to-person contact, but that is very rare. The symptoms usually develop within five to 14 days of exposure and include fever, headache, chills, loss of appetite, cough, and tiredness. In the most severe cases of parrot fever, the patient develops pneumonia.
(July 2014). Psittacosis — also known as parrot fever, and ornithosis — is a zoonotic infectious disease caused by a bacterium called Chlamydia psittaci and contracted from parrots, such as macaws, cockatiels and budgerigars, and pigeons, sparrows, ducks, hens, gulls and many other species of bird. The incidence of infection in canaries and finches is believed to be lower than in psittacine birds. In certain contexts, the word psittacosis is used when the disease is carried by any species of bird belonging to the Psittacidae family, whereas ornithosis is used when other birds carry the disease.
Psittacosis is an infectious disease usually transmitted to humans from birds in the parrot family, turkeys and pigeons. Birds in the parrot family, or psittacines, include parrots, macaws, budgerigars (parakeets), and cockatiels. The disease is caused by a bacteria called Chlamydophila psittaci. 
An illness in pet birds and poultry caused by. It is also known as parrot fever in birds. An organism related to bacteria that infects some types of birds and can be transmitted to humans to cause parrot fever. Chlamydiosis, psittacosis or ornithosis. Parrot fever is a rare infectious disease that causes pneumonia in humans. It is transmitted from pet birds or poultry. The illness is caused by a chlamydia, which is a type of intracellular parasite closely related to bacteria. Parrot fever is also called c
Psittacosis is an infectious disease in humans that has mild, non-specific flu-like symptoms. Psittacosis refers to any infection or disease caused by Chlamydia psittaci, one of several microorganisms in the genus Chlamydia. This disease can be transmitted from infected birds to humans. Parrot disease, ornithosis, and chlamydiosis are other names for psittacosis. Birds which contract the infection include parrots, canaries, pigeons, chickens, ducks, and turkeys. The time between exposure to Chlamydia psittaci and the onset of illness in caged birds ranges from three days to several weeks.
Avian chlamydiosis. An illness in pet birds and poultry caused by. It is also known as parrot fever in birds. An organism related to bacteria that infects some types of birds and can be transmitted to humans to cause parrot fever. Chlamydiosis, psittacosis or ornithosis. Other names for parrot fever in humans. Parrot fever is a rare infectious disease that causes pneumonia in humans. It is transmitted from pet birds or poultry. The illness is caused by a chlamydia, which is a type of intracellular parasite closely related to bacteria. Parrot fever is also called chlamydiosis, psittacosis or ornithosi
If your bird has been examined by an avian veterinarian and is considered healthy, the risks are significantly reduced. Chlamydiosis (Psittacosis). Chlamydiosis (Psittacosis) is caused by. A great variation in pathogenicity (the ability to cause disease) of various strains exists for humans and birds. Some strains-such as those found in pigeons-may not cause disease in their hosts. Other strains-especially those in psittacines can cause disease in people and birds. 