The first recorded use of aversion therapy was in 1930 for the treatment of alcoholism, but by the 1950s and 1960s it had become one of the more popular methods used to cure sexual deviation, including homosexuality and sex offending. 
Aversion therapy is a form of psychological treatment in which the patient is exposed to a stimulus while simultaneously being subjected to some form of discomfort. Since 2006, the use of aversion therapy to treat homosexuality has been in violation of the codes of conduct and professional guidelines of the APA and American Psychiatric Association. The use of aversion therapy to treat homosexuality is illegal in some countries.
Aversion therapy is a treatment regime used in the fields of psychiatry, psychology and mental health treatment to treat patients suffering from abnormal or potentially harmful addictions or behavioral patterns. Aversion therapy can be administered by parents. While not the only means used to “treat” homosexuality, aversion therapy can be said to have been the most inhumane and disturbing type of treatment. Originally, aversion therapy for homosexual behavior was drug-based.
However, by the 1950s it was being widely used in an attempt to “cure” homosexuals and force them to become heterosexuals. Aversion Therapy for the “treatment” of homosexual individuals was first proposed by the American psychoanalyst Dr. Sando Rado. He proposed that heterosexuality was the biological norm. While not the only means used to “treat” homosexuality, aversion therapy can be said to have been the most inhumane and disturbing type of treatment. Originally, aversion therapy for homosexual behavior was drug-based.
When the detoxification is completed, the patient is assessed for aversion therapy. The therapist's first decision is what type of noxious stimulus to use, whether electrical stimulation or an emetic (a medication that causes vomiting). The goal of aversion therapy is to decrease or eliminate undesirable behaviors. Treatment focuses on changing a specific behavior itself, unlike insight-oriented approaches that focus on uncovering unconscious motives in order to produce change.
Aversion therapy. This method was first used in 1935 in an effort to eliminate homosexuality. It attempts to associate in the patient s mind a previously attractive sexual stimulus or behavior with an unpleasant sensation, such as pain, nausea, or fear.
In addictions [edit]. The major use of aversion therapy is currently for the treatment of addiction to alcohol and other drugs. This form of treatment has been in continuous operation since 1932. The treatment is discussed in the Principles of Addiction Medicine, Chapter 8, published by the American Society of Addiction Medicine in 2003. Since 2006, the use of aversion therapy to treat homosexuality has been in violation of the codes of conduct and professional guidelines of the APA and American Psychiatric Association. The use of aversion therapy to treat homosexuality is illegal in some countries.
First Known Use of AVERSION THERAPY. noun. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking or overeating) by associating the habit or behavior with a noxious or punishing stimulus (as an electric shock). aversion therapy. noun. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking or overeating) by associating the habit or behavior with a noxious or punishing stimulus (as an electric shock). Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about
Aversion therapy was first introduced in the beginning of the 1930’s when aversion therapy began to be used in the United States in an attempt to cure alcoholics. While not the only means used to “treat” homosexuality, aversion therapy can be said to have been the most inhumane and disturbing type of treatment. Originally, aversion therapy for homosexual behavior was drug-based.