Castor oil is a natural plant oil from the seed of castor plant. It is rich in ricinoleic acid, which possesses anti-inflammatory, anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties which contributes to a beautiful body. Castor oil is commonly used as a laxative, but it has many other wonderful properties as well. It is extremely softening on hair and skin as it has the ability to maintain moisture levels. It is well-known for its ability to strengthen hair. It is an emollient oil which acts as a deep conditioner for both skin and hair.
Castor oil is used as a laxative for constipation, to start labor in pregnancy, and to start the flow of breast milk. Some people apply castor seed paste to the skin as a poultice for inflammatory skin disorders, boils, carbuncles, pockets of infection (abscesses), inflammation of the middle ear, and migraine headaches. Castor oil is used topically to soften skin, bunions and corns; and to dissolve cysts, growths, and warts.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Castor oil, derived from the castor seed, has been used for thousands of years to treat a wide variety of health conditions, although scientific studies are few; there are reports of some side negative effects from castor oil, so you should proceed with caution in experimenting with its use. Oncologists now use castor oil as a vehicle for delivering some chemotherapy drugs to cancerous tumors. A special formula of castor oil called Cremophor EL is used as a carrier for paclitaxel, a drug used to treat metastatic breast cancer and other tumors.
Successful studies have approved the use of Castor Oil for skin infections and other skin problems such as sunburn, abrasions, acne, dry skin, boils, warts, stretch marks, liver/age spots, athletes foot and chronic itching and inflamed skin. 
Most people know there are medicinal castor oil uses, even if they are not aware of exactly what is castor oil used for. It is often remembered as a dietary supplement for children, given to improve gastrointestinal health and provide beneficial vitamins, minerals and essential oils. One of the most common castor oil uses is for skin and hair care. Castor oil is an excellent emollient and humectant, and helps to lock moisture into the skin and hair to keep it soft, smooth and supple. These properties mean it is excellent for reducing the appearance of wrinkles and scars.
Castor is a plant that produces seeds (beans). Castor oil is produced by pressing ripe seeds that have had their outer covering (hull) removed. The hull contains a deadly poison called ricin. Castor oil has been used as medicine for centuries. Some people apply castor seed paste to the skin as a poultice for inflammatory skin disorders, boils, carbuncles, pockets of infection (abscesses), inflammation of the middle ear, and migraine headaches. Castor oil is used topically to soften skin, bunions and corns; and to dissolve cysts, growths, and warts.
Castor oil is a vegetable oil obtained by pressing the seeds of the castor oil plant (Ricinus communis). The common name castor oil, from which the plant gets its name, probably comes from its use as a replacement for castoreum, a perfume base made from the dried perineal glands of the beaver (castor in Latin).
About. Known for its plethora of benefits and uses, castor oil is a vegetable oil squeezed out from the seeds of castor plant, Ricinus communis, found in Africa and India. But use of castor oil is limited not only to India, it is used all over the world for its medicinal properties. As a home remedy, castor oil is used widely for a number of problems and ailments. To name a few, castor oil helps deal with problems related to hair, skin, joints and intestine.
Uses. Castor oil is used to treat constipation. It may also be used to clean out the intestines before a bowel examination/surgery. Castor oil is known as a stimulant laxative. It works by increasing the movement of the intestines, helping the stool to come out