a hen with all the appearances and the behavior of a laying hen but which does not lay any eggs. There is a defect in ovum entrapment and the eggs are discharged into the peritoneal cavity although egg peritonitis is not apparent. false lupine. thermopsis montana, T. rhombifolia. false negative. when the result of a test in a patient is negative when the disease or condition which is the subject of the search is present. false positive. see false-positive. false quarter. a condition of the horse's hoof in which a serious injury to the coronet causes an overgrowth of horn which overlaps the normal wall
The Receiver Operating Characteristic. ROC curves (Figure 4) are plotted with the false alarm rate on the horizontal axis and the hit rate on the vertical axis. We already know that if the criterion is high, then both the false alarm rate and the hit rate will be very low.
Thus, for example, the individual who defiled a drinking-place would be attacked by every onlooker, while one who deliberately gave a false alarm was the recipient of much rough usage at our hands. Before Adam by London, Jack View in context. The travelers, recovered from this false alarm, breakfasted merrily.
Thus, for example, the individual who defiled a drinking-place would be attacked by every onlooker, while one who deliberately gave a false alarm was the recipient of much rough usage at our hands. Before Adam by London, Jack View in context. The travelers, recovered from this false alarm, breakfasted merrily.
false alarm noun [C]. › an ​occasion when ​people ​wrongly ​believe that something ​dangerous or ​unpleasant is ​happening or will ​happen: Three ​fire ​engines ​rushed to the ​school only to ​discover it was a ​false ​alarm. She ​thought she was ​pregnant, but it ​turned out to be a ​false ​alarm (= she was not).
(July 2009). A false alarm, also called a nuisance alarm, is the deceptive or erroneous report of an emergency, causing unnecessary panic and/or bringing resources (such as emergency services) to a place where they are not needed.
Example Sentences Including 'false alarm'. As they flashed by, he felt a pang of guilt at turning them out on a false alarm on a night like this. Rachel paused and ventured out onto the landing, listening as intently as the dog, but it seemed to be a false alarm.
Full Definition of FALSE ALARM. 1. : an alarm (as a fire or burglar alarm) that is set off needlessly. 2. : one causing alarm or excitement that proves to be unfounded. See false alarm defined for English-language learners.ADVERTISEMENT.alse alarm. noun. Tweet. : an alarm (such as a fire alarm) that is set off when it is not needed. : something that causes people to wrongly believe that something bad or dangerous is going to happen.
false alarm. → إِنْذارٌ كاذ ِب planýpoplach falsk alarm falscher Alarm λάθος συναγερμός falsa alarma väärä hälytys fausse alarme lažna uzbuna falso allarme 間違い警報 잘못된 경보 vals alarm falsk alarm fałszywy alarm alarme falso, falso alarme ложная тревога falskt larm กระต่ายตื่นตูม yanlış alarm động giả 假警报hus, for example, the individual who defiled a drinking-place would be attacked by every onlooker, while one who deliberately gave a false alarm was the recipient of much rough usage at our hands. Before Adam by London, Jack View in context. The travelers, recovered from this false alarm, breakfasted merrily.
Examples of FALSE ALARM. 1  A false alarm drew firefighters to the school. 2  The report that the factory would be closing was a false alarm. 3  He thought he might be having a heart attack, but his chest pains were just a false alarm. false alarm. noun. Tweet. : an alarm (such as a fire alarm) that is set off when it is not needed. : something that causes people to wrongly believe that something bad or dangerous is going to happen.