Vipera berus, the common European adder or common European viper, is a venomous snake that is extremely widespread and can be found throughout most of Western Europe and as far as East Asia. 
Common Adders are venomous snakes, small but true Vipers, very common throughout much of Europe, Vipera berus is the only poisonous snake found in the United Kingdom. Common Adders are known to have short tempers and may strike without warning when startled or handled. 
Adder. Adders are the only venomous snakes found in Britain, although they are absent from Ireland. They use their venom to immobilise prey such as lizards, amphibians, nestlings and small mammals. After striking their prey, they leave the venom to take effect before following the victim’s scent to find the body. Although an adder’s venom poses little danger to a healthy adult human, the bite is very painful and requires urgent medical attention. Adders are the most northerly distributed snake and the only species found inside the Arctic circle.
Common adder Facts. Common adder is a type of poisonous snake. There are three subspecies of adder that can be found in Western Europe, East Asia and throughout the Arctic Circle. Adder is the only poisonous snake in England. Adders may survive in different habitats and climates. They are usually seen in grasslands, forests, swamps, wetlands, rocky slopes and semi-deserts.
The adder is the only venomous snake native to Britain. Adders have the most highly developed venom injecting mechanism of all snakes, but they are not aggressive animals. Adders will only use their venom as a last means of defence, usually if caught or trodden on. No one has died from adder bite in Britain for over 20 years.
Confidence votes 132. The adder or viper is the only poisonous snake found in Great Britain; it prefers heathland or rocky areas where it can bask in the sun during the day, but is also sometimes found in woodland and other habitats. 
A snake will sometimes bite in self-defence if disturbed or provoked. Some snakes are venomous and can inject venom (toxin) as they bite. A bite from a venomous snake is a medical emergency as they can be deadly if not treated quickly. In the UK, adders are the only venomous snakes found in the wild. People also keep foreign (exotic) venomous snakes, sometimes illegally.
An Adder snake is a venoumous snake what can harmly affect you. Death adders are the most dustinuishable snakes in Australia. They are highly venoumous and are found in most o … f mainland and Australia, but not on southern offshore islands including Tamsmania. Death adders are also found in New Guinea and a few islands of western Indonesia. ^^ TRUE FACTS. from Cassie thomas. Adders are also venomous snakes meaning their bite could possibly be fatal, although it must be said that the Adder in general is a well behaved snake who would prefere to flee rather than attack. Hope this helps, Cornsnake Kid.