why is portland called rip city? Portland, Oregon got its nickname Rip City from Bill Schonely, the first play-by-play announcer for the Portland Trailblazers. It was a game against the Lakers on February 18, 1971, and the Trailblazers were coming from behind. Jim Barnett threw up a shot from just beyond mid-court that tied the game. After the basket, Schonely said, Rip City. All right.. The term stuck. Portland's most common nickname is Rose City or The City of Roses. The protest promotes bike riding in lieu of driving cars as a way of getting around town. Find out more from Reuters. Portland, Oregon got its nickname Rip City from Bill Schonely, the first play-by-play announcer for the Portland Trailblazers.
Within the context of the basketball world, Portland is commonly referred to as “Rip City” . Many longtime Trail Blazer fans know the origin of the term (not all), but younger fans, newer fans, and fans of other teams may not be aware of the history. For those who are unaware and those who would like a refresher, here is how Portland became “Rip City”. The Portland Trail Blazers’ very first season as an NBA franchise (1970-71) was a woeful one, as can be expected from a brand new team
“Rip City” has become more than a nickname, but a rallying cry for Portland. It graces the jerseys, the merchandise, and the lips of the fans. Those of you who watched or attended games in Portland during this past season’s playoffs may recall the thunderous chant “WE ARE. . . RIP CITY!” from the crowd. Many longtime Trail Blazer fans know the origin of the term (not all), but younger fans, newer fans, and fans of other teams may not be aware of the history. For those who are unaware and those who would like a refresher, here is how Portland became “Rip City”.
The official, and also most common, nickname for Portland is The City of Roses or Rose City. The first known reference to Portland as The City of Roses was made by visitors to an 1888 Episcopal Church convention. In 1889, the Portland Rose Society was founded, and promoted the planting of 20 miles (32 km) of Portland's streets with roses in advance of the 1905 Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition. The first Portland Rose Festival was held in 1907, and remains the city's major annual festival more than a century later. In 1917, the International Rose Test Garden was established, and it now features more than 7,000 rose plants of 550 varieties.
Reputation: 189. It goes back to the Blazers' long time radio announcer Bill Schonely, who used Rip City as a catch phrase when the Blazers would make a basket. I think it was supposed to refer to the rip sound of the ball going through the net. Schonely was the Blazers' radio play-by-play announcer from their very first game in 1970 well into the 1990s and is generally much loved by long-time Blazers' fans. 04-29-2009, 01:45 PM. pdxMIKEpdx.
Schonely, the creator of other beloved Trail Blazers expressions like “Bingo Bango Bongo” and “You’ve got to make your free throws” does not know how he came up with the term “Rip City”. Now 85, Schonely reflects back on the effect it had on Oregon sports. Many longtime Trail Blazer fans know the origin of the term (not all), but younger fans, newer fans, and fans of other teams may not be aware of the history. For those who are unaware and those who would like a refresher, here is how Portland became
The nickname Rip City is usually used in the context of the city's National Basketball Association (NBA) team, the Portland Trail Blazers. The term was coined by the team's play-by-play announcer Bill Schonely during a game against the Los Angeles Lakers on February 18, 1971, the Blazers' first season. The first Portland Rose Festival was held in 1907, and remains the city's major annual festival more than a century later. In 1917, the International Rose Test Garden was established, and it now features more than 7,000 rose plants of 550 varieties.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The nickname Rip City is usually used in the context of the city's NBA team, the Portland Trail Blazers. The term was coined by the team's legendary play-by-play announcer Bill Schonely. Bill Schonely was the first play-by-play announcer for the Portland Trail Blazers of the NBA. He began in the team's inaugural season in 1970