Electric power is the rate at which electrical energy is transferred by an electric circuit. The SI unit of power is the watt, one joule per second. Electric power is usually produced by electric generators, but can also be supplied by sources such as electric batteries. Electric power is usually sold by the kilowatt hour (3.6 MJ) which is the product of power in kilowatts multiplied by running time in hours. Electric utilities measure power using an electricity meter, which keeps a running total of the electric energy delivered to a customer.
DC Electric Power. The electric power in watts associated with a complete electric circuit or a circuit component represents the rate at which energy is converted from the electrical energy of the moving charges to some other form, e.g., heat, mechanical energy, or energy stored in electric fields or magnetic fields. For a resistor in a D C Circuit the power is given by the product of applied voltage and the electric current : P = VI Power = Voltage x Current. Enter data in any two of the boxes, then click on the active text for the quantity you wish to calculate.
power circuit. (electricity). The wires that carry current to electric motors and other devices that use electric power. 1  Facebook. 
In an open circuit, where voltage is present between the terminals of the source and there is zero current, there is zero power dissipated, no matter how great that voltage may be. Since P=IE and I=0 and anything multiplied by zero is zero, the power dissipated in any open circuit must be zero. Chapter 2 - Ohm's Law. In addition to voltage and current, there is another measure of free electron activity in a circuit: power. First, we need to understand just what power is before we analyze it in any circuits. Power is a measure of how much work can be performed in a given amount of time
A circuit is a closed loop that electrons can travel in. A source of electricity, such as a battery, provides electrical energy in the circuit. Unless the circuit is complete, that is, making a full circle back to the electrical source, no electrons will move. 
Given an electrical circuit or device Be able to compute instantaneous rate of energy use (power). Be able to compute how much energy is used over a period of time. Be able to compute how much energy is stored in an electrical storage device like a battery or a capacitor. 
As in the case with DC power, the instantaneous electric power in an AC circuit is given by P = VI, but these quantities are continuously varying. Almost always the desired power in an AC circuit is the average power, which is given by. where φ is the phase angle between the current and the voltage and where V and I are understood to be the effective or rms values of the voltage and current. The term cos φ is called the  power factor  for the circuit. and the AC power is given by P avg = VI cosφ = watts. so the power is reduced to that fraction of what it would be in a DC circuit with the sam
One-Hour Total Body Workout. Power Circuit Fitness is a unique private gym designed specifically around the application of circuit training principles. The Power Circuit Workout combines a variety of cardiovascular and resistance exercises set up for our clients by our personal trainers in an efficient one hour workout. 