Best Answer: Like any colour, it will damage your hair-however semi's do not do as much damage as permanent does. x) But.. it's impossible for your hair to go lighter through semi-permanent colours, as the percentage of hydroxide isn't enough to lift the colours already in your hair. any hair color damages your hair, but using a semi permanent is better. also not dying your hair all the time keeps it healthier. when you dye your hair it gives it texture and makes it feel better and shinier.
Semi-permanent or temporary hair color gives you a more natural color and is also easier to use. You can use semi-permanent dyes straight from the applicator as they don't have to be pre-mixed. As temporary colors don't contain bleach, they can't lighten your natural shade. Temporary dyes fade with shampooing and exposure to air. This means they need to be frequently reapplied, which can be damaging.. Permanent hair dyes are also known as oxidation, according to Cuannane Phillips. This is because an oxidizer (such as hydrogen peroxide) and ammonia are mixed with the coloring agent before application. Permanent dyes don't have to be applied as often as semi-permanent or temporary colors. The formulation of permanent dyes is very complicated, and manufacturers go to great lengths to attain long-lasting color that does minimal damage to the strength and elasticity of your hair
Demi Permanent 1 2 3 4 5. Demi permanent color is almost the same as semi permanent dyes except for the fact that they last longer. Demi permanent dyes usually last about 28 washes and they are deposit-only dyes. This dye will not lighten your hair. This is also good for people who want to add vibrancy or go darker without the commitment. Also use this if you're going to dye your hair unnatural colors such as pastel colors and or neon colors. There's also demi permanent dyes that are used to just add shine instead of color. Permanent 1 2 3 4 5. As you can tell from the name, this type of hair dye lasts the longest out of the three.
If you're concerned about damage to your hair, avoid demi-permanent color. While the damage it causes is minimal, it's still more of a risk than with semi-permanent hair color. Because demi-permanent color opens up the cuticle slightly, there is a chance hair will feel frizzy and dry afterward. 
You should be fine if you just dye your hair, try and stick away from bleaching it though. When you bleach your hair it is really harsh on it because it is using chemicals to tear pigment out. But when you dye it is just putting color on. Semi-permanent won't last to long but no it shouldn't damage your hair at all.
Semi-permanent hair dyes are a significantly less harsh alternative to traditional dyes that won’t damage your hair. Instead of penetrating the core of the hair, semi-permanent coat the hair's surface and wash out over time. Unlike permanent dyes, which contain harsh chemicals that can damage your hair and skin, there is usually no too long with semi-permanent colors. Some people even leave their dye in overnight for the longest lasting and brightest color possible.
Answers. Best Answer: Semi-permanent dye is actually less damaging than permanent, mainly because it's ammonia free. You could also use Revlon Colorsilk hair dye. It's also ammonia free, but it's permanent. Don't let the under $5 price tag fool you into thinking it's bad. It's actually one of the better hair dyes. 
Semi Permanent Hair Color & Damage Q: Does semi-permanent hair color damage hair? A: Semi-permanent haircolor is formulated to use smaller color molecules than most haircolor formulas, allowing the color to penetrate beneath the cuticle layer as well as coat the exterior of the hair (the way temporary color does).
Best Answer: Compared to permanent dyes, no it really doesn#t damage hair at all. It depends if its a direct dye or a chemical semi-perm. Salons probably use chemical, which is slightly more damaging, but no more than a strong shampoo-and the added colour will at first make hair stronger & look healthier :) Tbh, as long as you take care of your hair, regular permanent dyes are fine too. 