Definition: A CMOS sensor is a type of image sensor inside a digital camera consisting of an integrated circuit that records an image. The complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) sensor consists of millions of pixel sensors, each of which includes a photodetector. As light enters the camera through the lens, it strikes the CMOS sensor, which causes each photodetector to accumulate an electric charge based on the amount of light that strikes it.
Both CCD sensor and CMOS sensor (as so called), are actually using same kind of sensor called Photo diode. Photo diode is a P N junction diode that will convert photon of the light that is bombing the junction into proportional amount of electron. There 2 exception. CMOS sensor can be made very big and have same sensitivity as CCD sensor. CMOS sensor are very fast, it is 10 ~100 times faster then CCD sensor, so it is very good for special application such as high ens DSC camera (Cannon D-30) or fast frame camera.
The digital camera then converts the charge to pixels that make up the photo. CMOS uses a slightly different technology from CCD, another type of image sensor found in digital cameras. CMOS is becoming the more popular type of technology because of its low power consumption and speed. Also Known As: complementary metal-oxide semiconductor sensor. The complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) sensor consists of millions of pixel sensors, each of which includes a photodetector. As light enters the camera through the lens, it strikes the CMOS sensor, which causes each photodetector to accumulate an electric charge based on the amount of light that strikes it.
CMOS images tend to be higher in noise. CCD sensors are more sensitive to light. CMOS sensors need more light to create a low noise image at proper exposure. This does not mean that CMOS sensors are completely inferior to CCD. CCD has been around for a lot longer in digital cameras, and the technology is more advanced. CMOS sensors are catching up and will soon match CCD in terms of resolution and overall quality. It's only a matter of time before CMOS catches up.
Q: What is CMOS camera. What is it different from CCD camera. A: CMOS sensor is a kind of sensor that is normally 10 times less sensitivity then CCD sensor. As human eye can see object under 1 lux illumination (full moon night). There 2 exception. CMOS sensor can be made very big and have same sensitivity as CCD sensor. CMOS sensor are very fast, it is 10 ~100 times faster then CCD sensor, so it is very good for special application such as high ens DSC camera (Cannon D-30) or fast frame camera.
CCD and CMOS are two types of image sensors used in digital video cameras. The technology of each varies, and some users find there is a noticeable difference between their image qualities. Pixels in CCD sensors are committed to capturing light. 
CMOS is a type of integrated circuit chip manufacturing process that can be used for many things, including digital camera image sensors. They also require less power to use than do CCD sensors, which makes them popular in mobile devices. The drawback to CMOS sensors when used in cameras is that they tend to create photographs with a lot of image noise when used in lower light situations, though this is not always the case.
Both CCD (charge-coupled device) and CMOS (complementary metal-oxide semiconductor) image sensors start at the same point -- they have to convert light into electrons. If you have read the article How Solar Cells Work, you understand one technology that is used to perform the conversion. CCD and CMOS sensors power digital cameras. See more cool camera stuff pictures. Photo courtesy DALSA. Digital cameras have become extremely common as the prices have come down. One of the drivers behind the falling prices has been the introduction of CMOS image sensors.
Complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) /ˈsiːmɒs/ is a technology for constructing integrated circuits. CMOS technology is used in microprocessors, microcontrollers, static RAM, and other digital logic circuits. CMOS technology is also used for several analog circuits such as image sensors (CMOS sensor), data converters, and highly integrated transceivers for many types of communication. 