The Asparagus Fern, really a member of the Lily family, has three popular varieties, all easy for any Indoor Gardener to grow in pots or in hanging baskets. The most common-Asparagus Sprengeri-is covered on this page. A deceptive plant, the Asparagus Sprengeri looks halfway between a lacy, lightweight fern and the top of an asparagus-hence, its common name.
How to Care for an Asparagus Fern. Asparagus fern (Asparagus densiflorus, Asparagus plumosus, Asparagus sprengeri) is a traditional hanging basket plant. It is called a fern but it's not actually related to ferns; rather, it's a perennial herb and a member of the lily family. 
How to Care for an Asparagus Fern. The Asparagus fern is a popular household plant which is used to decorate the deck or patio in summer, and clean the indoor air during winters. It is normally set in a hanging basket. Since these plants are inexpensive and easy to care for, they are readily available at most garden centres. 
Asparagus. This subtropical relative of edible garden asparagus is in the lily family, but its needlelike foliage give it an appearance resembling a fern. Its stems shoot up and outward, making it an excellent plant for hanging baskets. Give asparagus fern medium to bright indoor light and keep the soil uniformly moist. 
The Asparagus Fern is a very popular plant for florists who commonly use the lacy, horizontal fronds in flower arrangements. These decorative vines will grow up to 10 feet with support, or they can be kept to a more compact size by regularly removing the tips from new growth. Cookies! There are several different species and varieties of Asparagus Fern that have been grown as house plants since the late 19th century because they are are one of the fastest growing, least demanding, easiest to care for plants for growing indoors.
The asparagus fern plant (Asparagus aethiopicus syn. Asparagus densiflorus) is normally found in a hanging basket, decorating the deck or patio in summer and helping to clean indoor air in winter. The asparagus fern plant is not really a fern at all, but a member of the Liliaceae family. Growing asparagus fern indoors takes a little more effort. Humidity is necessary and indoor areas are often dry because of winter heat. Mist the plant daily and provide a nearby pebble tray to keep the tiny leaves from turning brown and dropping.
Florists love the feathery, emerald-green foliage in bouquets. It's also a popular outdoor container plant in temperate climates. If planted in the ground, asparagus ferns are invasive. In their native habitat, these vigorous plants will spread across -- and scramble up -- other plants. Prune it back.
In addition to the Foxtail Fern, the Asparagus setaceus, or Plumosa Fern is popular for the Indoor Gardener. It has a more airy, layered look, with spreading stems and soft, small needles. Watch out, though, for its climbing shoots-they'll wrap around anything available. A deceptive plant, the Asparagus Sprengeri looks halfway between a lacy, lightweight fern and the top of an asparagus-hence, its common name.
When growing the asparagus fern indoors, it is best to keep the plant in a cooler environment. The asparagus plant is considered a hardy plant, so growing it is actually quite simple (Hardy meaning it can survive a frost). To get started, healthy seeds must be purchased at your local garden center or nursery. 
Indoor Site Selection. In most areas, asparagus ferns grow best as indoor potted plants. Provide the plant with bright, indirect light by placing it near a south-facing window or in another location where hot, direct sun won't damage the foliage. 