Journal Times. Bologna is a cooked, smoked sausage made of cured beef, cured pork or a mixture of the two. The bologna might include choice cuts, depending on who’s making it, but usually contains afterthoughts of the meat industry — organs, trimmings, end pieces and so on. 
Bologna sausage, sometimes phonetically spelled as baloney (/bəˈloʊni/), boloney or polony, is a sausage derived from the Italian mortadella, a similar-looking, finely ground pork sausage containing cubes of lard, originally from the Italian city of Bologna, [boˈloɲɲa]. ). Ring bologna is much smaller in diameter than standard bologna. It is a good size for slicing and putting on crackers as a snack or hors d'oeuvre (as opposed to the sandwich-sized slices of typical bologna). It is generally sold as an entire link rather than sliced.
Bologna is a cooked, smoked sausage made of cured beef, cured pork or a mixture of the two. The bologna might include choice cuts, depending on who's making it, but usually contains afterthoughts of the meat industry-organs, trimmings, end pieces and so on. A typical recipe uses seasonings such as salt, sugar, pepper and spices, plus a curing agent that includes sodium nitrite to prevent food poisoning. Like all sausages, bologna is covered in a natural casing made from the gastrointestinal tracts of cattle, sheep and hogs. Or it's put in a synthetic casing, which could be made from collagen, fibrous materials or even plastic.
Our bologna is not the same as their bologna, though. Italian bologna, called mortadella or mortadella bologna, is typically much spicier-and tastes better-than its mass-produced American counterpart. Like all sausages, bologna is covered in a natural casing made from the gastrointestinal tracts of cattle, sheep and hogs. Or it's put in a synthetic casing, which could be made from collagen, fibrous materials or even plastic.
Bologna comes from Bologna -- Italy, that is. Although if you ask for bologna there, no one will know what you are talking about. What you'll end up with is mortadella, the Italian godfather of American baloney.. Mortadella is a thick Italian sausage, flecked with bits of fat, peppercorns and sometimes pistachios. Mortadella is to bologna as fresh, roasted turkey on Thanksgiving is to sliced turkey lunchmeat.
Bologna is made from the beef of the cow. Bologna is usually made  from cutting meat off that is closest to the bone. Chicken and pork  are also used in some bolognas. 1 person found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. bologna is made out of the same as scrapple the fat, brains, entestiens, and other non used stuff of a pig. gross but so good.
Report Abuse. bologna is a type of sausage. There is good bologna and cheap bologna. The bologna I buy is all beef and is good quality and it costs me $6/lb. If you get the $2.99/lb generic supermarket brand then you are getting mostly cheaper cuts of pork. Best Answer: Run of the mill everyday bologna is made of beef, pork, chicken & turkey and cereal fillers. Beef bologna is made of beef and cereal fillers of course
Bologna is made from the beef of the cow. Bologna is usually made  from cutting meat off that is closest to the bone. Chicken and pork  are also used in some bolognas. 1 Frequently found in thin slices on sandwiches, most bologna is made from cured pork, beef, or a mix of the two. 2  Bologna, like most lunchmeats,…. 3  Tourism in Bologna, Italy Bologna is located in the northeastern region of Italy.
Sometimes referred to as garlic bologna, this sausage differs from traditional bologna due to various seasonings, most typically garlic being added to the recipe. Although referred to as German bologna elsewhere, it is usually called Fleischwurst in Germany and Extrawurst in Austria. Ring bologna is much smaller in diameter than standard bologna. It is a good size for slicing and putting on crackers as a snack or hors d'oeuvre (as opposed to the sandwich-sized slices of typical bologna). It is generally sold as an entire link rather than sliced.