Truly, there's no “textbook” answer to this question. The amount of time it takes to get a loan will vary. However, the majority of lenders will close a loan in roughly the same amount of time. In most cases, a buyer's mortgage can be approved within 30-45 days of application. 
A loan approval process should take anywhere from 1 day to 1 month, depending on the size and type of loan applied for, as well as the credit risk and underwriting needed for the borrower. 
Ivan Diaz, Mortgage Broker Or Lender, , An approval depends on the lender, type of mortgage Pur/ Ref and how long it takes for you to supply documentation. You can get a conditional approval/commitment from a Mortgage Bank based on supplying further documentation/conditions in less than a week. If you applied after making an offer (no pre-approval) - most lenders will take from 30 to 60 days. FHA loans take longer than conventional. If you had a pre-approval-so most docs are there already, and they are updated, the actual approval will take 21 to 30 days. Hope this helps,
Ask the Lender. Ask the lender upfront how long it will take to approve your loan. It can't hurt to ask the lender the average time it took to process recent mortgage loans, suggests HSH.com. If you don’t like the answer you get, try another lender. Generally, a lender will tell you from the start what information you must provide when you apply for a loan.
Generally, a lender will ask to see your pay stubs for the last two to three months, W-2 forms and income tax returns with attached schedules from the last two years and bank statements from the previous three months. If the lender asks for additional documentation, get the paperwork submitted as quickly as you can. It can't hurt to ask the lender the average time it took to process recent mortgage loans, suggests HSH.com. If you don’t like the answer you get, try another lender. Generally, a lender will tell you from the start what information you must provide when you apply for a loan.
0. Actually it should take a couple of days just from the particular time an underwriter receives a loan file to provide approval what you really refer to as an official approval. But if in case your file is having any problem related to credit score or any document related issue than it may take much time to approve. Link. 0. For getting an official approval for a loan would take 3 – 4 working days to be underwritten. I’m talking about 3 -4 days only if all your documents are completed and fit according to the wants. Else, it would be a long procedure, as the process is going start away from a new end
“He had every single iota of possible documentation you could imagine upfront,” said Sheldon, who’s a senior loan officer in Santa Rosa, Calif., and regularly writes about mortgages for Credit.com. That three-day turnaround was unusual, but so was the time it took roughly two months to get mortgage approval. 
No, that is not normal at all. A good mortgage lender will have a pre-approval done for you within 24 hours. You should find another lender. Maybe get a referral from a realtor for a good lender in your area. Not all applicant's loans can close in 30 days or less. A pre approval should be with loan officer reviewing an acceptable credit report, W2's, most recent paystub, and tax returns for the past 2 yrs. Many issues from tax returns can come up even if not self employed.