Losartan, sold under the brand name Cozaar, is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It's also used to lower the risk of stroke in some patients with heart disease. Losartan is an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) that blocks a substance that causes blood vessels to tighten. By relaxing blood vessels, losartan helps a person maintain a lower blood pressure, increasing the supply of oxygen and blood to the heart. Losartan is also used to slow long-term kidney damage for people with type 2 diabetes, and it is sometimes used to treat congestive heart failure. Losartan was the first angiotensin receptor blocker to be sold following its approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1995. It's made by Merck & Co. under the trade name Cozaar, and is also available in generic form.
Descriptions. Losartan and hydrochlorothiazide combination is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Lowering blood pressure may reduce the risk of strokes and heart attacks. Losartan and hydrochlorothiazide combination is also used to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and enlargement of the heart. Losartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB). It works by blocking a substance in the body that causes the blood vessels to tighten
Drug Losartan. The generic Losartan is manufactured by 137 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. 
Losartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Losartan keeps blood vessels from narrowing, which lowers blood pressure and improves blood flow. Losartan is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It is also used to lower the risk of stroke in certain people with heart disease. Losartan is used to slow long-term kidney damage in people with type 2 diabetes who also have high blood pressure. 
A lower blood pressure will increase the supply of the blood and oxygen to the heart. Losartan is also used to decrease the risk of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and enlargement of the heart. It is also used to treat kidney problems in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
losartan. LOSARTAN is used to treat high blood pressure and to reduce the risk of stroke in certain patients. This drug also slows the progression of kidney disease in patients with diabetes. As a result, losartan relaxes the blood vessels. A lower blood pressure will increase the supply of the blood and oxygen to the heart. Losartan is also used to decrease the risk of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and enlargement of the heart. It is also used to treat kidney problems in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension
BRAND NAME: Hyzaar. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Hyzaar is a combination of losartan (Cozaar) and hydrochlorothiazide and is used for treating high blood pressure. Losartan is an oral medication that belongs to a class of drugs called angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)
Losartan (rINN) /loʊˈsɑrtən/ is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist drug used mainly to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It was the first angiotensin II antagonist to be marketed. Losartan potassium is marketed by Merck & Co. Inc. under the trade name Cozaar, and is available in generic form. 