If this is the cause of your pain, then static stretching (see section Static Stretching), isometric stretching (see section Isometric Stretching), or a good warm-up (see section Warming Up) or cool-down (see section Cooling Down) will help alleviate some of the soreness. See section Why Bodybuilders Should Stretch.
Warming up also protects your heart -- people who warm up for at least two minutes before exercise reduce their risk of high blood pressure and increase oxygen flow to the heart, according to ExRx.net. A warmup should be the first thing performed before stretching, cardiovascular exercise or resistance training.
Always warm your muscles before you start your stretches. Walk or march in place or climb up and down flight of stairs slowly for a few minutes before stretching. Focus on your posture, abdominal control (keeps your spine straight), and regular breathing during your warm-up.
The Importance of Warm Up Exercises. Doing warm up exercises before your workout is important in many ways. A good warm up will gradually increase your heart rate, increase circulation to your muscles, tendons and ligaments, and mentally prepare you for your workout.
Warming up before stretching is a must!! Before you do any physical activity you should always warm up and stretch out your body. Physical activity simply means movement of the body that uses energy. Walking, gardening, briskly pushing a baby stroller, climbing the stairs, playing soccer, or dancing the night away are all good examples of being active.
A proper warm-up should raise your body temperature by one or two degrees Celsius (1.4 to 2.8 degrees Fahrenheit) and is divided into three phases: general warm-up stretching sport-specific activity It is very important that you perform the general warm-up before you stretch. It is not a good idea to attempt to stretch before your muscles are warm (something which the general warm-up accomplishes). Warming up can do more than just loosen stiff muscles; when done properly, it can actually improve performance.
The best time to stretch is when your muscles are warmed up. If they are not already warm before you wish to stretch, then you need to warm them up yourself, usually by performing some type of brief aerobic activity (see section General Warm-Up).