AIPAC was founded by Isaiah L. Si Kenen, springing from the American Zionist Committee for Public Affairs Kenen registered twice with the U.S. Department of Justice under the Foreign Agent Registration Act (FARA) as a foreign agent for Israel. Therefore, an independent lobbying group was formed within the auspices of the American Zionist Committee. [viii]. AIPAC's original internal codename in the American Zionist Committee was the Kenen Committee.. Its results have been unparalleled in the history of foreign lobbying.
Since the American Israel Public Affairs Committee's incorporation in 1963 it has been periodically investigated by the FBI and US Department of Justice. AIPAC Founder Isaiah L. Kenen works for the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a public relations specialist for the Israel Office of Information.
This was Israel's first UN delegation after its formation as a state in 1948. In 1951, Kenen went to Washington to lobby Congress for aid to Israel, founding the American Zionist Committee, which later spun off AIPAC. Between 1951 and March 15, 1954, Kenen directed legislative activity in Washington on behalf of the American Zionist Council. Therefore, an independent lobbying group was formed within the auspices of the American Zionist Committee. [viii]. AIPAC's original internal codename in the American Zionist Committee was the Kenen Committee.. Its results have been unparalleled in the history of foreign lobbying.
The American Israel Public Affairs Committee was founded in 1951 by Isaiah L. Si Kenen. Kenen originally ran the American Zionist Committee for Public Affairs as a lobbying division of the American Zionist Council. Michael Oren writes in his book, Power, Faith, and Fantasy: America in the Middle East 1776 to the Present, Though founded in 1953, AIPAC had only now in the mid-70s, achieved the financial and political clout necessary to sway congressional opinion.
The bottom line is that AIPAC, which is a de facto agent for a foreign government, has a stranglehold on the U.S. Congress. Open debate about U.S. policy towards Israel does not occur there, even though that policy has important consequences for the entire world. Michael Oren writes in his book, Power, Faith, and Fantasy: America in the Middle East 1776 to the Present, Though founded in 1953, AIPAC had only now in the mid-70s, achieved the financial and political clout necessary to sway congressional opinion.
George Lenczowski notes a similar, mid-1970s, timeframe for the rise of AIPAC power. It [the Carter Presidency] also coincides with the militant emergence of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) as a major force in shaping American policy toward the Middle East.. Michael Oren writes in his book, Power, Faith, and Fantasy: America in the Middle East 1776 to the Present, Though founded in 1953, AIPAC had only now in the mid-70s, achieved the financial and political clout necessary to sway congressional opinion.
AIPAC's lobbying. AIPAC directly lobbies the U.S. government on behalf of the Israel. The lobby, originally called the American Zionist Committee for Public Affairs, was founded in 1951 by I.L. (Sy) Kenen to appeal directly to Congress for legislation to provide aid to Israel to circumvent State Department opposition. In his book describing the history of AIPAC, Kenen wrote that AIPAC's Executive Committee decided to change their name from American Zionist Committee for Public Affairs to American Israel Public Affairs Committee to enlarge constituency and support.
The American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) is a national membership based group which describes itself as America's Pro-Israel Lobby, and is frequently referred to as The Lobby with a capital L. In his book describing the history of AIPAC, Kenen wrote that AIPAC's Executive Committee decided to change their name from American Zionist Committee for Public Affairs to American Israel Public Affairs Committee to enlarge constituency and support.
The American Israel Education Foundation is a sister organization of AIPAC, that handles educational work, rather than lobbying. It is a 501(c)(3) non-profit educational organization that conducts educational programs, including sponsoring U.S. legislators on educational trips to Israel. Michael Oren writes in his book, Power, Faith, and Fantasy: America in the Middle East 1776 to the Present, Though founded in 1953, AIPAC had only now in the mid-70s, achieved the financial and political clout necessary to sway congressional opinion.