corn dog. noun. Tweet. : a hot dog covered with a mixture of cornmeal that is fried and served on a stick. Full Definition of CORN DOG. : a frankfurter dipped in cornmeal batter, fried,
Report Abuse. The corn dog or corndog is a hot dog coated in cornmeal batter and deep fried in hot oil, although some are baked. Almost all corn dogs are served on wooden sticks, though some early versions were stickless. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. corn dog/ hot dog. well depepnding on the meats, say its pork, then in a factory, any left over scraps from the pig [after all the good stuff is gone], it's liek tht for all the animals, it's whatever is left pver from the rest of the animal.
Report Abuse. It's a hot dog, on a stick that's dipped into a corn bread batter and deep fried. The coating gets golden brown and the dog is hot and juice on the inside. Then you hold the stick and eat the corn dog. You can dip in honey mustard, regular mustard, ketchup...whatever you like. 
Best Answer: It depends wholly on what type of hot dog/corn dog you buy, however most are made of pork meat, which is really any part of the pig that they can grind up and put in. The best are kosher beef franks, which are made from only good cuts of beef so you know you don't have any mystery meats in there. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. corn dog/ hot dog. well depepnding on the meats, say its pork, then in a factory, any left over scraps from the pig [after all the good stuff is gone], it's liek tht for all the animals, it's whatever is left pver from the rest of the animal.
Place the battered corn dog in the oil. Set the corn dog into the hot oil. It's fine if the wooden skewer gets completely submerged. Fry the corn dog for 1 1/2 minutes, then use tongs to turn it over and continue frying for another 1 1/2 minutes. The corn dog is ready when it is golden brown on each side. Open the package of hot dogs, rinse them off, and pat them dry with a paper towel. Hold a hot dog in one hand and place a skewer at its tip. Push the skewer carefully through the length of the hot dog, stopping about 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the other end. Repeat with the remaining hot dogs.
1 In a large bowl, combine cornmeal, flour and egg. 2  Stir in milk to make a thick batter; let stand 4 minutes. 3  Insert sticks into hot dogs; dip in batter. 4  In an electric skillet or deep-fat fryer, heat oil to (375°). 5  Fry corn dogs, a few at a time, about 8-6 minutes or until golden brown, turning occasionally. 1 Stir in milk to make a thick batter; let stand 4 minutes. 2  Insert sticks into hot dogs; dip in batter. 3  In an electric skillet or deep-fat fryer, heat oil to (375°). 4
A corn dog (also spelled corndog) is a sausage (usually a hot dog) coated in a thick layer of cornmeal batter on a stick. 1  1 History. Potato Dogs as sold at the Dongdaemun in South Korea. Corn dogs are often served as street food or as fast food. Some vendors or restaurateurs dip and fry their dogs just before serving. Corn dogs can also be found at almost any supermarket in North America as frozen food that can be heated and served.