I will run, and not walk, to my set of Schuessler cell salts, also known as “tissue salts”. I’ll head to my laptop and do a search for “cell salts + [whatever ailment I’m wanting to alleviate]” and select the ones that seem to be the best fit. 
Tissue salts may be taken individually or in combinations of usually two or three different tissue salts. After serious or long-term illness, the body is quite often depleted in more than one tissue salt so it's not unusual to need to take several. Working on the underlying and emotional causes of any imbalance is always a good place to start and if you are not sure which remedy you need-if tissue cell salts are in fact needed, taking a combination of all 12, for a short time, might just assist the body in its quest for self-healing.
Because the mineral salts work inside the cells, they are called cell salts or tissue salts. As this is chemistry inside the biological body, they are sometimes called biochemic cell salts or biochemical cell salts. The treatment with the cell salts by Dr. Sch ssler is interpreted differently by his followers. With other mineral salts is not really clear how much one needs of it daily. Even if the required amounts of these salts were extremely low, one should not have the idea to cover the need with these mineral salts completely with
After completing Eva Schoenfeld's Tissue Salts course (Academy of Tissue Salts and Facial Analysis Johannesburg) I have amazing feedback from clients who I am helping with use of facial analysis and advice of Tissue Salts to take. A 3 months old baby had hiccups often during the day for about 1/2 hour at a time. 
Dr. Schuessler studied cremated human bodies, and found that these 12 tissue salts made up the bulk of the remains. He recognised them as the material basis of the organs of the body and also identified the 12 Tissue/Cell Salts in every human cell. Working on the underlying and emotional causes of any imbalance is always a good place to start and if you are not sure which remedy you need-if tissue cell salts are in fact needed, taking a combination of all 12, for a short time, might just assist the body in its quest for self-healing.
Some practitioners advise people to take tissue salts only on the advice of a homeopathic practitioner. Tissue salts also can come up as a balancing remedy in clinical kinesiology, where the practitioner uses muscle testing (a biofeedback tool) to determine the appropriate remedy to support the body in self-healing. Working on the underlying and emotional causes of any imbalance is always a good place to start and if you are not sure which remedy you need-if tissue cell salts are in fact needed, taking a combination of all 12, for a short time, might just assist the body in its quest for
Because tissue salts are readily absorbed into the bloodstream via the blood vessels under the tongue, most people find that tissue salts support balance in the body quickly. However, people respond differently based on individual emotional and physical states. There are 12 different salts-important mineral constituents present in all organs, tissues and muscles-that must remain in balance and correct concentration for health to be maintained.
Tissue salts have been around for a long time. They are probably the first natural health supplement I ever knew about, beginning as a young child growing up in the 1960s. Mum always had some in the cupboard as part of her home remedy supply. By Carolyn Simon, Naturopath on. Tissue salts, also known as cell salts, are one of the best ways to restore and maintain your body’s biochemistry – a term that describes the balanced workings of your body at cellular level.
Ideally, tissue salts taken this way, should not be taken for long periods of time without a break. I usually suggest that people take them Mondays to Fridays with the weekends off, or for two to three weeks and then one week off. I was eighteen years old when I purchased a full set of Schuessler’schüssler S Twelve Tissue. Salts my parents had used these remedies from time to time When i was sick as a, child, and as a young Woman i became intrigued by the, delicious little healing. tablets
The normal use of the cell salts is. The tablets are put successively in the mouth and are slowly sucked. If one wants to take several different salts, one takes three times a day one tablet of every salt. Children take every one to two hours a tablet when in acute discomfort. If one uses the cell salts as a substitution therapy, one can take the tablets also highly measured. It is important, that the cell salts are assimailated by the oral mucosa, directly into the blood stream. You can also use the cell salts in water. 