Online Street Map of LLANDOVERY, UK. Below map you can see LLANDOVERY street list. If you click on street name, you can see postcode and position on the map.
3D map of Llandovery in United Kingdom. You can also dive right into Llandovery on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Llandovery 3D map within your web browser. See Llandovery photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Llandovery in United Kingdom. Llandovery hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
Our location guide for Llandovery provides some basic essentials for the more adventurous visitor. A simple location map is provided but also a detailed topography map that shows the location of the nearest places where you can surf, ski or mountain climb (if they are close by). Of course some of these will be at long distances from Llandovery and those far flung spots are provided on the ‘nearest’ tables. Roads & Rivers: Display specific location Select to locate on the map. The above topographic map of Llandovery and the surrounding area has been derived from satellite mapping. The topographic data has been illuminated by a light source corresponding to the position of the sun at mid afternoon in summer.
Llandovery hotels map. The location of each Llandovery hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Llandovery hotel map is available where all hotels in Llandovery are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location. See Llandovery photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Llandovery in United Kingdom. Llandovery hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
The scale of a map is the ratio of the distance on the map to the corresponding distance on the ground. For example on 1:25 000 Scale (Explorer range) every 1 cm on the map is equal to 250 m on the ground. Find our more at Mobile Download FAQ. The OS Explorer map for Llandovery is available in both the standard paper version and weatherproof 'Active' version. We'd recommend the Active version for the bog snorkelling.
Llandovery. Situated on the western border of the National Park, Llandovery was described by the early travel writer George Borrow as 'the pleasantest little town in which I have halted’ . The town is a great base for enjoying the western Brecon Beacons. Droving is an important part of Llandovery's history and it was this passing circus of men and animals which contributed to the architecture of the town.Don't miss the popular Llandovery Sheep Festival, held every September, where you may see live sheep racing in the street!
OS Explorer map sheet 187 shows Claerwen Resevior to Tywi Forest and Llandovery. The World Bog Snorkling Championships are held annually near Llanwrtyd Wells. With this map you will receive a code for use on your iOS or Android smartphone or tablet. Find our more at Mobile Download FAQ. The OS Explorer map for Llandovery is available in both the standard paper version and weatherproof 'Active' version. We'd recommend the Active version for the bog snorkelling.
detailed map of Llandovery and near places. Welcome to the Llandovery google satellite map! This place is situated in Carmarthenshire-Sir Gaerfyrddin, Wales, Wales, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 59' 0 North, 3° 47' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Llandovery. See Llandovery photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Llandovery in United Kingdom. Llandovery hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
Interactive map of Llandovery: You can show or hide points of interest with the checkboxes, and click for photos and more details. Zoom using the slider on the left. Llandovery a market town on the edge of the Brecon Beacons National Park, is a good base for walkers and all those who appreciate the countryside. [more...]. Copyright © 1999-2015 Excelsior Information Systems Ltd.