Spermatic cord. The spermatic cord is actually a bundle of fibers and tissues that form a cord-like structure that runs through the abdominal region down to the testicles in males. 
The spermatic cord is a bundle of fibers and tissues that form a  cord-like structure running from the abdomen down to the testicles  in males. 
Definition of SPERMATIC CORD. : a cord that suspends the testis within the scrotum and contains the vas deferens and vessels and nerves of the testis. ADVERTISEMENT. 1783. noun
The spermatic cord refers to a collection of vessels, nerves and ducts that run to and from the testes. They are surrounded by fascia, forming a cord-like stucture. The spermatic cord has a number of important structures that run to and from the testis: 1  Testicular artery – a branch of the aorta that arises just inferiorly to the renal arteries. 2  Cremasteric artery and vein – supplies the cremasteric fascia and muscle.
Contents of spermatic cord: Spermatic cord consists of the following structures. 1  Vas deferens (Ductus deferens): 2  It is a cord like structure that can be palpated in the upper part of the scrotum. 3  It is in fact a thick walled muscular duct. 4  The primary function of this duct is to transport spermatozoa from epididymis to urethra. 5  Testicular artery: 1 It is a cord like structure that can be palpated in the upper part of the scrotum. 2  It is in fact a thick walled muscular duct. 3
Spermatic cord is a cord-like collection of structures that pass through the inguinal canal to and from the testis. The contents of the cord are covered with three concentric layers of fascia derived from the layers of the anterior abdominal wall. 1 It is a cord like structure that can be palpated in the upper part of the scrotum. 2  It is in fact a thick walled muscular duct. 3  The primary function of this duct is to transport spermatozoa from epididymis to urethra.
Noun. 1. spermatic cord-a structure resembling a cord that suspends the testis within the scrotum and contains the vas deferens and other vessels and nerves. funiculus-any of several body structure resembling a cord.
The spermatic cord is the cord-like structure in males formed by the vas deferens (ductus deferens) and surrounding tissue that runs from the deep inguinal ring down to each testicle. The spermatic cord is sensitive to torsion, in which the testicle rotates within its sac and blocks its own blood supply. Testicular torsion may result in irreversible damage to the testicle within hours. A collection of serous fluid in the spermatic cord is named 'funiculocele'.
spermatic cord. noun. : a cord that suspends the testis within the scrotum, contains the vas deferens and vessels and nerves of the testis, and extends from the deep inguinal ring through the inguinal canal and superficial inguinal ring downward into the scrotum. : a cord that suspends the testis within the scrotum and contains the vas deferens and vessels and nerves of the testis. ADVERTISEMENT. 1783.
Medical Definition of SPERMATIC CORD. : a cord that suspends the testis within the scrotum, contains the vas deferens and vessels and nerves of the testis, and extends from the deep inguinal ring through the inguinal canal and superficial inguinal ring downward into the scrotum. : a cord that suspends the testis within the scrotum and contains the vas deferens and vessels and nerves of the testis. ADVERTISEMENT. 1783.