You can put down lime and fertilizer at the same time. As long as the turf is dry, the particles of either one will not stick to grass blades. They will simply fall to the ground and will start their good work as soon as it rains. How to Apply: Cyclone spreaders and drop spreaders can do a good job. St. Augustine grass: Fertilize in spring when the grass is 50% green and then every six weeks until mid-September. Lime: If the lawn has not been limed in the last few years, the soil is probably too acid. You can apply 40 pounds of lime per 1000 square feet at any time.
Fertilizing Schedule. Like lime, lawn fertilizer is best applied to yards at certain times of the year, depending on the grass in question. For cool-season grasses, like red fescue, fertilization should occur in spring, when grass returns after winter, and again during the early-autumn growing season. 
Lime is applied to lawns when the soil pH is out of range for your grass type. Soil that is too acidic will prevent grass roots from absorbing the nutrients in the soil and fertilizer. Lime raises the pH level of the soil, decreasing its acidity. It is important to conduct a soil pH test on your lawn to find out its range and how much lime you need to make your soil amendments. Wait roughly three weeks for the results. The results will indicate how much lime to use and the type of fertilizer to apply. Water your lawn for three days before distributing fertilizer to prevent the nitrogen from burning the yard. Pour pelletized lime pellets in a drop spreader.
Comments. Q: I'm planning to put lime on my lawn this fall, but I read that you shouldn't apply both lime and fertilizer at the same time. The article didn't say why. Is that true?
You can put down lime and fertilizer at the same time. As long as the turf is dry, the particles of either one will not stick to grass blades. They will simply fall to the ground and will start their good work as soon as it rains. Fertilizing fescue in the summer is not recommended. 
When your lawn doesn't need a big influx of lime to raise the pH, you don't have to wait after applying fertilizer before you apply the lime as part of your regular lawn maintenance. If you're not adding more than 50 pounds per 1,000 square feet, you can apply both on the same day -- just not at the same time. To ensure even coverage of both materials, spread the fertilizer with a seed spreader over your entire lawn. After emptying the spreader, fill it with lime and apply that to your lawn as well. Fertilizing After Liming. Sometimes, it makes sense to apply lime before fertilizing your lawn, instead of the other way around. Because grass can't take in fertilizer's nutrients when the soil pH levels are too low, you shouldn't fertilize first if a soil test registers a low pH.
Sow lawn grass seed in the fall, especially when over-seeding an existing lawn. Autumnal climate, moisture and soil conditions are most favorable for establishing new growth that will mature during the following warm season. You can apply lime at the same time. Alternately, follow a one-year plant. Apply lime in early spring, seed new lawns or over-sow existing ones in fall and apply lime again in early spring. This method works well for soils that are significantly acidic. 
It might be better to apply the required lime as you fertilize in the course of the growing season, a little at a time. I really don't think it matters that much. Do fertilize in the spring and fall when you think it will be watered in by the ocassional rain fall. I've heard it said that the lime can cause the nitrogen to outgas from the lawn (so you lose it). I've also heard it doesn't do that. :-). The difference seems to be that the theoretical chemistry says it will--and in a test tube, it will.
A: Yeah, you can overseed and apply lime and fertilizer at the same time. Use a starter fertilizer, though (nothing too high in nitrogen), and go with pelleted lime (not the powdered kind that will leave you looking like Casper the Ghost afterward). Water well when you're done or do this right before a rain. 