Fatty acids are made up of carbon and hydrogen molecules. There are three types of fatty acids: saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated. The basic difference between each of these is the number of carbon atoms with or without two hydrogen atoms bonded to them. Here's the difference.
1 Each type of fat or oil is a mixture of different fatty acids. 2  Monounsaturated Fatty Acids (MUFA) are found mainly in vegetable oils, nuts, seeds, olives and avocadoes. 3  They are liquid at room temperature. 4  Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids (PUFA) are found mainly in vegetable oils, fish and seafood.
This means the fatty acid is quite unstable. Examples of polyunsaturated fats include most vegetable oils, most seed oils, soybean oil, flaxseed oil, and sunflower oil. These fats are liquid both at room temperature and in the refrigerator, and they should never be used for cooking.
There are several different types of omega-6 fatty acids, and not all promote inflammation. Most omega-6 fatty acids in the diet come from vegetable oils, such as linoleic acid (LA) -- not to be confused with alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), an omega-3 fatty acid.
Omega-3 fatty acids are a type of polyunsaturated fat (like omega-6), considered an essential fatty acid because it cannot be manufactured by the body. As a result, people must obtain omega-3 fatty acids from foods such as fish, nut, and plant-based oils such as canola oil and sunflower oils.
Most omega-6 fatty acids are consumed in the diet from vegetable oils, such as linoleic acid. Excessive amounts of linoleic acid can contribute to inflammation and result in heart disease, cancer, asthma, arthritis and depression.
1 Fats and oils are made up of basic units called fatty acids. 2  Each type of fat or oil is a mixture of different fatty acids. 3  Monounsaturated Fatty Acids (MUFA) are found mainly in vegetable oils, nuts, seeds, olives and avocadoes. 4  They are liquid at room temperature.
The four types of fatty acids are polyunsaturated, monounsaturated, saturated, and trans. Though most foods contain a mix, usually one type of fatty acid predominates. For instance, olive oil contains 73 percent monounsaturated fat; the rest is polyunsaturated and saturated fat.
The major fatty acids in olive oil triacylglycerols are: 1  Oleic Acid (C18:1), a monounsaturated omega-9 fatty acid. 2  It makes up 55 to 83% of olive oil. 3  Linoleic Acid (C18:2), a polyunsaturated omega-6 fatty acid that makes up about 3.5 to 21