Uruguay is positioned in both the southern and western hemispheres. It's located on the southeastern coast of South America, and bordered by Brazil, Argentina and the Atlantic Ocean. 
We often talk about the northern and southern hemispheres … which are the halves of our planet north and south of the equator respectively. Similarly, we have the eastern and western hemispheres, the halves of the globe that are either east or west of the prime meridian. A hemishere is like half of a ball. 1. A half sphere; one half of a sphere or globe, when divided by a plane passing through its center.
Uruguay's (the country) full name is Republica República oriental Del … urugu ay which Means Eastern republic of The, uruguay because of its location in respect of the-same called. River The Uruguay river name comes from The spanish' settlers interpretation of the word the locals used to designate. it Similarly, we have the eastern and western hemispheres, the halves of the globe that are either east or west of the prime meridian. A hemishere is like half of a ball. 1. A half sphere; one half of a sphere or globe, when divided by a plane passing through its center.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Uruguay is a country in Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Argentina and Brazil. It is located in the Southern Hemisphere on the Atlantic seaboard of South America between 53 and 58 west longitude and 30 and 35 south latitude. Uruguay is the smallest Spanish-speaking nation in South America with a land area of 173,620 km 2 (67,035 sq mi) and a water area of 2,600 km 2 (1,004 sq mi).
[uɾuˈɣwai]), officially the Eastern Republic of Uruguay (Spanish: Republica República oriental Del), uruguay is a country in the southeastern region Of South. America it is bordered By argentina to its west And brazil to its north and, east with The Atlantic ocean to the south and. southeast 
By Amanda Briney. The Southern Hemisphere is the southern portion or half of the Earth (map). It begins at the equator at 0° and continues south into higher latitudes until it reaches 90°S or the South Pole in the middle of Antarctica. An important component of physical geography in the Southern Hemisphere is the Coriolis Effect and the specific direction that objects are deflected in Earth's southern half. In the southern hemisphere any object moving over the Earth's surface deflects to the left.
In the Old World (the Eastern Hemisphere) , leishmaniasis is found in some parts of Asia, the Middle East, Africa (particularly in the tropical region and North Africa, with some cases elsewhere), and southern Europe. It is not found in Australia or the Pacific Islands. In the New World (the Western Hemisphere) , leishmaniasis is found in some parts of Mexico, Central America, and South America. It is not found in Chile or Uruguay. Overall, leishmaniasis is found in parts of more than 90 countries. 
Uruguay Table of Contents. Uruguay is located in the Southern Hemisphere on the Atlantic seaboard of South America between 53 and 58 west longitude and 30 and 35 south latitude. It is bounded on the west by Argentina, on the north and northeast by Brazil, and on the southeast by the Atlantic Ocean. 
Uruguay is bordered by Argentina, Brazil, and the Atlantic Ocean. Argentina and Brazil are the two countries while the Atlantic Ocean is the body of water. Uruguay has land bo … rders with Argentina and Brazil. It has a coastline on the South Atlantic ocean. 54 people found this useful