Monthly Tsa Pay Statistics. Some professions tend to be geared toward various age groups of workers and certain genders more than others. The average Tsa age in the United States is 38 years old. As it pertains to men vs women, 49% of Tsa are male in the United States, and 51% of the Tsa are female in the United States. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $54,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Some in FAA will receive the 0.6-1.8% increases and where the SCI's have not been implemented all employees will receive a 0.6% increase. This effectively makes the FAA pay increase 4.7%, or 1.6% higher than TSA employees were granted. There is no mention of any form of SCI's being offered in the TSA. There was a general belief that when TSA decided to adopt FAA's pay banding and compensation system that they would follow the same general rules. FAA's OSI is suppose to be the same as TSA's CEI, however, FAA employees will be getting a 4.1% increase instead of the 3.1% we are being offered. How is this possible? FAA is granting its employees the general increase of 3.1% that was approved for all federal employees plus an additional 1
For more accurate salary details please enter your location above. The average yearly salary for Tsa is $45,900. If you are just beginning to work a new job as a Tsa, you could expect a starting pay rate of $37,800 annually. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $54,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Transportation Security Officer Salary. (United States). The average wage for a Transportation Security Officer is $15.45 per hour. For the first five to ten years in this position, wages increase somewhat, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. 
As of January 2013, D-banded TSOs receive annual salaries of between $25,518 and $38,277, while E-banded officers are paid between $29,302 and $44,007. These salary bands do not include the additional locality pay that TSA employees working in high-cost areas are eligible to receive. The TSA classifies this position in the G band, above the other two TSO positions. At the beginning of 2013, employees in the G band earned annual salaries between $39,358 and $60,982 in addition to being eligible for additional locality-based cost of living adjustments.
TSA pay increase. To all TSA employees: The administrator has announced that we will be getting a 3.1% Comparability-Equivalent increase (CEI) for 2003 which is in-line with the increase granted to all other federal employees. FAA's OSI is suppose to be the same as TSA's CEI, however, FAA employees will be getting a 4.1% increase instead of the 3.1% we are being offered. How is this possible? FAA is granting its employees the general increase of 3.1% that was approved for all federal employees plus an additional 1% increase.
Average Monthly Tsa Salary. Some professions tend to be geared toward various age groups of workers and certain genders more than others. The average Tsa age in the United States is 38 years old. As it pertains to men vs women, 49% of Tsa are male in the United States, and 51% of the Tsa are female in the United States. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $54,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Top Yearly Tsa Salary. Some professions tend to be geared toward various age groups of workers and certain genders more than others. The average Tsa age in the United States is 38 years old. As it pertains to men vs women, 49% of Tsa are male in the United States, and 51% of the Tsa are female in the United States. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $54,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Average Tsa Salaries. The average salary for tsa jobs is $46,000. Average tsa salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term tsa anywhere in the job listing. 