Answer by Squirrel Man. Confidence votes 43.8K. The average jail sentence for dog fighting is around five years, and/or a fine of about $10,000. However, states like Louisiana and Michigan will fine nearly five times as much, which is upwards of $25,000 and $50,000. However, the above information is for first time offenses. 
Michael Vick has reportedly been released from the Kansas prison where he has served 18 months for financing a dogfighting ring. Disgraced NFL star Michael Vick has been released from federal prison after 18 months behind bars for his role in a brutal dogfighting operation. The former Atlanta Falcons quarterback was released at dawn Wednesday from the federal penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kans. , and will return to his home in Hampton, Va. Vick, 28, reportedly will be allowed to leave his house for work at a $10-an-hour construction job. He is expected to be released from federal custody July 20 and will serve three years of supervised probation.
Eight people who were involved in the dog fighting ring are now facing jail time, six of them for over a year, according to a joint press release from the ASPCA and HSUS. The sentences range from two months to eight years — the longest sentence ever handed down for a federal dog fighting case. Authorities estimated that the defendants had injured or killed between 420 to 640 dogs over the course of their dog fighting operation.
Facebook 0 Twitter 0 Email Print. Michael Vick was sentenced to 23 months in prison Monday for running a cruel and inhumane dogfighting ring and lying about it. The suspended Atlanta Falcons quarterback could have been sentenced up to five years by U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson. Vick, who turned himself in Nov. 19 in anticipation of his sentence, was wearing a black-and-white striped prison suit. Although there is no parole in the federal system, rules governing time off for good behavior could reduce Vick's prison stay by about three months, resulting in a summer 2009 release. You were instrumental in promoting, funding and facilitating this cruel and inhumane sporting activity, Hudson told Vick.
After having been convicted within the previous five years of a violation is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable by imprisonment for up to 1 year, or by a fine up to $1,000, or by both. A misdemeanor punishable up to a year in prison, by up to $15,000, or by both. North Carolina. N.C.G.S.A. § 14-362.2. 
Michael Vick Sentenced to 23 Months for Dogfighting. Michael Vick, ex-quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons, was sentenced to 23 months in prison this morning for financing Bad Newz Kennels, his dogfighting operation, and viciously killing dogs that his kennel used in fights. 
Nov. 19: Vick began serving his prison term, a move his lawyer said demonstrated Vick's willingness to take responsibility for his actions. Dec. 10: Vick is sentenced to 23 months in jail for his role in a dogfighting conspiracy that involved gambling and killing pit bulls. Michael Vick timeline. The suspended Atlanta Falcons quarterback could have been sentenced up to five years by U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson. Vick, who turned himself in Nov. 19 in anticipation of his sentence, was wearing a black-and-white striped prison suit. -- Michael Vick was sentenced to 23 months in prison Monday for running a cruel and inhumane dogfighting ring and lying about it.