Nervous System. The nervous system is the control center of the human body. It is made up of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. It receives and interprets stimuli and transmits impulses to organs. Your brain uses the information it receives to coordinate all of your actions and reactions. 
1 Peripheral nervous system (PNS): a part of the nervous system which includes all the nerves outside of the brain and spinal cord. 2  Sympathetic nervous system: The part of your nervous system that unconsciously controls your organs and glands when you're excited or frightened. show/hide words to know. 1  Central nervous system (CNS): a part of the nervous system which includes the brain and spinal cord. 2  Parasympathetic nervous system: the part of your nervous system that unconsciously controls your organs and glands when your body is at rest.
The main organs of the nervous system, that is the brain and the spinal cord form the central nervous system. Brain. The brain is one of the most important organs in the human body system. It is the center of all commands. It monitors all the conscious and unconscious processes of the body. The PNS is further divided into the somatic nervous system and the autonomic nervous system. The somatic nervous system contains sensory (afferent) neurons that carry information from organs/muscles to the CNS, and motor (efferent) neurons that carry information from the brain and spinal cord to muscles of the body. Sensory neurons provide the brain all the information regarding the environment
The nervous system consists of the brain, spinal cord, sensory organs, and all of the nerves that connect these organs with the rest of the body. Together, these organs are responsible for the control of the body and communication among its parts. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium.
The nervous system consist of the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. the central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord and the peri … pheral nervous system is made up of nerves that spread throughout the body, joining all of the body parts to the central nervous system. The brain is the most important organ of the nervous system. The spinal cord and the brain are the main parts of the nervous system but the spinal cord is not considered to be … an organ. 2 people found this useful.
1 The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord. 2  The peripheral nervous system is made up of the nerve fibers that branch off from the spinal cord and extend to all parts of the body, including the neck and arms, torso, legs, skeletal muscles and internal organs. The brain sends messages through the spinal cord and nerves of the peripheral nervous system to control the movement of the muscles and the function of internal organs. The basic working unit of the nervous system is a cell called a neuron. The human brain contains about 100 billion neurons.
1 Central nervous system (CNS): a part of the nervous system which includes the brain and spinal cord. 2  Parasympathetic nervous system: the part of your nervous system that unconsciously controls your organs and glands when your body is at rest. show/hide words to know. 1 
Nervous System. The nervous system is an organ system in charge of sending messages to and from the brain and spinal cord to and from all parts of the body. It consists of the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. Another important part of the nervous system is the sense organs to which a special page is devoted