N refers to the number of sets of chromosomes in a cell. For haploid cells n stands for 1n which have one set of chromosomes. vs. diploid cells which are 2n having one … set from mom's egg and one set from dad's sperm. 6 people found this useful. The T in T-cells stands for the thymus gland. Lymphocytes produced in the bone marrow are either become B-cells or they are matured in the thymus gland and are trained to be … either Natural Killer T-cells, CD4 (Helper T-cells), CD8 (Suppressor T-cells).
Nucs, or Nucleus Colonies, are small honey bee colonies created from larger colonies. The term refers both to the smaller size box and the colony of honeybees within it. The name is derived from the fact that a nuc hive is centered around a queen-the nucleus of the honey bee colony. While a nuc may have a number of different uses, a split more often refers to dividing a colony for the purposes of growing the removed bees back to a full sized colony. A nuc is not normally intended for overwintering, as nuc colonies do not possess a large enough winter cluster to survive winter in harsher climates.
Tweet. When Intel first put out the NUC FFRD, SemiAccurate thought that it was not only a bad idea, it illustrated all that was wrong with modern Intel. If you take a closer look at the underlying tech, it paints a grim picture for Intel’s prospects in a post-PC world. This device would run most Android apps, have more user accessible storage than an 80GB NUC, and cost a mere fraction of what the NUC does. The G500A alone costs 1/20th of the locally quoted price for the NUC, and less than 1/15th of the do it yourself version.
Intel’s NUC platform takes a recent Intel processor and crams it into a tiny PC that’s about 4″ x 4″ x 1.5″. NUC stands for Next Unit of Computing, and it sort of takes a laptop-class processor and turns it into a reasonably powerful, compact desktop computer. 
Whatever the reason, being able to hold an entire PC in the palm of my hand still pokes my brain's that's cool receptors in a way that the smartphone du jour no longer does. If you like tiny PCs as much as I do, you've probably heard of Intel's . Next Unit of Computing , or NUC for short. The NUC is a tiny little box with one of Intel's Ultrabook-class CPUs, a fan, and a motherboard inside. 1 It has a good selection of ports, but what you see is what you get: there are four USB 3.0 ports (two on the front and two on the back), one gigabit Ethernet jack, a mini DisplayPort (some of last year's NUCs included Thunderbolt but this year's do not), and a mini HDMI port.
Intel may claim advantages until they get bored of listing them out, but the ARM based widget boxes do 90% of what the NUC does, closer to 100% of the actually useful things that it does, and does it for 1/20th of the price. 1/20th, and that was in June 2012. This device would run most Android apps, have more user accessible storage than an 80GB NUC, and cost a mere fraction of what the NUC does. The G500A alone costs 1/20th of the locally quoted price for the NUC, and less than 1/15th of the do it yourself version.
Nuc. Nucs, or Nucleus Colonies, are small honey bee colonies created from larger colonies. The term refers both to the smaller size box and the colony of honeybees within it. The name is derived from the fact that a nuc hive is centered around a queen-the nucleus of the honey bee colony. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
Nigeria: NUC orders all Universities to establish Anti-Corruption ... by Mena Report. is a coalition between the NetJets Association of Shared Aircraft Pilots (NJASAP), the pilots' union, and the Teamsters, which represents all of the other unionized NetJets employees. 
If you are not familiar with the NUC, it stands for Next Unit of Computing, basically a little 4×4 inch box that has a full sized Intel CPU in it, not an underpowered Atom. It screams Apple envy more than Ultrabooks, but if anything is an even worse idea. This device would run most Android apps, have more user accessible storage than an 80GB NUC, and cost a mere fraction of what the NUC does. The G500A alone costs 1/20th of the locally quoted price for the NUC, and less than 1/15th of the do it yourself version.