However, you should only take low dose aspirin during pregnancy if your doctor has advised you to do so. Use of standard dose aspirin after 30 weeks of pregnancy is not advised. For most women, paracetamol is the recommended medicine to control pain or fever during pregnancy.
The evidence shows that low-dose aspirin use in high-risk women reduces the risk of pre-eclampsia by 24 percent, premature birth by 14 percent and intrauterine growth restriction by 20 percent..
Aspirin interferes with your blood's clotting action. As a result, taking aspirin during pregnancy — especially after 32 weeks — can contribute to maternal and fetal bleeding.
While it's highly unlikely that taking a single dose of aspirin in early or mid-pregnancy will have a harmful affect, the drug can cause problems for both you and your baby if you take it regularly in normal adult doses while you're pregnant.
Low dose aspirin There is no evidence that use of low dose aspirin in pregnancy increases the risk of preterm birth. One large study analysed the data from 22 smaller studies of women who were at increased risk of pregnancy complications.
1 The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) has recommended that women at high risk for pre-eclampsia use low-dose aspirin (81 mg/day) after 12 weeks of pregnancy.
Low dose aspirin during pregnancy is also often prescribed for women who have risk factors to develop a pregnancy associated disease that is called preeclampsia and that causes the blood pressure to rise to unsafe levels and also damages the kidney.
The use of low dose aspirin in pregnancy. Schiff E(1), Mashiach S. Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.
Possible benefits of using aspirin during pregnancy. As a blood thinner aspirin is used to prevent inappropriate clotting of blood that could cause thromboses, heart attacks and stroke.
Aspirin and ibuprofen can also cause the premature closure of a vessel in a baby's heart, which can lead to high blood pressure in the baby's lungs (pulmonary hypertension), and prolong labor. However, low-dose aspirin therapy is sometimes prescribed during pregnancy to help treat medical conditions.