In another common form called bud grafting, a dormant side bud is grafted onto the stem of another stock plant, and when it has inosculated successfully, it is encouraged to grow by pruning off the stem of the stock plant just above the newly grafted bud. Bud grafting uses a bud instead of a twig. Grafting roses is the most common example of bud grafting. In this method a bud is removed from the parent plant, and the base of the bud is inserted beneath the bark of the stem of the stock plant from which the rest of the shoot has been cut.
For successful grafting to take place, the vascular cambium tissues of the stock and scion plants must be placed in contact with each other. Both tissues must be kept alive until the graft has taken, usually a period of a few weeks. Bud grafting uses a bud instead of a twig. Grafting roses is the most common example of bud grafting. In this method a bud is removed from the parent plant, and the base of the bud is inserted beneath the bark of the stem of the stock plant from which the rest of the shoot has been cut.
Plant grafting is a technique in which tissue from one plant, the scion, is attached onto another, the rootstock. The rootstock produces new vascular tissue with which to feed the scion, and the graft heals. Three common methods are approach grafting where the stems from two different plants are attached together, T budding where a bud from the scion is nestled into the stem of the rootstock, and cleft grafting where the stripped end of the scion is placed into a cleft made in
Grafting or graftage is a horticultural technique whereby tissues from one plant are inserted into those of another so that the two sets of vascular tissues may join together. This vascular joining is called inosculation. Bud grafting uses a bud instead of a twig. Grafting roses is the most common example of bud grafting. In this method a bud is removed from the parent plant, and the base of the bud is inserted beneath the bark of the stem of the stock plant from which the rest of the shoot has been cut.
Edit Article. Grafting is a method of propagating plants in which the tissues of one plant are fused with the tissues of another plant. When grafting roses, one plant is usually selected because of its hardy, healthy roots, and the other, referred to as the scion, is selected for its blossoms. Make a very shallow T-shaped cut in the stock plant where you want to place the graft. Only cut the skin of the stem, not the cambium layer. Both the top and the vertical portions of the T should be approximately 1 inch (2.54 cm) long.
3. Cut a piece of the new rose variety that you want to graft onto the stock plant. Cut a portion of stem with several new buds, leaf nodes, or swellings forming on it. Make a very shallow T-shaped cut in the stock plant where you want to place the graft. Only cut the skin of the stem, not the cambium layer. Both the top and the vertical portions of the T should be approximately 1 inch (2.54 cm) long.
How to Graft Roses. Grafting is a method of propagating plants in which the tissues of one plant are fused with the tissues of another plant. When grafting roses, one plant is usually selected because of its hardy, healthy roots, and the other, referred to as the scion, is selected for its blossoms. Make a very shallow T-shaped cut in the stock plant where you want to place the graft. Only cut the skin of the stem, not the cambium layer. Both the top and the vertical portions of the T should be approximately 1 inch (2.54 cm) long.
The practice of uniting parts of two plants so that they grow as one. The uniting of a short length of stem of one plant onto the rootstock of a different plant. This is often done to produce a hardier or more disease resistant plant. A plant shoot fixed into a cut in another plant to form a new and fast growth. (Click for full-size). This is a method of propagation. The process of joining a desirable stem or bud of one plant (known as the scion) on to the less desirable, but hardier, stem of another (known as the stock). This will give a stronger root system than the scion would have normally had. Commonly done in roses, fruit trees and in some ornamentals. 
Grafting is an advanced technique that botanists, farmers, gardeners, and hobbyists use to add living tissue from one plant to another. Plant tissues have the ability to grow new vascular tissue, and the process of grafting takes advantage of this ability. The vascular tissue of the main plant joins with the vascular tissue of the added plant, keeping the new tissue alive and growing. This is a way for plants to reproduce asexually. Three common methods are approach grafting where the stems from two different plants are attached together, T budding where a bud from the scion is nestled into the stem of the rootstock, and cleft grafting where the stripped end of the scion is placed into a cleft made in the rootstock.