The word Japan (or Japon) is an exonym, and is used (in one form or another) by a large number of languages. The Japanese names for Japan are Nippon (にっぽん listen (help·info)) and Nihon (にほん listen (help·info)). They are both written in Japanese using the kanji 日本. In Korean, Japan is called Ilbon (일본/日本), which is the Korean pronunciation of the Sino-Korean name, and in Sino-Vietnamese, Japan is called Nhật Bản (also rendered as Nhựt Bổn). Ue-kok (倭國) is recorded for older Hokkien speakers.
The Japanese post-war economic miracle is the name given to the historical phenomenon of Japan 's record period of economic growth between post-World War II era to the end of Cold War. The period of growth came to an end with the bursting of the Japanese asset price bubble in 1991. This was followed by the  Lost Decade  (1991–2000). Also, the conclusion of the economic miracle is consistent with the conclusion of the Cold War.
When romanised, this pause is represented by a doubling of the first consonant of the second syllable; thus nichi 日 plus kō 光 (light) is written and pronounced nikkō, meaning sunlight. The initial consonant of non-initial syllables in compounds often becomes voiced in Japanese, in a process called rendaku. Non-initial hon in compounds thus often changes to bon or pon. There are therefore two possible pronunciations for 日本: Nihon or Nippon. In Korean, Japan is called Ilbon (일본/日本), which is the Korean pronunciation of the Sino-Korean name, and in Sino-Vietnamese, Japan is called Nhật Bản (also rendered as Nhựt Bổn). Ue-kok (倭國) is recorded for older Hokkien speakers.
The lingua franca of Japan is called hyōjungo (標準語, lit. standard language), and while it was based initially on Tokyo speech, the language of Japan's capital has since gone in its own direction to become one of Japan's many 弁(-ben), or dialects. Banshū Ōmi Ise Shima Osaka Osaka-ben belongs to the kansai family of dialects. The terminology is confusing, as people often use Kansai-ben interchangeably with Osaka-ben. Even those in the know may confuse true Osaka-ben with Kansai-ben. Kyoto Kyoto-ben is a soft and melodic Kansai variant.
In Japanese Happy/Merry Christmas is 'Meri Kurisumasu'. And it's written in the two Japanese scripts like this; Hiragana: めりーくりすます; Katakana: メリークリスマス. Happy/Merry Christmas in lots more languages. Parties are often held for children, with games and dancing. Japanese Christmas Cake is a sponge cake decorated with trees, flowers and a figure of Santa Claus. In Japan Santa is known as サンタさん、サンタクロース santa-san (Mr Santa). Another Japanese gift bringer is Hoteiosho, a Japanese god of good fortune from Buddhism and not really related to Christmas. Fried chicken is often eaten on Christmas day. In Japan, Christmas in known as more of a time to spread happiness rather than a religious celebration. Christmas eve is often celebrated more than Christmas Day. Christmas eve is thought of as a romantic day, in which couples spend together and exchange presents.
AOKIGAHARA FOREST, Japan (CNN) -- Aokigahara Forest is known for two things in Japan: breathtaking views of Mount Fuji and suicides. Also called the Sea of Trees, this destination for the desperate is a place where the suicidal disappear, often never to be found in the dense forest. Japan's Aokigahara Forest is known as the suicide forest because people often go there to take their own lives. Taro, a 46-year-old man fired from his job at an iron manufacturing company, hoped to fade into the blackness. My will to live disappeared, said Taro
While “samurai” is a strictly masculine term, the Japanese bushi class (the social class samurai came from) did feature women who received similar training in martial arts and strategy. These women were called “ Onna-Bugeisha ,” and they were known to participate in combat along with their male counterparts. 
The country boasts one of the lowest infant-mortality rates in the world. Yet Japanese health-care costs are a mere 8.5% of GDP. Even so, the country's medical system is embattled. Although it needs a growing workforce to pay the bills, Japan is ageing and its population is shrinking. Since kaihoken was established in 1961, the proportion of people over 65 has quadrupled, to 23%; by 2050 it will be two-fifths of a population that will have fallen by 30m, to under 100m. THE Japanese spend half as much on health care as do Americans, but still they live longer. Many give credit to their cheap and universal health insurance system, called kaihoken, which celebrates its 50th anniversary this year.
The Japanese New Year (called 'o shogatsu') is more like a traditional Western Christmas. New year is the period where families get together, have a special meal, pray and send greetings cards. New year is celebrated over five days from December 31st to January 4th and is a very busy time. In Japan, Christmas in known as more of a time to spread happiness rather than a religious celebration. Christmas eve is often celebrated more than Christmas Day. Christmas eve is thought of as a romantic day, in which couples spend together and exchange presents.