A Pheromone is a chemical produced by a given species that affects the behavior or physiology of the same species – first coined by Karlson and M. Luscher in 1959. Early work was in insects, but scientists soon discovered that pheromones operate in other animals, including mammals. Pheromones are chemicals produced by one species that affects the physiology or behavior of animals of the same species. Pheromones assist in reproduction, feeding, social interactions and maternal-neonatal bonding in mammals. By definition and according to evolutionary theory, pheromones work within a species.
Releaser pheromones are pheromones that cause an alteration in the behavior of the recipient. For example, some organisms use powerful attractant molecules to attract mates from a distance of two miles or more. In general, this type of pheromone elicits a rapid response, but is quickly degraded. There are physical limits on the practical size of organisms employing pheromones, because at small sizes pheromone diffuses away from the source organism faster than it can be produced, and a sensible concentration accumulates too slowly to be useful.
Pheromones can be secreted to trigger many types of behaviors, including: It is believed that the first pheromone was identified in 1953. Bombykol is secreted by female moths and is designed to attract males. The pheromone signal can travel enormous distances, even at low concentrations. It is believed that mammals detect pheromones through an organ in the nose called the VNO (Vomeronasal Organ), and connects to the hypothalamus in the brain. The VNO in humans consists of just pits that probably do not do anything. If humans do respond to hormones, most likely they use their normal olfactory system.
Pheromones in Insects Definition of pheromones. Pheromones are chemicals produced as messengers that affect the behavior of other individuals of insects or other animals. They are usually wind borne but may be placed on soil, vegetation or various items.
Pheromones are chemicals capable of acting outside the body of the secreting individual to impact the behavior of the receiving individual. There are alarm pheromones, food trail pheromones, sex pheromones, and many others that affect behavior or physiology. There are physical limits on the practical size of organisms employing pheromones, because at small sizes pheromone diffuses away from the source organism faster than it can be produced, and a sensible concentration accumulates too slowly to be useful.
A pheromone is a chemical an animal produces which changes the behavior of another animal of the same species (animals include insects). Some describe pheromones as behavior-altering agents. Many people do not know that pheromones trigger other behaviors in the animal of the same species, apart from sexual behavior. Pheromones, unlike most other hormones are ectohormones-they act outside the body of the individual that is secreting them-they impact a behavior on another individual. It is believed that mammals detect pheromones through an organ in the nose called the VNO (Vomeronasal Organ), and connects to the hypothalamus in the brain. The VNO in humans consists of just pits that probably do not do anything. If humans do respond to hormones, most likely they use their normal olfactory system.
Medical Definition of PHEROMONE. : a chemical substance that is produced by an animal and serves especially as a stimulus to other individuals of the same species for one or more behavioral responses—called also ectohormone. : a chemical substance that is usually produced by an animal and serves especially as a stimulus to other individuals of the same species for one or more behavioral responses. — pher·o·mon·al \ˌfer-ə-ˈmō-nəl\ adjective. See pheromone defined for English-language learners. See pheromone defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Noun. 1. pheromone-a chemical substance secreted externally by some animals (especially insects) that influences the physiology or behavior of other animals of the same species. secretion-a functionally specialized substance (especially one that is not a waste) released from a gland or cell. Translations. A chemical secreted by an animal, especially an insect, that influences the behavior or physiology of others of the same species, as by attracting members of the opposite sex or marking the route to a food source. [Greek. , to carry; see bher-in Indo-European roots + (hor)mone .].
Full Definition of PHEROMONE. : a chemical substance that is usually produced by an animal and serves especially as a stimulus to other individuals of the same species for one or more behavioral responses. — pher·o·mon·al \ˌfer-ə-ˈmō-nəl\ adjective. See pheromone defined for English-language learners. See pheromone defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
A chemical that is secreted by an animal and influences the behavior or development of other animals of the same species. For example, the male and female of many species establish territory and attract mates by means of pheromones. A chemical secreted by an animal, especially an insect, that influences the behavior or physiology of others of the same species, as by attracting members of the opposite sex or marking the route to a food source. [Greek. , to carry; see bher-in Indo-European roots + (hor)mone .].