SAP stands for Systems, Applications, Products in data processing. According to German language SAP stands for Systeme, Anwendungen und Produkte in Der Datenverarbeitung. SAP Tutorials. What does SAP ECC stands: – ECC stands for “ERP Central Component”. Also read what does ERP stands for and what is ERP systems. 
SAP R/3 SAP R/3 is the former name of the main enterprise resource planning software produced by SAP AG. It is an enterprise-wide information system designed to coordinate all the resources, information, and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulfillment or billing. Originally (at foundation), it stood for Systemanalyse  und Programmentwicklung (System  Analysis and Program Development) but  was later changed to  Systeme, Anwendung … en und Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung  (Systems,  Applications and Products in Data Processing).
SAP marketing software is designed to synch with social networks. Erik Snyder/Lifesize/Getty Images. If you are a small business owner interested in marketing, you have probably heard of SAP and wondered what it stood for. SAP stands for Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing. SAP is a software company that develops Customer Relationship Management (CRM), a marketing software program designed to help businesses plan, execute and manage their marketing campaigns. SAP was founded in Germany in 1972 by three former IBM employees. The company was located in Walldorf, Germany as of 2011 and develops a number of mobile, desktop and cloud computing business software programs.
SAP = Systeme, Anwendungen und Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung (The English translation from German reads as “Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing”). Now that you know what is SAP full form, we can also tell you about other acronyms that are closely related to SAP. 
Systeme, Anwendungen, Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung (German: Systems, Applications & Products in Data Processing; SAP AG). 
What does SAP stands for – SAP stands for Systems, Applications and Products in data processing. 1  SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business. 1 SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business. 3  It provides end to end solutions for financials, manufacturing, logistics, distribution etc.
SAP software for HR solutions streamlines and integrates processes. Ablestock.com/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. The acronym “SAP,” for Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing, is the name of a corporation that specializes in business products and services designed to improve operational efficiency. The SAP Corporation. The SAP AG corporation, which is based in Germany, has locations in more than 100 countries. SAP North America, located in Pennsylvania, is a subsidiary of SAP AG. The company’s software applications include 34 currencies and languages. Users can track compliance with more than 80 local regulations.
Confidence votes 268. SAP stands for Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing. It is divided into modules that include Financial Accounting (FI), Controlling (CO), Production Planning (PP), Materials Management (MM), Sales and Distribution (SD), etc. Programming is not a major function of SAP, however it can be configured via its own in-house programming language known as ABAP.
SAP stands for Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing. It is divided into modules that include Financial Accounting (FI), Controlling (CO), Production Planning (… PP), Materials Management (MM), Sales and Distribution (SD), etc. Originally (at foundation), it stood for Systemanalyse  und Programmentwicklung (System  Analysis and Program Development) but  was later changed to  Systeme, Anwendung … en und Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung  (Systems,  Applications and Products in Data Processing).
SAP the acronym stands for Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing but SAP the ERP system stands for increased efficiency, streamlining the supply-chain network and overhauling the entire business process of the organization. SAP is one of the top Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software in the world. SAP is the brainchild of five IBM engineers who broke off from IBM and founded SAP AG in 1992. It drives efficiency and value to the bottom line of large, mid-size and now smaller organizations by redefining how business should be done.