The subjunctive mood is used to express actions or ideas which are subjective or otherwise uncertain: will/wanting, emotion, doubt, possibility, necessity, judgment. It is nearly always found in dependent clauses introduced by que or qui, and the subjects of the dependent and main clauses are usually different.
The uses of the subjunctive are, admittedly, somewhat esoteric. While it does not quite change the meaning, the subjunctive tense changes the mood, typically used to express subjective actions, including will/want, emotion, doubt, possibility, necessity, and judgment.
Once you're familiar with present tense French subjunctive, this will come very easy. The indicative mood analogue of past tense subjunctive is the passe passé, composee composée just as the normal present tense subjunctive is an analogue of normal.
In this lesson you will learn the basics of understanding the subjunctive (le subjonctif) tense in French. Too many non-native speakers this can be one of the hardest parts of learning the language. My goal here is to demystify the subjunctive by providing some good example phrases.
The example above is for a classic group 1 -er verb; but the-e, -es, -e, -ions-iez, -ent endings of the present subjunctive are more or less constant, and can be added to the stem (or one of the stems in the case of some irregular verbs) of most French verbs.
With a little practice and a little mindfulness, using the French subjunctive can actually be painless. The vast majority of the use of the French subjunctive in spoken French is in the present tense, and so that is what this article will be focusing on. Keep in mind that there are also many rare uses of the subjunctive, primarily in older literature that will not be covered in this article.
The subjunctive is used in French in a number of quite common circumstances. Generally speaking, the subjunctive is used in dependent clauses following expressions that imply doubt, emotion, subjectivity, or conjecture.
Unlike using the French subjunctive, conjugating it is relatively straightforward. To conjugate all regular verbs ending-ER, -IR, and-RE, as well as some irregular* ones, take the 3rd person plural ils form of the present tense of the verb, drop the-ent ending to find the stem, and add the subjunctive endings: