Tracking error is a measure of how well, or not so well, an ETF tracks the selected index. Most experienced investors and advisors will consider how well an ETF tracks its benchmark, and gravitate towards those with the lowest tracking error, reports Murray Coleman for The WSJ. Tracking error is a measure of how well an investment is performing relative to the selected benchmark. It does not indicate if a portfolio is outperforming or underperforming its benchmark. [ Four ETF Cost Factors to Weigh Beyond Expense Ratios ].
The key is for investors to understand what they are buying. Make sure that the ETF index fund you are considering does a good job of tracking its index. Key metrics to look for here are the fund's R-squared and beta. Although rarely considered by the average investor, tracking errors can have an unexpected material effect on an investor's returns. It is important to investigate this aspect of any ETF index fund before investing.
Description. Tracking Error is a measure of how closely an ETF follows its benchmark index. This data point seeks to isolate the ability of the portfolio managers to track the index, ignoring the confounding effects of ETF liquidity on market prices. 
In the simplest terms, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) are funds that track indexes like the NASDAQ-100 Index, S&P 500, Dow Jones, etc. When you buy shares of an ETF, you are buying shares of a portfolio that tracks the yield and return of its native index. The main difference between ETFs and other types of index funds is that ETFs don't try to outperform their corresponding index, but simply replicate its performance. 
As the ETF fact sheets say, they only seek to replicate, to the extent possible.. When these funds fall short, the result is called a tracking error. Let's take a look at this divergence in the returns between ETFs and their underlying indexes by looking at the size or the errors, the at-risk ETFs and the causes. See: Exchange-Traded Funds. This can create problems for ETFs tracking the performance of a sector where there are a lot of dominant companies. The Vanguard Telecommunication Services ETF, mentioned above, is a case in point: AT&T Corp. makes up about half of the index, but the ETF can only give it a 25% weight.
The difference between the returns of the index fund and the target index is known as a fund's tracking error. Most of the time, the tracking error of an index fund is small, perhaps only a few tenths of one percent. However, a variety of factors can sometimes conspire to open a gap of several percentage points between the index fund and its target index. Although rarely considered by the average investor, tracking errors can have an unexpected material effect on an investor's returns. It is important to investigate this aspect of any ETF index fund before investing.
The Bottom Line By doing the simple homework suggested above, you can make sure that an ETF index fund tracks its target index as advertised, and you will stand a good chance of avoiding a tracking error that might adversely affect your returns in the future. Although rarely considered by the average investor, tracking errors can have an unexpected material effect on an investor's returns. It is important to investigate this aspect of any ETF index fund before investing.
The vast majority of ETFs aim to track an index—which means that ETFs try to deliver the same returns as a particular index. Tracking difference is the discrepancy between ETF performance and index performance. Tracking difference is rarely nil: The ETF usually trails its index. Total Expense Ratio. An ETF’s total expense ratio (TER) is the single best indicator of future tracking difference. If an ETF charges 1 percent to track an index, then all else equal, ETF returns ought to lag index returns by exactly 1 percent.
Tweet. Last week I explained the importance of monitoring an ETF’s tracking error, which is the difference between a fund’s actual performance and the returns of its index. The most significant reason index funds lag their benchmarks is the impact of management fees and GST/HST. 
Securities Lending Some ETF companies may offset tracking errors through security lending, which is the practice of lending out holdings in the ETF portfolio to hedge funds for short selling. The lending fees collected from this practice can be used to lower tracking error if so desired. This can create problems for ETFs tracking the performance of a sector where there are a lot of dominant companies. The Vanguard Telecommunication Services ETF, mentioned above, is a case in point: AT&T Corp. makes up about half of the index, but the ETF can only give it a 25% weight.