In general, small broken bones with simple fractures take about four weeks to heal in small children. In teenagers and adults, small bones — like a finger or wrist bone — with a simple fracture, will take about six weeks to heal. Larger broken bones, for example the bones in the thigh, would take a great deal longer to heal, usually six weeks to three months in the average healthy adult. 
While it would probably take a full six weeks for the fracture to heal completely, after two weeks your thumb would already be usable. Doctors recommend the extra weeks to ensure the chance of another fracture or break is minimal. Just be aware and careful of the thumb after two weeks. I am 26 years old, met with a motor cycle accident some days back and got my right hand thumb fractured and the doctors said that it takes a minimum of 6 weeks for the fracture to heal and some others say that it doesn't take that much time. I was operated and a wire was placed near the thumb.
Best Answer: It depends on the type of fracture, and the age of the patient. If it's a newborn it's just a matter of days. If it's a long spiral fracture with a wide surface area of bone that's broken it could be a matter of six to eight weeks. Four weeks if it's a toddler. If the bone is broken near the ends of the bone it doesn't take too long because it's cancellous bone and that bone has good blood supply, about six to eight week
Other frequent causes are falls and car, motorcycle or bike accidents. The time for a broken collarbone to fully heal depends on the severity of the injury. In children, complete healing may take as little as three to six weeks. In adults, six to 16 weeks or more are often necessary for a collarbone to heal solidly. Unfortunately, during that time there is no way to completely immobilize a collarbone fracture to keep it from moving and, thus, speed healing, as can be done using a cast on other broken bones, such as a wrist, arm or leg.
How long it takes a facial fracture to heal will depend on the type and extent of fracture and what other problems and treatment you had. Bruising and swelling usually takes 2 to 3 weeks to settle down. At this point, you will begin to look more normal. After this time the body will continue to heal itself inside. 
The length of time taken for healing depends on where the fracture is and how severe the break is. For example, a simple buckle fracture will need a plaster cast for 2 to 3 weeks and be almost completely healed in 4 weeks. Children heal in about half the time it takes an adult to heal from a similar injury. Often fractures in bones that are growing will correct their own shape ('remodel').
6 wks w/ proper care: Most fractures take approximately 6 weeks to heal assuming proper care. Although a non-weight bearing bone, fibula fractures can be painful with certain motions; be sure to get it properly evaluated and treated. See your doctor (family doctor, internist or orthopedic surgeon) for best results. Depends on the: fracture. IF it needs surgery it will take anywhere from 8-12 weeks. If it is a simple non-dispalced fibula fracture at the distal ankle you may be back as early as 6-8 weeks. fractures in general take 8 weeks to heal. ...Read more.
You will probably also want to: 1  Elevate your wrist on a pillow or the back of a chair above the level of your heart for the first few days. 2  This will ease pain and swelling. 3  Ice the wrist. 4  Do this for 15-20 minutes every two to three hours for two to three days. 5  Be careful to keep the splint or cast dry while icing. 1