Hi Megan, If your dog is 6 months of age, the rate of growth will slow way down and you will see only a bit more growth until your dog is about 18 months of age. By about 6 months of age, a dog is about at 75% of their adult growth. You can see this at the following site on puppy growth. 
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Dogs stop growing at approximately one year (some up to 18 months), however they do their fastest growing within the first 6 months, and only grow slightly larger between the 6-18 month range. Your dog is small and will probably reach her full size by 6-8 months. :) · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
I was wondering at what age most puppies stop growing I'm always wondering how big Dallas will get. We met 2 other owners that have the same type of dog as we have from the same breeder. They said their dogs are 50ish lbs and one is 1 yr old and the other is 2 yr old. However Dallas is now 37 lbs at 6 months old. 
Medium breeds, those weighing up to 80 pounds as adults, may reach their adult size between 12 and 16 months of age, according to the Cesar's Way website. Large and giant breeds, those over 80 pounds, may reach their full size between 18 months and 2 years old. If your puppy is still a youngling but you want to get an idea of what size he'll be as an adult, you can estimate his adult weight by doubling his weight at 4 months old, recommends PetEducation.com. While most pups are considered adults when they reach 1 year old, the fact is, dog breeds mature at slightly different rates, and not all dogs are full-grown on their first birthday. Small breeds reach adult size more quickly; some larger breeds may not be fully grown until around 2 years of age.
Large Dogs. Large breeds take the longest of all to reach their full size. Their frames typically keep growing until they are between 18 months and 24 months of age, while they may be anywhere from 24 to 36 months old before they reach their full adult body weight.
Medium Dogs. In general, most medium size breeds will reach their full adult frame size between 12 and 15 months old. Breeds with stockier bodies may take as long as 18 months of age for their weight to catch up to their frame size. Their frames typically keep growing until they are between 18 months and 24 months of age, while they may be anywhere from 24 to 36 months old before they reach their full adult body weight.
Getting your dog to jump is an adult game, not for still-growing puppies. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. There's no one-size-fits-all answer to when puppies stop growing -- size is the key word, as larger dogs tend to take much longer to physically mature than smaller dogs. All puppies have a fast growth spurt at birth, but the growth slows down after a few months. 
Medium breeds weighing up to 80 pounds as adults, will typically reach their full size between 12 and 16 months of age, while large and giant breeds weighing over 80 pounds, may reach their adult size between 18 months and 2 years old. 
Hello-can someone tell me at what age a Cockapoo stops growing. Beau is only 19 and a bit weeks and a friend said she is almost fully grown but I thought she still had a way to go! Thank you. __________________. My Cockapoos walk all over me. UK. Posts: 720. I would say between 10 months and a year as well. Poppy had reached the breeders estimate of about 14 to 15 inches at 7 months but she ended up 17 and a bit inches tall (the bit depends if she has been to the groomers or not).