The aye-aye has coarse, shaggy black fur with a mantle of white guard hairs. It is a medium-sized nocturnal lemur weighing about 3 kg (6.6 lb). The aye-aye is found in a variety of forest types in Madagascar. Its varied diet includes insect grubs, fruits, nuts, nectar, seeds and fungi. It is also known to raid coconut plantations. The aye-aye is a nocturnal forager. Most of the night is spent traveling and foraging in the upper canopy.
Endangered lemurs' complete genomes are sequenced and analyzed for conservation. UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -- For the first time, the complete genomes of three separate populations of aye-ayes -- a type of lemur -- have been sequenced and analyzed in an effort to help guide conservation efforts. The aye-aye -- a type of lemur -- has a long, thin, and flexible middle finger to extract insect larvae from trees, filling the ecological niche of a woodpecker.
The head and body length of the aye-aye is about 30 - 37 cm (12 - 15). The tail is about 44 - 53 cm (17 - 21) long. It weighs 2 - 3 kg (4.4 - 6.6 lb). The aye-aye has been found to be widely distributed in a variety of native forest types. The aye-aye is found in a variety of forest types in Madagascar. Its varied diet includes insect grubs, fruits, nuts, nectar, seeds and fungi. It is also known to raid coconut plantations. The aye-aye is a nocturnal forager. Most of the night is spent traveling and foraging in the upper canopy.
Aye-ayes are the only primates thought to use echolocation to find prey. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Aye-ayes can be found only on the island of Madagascar. These rare animals may not look like primates at first glance, but they are related to chimpanzees, apes, and humans. Aye-ayes are dark brown or black and are distinguished by a bushy tail that is larger than their body. 
The only other animal species known to find food in this way is the striped possum. From an ecological point of view the aye-aye fills the niche of a woodpecker, as it is capable of penetrating wood to extract the invertebrates within. The aye-aye is the only extant member of the genus Daubentonia and family Daubentoniidae. The French naturalist, Pierre Sonnerat was the first to use the vernacular name, aye-aye, in 1782 when he described and illustrated the lemur, though it was also called the long-fingered lemur by English zoologist George Shaw in 1800—a name that did not stick.
The aye-aye is known as Daubentonia madagascariensis. It is a rodent like animal that can be found in Madagascar. Its features are similar to that of a rodent. The aye-aye can be called as a lemur and belongs to the Daubentoniidae family. It is the only extant member of the genus Daubentonia. According to the IUCN, it has been declared as near threatened species.
Agonistic calls include short Aacks, and soft and loud long Aacks.. These types of vocalization are used among aye-ayes as warnings and as a method to maintain distance (Sterling 1995). Vocal communication between aye-aye females is infrequent and predominantly agonistic (Sterling 1995). Study of social behavior of the aye-aye is still in its preliminary stages and much remains unexplained. Aye-ayes are predominantly found alone and rarely interact with other aye-ayes outside of their mating period (Ancrenaz et al.
Aye-aye. Aye-ayes are the largest nocturnal primate in the world. They are also the only primate thought to use echolocation, which they use to find insect grubs hidden 2cm deep inside a tree. During mating, aye-ayes hang upside-down on a branch, and the procedure lasts for about an hour. 
1994; Sterling 1995). However, aye-ayes were observed to travel, forage, and communicate together in groups as large as four outside of the mating season (Sterling 1995). Associations of this type have been observed between males and females and between males, but never between two females (Sterling 1993b). Study of social behavior of the aye-aye is still in its preliminary stages and much remains unexplained. Aye-ayes are predominantly found alone and rarely interact with other aye-ayes outside of their mating period (Ancrenaz et al.
The aye-aye (Daubentonia madagascariensis) is a lemur, a strepsirrhine primate native to Madagascar that combines rodent-like teeth and a special thin middle finger. The French naturalist, Pierre Sonnerat was the first to use the vernacular name, aye-aye, in 1782 when he described and illustrated the lemur, though it was also called the long-fingered lemur by English zoologist George Shaw in 1800—a name that did not stick.