Also Known As: Boolean, boolean logic, boolean search, boolean operators, boolean operands, boolean definition, boolean searching, boolean commands. Examples: Using AND narows a search by combining terms; it will retrieve documents that use both the search terms you specify, as in this example: 1  Portland AND Oregon. 1 The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 2  The Boolean search operator NEAR is equal to putting a search query in quotes, i.e., sponge bob squarepants.
What to look for. Boolean operators form the basis of mathematical sets and database logic. 1  They connect your seach words together to either narrow or broaden your set of results. 2  The three basic boolean operators are: AND, OR, and NOT. 1 For example, Google automatically puts an AND in between your search terms. 2  Though all your search terms are included in the results, they may not be connected together in the way you want. 3  For example, this search: college students test anxiety is translated to: college AND students AND test AND anxiety.
1 The Boolean search operator AND is equal to the + symbol. 2  The Boolean search operator NOT is equal to the - symbol. 3  The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 1 The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 2  The Boolean search operator NEAR is equal to putting a search query in quotes, i.e., sponge bob squarepants.
1 The Boolean search operator NOT is equal to the - symbol. 2  The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 1 The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 2  The Boolean search operator NEAR is equal to putting a search query in quotes, i.e., sponge bob squarepants.
An expression in programming is any combination of values, variables and operators that produce a new value. For example, 2 + 3 is an expression, and the result is the new value 5. When you use a Boolean expression, the only logical result can be true or false. In addition to Boolean data, there are Boolean operators, which are used to carry out Boolean algebra. There are three main Boolean operators: AND, OR and NOT. The first two are used to combine two expressions; the third is used as a negation operator. Let's look at each of these in more detail.
Be aware of the logical order in which words are connected when using Boolean operators: 1  Databases usually recognize AND as the primary operator, and will connect concepts with AND together first. 2  If you use a combination of AND and OR operators in a search, enclose the words to be ORed together in parentheses. 1 For example, Google automatically puts an AND in between your search terms. 2  Though all your search terms are included in the results, they may not be connected together in the way you want. 3  For example, this search: college students test anxiety is translated to: college AND students AND test AND anxiety.
Boolean terms (sometimes called Boolean operators, or command terms) connect your keywords to create a logical phrase that the database can understand. 
Boolean Search Operators. 1  The Boolean search operator AND is equal to the + symbol. 2  The Boolean search operator NOT is equal to the - symbol. 3  The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 1 The Boolean search operator OR is the default setting of any search engine; meaning, all search engines will return all the words you type in, automatically. 2  The Boolean search operator NEAR is equal to putting a search query in quotes, i.e., sponge bob squarepants.
This can get kind of confusing but it's important to see some examples in order to familiarize yourself with the idea here. Just know the Boolean Operators AND, OR and NOT exist between keywords and each operator has a different purpose which will effect your search results in different ways. You see the last example even uses parenthesis () called nesting and has a specific purpose that will be explained below. A boolean search might look like this: toads AND stools, or toads OR stools, or toads OR stools AND ponds, or even (toads OR stools) AND ponds.