There is, however a subtle difference. An elegy is a lamenting poem, couplet or a song written in the memory of a deceased person. If used in a musical context, it refers to a composition that has a melancholy tone to it. An elegy has a tone of remorse for the loss of a person. A eulogy is a tribute in the form of an essay or short prose, written in praise of the dead.
a song or poem expressing sorrow or lamentation especially for one who is dead. An elegy is a song or poem of lament, especially for the dead. Dead means not only a pers … on but can also be beloved animals and even villages. An elegy poem is a formal poem that mostly reflects death... For example, when a president dies you write a poem about him and his death. It's mostly serious and it doesn't h … ave to rhyme, though if you want it to then you can. 5 people found this useful.
Elegy is a form of poetry natural to the reflective mind. It may treat of any subject, but it must treat of no subject for itself; but always and exclusively with reference to the poet. As he will feel regret for the past or desire for the future, so sorrow and love became the principal themes of the elegy. Other than epitaphs, examples of ancient elegy as a poem of mourning include Catullus ' Carmen 101, on his dead brother, and elegies by Propertius on his dead mistress Cynthia and a matriarch of the prominent Cornelian family.
The Greek term elegeia (Greek: ἐλεγεία; from ἔλεγος, elegos, lament) originally referred to any verse written in elegiac couplets and covering a wide range of subject matter (death, love, war). The term also included epitaphs, sad and mournful songs, and commemorative verses. Other than epitaphs, examples of ancient elegy as a poem of mourning include Catullus ' Carmen 101, on his dead brother, and elegies by Propertius on his dead mistress Cynthia and a matriarch of the prominent Cornelian family.
The poem is an elegy in name but not in form; it employs a style similar to that of contemporary odes, but it embodies a meditation on death, and remembrance after death. Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard is a poem by Thomas Gray, completed in 1750 and first published in 1751. The poem’s origins are unknown, but it was partly inspired by Gray’s thoughts following the death of the poet Richard West in 1742.
Elegy Definition. Elegy is a form of literature which can be defined as a poem or song in the form of elegiac couplets, written in honor of someone deceased. It typically laments or mourns the death of the individual. Elegy is derived from the Greek work “ elegus ”, which means a song of bereavement sung along with a flute. The forms of elegies we see today were introduced in the 16th century.
An elegy is a poem of mourning; this is often the poet mourning one person, but the definition also includes Thomas Gray's 'Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard', which mourns all the occupants of that churchyard, and looks into the future to mourn the poet's own death. 
Full Definition of ELEGY. 1. : a poem in elegiac couplets. 2. a: a song or poem expressing sorrow or lamentation especially for one who is dead b: something (as a speech) resembling such a song or poem. 3. a: a pensive or reflective poem that is usually nostalgic or melancholy b: a short pensive musical composition. See elegy defined for English-language learners.
An elegy is a mournful poem about the death of a person or, more rarely, a group. Elegies can also express a feeling of loss in a broader sense, such as for a way of life or a melancholic reflection on human mortality. An elegy is not the same as a eulogy, which is a statement written in prose that is read aloud at a funeral, although an elegy might suffice as a eulogy. An ode may also be composed for a deceased person or other subject, but its main purpose is praise and accolades.