Category:Caffeine. Caffeine was created some time in the dark ages of history when Chuck Norris roundhouse kicked an angel with ADHD who was then raped by Vin Diesel. The two buried the body somewhere in Ethiopia where it turned a buch of regular plants into coffee plants.
Caffeine is a diuretic, meaning it increases the need to urinate. It also temporarily increases alertness and, when taken near bedtime, may disrupt sleep patterns. When taken in large doses, caffeine can also cause anxiety. When caffeine consumption is halted, it can lead to a “crash”, including irritability, anxiety, loss of concentration and other withdrawal symptoms. An acute overdose of caffeine can cause caffeine intoxication. This condition is similar to overdose from other stimulants. In extreme cases, psychosis and death may occur
Products containing caffeine are coffee, tea, soft drinks (colas), energy drinks, other beverages, chocolate, caffeine tablets, other oral products, and inhalation. Caffeine is also a common ingredient of soft drinks, such as cola, originally prepared from kola nuts. Soft drinks typically contain 10 to 69 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounce serving. By contrast, energy drinks, such as Red Bull, can start at 80 milligrams of caffeine per serving.
Caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as  generally recognized as safe  (GRAS). Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. Caffeine is also a common ingredient of soft drinks, such as cola, originally prepared from kola nuts. Soft drinks typically contain 10 to 69 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounce serving. By contrast, energy drinks, such as Red Bull, can start at 80 milligrams of caffeine per serving.
Soma is a prescription muscle relaxer and pain reliever, while  caffeine is a common stimulant found in sodas, chocolate, and some  over the counter medications. Caffeine in … creases the speed at which  the soma is absorbed into the blood stream. 2 people found this useful. 
Medicines in my Home: Caffeine and Your Body Caffeine occurs naturally in more than 60 plants including coffee beans, tea leaves, kola nuts used to flavor soft drink colas, and cacao pods used to make chocolate products. Man-made caffeine is sometimes added to foods, drinks, and medicines. How much is moderate? One hundred to 200 mg (one to two 5-ounce cups of coffee) each day is the limit that some doctors suggest, but each person is a little different. How caffeine affects people varies with their size, their sex, and how sensitive they are to caffeine’s effects.
The chemical compound is derived from plants. Caffeine most often consumed in beverages, such as coffee, tea, soft drinks and energy drinks. It may also be found in powder or pill form. When caffeine consumption is halted, it can lead to a “crash”, including irritability, anxiety, loss of concentration and other withdrawal symptoms. An acute overdose of caffeine can cause caffeine intoxication. This condition is similar to overdose from other stimulants. In extreme cases, psychosis and death may occur
Dietary sources include coffee, tea, cola drinks, and chocolate, as well as energy drinks. The most notable behavioral effects of caffeine occur after consumption of low-to-moderate doses (50-300 mg) and include increased alertness, energy, and ability to concentrate. The negative effects of high-dose caffeine consumption are seen primarily in a small group of individuals who are caffeine-sensitive. On the other hand, caffeine was considered in one study as a potential drug of abuse and has even been described as a model drug of abuse.
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. Caffeine is also a common ingredient of soft drinks, such as cola, originally prepared from kola nuts. Soft drinks typically contain 10 to 69 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounce serving. By contrast, energy drinks, such as Red Bull, can start at 80 milligrams of caffeine per serving.