Now the addition of battery storage will increase the cost to about $18000 for a 2KW Solar-electric System, and the larger 4KW system would cost about $36000. Next, calculate the approximate cost per kilowatt hour. Assuming a minimum of five hours of Sun light, that’s 10 KWH/day or about a third of the electricity needed for the average home. For most Solar-Electric Systems, pricing works out to be about $4 per watt, or $4000 per kilowatt of capacity. Depending on your system configuration, you may need batteries, controllers, and labor to install the system
This is no longer true. The effective rate for solar power spread across the life of a system is $0.08/kWh. The average cost for conventional energy is $0.12/kWh and rising. The price for solar panel installation will be continued to be updated on this page. So what is the current cost of residential solar power? As of early 2015, it’s approximately $3.00 per installed watt. The average sized solar panel system is 5,000 watts, so this brings the total cost to $15,000. That 15k figure is just an average amount.
Free consultation. Schedule a free consultation with one of our knowledgeable consultants to learn about the price of a solar panel system for your home and how much you can save every month on your electricity bills. The initial call will be about 10 minutes. 
It's also not because solar doesn't scale well. Such technology is actually more cost-effective with larger systems. And it's not the Pittsburgh cloud cover. If Western Pennsylvania's sunshine isn't enough for a robust suntan, it can certainly power solar panels with the region's average of four hours of sunlight daily. Commercial clients get a federal tax credit for one-third of a solar project's cost, accelerated depreciation and up to $52,500 from the Pennsylvania Sunshine program, which is set to close at the end of the year.
Currently, the PA Sunshine rebate is $0.75 per watt for PV systems. Therefore, the rebate on a 3-kW system would be about $2,275. For solar hot water, the rebate is 35 percent of the cost of the system up to $5,000. So the refund for an $8,000 system would be $2,800. This funding is running out, so the time to go solar is now!
The Cost of Solar Panels. The average residential solar system will help reduce your carbon footprint: its yearly production (in kilowatt) is the equivalent of hundreds of tree seedling growing for 10 years and over 10 barrels of crude oil not consumed! 
The average cost of a Solar-Electric system is determined NOT by the KWH/day produced by the system, but by the hourly capacity the Solar-Electric System can produce. Most Solar-Electric Systems in the United States have an hourly capacity of approximately 2KW. Assuming a minimum of five hours of Sun light, that’s 10 KWH/day or about a third of the electricity needed for the average home. For most Solar-Electric Systems, pricing works out to be about $4 per watt, or $4000 per kilowatt of capacity. Depending on your system configuration, you may need batteries, controllers, and labor to install the system
The main reason is an economical one. A properly installed solar electric system could save the average Pennsylvania household $1,150* each year on electricity! Add in Pennsylvania state and federal government tax incentives, and it makes even more financial sense to go solar. 