Home › Research Methods › Correlation. Correlation means association-more precisely it is a measure of the extent to which two variables are related. If an increase in one variable tends to be associated with an increase in the other then this is known as a positive correlation. An example would be height and weight. 
Devin has taught Psychology and has a master's degree in Clinical Forensic Psychology, and will earn a PhD in 2015. This lesson explores, with the help of two examples, the basic idea of what a correlation is, the general purpose of using correlational research, and how a researcher might use it in a study. A correlation is simply defined as a relationship between two variables. The whole purpose of using correlations in research is to figure out which variables are connected. I'm also going to start referring to the things as variables; it's a more scientific name.
What Is Correlational Research. In psychology, correlational research can be used as the first step before an experiment begins. It can also be used if experiments cannot be conducted. It determines if a relationship exists between two or more variables, and if so, to what degree the relationship occurs. 
This is kind of a silly example, but it's an example of how you naturally correlate one event with another. A correlation is simply defined as a relationship between two variables. The whole purpose of using correlations in research is to figure out which variables are connected. I'm also going to start referring to the things as variables; it's a more scientific name.
Share this page on your website: A correlational study determines whether or not two variables are correlated. This means to study whether an increase or decrease in one variable corresponds to an increase or decrease in the other variable. 1 Negative correlation: Negative correlation is when an increase in one variable leads to a decrease in another and vice versa. 2  For example, the level of education might correlate negatively with crime. 3  This means if by some way the education level is improved in a country, it can lead to lower crim
Direction of a Correlation. Before we examine the different types of correlational research methods, understand that correlations can go in two directions; positive and negative. Positive Correlation: when two variables go in the SAME direction. For example, domestic violence and bowling. When bowling goes up, so does domestic violence
1 Positive correlation: Positive correlation between two variables is when an increase in one variable leads to an increase in the other and a decrease in one leads to a decrease in the other. 2  For example, the amount of money that a person possesses might correlate positively with the number of cars he owns. 1 Negative correlation: Negative correlation is when an increase in one variable leads to a decrease in another and vice versa. 2  For example, the level of education might correlate negatively with crime. 3  This means if by some way the education level is improved in a country, it can lead to lower crime
Correlational Study Correlational research studies are one common type of scientific research. It is important to have a good understanding of correlational research. 