· If the milk is not heated sufficiently, there is a risk that micro-organisms will survive and grow inside the bottle. In low-acid foods such as milk, many types of bacteria including Clostridium botulinum can grow and cause severe food poisoning. Just as cream is a concentrated form of milk fat, cheese is a concentrated form of milk-protein. The differences in cheeses that are produced in different regions result from variations in the composition and type of milk, variations in the process, and the bacteria used.
Pasteurization is a process that kills harmful bacteria by heating milk to a specific temperature for a set period of time. First developed by Louis Pasteur in 1864, pasteurization kills harmful organisms responsible for such diseases as listeriosis, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, and brucellosis. However, the bacteria in raw milk can be especially dangerous to people with weakened immune systems, older adults, pregnant women, and children. In fact, the CDC analysis found that foodborne illness from raw milk especially affected children and teenagers.
States where raw milk is still not available either for sale, by cowshare or herdshare, or as pet milk include Hawaii, Nevada, Montana, Iowa, Louisiana, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey, Delaware and Rhode Island. We expect to see legislative efforts this year in Louisiana, Maryland and possibly New Jersey. 
© istockphoto. Fresh milk contains disease-causing bacteria, eg those responsible for tuberculosis and typhoid. Left out at room temper-ature these and other bacteria will cause milk to spoil. To destroy such bacteria, milk is pasteurised. Commercial pasteurisation involves heating milk to 72 C for 15 s and then cooling rapidly to below 10 C. Stored in refrigerators pasteurised milk has a shelf-life of 20 days.
Milk is processed into a variety of dairy products such as cream, butter, yogurt, kefir, ice cream, and cheese. Modern industrial processes use milk to produce casein, whey protein, lactose, condensed milk, powdered milk, and many other food-additives and industrial products. It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food. Early-lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the mother's antibodies to its young and can reduce the risk of many diseases. Milk contains many other nutrients and the carbohydrate lactose.
Pasteurization is the process of heat processing a liquid or a food to kill pathogenic bacteria to make the food safe to eat. The use of pasteurization to kill pathogenic bacteria has helped reduce the transmission of diseases, such as typhoid fever, tuberculosis, scarlet fever, polio, and dysentery. 
Preventing Foodborne Illness: Bacillus cereus and Bacillus anthracis 2 produced by the bacteria: either a thermostable emetic enterotoxin or a thermosensitive diarrhoegenic enterotoxin. B. cereus is widespread in the soil and the food industry, in such foods as herbs, spices, milk and vegetables. 
Milk is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals. It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food. Early-lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the mother's antibodies to its young and can reduce the risk of many diseases. Milk contains many other nutrients and the carbohydrate lactose.
A process similar to pasteurization is thermization, which uses lower temperatures to kill bacteria in milk. It allows a milk product, such as cheese, to retain more of the original taste, but thermized foods are not considered pasteurized by food regulators. 
 Making the milk acidic to slow down or prevent the growth of spoilage bacteria or food poisoning bacteria (this also changes the milk to a curd).  Reducing the amount of water in milk products to slow down or prevent the growth of bacteria. However, there are a number of preservation techniques that can be used at a small scale to extend its shelf life by several days, weeks or months. Some of these processing methods also produce foods that have different flavours and textures, which can increase the value of the milk when these products are sold.