In 1991, Prince formed the New Power Generation, the best and most versatile and talented band he has ever assembled. With their first album, Diamonds and Pearls, Prince reasserted his mastery of contemporary R&B; it was his biggest hit since 1985.
The follow-up, Controversy, was more of the same, but 1999 was brilliant. The album was a monster hit, selling over three million copies, but it was nothing compared to 1984's Purple Rain. Purple Rain made Prince a superstar; it eventually sold over ten million copies in the U.S. and spent 24 weeks at number one. Partially recorded with his touring band, the Revolution, the record featured the most pop-oriented music he has ever made.
Famed singer, songwriter and instrumentalist Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Named after the Prince Roger Trio, a jazz band his father performed with as a pianist, Prince was signed to Warner Brother Records as a teenager.
Everyone's favourite Eighties star Prince is back in the public eye with two brand new albums featuring Rita Ora, Sinead O'Connor, Ali Campbell and many more. So to celebrate, we've put together a list (out of the hundreds) of the top 10 songs by the Prince of Pop.
This dance-funk-synth masterpiece is one of Prince's most sexually charged songs. It was recorded around the time of the Purple Rain sessions in the early-to-mid 1980s and was an underground sensation for years before being released commercially.
Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south.
With a clear idea about writing and singing Bachata music, Prince Royce was ready to deliver his first production. His debut album, Prince Royce transformed this young and emerging artist from the Bronx into one of today's biggest Latin music stars. The album Prince Royce, which was was released on March 2010, became one of the most popular albums of 2010 and 2011.
The artistic genius Prince is one of the most talented and versatile musicians to ever set foot in a recording studio. Since 1978, he’s released over 30 albums, dozens of hit singles and movies, on top of sold out concert venues from his Minneapolis hometown to Japan.