The organisms are short rods, coccobacilli or, as in the case of Moraxella catarrhalis, diplococci in morphology, with asaccharolytic, oxidase-positive and catalase-positive properties. Moraxella catarrhalis is the clinically most important species under this genus. 1 Moraxella catarrhalis usually resides in respiratory tract, but can gain access to the lower respiratory tract in patients with chronic chest disease or compromised host defenses, thus causing tracheobronchitis and pneumonia.
M catarrhalis causes bronchitis and pneumonia in children and adults with underlying chronic lung disease and is occasionally a cause of bacteremia and meningitis, especially in immunocompromised persons. Bacteremia can be complicated by local infections, such as osteomyelitis or septic arthritis. Patients of advanced age. The most significant infections caused by M catarrhalis are upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) such as otitis media and sinusitis in children and lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) in adults.
Rare cases of other species like Moraxella phenylpyruvica have been reported in literature. 3. Moraxella lacunata is medically important and is a recognized cause of conjunctivitis. It has been reported to cause keratitis, chronic sinusitis and endocarditis. 1,4. Most Moraxella strains are susceptible to penicillin, cephalosporin, tetracycline, quinolones and aminoglycosides. In the case report of endocarditis caused by ss-ß lactamase Producing moraxella lacunata, 3 the patient did not respond to ampicillin and blood culture remained positive for 10 to 15. days
Moraxella catarrhalis infection: An infectious disease caused by Moraxella catarrhalis. Moraxella catarrhalis can be found in the upper respiratory tract and is often harmless and asymptomatic. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Moraxella catarrhalis infection: 1  Infectious disease. 2  Laryngitis. 3  Otitis media. 4  Bronchopulmonary infection. 5  Sinusitis. 6  more related diseases...».
Abstract. The case report of a young male with Endocarditis caused by Moraxella lacunata is presented. Although a well recognized cause of keratitis, conjunctivitis, and sinusitis; very few cases of endocarditis by this rare pathogen are reported in literature. In the case report of endocarditis caused by ss-ß lactamase Producing moraxella lacunata, 3 the patient did not respond to ampicillin and blood culture remained positive for 10 to 15. days
Moraxella catarrhalis is a gram-negative, aerobic, oxidase-positive diplococcus that was first described in 1896. The organism has also been known as Micrococcus catarrhalis, Neisseria catarrhalis, and Branhamella catarrhalis; currently, it is considered to belong to the subgenus Branhamella of the genus Moraxella. Patients of advanced age. The most significant infections caused by M catarrhalis are upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) such as otitis media and sinusitis in children and lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) in adults.
They occur most frequently in the respiratory tract and less commonly in the genital tract. While Moraxella lacunata is a well recognized cause of conjunctivitis, it has also been reported to cause keratitis, chronic sinusitis and occasionally systemic infections including endocarditis. In the case report of endocarditis caused by ss-ß lactamase Producing moraxella lacunata, 3 the patient did not respond to ampicillin and blood culture remained positive for 10 to 15. days
Moraxella lacunata, a species of nonmotile cocci that causes corneal infections and subacute conjunctivitis or angular conjunctivitis in humans. 
Currently, there is no vaccine in the US against Moraxella catarrhalis infection. Moraxella catarrhalis is a significant cause of respiratory tract infection against which a vaccine is sought. Several outer membrane proteins are currently under investigation as potential vaccine antigens, including the porin M35. Moraxella catarrhalis is a fastidious, nonmotile, Gram-negative, aerobic, oxidase-positive diplococcus that can cause infections of the respiratory system, middle ear, eye, central nervous system, and joints of humans.
However, it can also cause ear infections and sinusitis, bronchopulmonary infection as well as other infections. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Moraxella catarrhalis infection is available below. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Moraxella catarrhalis infection: 1  Infectious disease. 2  Laryngitis. 3  Otitis media. 4  Bronchopulmonary infection. 5  Sinusitis. 6  more related diseases...».