The helmeted guinea fowl (Numida meleagris) is the main species from which domesticated guinea fowl are descended. The natural habitat of the helmeted guinea fowl is grassland and scrubland in Africa, south of the Sahara. This bird has a large backward-curving bony helmet on top of its head.
In their native Africa, guinea fowl have been used as domestic animals for hundreds of years as the large size of the guinea fowl means that just one bird can provide a great deal of food. Today, guinea fowl are farmed around the world for their meat, eggs and feathers.
The guinea fowl often has long, dark coloured feathers and a bald neck and head which makes the guinea fowl a very distinctive bird. The guinea fowl is a fairly resilient and highly adaptable bird and the guinea fowl is therefore found naturally in range of habitats.
The wild-guinea fowl of West Africa is regarded as the original of the domestic stock. There are two common varieties, the Pearl and the White.
Scientists classify guinea fowl in the subfamily Numididae, which, in turn, is classified in the family Phasianidae. This is a large family of birds that also includes chickens, turkeys, pheasants, partridges, grouse, quail, and peafowl (peacocks).
A domestic guinea hen lays seasonally, just as her wild cousins do. Some time between March and May, when she is 26 to 28 weeks old, an average hen will lay about 100 eggs. She will continue laying that number each year until she is five years old (or even older).
The guinea fowl is a fairly resilient and highly adaptable bird and the guinea fowl is therefore found naturally in range of habitats. Wild guinea fowl can be found inhabiting jungles, forests, shrublands, grasslands and even areas of desert, depending on the abundance of food.
The vulturine guinea fowl (Acryllium vulturinum) is the largest and showiest species of guinea fowl. This bird, which is native to grasslands in eastern Africa, has a longer neck, legs, and tail than other guinea fowl. It also has beautiful blue feathers on its breast.
Today, the guinea fowl has been introduced to various countries around the world as it is farmed by humans. The guinea fowl is a ground-nesting bird and spends much of its time scratching around on the ground in search for something to eat.