You’re not just downloading a Flash player when you get the free version of RealPlayer. It also has several other features including a Flash video converter. You can “Convert” or “Copy to formats and devices” through the RealPlayer Downloader and through the RealPlayer Converter itself. One example, is to click on “Copy to” under the video while it is playing in the RealPlayer library, and select the device you want to convert the downloaded Flash video to play on. In addition to using it as a way to download Flash video you can also use it as Flash video converter. First, we have to find a Flash video to download. Since I like math, I went to the Khan Academy to see what videos were available.
Enable users to download Embedded FLV from any webpages as easily as download them from FLV video sharing websites. Based on MHT(Multi-server Hyper-threading Transportation) technique and optimization arithmetic, orbit downloader can make you download FLV files up to 500% faster than before. 
Convert FLV to AVI-Free Video Converter. Using our free online video converter is easy! Simply select the file that you want to convert from FLV to AVI format and click Start Free Encoding Now. If you want to, you can customize the conversion settings by clicking on Advanced Options.
1. Open the video site in Firefox. Navigate to the Flash video that you want to watch. Firefox is the easiest browser to use when downloading a Flash file directly from a website. 1  This method will not work with YouTube, Vimeo, and other streaming sites. 2  This is for Flash videos on sites such as Newgrounds
The FLV.com flash video downloader is a free application that helps you save online videos from over 50 video sites (YouTube, Vimeo, RedTube) to your Windows PC or favorite mobile device. - FLV.com FLV Downloader converts your videos to AVI, iPod, iPhone, iPad, PSP, 3GP, WMV, MP4 and MP3. - Compatible with over 50 video sites. - Manage your downloads/conversions with multiple options to pause/resume/delete the videos. - Downloads videos fast (even faster with the PLUS version.
Flash Video Downloader helps you to download any video (flv, mp4, HD) from YouTube-like, Facebook, Break, Metacafe and more in one click. by pos1t1ve. Flash Video Downloader helps you to download any video (flv, mp4, HD) from YouTube-like, Facebook, Break, Metacafe and more in one click. You can download mp3, music (iPod), avi and more. Download Flash games.
FLV.com FLV Downloader 10.1. FLV.com FLV Player allows you to play videos on your Windows PC that you have previously downloaded from sites like YouTube. The flash video player also offers support for virtually all other video formats, including WMV, AVI, MPEG, MP3, and iPod. Learn more about the FLV Player. FLV Downloader also has a built in converter, so once your FLV video is downloaded you can convert it to other common formats such as WMV, so you can play it on Windows Media Player. Learn more about the Flash video downloader.
FLV (Flash Video) is a file format used to view video content online. When you watch a video on YouTube or other video sites, you are viewing FLV format video. FLV.com offers a free FLV Converter, FLV Player, and FLV Downloader so you can save, convert, and enjoy these videos later on. FLV Downloader also has a built in converter, so once your FLV video is downloaded you can convert it to other common formats such as WMV, so you can play it on Windows Media Player. Learn more about the Flash video downloader.
Many online videos are in a Flash video format, also known as a .FLV file. These files require a Flash player if you want to watch them on your computer or mobile device and many mobile devices don’t support Flash. Don’t sweat it if you don’t have a Flash player installed on your computer or other devices. In the Video section of the library you will find the .FLV file you downloaded. Choose the file for conversion. 3. Click on the video and choose the More option from the popup menu that appears. Next, select the Convert option.
Our Flash Video Converter will help you convert FLV files to WMV and other formats so they can be viewed again. This 100% free free FLV converter enables you to convert FLV to MP3, AVI, MP4, 3GP, etc, so you can enjoy your favorite videos on any Windows PC. Learn more about the free FLV converter. FLV Downloader also has a built in converter, so once your FLV video is downloaded you can convert it to other common formats such as WMV, so you can play it on Windows Media Player. Learn more about the Flash video downloader.