Each mineral is defined by its particular chemical composition and crystal structure. To explain what a mineral is properly, we have to introduce you to a bit of chemistry. Minerals are made up of chemical elements. A chemical element is a substance that is made up of only one kind of atom.
A few minerals are made of only one kind of element. The mineral silver is a pure element because it is made up of only silver atoms. Most minerals, such as halite and quartz, are made up of chemical compounds. A chemical compound is a substance in which the atoms of two or more elements bond together.
Minerals made of only one element are called NATIVE minerals (i.e., silver, gold, mercury, copper). Minerals composed of compounds are simply referred to as minerals (i.e., quartz, which is made up on silicon and oxygen). To be classified as a mineral, a substance must be:
Each mineral has a fixed chemical composition. Some minerals are made up of just one chemical element-they contain only one type of atom. Native copper is made up of copper atoms only. Most minerals are chemical compounds-they contain atoms of more than one chemical element.
An element is a substance that contains only one type of atom. Scientists can classify minerals into groups on the basis of their chemical makeup. Though there are thousands of different minerals, only about 30 are common in Earth's crust. These 30 minerals make up most rocks in the crust.
Minerals are usually solid, inorganic, have a crystal structure, and form naturally by geological processes. The study of minerals is called mineralogy. A mineral can be made of single chemical element or more usually a compound. There are over 4,000 types of known minerals.
Minerals can be the pure element, like Gold, Silver or Copper, but most minerals are compounds of elements, like Quartz (SiO2), and Gypsum CaSO42H2O. The most common mineral then is made up of the two most common elements, Oxygen and Silicon, SiO2. Its a compound of the two elements and its name is Quartz (Silica).