Created with the latest engineering technology, essastone has a beautiful design palette that is naturally at home with Dulux and Laminex colours in any kitchen or bathroom. To get this look use: Walls → Dulux Off White W B13. ONLY Dulux paint is formulated for tinting to the exact Dulux colours you select Window frames, doors and trim 02/11 Check your colour using a Dulux sample pot available from your nearest paint store. Brush out a one metre 2 section and check it at different times of the day!
Information regarding cookies This website uses cookies to store information on your computer. Some of these cookies enable the functionality of the website and some help us to improve the website by giving us some insight into how the website is being used. 
After going through numerous paint samples I decided on Dulux White Duck. (with white ceilings and vivid white trims) I like the fact that it is a nice neutral colour without being yellowy. It also looks nice with my tile colour and cupboard colour (porcelain gloss). My husband has started painting the kid's bedrooms in white duck at 1/4 strength.
I'm not sure whether to have him paint the rest of the house in quarter strength and keep the house the same colour throughout or have him change to half strength for the rest of the house OR keep it quarter strength and just do the bathrooms in the half strength. Hmm! (with white ceilings and vivid white trims) I like the fact that it is a nice neutral colour without being yellowy. It also looks nice with my tile colour and cupboard colour (porcelain gloss). My husband has started painting the kid's bedrooms in white duck at 1/4 strength.
Find a product in this colour Visualise in a room. Dismiss. Information regarding cookies This website uses cookies to store information on your computer. Some of these cookies enable the functionality of the website and some help us to improve the website by giving us some insight into how the website is being used.
It is always important to remember that colours can appear to change in larger areas and under different lights. Dulux Colour Solutions ® Sample Pots are a great way to help test your paint colour selection. To get this look use: Feature wall ¤ Laminex Ice Veil. Main wall ¤ Dulux Natural White W B1. Created with the latest engineering technology, essastone has a beautiful design palette that is naturally at home with Dulux and Laminex colours in any kitchen or bathroom. To get this look use: Walls ¤ Dulux Off White W B13. Benchtop ¤ Laminex Espresso.
There’s a fine line between introducing a white palette into your home that conjures a mood of relaxation or refinement, and one that has you thinking you’ve woken up in the middle of a science laboratory…. When it comes to neutrals, the key is in selecting what shade of paint works best for you and your surroundings. 
I went with antique white USA using the Dulux brand base, if you use a different brand base paint the colour may not turn out the same. My wall and ceiling are in the Antique white USA absolutely no yellow in it. Also be sure it is Antique white USA not antique white as antique white is yellowish. If you are looking for a more cool white then Dulux lexicon or white duck are good choices. 
It is always important to remember that colours can appear to change in larger areas and under different lights. Dulux Colour Solutions ® Sample Pots are a great way to help test your paint colour selection. To get this look use: Feature wall → Laminex Ice Veil. Main wall → Dulux Natural White W B1. ONLY Dulux paint is formulated for tinting to the exact Dulux colours you select Window frames, doors and trim 02/11 Check your colour using a Dulux sample pot available from your nearest paint store. Brush out a one metre 2 section and check it at different times of the day!
They’re tried, tested and loved all around Australia. This range of Winning Colours will work well in any space, whether you have the most contemporary or classic traditional home. And the winners for this Painting Season are … Antique White U.S.A. Antique White U.S.A. is the ultimate all-rounder. 