Divide the number of ounces of water you should drink per day by the number of ounces your receptacle holds. For instance, if you weigh 160 lb. and have a water bottle that holds 10 oz. of water, divide 80 by 10 to arrive at 8.
“It depends on your size and weight, and also on your activity level and where you live,” Nessler says. “In general, you should try to drink between half an ounce and an ounce of water for each pound you weigh, every day.” For example, if you weigh 150 pounds, that would be 75 to 150 ounces of water a day.
To keep water top of mind, keep a daily tally of how many ounces you’re drinking each day and strive to drink 16 ounces before each meal. A good rule of thumb is to drink half your body weight in fluid ounces each day. If you weigh 140 pounds, that means you should drink 70 ounces of water.
So remember, half your body weight (pounds) in ounces is how much water you should be drinking each day, and if you're exercising and sweating profusely, add another liter of water with half a teaspoon of sea salt to ensure proper electrolyte replenishment.
Adults should try to drink half of their body weight in ounces of water per day, according to Dr. Fereydoon Batmanghelidj. This means that a 160 lb. man should try to drink 80 oz. of water per day.
The basic equation for determining this is by dividing your body weight in half. So, if you weigh 200 pounds, you would need 100 ounces of water per day if you're not doing anything strenuous.
The answer is the approximate number of water ounces you should drink daily. You should drink half of your body weight in ounces. If you weight 200 pounds, you should drink 100 ounces water (3.13 quarts, 2.98 liters or about 10-12 cups of water a day).
Report Abuse. Drinking half your body weight in oz of water only applies to what is known as ideal weight. Without knowing your body fat percent, its hard to determine if your weight to height radio is in the ideal range. A male at about 272 lbs should be drinking 3-4 liters of water per day.