About Andhra Pesarattu. Andhra Pesarattu, as the name suggests is a delicacy from Andhra Pradesh. I borrowed this recipe from one of my friends in my college days who was an Andhrite. It is nothing but the usual Dosa with a combination of rice and moong dal
Pesarattu Upma is a traditional breakfast dish of Andhra Pradesh. Its a whole green gram lentil (moong dal) dosa stuffed with Upma. Pesarratu and Upma are two separate dishes. Each of them can be eaten individually on their own or as a combination which is called Pesarattu Upma. Pour a laddle full of pesarattu batter on it and spread it with the base of the laddle into a thin round layer like a pan cake and drizzle 1 tsp oil around the edges of Pesarattu. Top the pesarattu with some of the chopped onions and ginger.
A pesarattu is also popularly called as the Andhra Pesarattu. It’s a delicacy from Andhra Pradesh. The Pesarattu is simple to prepare and is made with the green beans or moong dal as the main ingredients combined with little green chillies, ginger pieces, and onion, cumin seeds and blended into a batter. Pesarattu is actually a healthier version of any plain dosa made from green moong dal because of its high fibre content. This is better than having any normal rice dosa. The pesarattu is easy to make and needs no fermentation.
Andhra pesarattu or green moong dal dosa is a delicious lentil based pancake recipe which is best enjoyed with a spicy ginger chutney. Prepare the andhra pesarattu with ginger chutney as a healthy breakfast option. Add your private note. 1 Wash the moong dal 2 or 3 times, and soak in enough water for 2 hours. 2  Drain the moong dal and blend in a mixer along with onion, ginger and green chillies to a smooth batter. 3  Add the rice flour and salt, mix it well. 4  Keep aside.
To make pesarattu, we don’t have to use rice or rice flour and that definitely alters the taste. It is not possible to make good moong dal dosa with over soaked green gram or with stale batter. The ground batter has to be used right away and the ones made from stored or refrigerated batter may result in thick, brownish and tasteless pesarattu. 1. Wash and soak green gram in enough water for about 4 to 6 hours. If using rice soak it along with dal. 2. This is an optional step for onion pesarattu: Heat a pan with oil and fry the onions and chilies on a high flame till they turn slightly brown.
Pesarattu dosa is made with whole green gram dal. Though i have heard this but never tasted this and attempted to make this at home. My in laws side they used to make a pessarattu with yellow moong dal and rice, which some how doesn’t fascinated me, and it will be slightly dry too. 
Pesarattu is one of the popular signatory breakfast dishes of Andhra region in India. Pesarattu actually means an attu (crepe or dosa) made from pesara pappu (full moong dal or green moong dal or green gram). Pesarattu is a very healthy and delicious lentil based pancake served as a best breakfast dish. Pesarattu is actually a healthier version of any plain dosa made from green moong dal because of its high fibre content. This is better than having any normal rice dosa. The pesarattu is easy to make and needs no fermentation.
Recipe by: SUSMITA. This is a Andhra specialty. Pesarattu is a dosa made with Pesara Pappu (moong dal). You use the moong dal with skin on and this is what gives this dosa the classic green color. Of course this dosa is high in protein and fiber. Serve it with upma rolled inside and it becomes an ‘MLA pesarattu'. 
Enjoy pesarattu with allam pachadi or any other chutney, jaggery if you prefer and a cup of tea/coffee. Pesarattu or known as MLA Pesarattu is popular Andhra breakfast also known as pesarattu dosa is sprinkled with onion, green chilies usually served with rava upma and Allam Pachadi. Pesarattu is made with green moong dal making it wholesome, full of protein and very filling breakfast a good way to start the day. 