A nebula (Latin for cloud; pl. nebulae, nebulae, nebulæ or) nebulas is an interstellar cloud of, dust, hydrogen helium and other ionized. Gases, originally nebula was a name for any diffuse astronomical, object including galaxies beyond The Milky. way Examples of these types of nebulae are the Rosette Nebula and the Pelican Nebula. The size of these nebulae, known as HII regions, varies depending on the size of the original cloud of gas. New stars are formed in the nebulae.
A nebula (Latin for cloud; pl. nebulae, nebulae, nebulæ or) nebulas is an interstellar cloud of, dust, hydrogen helium and other ionized. gases Examples of these types of nebulae are the Rosette Nebula and the Pelican Nebula. The size of these nebulae, known as HII regions, varies depending on the size of the original cloud of gas. New stars are formed in the nebulae.
A nebula is an interstellar cloud in outer space that is made up of dust, hydrogen and helium gas, and plasma. It is formed when portions of the interstellar medium collapse and clump together due to the gravitational attraction of the particles that comprise them. It is this released matter that forms what is known as a planetary nebula. The planetary nebula is just one of four major types of nebulae. The other three are H II regions, supernova remnant, and dark nebula. Some of the more prominent nebulae are the Crab, Eagle, Orion, Pelican, Ring, and Rosette Nebula
A fine example of an emission nebula is the Orion Nebula (M42). Reflection Nebula-A reflection nebula differs from an emission nebula in does not emit radiation of its own. It is a cloud of dust and gas that reflects the light energy from a nearby star or group of stars. Reflection nebulae are frequently the sites of star formation. These colors are the result of different elements within the nebula. Most nebulae are composed of about 90% hydrogen, 10% helium, and 0.1% heavy elements such as carbon, nitrogen, magnesium, potassium, calcium, iron.
The word nebula is Latin for mist or cloud and the term planetary nebula is a misnomer that originated in the 1780s with astronomer William Herschel because when viewed through his telescope, these objects appeared to him to resemble the rounded shapes of planets. A mechanism for formation of most planetary nebulae is thought to be the following: at the end of the star's life, during the red giant phase, the outer layers of the star are expelled by strong stellar winds.
Types of Nebulae. Emission Nebula-An emission nebula is a cloud of high temperature gas. Within this type of nebula, a star energizes the atoms in the cloud with ultraviolet radiation. As these atoms fall back to lower energy states, they emit radiation. These colors are the result of different elements within the nebula. Most nebulae are composed of about 90% hydrogen, 10% helium, and 0.1% heavy elements such as carbon, nitrogen, magnesium, potassium, calcium, iron.
The nebula that forms planets is called a protoplanetary disk or nebula and is the start of a star's life. A planetary nebula is the end of a star's life. Planetary nebula have nothing to do with planets, except for some of them resembling Uranus or Neptune through a telescope. They are in fact the discarded outer layers of stars less than 8 times the mass of the Sun after they've exhausted their supplies of helium in the core.
One of the best examples of this is the Crab Nebula, in Taurus. The supernova event was recorded in the year 1054 and is labelled SN 1054. The compact object that was created after the explosion lies in the center of the Crab Nebula and is a neutron star. Other nebulae may form as planetary nebulae. Examples of these types of nebulae are the Rosette Nebula and the Pelican Nebula. The size of these nebulae, known as HII regions, varies depending on the size of the original cloud of gas. New stars are formed in the nebulae.
So, it is this dispersed matter that eventually collapses and forms a nebula. Nebulae, like the Orion Nebula, are often favorite astronomical objects of scientists who want to learn more about stellar or planetary formation. It is this released matter that forms what is known as a planetary nebula. The planetary nebula is just one of four major types of nebulae. The other three are H II regions, supernova remnant, and dark nebula. Some of the more prominent nebulae are the Crab, Eagle, Orion, Pelican, Ring, and Rosette Nebula