Insert a Pivot Table. To insert a pivot table, execute the following steps. 1. Click any single cell inside the data set. 2. On the Insert tab, click PivotTable. The following dialog box appears. Excel automatically selects the data for you. The default location for a new pivot table is New Worksheet. 3. Click OK
To manually refresh or update data on your Pivot Table just click on the Pivot Table workspace. The PivotTable Tools box will now be visible on the workspace with the adding Options and the Design tab. Select on the Options tab, click on the Data group and press Alt+F5 or hit the Refresh button. Also, you can click the right click of your mouse and click on Refresh. To be able to refresh and update all data in the Pivot Table workbook, click on the Refresh button and select on Refresh All. To maintain the same format of the Pivot Table, select first the Autofit Column Width on Update and then select Preserve cell formatting on update
#2 You can use a table for your PivotTable. Tables and PivotTables are a great match. When you use a table as source data for a PivotTable, Excel will automatically expand and shrink the table as you add or remove data, so your PivotTable will always stay in sync with your data. To create a Table, select any cell in the data. Next, click the Table button on the Insert tab of the ribbon. 
Next step is to update the data on the Pivot Table. First, go back to the worksheet where the Pivot Table is. After, find the image which has an exclamatory point mark which has a red color. Then click on the image to automatically generate the data which was changed in the original worksheet or database. Select on the Options tab, click on the Data group and press Alt+F5 or hit the Refresh button. Also, you can click the right click of your mouse and click on Refresh. To be able to refresh and update all data in the Pivot Table workbook, click on the Refresh button and select on Refresh All.
Create a Pivot Table in Excel 2003. 1  Select a cell in the database. 2  Select 'Microsoft Excel List or Database', click Next. 3  For the range, type your range name, e.g. 4  Click Next. 5  Click the Layout button. 6  Drag field buttons to the row, column and data areas. 7  Click OK, click Finish. Create a Pivot Table in Excel 2003. 1  Select a cell in the database. 2  Select 'Microsoft Excel List or Database', click Next. 3  For the range, type your range name, e.g. 4  Database. 5  Click Next. 6  Click the Layout button. 7
To change the source range : Pivot table tools tab, Options tab, Change data source button. You can update the pivot table using an event macro. How to do it depends of your data display. Regards. 
If you change the size of your data set by adding or deleting rows/columns, you need to update the source data for the pivot table. 1. Click any cell inside the pivot table. 2. The PivotTable Tools contextual tab activates. On the Options tab, click Change Data Source. Tip: change your data set to a table before you insert a pivot table. This way your data source will be updated automatically when you add or delete rows/columns. This can save time. You still have to refresh though.
Also, while updating your data you can also change the design of the Pivot Table with your own preference without altering the current data and information n your table. Aside from giving you the freedom to update the data in the Pivot Table, you can also organize the data in a very organized manner. Select on the Options tab, click on the Data group and press Alt+F5 or hit the Refresh button. Also, you can click the right click of your mouse and click on Refresh. To be able to refresh and update all data in the Pivot Table workbook, click on the Refresh button and select on Refresh All.
Page 5 Reorganizing the Pivot Table You can quickly change the organization of data in your pivot tables using the mouse to drag Row, Column, or Page fields to other field locations in the table layout area. When you change the organization of the table, you also change the way items in the Data area are summarized. Page 8 If you want to make changes to the pivot chart after you create it, click the Chart Wizard button again, then make the changes you want using the Chart Toolbar. Any changes to the source data and/or to the pivot table will be reflected in the pivot chart once you Refresh the data.