A Zero Waste Solution-Biochar is a fine-grained charcoal made by pyrolysis. Pyrolysis means heating biomass (wood, manure, crop residues, solid waste, etc..) with limited to no oxygen in a specially designed furnace that captures all emissions, gasses and oils for reuse as energy. Biochar holds 50% of the biomass' carbon. When biochar is applied to soil, that carbon is sequestered for centuries. Thus biochar reduces the overall atmospheric CO 2 by removing carbon from the active cycle and sequestering it. Biochar also enhances plant growth, which takes more CO 2 out of the atmosphere.
When used broadly, the term biochar simply refers to charcoal made from any biomass waste, and may or may not have a significant bio-oil condensate component. In this broader context biochar is simply charcoal which could be used to improve soil quality. 
Biochar is charcoal used as a soil amendment. Like most charcoal, biochar is created by pyrolysis of biomass. Biochar is under investigation as an approach to carbon sequestration to produce negative carbon dioxide emissions. Biochar thus has the potential to help mitigate climate change, via carbon sequestration. Biochar is a high-carbon, fine-grained residue which today is produced through modern pyrolysis processes. Pyrolysis is the direct thermal decomposition of biomass in the absence of oxygen to obtain an array of solid (biochar), liquid (bio-oil), and gas (syngas) products.
Due to its chemical structure biochar is very difficult for microbes in the soil to break down, preventing the carbon sequestered in the char to be released quickly back into the atmosphere. This is a clear distinction between biochar and other organic matter, or pools of carbon, in the soil. 
In addition to creating a soil enhancer, sustainable biochar practices can produce oil and gas byproducts that can be used as fuel, providing clean, renewable energy. When the biochar is buried in the ground as a soil enhancer, the system can become carbon negative.. Biochar and bioenergy co-production can help combat global climate change by displacing fossil fuel use and by sequestering carbon in stable soil carbon pools. It may also reduce emissions of nitrous oxide. We can use this simple, yet powerful, technology to reduce carbon emissions.
Biochar is elemental carbon refined from biomass and made cleanly using today's technology. When done responsibly and sustainably, production and use of biochar has been shown to boost crop yields, build long lasting soil fertility, and conserve water. 
Pre-Columbian Amazonians are believed to have used biochar to enhance soil productivity. They produced it by smoldering agricultural waste (i.e., covering burning biomass with soil) in pits or trenches. European settlers called it terra preta de Indio. Biochar is a high-carbon, fine-grained residue which today is produced through modern pyrolysis processes. Pyrolysis is the direct thermal decomposition of biomass in the absence of oxygen to obtain an array of solid (biochar), liquid (bio-oil), and gas (syngas) products.