Consequently, the first true lieutenant governor of Georgia was Marvin Griffin, who was elected to the office in 1948. Griffin set the tone and informal powers of the office, which survived for decades. He was reelected to the position in 1950. The lieutenant governor is also the constitutionally mandated president of the Georgia senate. Before 1945 state senators chose the president of the senate, who then became the governor if a vacancy occurred in that office.
Executive Branch. The executive branch consists of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and other statewide elected officials and agencies serving under the Governor. The Governor is the chief executive of the state of Georgia. Like the President, he or she is limited to two four-year terms. The Lieutenant Governor is similar to the Vice President. He or she is president of the State Senate and becomes Governor if there is a vacancy in the Governor’s Office. However, there are differences: 1  The Governor does not choose a running mate
Living former U.S. governors of Georgia [edit]. Jimmy Carter, 76th Governor of Georgia and 39th President of the United States. As of May 2015, there are five former U.S. governors of Georgia who are currently living at this time, the oldest U.S. governor of Georgia being Jimmy Carter (1971–1975, born 1924). The 1865 constitution, following Georgia's surrender, limited governors to two consecutive terms, allowing them to serve again after a gap of four years. The Reconstruction constitution of 1868 increased the governor's term to four years.
The Governor's Mansion is the official home of Georgia's 82nd Governor, Nathan Deal, and his wife, Sandra. The Mansion, a three floor, 30-room, Greek Revival style home built in 1967, stands on approximately 18 acres in northeast Atlanta. 
The current Governor of Georgia is Nathan Deal (R) . Deal assumed office as the 82nd Governor of Georgia on January 10, 2011. His current term expires in 2015. 
The Governor of Georgia is the head of the executive branch of the state of Georgia's government and the commander-in-chief of the U.S. state 's military forces. The current governor is Nathan Deal. The 1865 constitution, following Georgia's surrender, limited governors to two consecutive terms, allowing them to serve again after a gap of four years. The Reconstruction constitution of 1868 increased the governor's term to four years.
Evolution of the Governor's Role. The office of governor can trace its ancestry to Georgia's founding as a British colony in 1733. Although he never held the title of governor, General James Oglethorpe, founder of the Georgia colony, is generally considered to be the first executive officer of Georgia. The state's first governor after independence from Great Britain was John A. Treutlen. 
Nathan Deal was sworn in as governor of Georgia on January 10, 2011, and was sworn in for his second term on January 12, 2015. Deal was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1992. Prior to that, he served in the Georgia Senate from 1981 to 1993 and was named president pro tempore in his last term. 