For this taiyaki recipe, I used mashed red beans, but I normally use the red bean paste. I also used cake flour instead of all purpose flour to give a lighter, crispier texture. You can use milk or water for this recipe, but milk seemed to make it burn easily.
To make them, heat the taiyaki maker on your stove and spray with oil. Spoon in batter of the fish molds so it is 2/3 full. Drop a dollop of nutella in the middle. Then close the taiyaki maker. Let it cook for about a minute before flipping the taiyaki maker over so that it can cook the other side and brown evenly.
Taiyaki. I finally got a Taiyaki Pan to make my fish-shaped cakes!! One of the “luxuries” of living in Los Angeles was being able to buy a bag of hot and fresh taiyaki for $1 anytime I wanted. Now that I live in Seattle, I don’t have that luxury to enjoy anymore. However, I do have my taiyaki pan to make these sweet, fish-shaped delights myself.
1. Place taiyaki maker on stove burner. Turn stove to medium heat. Spray or oil taiyaki pan. 2. After the taiyaki maker is heated, pour in pancake batter. Put a thin layer of batter, enough to cover the bottom fish shapes that are on the stove. 3. Place small piece of ganache or chocolate in the middle of the fish.
Amazon Taiyaki Japanese Fish: Buy the selected items together. This item: Taiyaki Japanese FishShaped Hot Cake Maker by JapanBargain $40.91. Takoyaki Pan w/ Handle 12 Molds #TBT1. (viafuckyeahcomfortfood) 1144 Magikarp Taiyaki: Magikarp Taiyaki amaker.
5. At this point you can check the progress of your taiyaki by opening the taiyaki pan. If taiyaki is still very light, cook for an additional minute, making sure to cook both sides evenly. If 2 minutes is too much, you can reduce the heat or cook about 1 minute on each side and then check the progress.
A while back, I bought my own little Taiyaki maker from Marukai in San Diego. I first experimented with my Taiyaki maker here. Since then I've been wanting to play around with it some more. It's been hard trying to find a recipe batter that tastes like the traditional Taiyaki I've eaten.