The name Olmec comes from the Nahuatl word for the Olmecs: Ōlmēcatl [oːlˈmeːkat͡ɬ] (singular) or Ōlmēcah [oːlˈmeːkaʔ] (plural). This word is composed of the two words ōlli [ˈoːlːi] , meaning rubber, and mēcatl [ˈmeːkat͡ɬ] , meaning people, so the word means rubber people. They lived in the tropical lowlands of south-central Mexico, in the present-day states of Veracruz and Tabasco. It has been speculated that Olmec derive in part from neighboring Mokaya and/or Mixe–Zoque.
This was one of the tribes of pre-Columbian meso-America, Olmec means rubber people. In History, Politics & Society. The Olmec were an ancient people, believed to be Pre-Columbian, who lived in the tropical areas of that is known today as Tabasco or Veracruz on the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.The … se people lived from about 1200 BCE to 400 BCE. newtest3 An early Mesoamerican civilization. APEX. 8 people found this useful. Answered
Name. The name Olmec means rubber people in the Aztec 's language: Nahuatl. It was the Aztec name for the people who lived in this area at the much later time of Aztec dominance. Ancient Mesoamericans, spanning from ancient Olmecs to Aztecs, extracted latex from Castilla elastica, a type of rubber tree in the area.
Ol·mec. n. pl. Olmec or Ol·mecs. 1. An early Mesoamerican Indian civilization centered in the Veracruz region of southeast Mexico that flourished between 1300 and 400 bc, whose cultural influence was widespread throughout southern Mexico and Central America. 2. A member of any of various peoples sharing the Olmec culture. 1. Olmec-a member of an early Mesoamerican civilization centered around Veracruz that flourished between 1300 and 400 BC. federation of tribes, tribe-a federation (as of American Indians). American Indian, Indian, Red Indian-a member of the race of people living in America when Europeans arrived.
User: The name Olmec means _____. rubber people farming people jaguar peopleWeegy: The name Olmec means rubber people. vchutkan|Points 5904|User: The main trade route between the East and West was known as the _____ Road. Silver Silk Roman Asian. 
Olmec. The Olmec were the first major civilization in Mexico. They lived in the tropical lowlands of south-central Mexico, in the modern-day states of Veracruz and Tabasco. The Olmec flourished during Mesoamerica's Formative period, dating roughly from as early as 1500 BCE to about 400 BCE. 
Europeans mistakenly assigned the name to ancient ruins that they found there, not realizing that those ruins pre-dated the Aztec and all other civilizations in the Americas. The word Olmec also refers to the rubber balls, used for the ancient ball game of Olmec creation. The Olmec called themselves the Xi, the same name that they used when they were in China. They often depicted themselves with colossal heads, some of which were deformed, and whose meaning is unknown. When evidence of the Olmec was first discovered (in 1863), scientists at first didn't know what to make of them. 
The name Olmec means rubber people in Nahuatl, the language of the Aztec, and was the Aztec name for the people who lived in the Gulf Lowlands in the 15th and 16th centuries, some 2000 years after the Olmec culture died out. They lived in the tropical lowlands of south-central Mexico, in the present-day states of Veracruz and Tabasco. It has been speculated that Olmec derive in part from neighboring Mokaya and/or Mixe–Zoque.