Intoxication Law & Legal Definition. Intoxication is defined by state law, which varies by state, for purposes of defining drunk driving, driving while intoxicated, or driving under the influence laws. It is the condition of being drunk as the result of drinking alcoholic beverages and/or use of narcotics. Intoxication is defined by a more subjective standard for purposes of determining public drunkenness. Public intoxication means the person must be unable to care for himself, be dangerous to himself or others, be causing a disturbance or refuse to leave or move along when requested.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Intoxication in English law is a circumstance which may alter the capacity of a defendant to form mens rea, where a charge is one of specific intent, or may entirely negate mens rea where the intoxication is involuntary. The court in Majewski refers to intoxication as a defence. If this were the case, in crimes of basic intent where it does not provide a defence, the counsel for the defendant could not argue that the defendant did not have the required mens rea because of intoxication.
(A) 210 liters of breath; (B) 100 milliliters of blood; or (C) 67 milliliters of urine. The definition of “Intoxication” under Texas law is critically important in the field of DWI Defense. Many DWI defense strategies hinge on whether a defendant was “intoxicated” under the law. (B) having an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more. What complicates the definition of intoxication in Texas is that alcohol consumption is not necessary to be considered intoxicated. This results in the problem that drivers who have a blood alcohol concentration under 0.08 might still
Public intoxication is generally not defined by a blood alcohol content level, but rather by the harmful or disruptive behavior of a person who is intoxicated. This is distinguished from state laws which govern driving while intoxicated (DUI/DWI). The charge of public intoxication requires that the person be intoxicated to the degree that he/she is a danger to him/herself or another person. Being publicly intoxicated makes a person vulnerable to robbery, assault, and a number of other difficulties
The legal standard of intoxication as it applies to drunk driving (DUI, DWI) varies by state between .08 and .10 alcohol in the bloodstream, or a combination of alcohol and narcotics which would produce the same effect even though the amount of alcohol is below the minimum. Intoxication is defined by a more subjective standard for purposes of determining public drunkenness. Public intoxication means the person must be unable to care for himself, be dangerous to himself or others, be causing a disturbance or refuse to leave or move along when requested.
Generally, an intoxicated person is incapable of acting as an ordinary prudent and cautious person would act under similar conditions. In recognition of this factor, the law may allow intoxication to be used as a defense to certain crimes. In many jurisdictions, intoxication is a defense to specific-intent crimes. The underlying rationale is that the intoxicated individual cannot possess the requisite mental state necessary to establish the offense. In most jurisdictions, the defense of involuntary intoxication is treated similarly to the Insanity Defense. For example, an intoxicated person who cannot distinguish right from wrong at the time of committing the wrongful act would have a valid defense.
1 (a) A person commits the crime of public intoxication if he appears in a public place under the influence of alcohol, narcotics or other drug to the degree that he endangers himself or another person or property, or by boisterous and offensive conduct annoys another person in his vicinity. The charge of public intoxication requires that the person be intoxicated to the degree that he/she is a danger to him/herself or another person. Being publicly intoxicated makes a person vulnerable to robbery, assault, and a number of other difficulties
1 Public intoxication. ( 2 a) A person commits the crime of public intoxication if he appears in a public place under the influence of alcohol, narcotics or other drug to the degree that he endangers himself or another person or property, or by boisterous and offensive conduct annoys another person in his vicinity. The charge of public intoxication requires that the person be intoxicated to the degree that he/she is a danger to him/herself or another person. Being publicly intoxicated makes a person vulnerable to robbery, assault, and a number of other difficulties
Generally, an intoxicated person is incapable of acting as an ordinary prudent and cautious person would act under similar conditions. In recognition of this factor, the law may allow intoxication to be used as a defense to certain crimes. In many jurisdictions, intoxication is a defense to specific-intent crimes. The underlying rationale is that the intoxicated individual cannot possess the requisite mental state necessary to establish the offense. When a person is forced to consume an intoxicant against his or her will, the person is involuntarily intoxicated. In most jurisdictions, the defense of involuntary intoxication is treated similarly to the Insanity Defense.