In the meantime, here are a few stress-and muscle tension-reduction suggestions: 1  Sharpen your awareness of your stress level. 2  Muscle pain is often the end result of a stress response, so if you notice the beginning of a tension-producer, you can break from it, preventing strain from turning into aches and paralysis. Alice! Dear A Pain in the Neck, Stressors, worry, and anxiety all produce muscle tension. It's part of the natural fight-or-flight response, and is one of the ways that your body respond to threats and demands — whether those challenges are actually happening, or if they're just in your head.
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. 
Often, the pressure in the ears is so intense it can cause you to have problems with your balance. Tightness in the ear can occur for a number of different reasons, including sinus infections, allergies, etc. However, there are specific correlations made between the pressure in the ears and neck tension. Often muscles and nerves work hand in hand, therefore if you have any tension knots on your neck or shoulders this can aggravate blood flow. It can also lead to discomfort and extra tension in the neck and shoulders. Resource: Plugged Ears/Clogged Ears.
In a 2013 Journal of Clinical Otorhinolaryngology, Head, and Neck Surgery, there are indications that exposure to very low frequency electric and magnetic fields can damage outer hair cells of the ear, and this is possibly a risk factor for tinnitus. It is possible for neck conditions to be a cause of tinnitus. Strain of neck muscles, sprain of neck ligaments, whiplash injuries, along with degenerative cervical spine changes can make one more susceptible, aggravate, and may actually cause tinnitus.
Muscle tension, body soreness, headaches. For people with anxiety disorders, pain like this may be all too familiar. Pain can be a common symptom — and sometimes a good indicator — of an anxiety disorder, particularly generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). 
A tension headache is head pain that results from muscle tightening (contraction) in the neck and head. The muscle contraction leads to a slight decrease in blood flow to the surrounding areas and an irritation of pain fibers in the skin, muscles, and blood vessel walls. Headaches may also result from muscle strain associated with injury to the neck muscles. An abnormality in the bones at the back of the neck (cervical vertebrae) or in the area where the mouth opens and closes (temporomandibular joint) may also put tension on the surrounding muscles and lead to a tension headache.
The SCM can cause a variety of symptoms including head and face pain, balance problems, visual disturbances, ear and sinus symptoms, and more body wide symptoms. It is the only muscle that creates such wide spread problems. Each will be explored below. The clavicular division (pictured below) sends pain to the forehead... when it is severe, it can spread to the other side as well, which is quite unusual for a trigger point to refer to the opposite side of the body. the upper part of the muscle can create pain deep in the ear and behind the ear.
Although neck tension can influence the magnitude of tightness in the ears, it is not shown to be the cause of it. Another theory states that what happens when the neck and shoulders become tense they block the passages in the ear. This then causes the fluid in the ears to build up and they are unable to drain properly. Often muscles and nerves work hand in hand, therefore if you have any tension knots on your neck or shoulders this can aggravate blood flow. It can also lead to discomfort and extra tension in the neck and shoulders. Resource: Plugged Ears/Clogged Ears.
Myofascial pain involves the fascia (connective tissue) and muscles. Trigger points are knots in the muscle tissue that can cause tightness, weakness, and intense pain in various areas of the body. For example, a trigger point in the shoulder may result in headache. However, tension-type headache pain is not worsened by routine physical activity. Dental Problems. Jaw clenching or teeth grinding, especially during sleep, are signs of temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMJ, also known as TMD). TMJ pain can occur in the ear, cheek, temples, neck, or shoulders. This condition often coexists with chronic tension headache. Some patients with TMJ may see improvement in tension-type headaches from procedures or exercises therapies that specifically address the dental condition