Calculations of these costs at the point of connection to a load or to the electricity grid can be made. The cost is typically given per kilowatt-hour or megawatt-hour. It includes the initial capital, discount rate, as well as the costs of continuous operation, fuel, and maintenance. This type of calculation assists policy makers, researchers and others to guide discussions and decision making. That method arrives at external costs of electricity from lignite at 10.75 Eurocent/kWh, from hard coal 8.94 Eurocent/kWh, from natural gas 4.91 Eurocent/kWh, from photovoltaic 1.18 Eurocent/kWh, from wind 0.26 Eurocent/kWh and from hydro 0.18 Eurocent/kWh.
The wholesale price of electricity in South Australia recently shot up to $12,100 per megawatt hour at one point – just over $12 a kilowatt hour. How did this occur? 
Average residential rates by state ranged from 8.64 to 36.90 cents per kilowatt-hour (kwh). The national average was 12.56 cents per kwh. The map shows average residential rates by all investor-owned utilities by state. 
Canadian electricity is cheap at 10 US cents per kilowatt hour, which is reflected in their high average electricity usage. US electricity prices at 0.12 $/kWh are also quite cheap internationally. In India and China they are very cheap. I find this comparison pretty useful. 
Electricity cost calculation. The electricity cost per day in dollars is equal to the energy consumption E in kWh per day times the energy cost of 1 kWh in cents/kWh divided by 100 cents per dollar: Cost ($/day) = E (kWh/day) × Cost (cent/kWh) / 100 (cent/$). The energy E in kilowatt-hours (kWh) per day is equal to the power P in watts (W) times number of usage hours per day t divided by 1000 watts per kilowatt:
While I’m confident that South Australia’s and Tasmania’s feed-in tariffs are safe for now, if they were reduced to the low 8 cents a kilowatt-hour often seen in other states, the cost of solar electricity per kilowatt-hour would be 14.5 cents in Adelaide and 18.5 cents in Hobart. The Cost of Grid Electricity (Grid cents/kWh): Australians now pay an average of about 27.5 cents a kilowatt-hour for electricity, with considerable variation between regions. Determining what people actually pay in an area is difficult, as electricity retailers can be deliberately confusing.
The carbon tax is tipped to increase the average residential power bill by more than $150 in its first year. In the report, the association says SA has an average electricity price of 28.6c per kilowatt-hour. Denmark's was 31.4c/kwh and Germany 28.7c/kwh. Mr Domanski challenged state Energy Minister Tom Koutsantonis to argue very strongly for urgent reform, by changing the way the regulator sets network prices.
While only brief spikes, the dispatch (5 minute) wholesale electricity price reached $13,000 per megawatt-hour yesterday in South Australia; the maximum spot price allowable for the 2013-2014 financial year. In Victoria, the price reached above $12,000 a megawatt-hour. 
The average electricity cost per kwh in Australia is about 10 kwh at about $1.67 a day. The average electricity can come to about 10 cents (Australian) in an hour. Tod Doubtson. 0. Electricity cost in Australia depends on where you are in the country, which state, city or rural, & the time of day you use it. This may be 15-25 (Australian) cents per Unit (kWh). For a single household, it may be about 10 kWh at an average of $1.67 per day. This is increased of course for a family. Peter Unger