Whole-wheat pita bread is the healthiest type of pita bread since it’s made with whole grains and contains lots of vitamins and minerals. Whole-wheat pita bread boasts a few powerful health benefits – it helps reduce your risk of cholesterol and high blood sugar. Brown rice bread is also perfect for weight loss. It keeps you full, energetic, and it’s low in calories and sugar. Try eating brown rice bread with butter and fresh vegetables or low fat cheese. If you stick to a very strict diet, consider having steamed or boiled vegetables with a few pieces of brown rice bread.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends at least half of your grain servings consist of whole grains. There's a good reason for this -- whole grains are more nutritious and provide more health benefits. The healthiest type of pita bread is one made with whole grains, such as whole-wheat. You'll get the most minerals from eating whole-grain pitas. Each whole-grain pita provides 11 percent of the DV for iron and magnesium, 12 percent of the DV for phosphorus, 56 percent of the DV for manganese and 40 percent of the DV for selenium.
Pita Bread. As far as the nutritional value of pita bread goes, it is a mixed picture. Pita bread has both healthy as well as unhealthy attributes in its nutritional value. As far as calories go, one large pita (60 grams) comes with 165 calories. While regular bread is more common for making sandwiches in the West, pita bread has grown in popularity in the same region due to the use of its pocket as a way of making a sandwich.
White pitas each provide 0.7 gram of fat, 5.5 grams of protein and 33.4 grams of carbohydrates, while whole-wheat pitas have 1.7 grams of fat, 6.3 grams of protein and 35.2 grams of carbohydrates. The big difference between these types of pita bread is the fiber content. You'll get the most minerals from eating whole-grain pitas. Each whole-grain pita provides 11 percent of the DV for iron and magnesium, 12 percent of the DV for phosphorus, 56 percent of the DV for manganese and 40 percent of the DV for selenium.
Unenriched white pita bread, enriched white pita bread and whole-wheat pita bread all have about the same number of calories, with a 6-inch white pita containing 165 calories and a same-sized whole-wheat pita containing 170 calories. You'll get the most minerals from eating whole-grain pitas. Each whole-grain pita provides 11 percent of the DV for iron and magnesium, 12 percent of the DV for phosphorus, 56 percent of the DV for manganese and 40 percent of the DV for selenium.
While the salt content is somewhat worrisome in the same serving of both pita as well as regular bread, regular bread just doesn't have as many waist-busting carbs in a comparable serving, and it has more fiber, which is great for bowel movements, among other things. While regular bread is more common for making sandwiches in the West, pita bread has grown in popularity in the same region due to the use of its pocket as a way of making a sandwich.
However, regular bread is not that much healthier than pita bread because while it beats pita bread in some areas of nutritional value, it is nearly equal to it in others. For instance, in a 60 gram slice of whole wheat bread, you get 4 grams of fiber, which is almost four times as much as in pita bread. While regular bread is more common for making sandwiches in the West, pita bread has grown in popularity in the same region due to the use of its pocket as a way of making a sandwich.
Pita is not bad. There are low fat english muffins and Arnold has a bread similar to pita, but I can't recall the name. I highly suggest Weight Watchers-you can do it online if you aren't into the group thing, but it is really supportive. Is pita bread good for you? I'm about to go on a diet, and I was wondering if eating pita bread can help me? If not, please tell me something else that is good to eat (besides vegetables).
yes pita bread is good as long as you don't eat to much of it. Brown bread and the new weight watchers bread is great to eat too. Proteing is very helps just not to much red meat. Chicken is great! Is pita bread good for you? I'm about to go on a diet, and I was wondering if eating pita bread can help me? If not, please tell me something else that is good to eat (besides vegetables).