General Description. Doxycycline is a broad spectrum antibiotic that is a member of the tetracycline family. It is used to fight bacterial infections in dogs and cats. Doxycycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections including, leptospirosis, toxoplasmosis, mycoplasma, psittacosis, and tick borne diseases including Lyme disease, ehrlichiosis, and Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
Doxycycline is an antibiotic used for treating bacterial infections. The drug is also sold under the brand names Oracea, Doryx, Monodox, Periostat, and Vibramycin. Doxycycline is in a class of medications called tetracyclines, and it's a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which means it works against a wide range of bacteria. A: Doxycycline can be used for a number of different infections as follows: acne, anthrax, gum diseases, and rosacea, as well as bacterial infections such as chlamydia, typhus, tick bites, pneumonia, syphilis, gonorrhea, Lyme disease, plaque, malaria, and some urinary tract
Doxycycline. Doxycycline is a tetracycline-class antibiotic used by veterinarians to treat animal patients suffering from certain bacterial infections and microorganisms. Types of Infections Treated by Doxycycline. Doxycycline is primarily used to treat susceptible bacteria. However, it is not used for the treatment of infections caused by virus or fungi. Common conditions in which Doxycycline is prescribed include respiratory infections, urinary infections, blood-borne infections and infected wounds. 
Home » Pet Medications » Antibiotics ». Doxycycline for dogs is commonly prescribed for a wide range of infections. This antibiotic can treat many different types of bacterial infections, and is only available with a prescription from a veterinarian. Baytril for dogs is another choice for vets to treat infections, but Doxycycline is frequently the first choice. This medication is used to treat Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, and many other infections, and it prevents the bacteria from multiplying.
1 Doxycycline is an antibiotic of the tetracycline class used to treat infections in dogs and cats. 2  This drug is related to other tetracyclines such as chlortetracycline and oxytetracycline. 
Doxycycline is a safe and commonly used drug for the treatment of a variety of infections in dogs. It’s important to seek a veterinary diagnosis prior to use, as well as the vet’s approval of using the drug. Vets commonly prescribe this drug in the treatment of certain infections such as chlamydia.Doxycycline dosage for dogs The general dosage of doxycycline for user in dogs is 2 mg per pound administered every 12 hours.
Doxycycline for dogs is a broad spectrum antibiotic that kills different types of bacterial infections in pets. It’s a prescription medication that’s commonly administered to cure dogs suffering from Lyme disease and Chlamydia. Precautions for Doxycycline Use. 1  The medication is not suitable for dogs that are pregnant or lactating. 2  It shouldn’t be administered to dogs that are allergic to antibiotics that are similar in composition. 3  It’s not safe for use in dogs suffering from kidney disorders.
Doxycycline Capsules for Pets. Doxycycline is a semi-synthetic tetracycline antibiotic prescribed to treat various bacterial infections such as urinary tract and bladder infections. Veterinarians also use Doxycycline to treat some diseases such as Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever and Lyme disease
Doxycycline is a broad spectrum antibiotic commonly used for prostate infections, tick infections, urinary infections and upper respiratory problems. There are several important things to know about giving your dog Doxycycline. Some antibiotics cannot penetrate the nervous system, prostate or the eyes. 
Directions: •. Doxycycline Compounded, a prescription medication, is a tetracycline antibiotic used for the treatment of bacterial infections such as Lyme disease, Chlamydia, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, and other bacterial infections in dogs and cats. 