Bean curd is also known as tofu and is a popular meat substitute among vegetarians. Soy-based products have long been food staples in parts of Asia. Soybeans are used to make bean curd, which is also known as tofu. Make sure to use fresh tofu quickly, as it can go bad. In Chinese markets, it is possible to find bean curd skin or yuba, a byproduct of the manufacturing process. As the soy milk is fermented, a thin skin forms on top. This skin can be dried in sheets or sticks and used for an assortment of things
Fermented tofu also called fermented bean curd, sufu, tofu cheese, or preserved tofu is a form of processed, preserved tofu used in East Asian cuisine as a condiment made from soybeans. Chiang fermented bean curd (Chiang-doufu) is made with cubes of tofu soaked in either Chinese-style miso (Chiang) or soy sauce for several days. Usually reddish-brown in color and salty, it may be dried and fermented further and may also be mixed with sake lees.
In essence, tofu is a cheese that is made from soy milk instead of cow milk. Soy is a type of bean. The word tofu in Japanese means bean curd. Soy and tofu are prized by vegetarians because it has good quantities of some types of protein in it, while not being a meat substance. It also contains iron. A typical cube piece of tofu is about 2g in carbs. 
Tofu, also known as bean curd, is a food made by coagulating soy milk and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks. It is a component in East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines. There are many different varieties of tofu, including fresh tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way. Tofu is made by coagulating soy milk and pressing the resulting curds. Although pre-made soy milk may be used, some tofu producers begin by making their own soy milk, which is produced by soaking, grinding, boiling and straining dried (or, less commonly, fresh) soybeans.
Tofu has a low calorie count and relatively large amounts of protein. It is high in iron, and depending on the coagulants used in manufacturing (e.g. calcium chloride, calcium sulfate, magnesium sulfate), it can have higher calcium or magnesium content. Tofu is made by coagulating soy milk and pressing the resulting curds. Although pre-made soy milk may be used, some tofu producers begin by making their own soy milk, which is produced by soaking, grinding, boiling and straining dried (or, less commonly, fresh) soybeans.
Bean curd is another name for tofu, a product made from soybeans, and sometimes other legumes as well. To make it, a cook curdles soy milk and presses the resulting soybean curds into molds to firm up. Make sure to use fresh tofu quickly, as it can go bad. In Chinese markets, it is possible to find bean curd skin or yuba, a byproduct of the manufacturing process. As the soy milk is fermented, a thin skin forms on top. This skin can be dried in sheets or sticks and used for an assortment of things
In the dried bean curd sheets, there are 16g of carbs in the package. There are 4 big sheets per package, but like I said mine were all crumbled, but if it wasn't I could tell they would have been close to 2 feet diameter. My guess is ~.5-1 g per eggroll (I made very big eggrolls). Lowcarb boy -- can you share what brand your soya wrappers were and the bean curd sheets? Sometimes it helps to have that when I venture into the Asian grocery.
This is the equivalent of 1-2 servings of soy foods a day. Dried bean curd stick also called bean curd skins or Chinese yuba, these are made from the skin that forms on soymilk when it is heated. Dried bean curd comes in many shapes-the sheets and sticks are two of the more common ones. Bean curd stick is one of the best foods you can possibly eat. It's cholesterol-free, contains calcium, iron, and most importantly, protein. It's better for you (and the environment) than meat. Bean curd stick is low in calories for the vegetarian protein it packs in. Here's how it compares to a few other foods. For each 100 calorie serving, tofu contains 11 grams of protein. By comparison, 100 calories of ground beef provides 8.9 grams of protein, and a 100 calorie serving of cheese contains 6.2 gram