This test measures the amount of a protein called myoglobin in your blood. It's done to help diagnose conditions caused by muscle damage. Myoglobin is found in your heart and skeletal muscles. There it captures oxygen that muscle cells use for energy. When you have a heart attack or severe muscle damage, myoglobin is released into your blood. Myoglobin increases in your blood 2 to 3 hours after the first symptoms of muscle damage. It usually peaks about 8 to 12 hours later. Your kidneys filter your blood for myoglobin so that it can be passed out of your body in your urine. But too much myoglobin can overwhelm your kidneys and lead to kidney failure. In some cases, healthcare providers will use a urine test for myoglobin to help find the hazard and protect your kidney health
Definition. Blood (serum) myoglobin is a test that measures the amount of myoglobin in the blood. Myoglobin is a protein in heart and skeletal muscles. When you exercise, your muscles use up any available oxygen. Myoglobin has oxygen attached to it, which provides extra oxygen for the muscles to keep at a high level of activity for a longer period of time.
The normal range for hemoglobin is: 1  For men, 13.5 to 17.5 grams per deciliter. 2  For women, 12.0 to 15.5 grams per deciliter. 
Serum concentration of myoglobin increases above the normal range as early as 1 hour after myocardial infarction, and peak in approximately 4 to 8 hours after onset. Therefore, myoglobin is better suited for the early diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). 3. As with all diagnostic tests, a definitive clinical diagnosis should not be based on the result of a single test, but should only be made by the physician after all clinical and labor atory findings have been evaluated. EXPECTED VALUES Normal serum myoglobin levels range from 30 to 90 ng/ml. After 1 hour of the onset of myocardial infarction, serum myoglobin level can elevate to 200 ng/ml or even higher. During the peak hour, myoglobin level can be as high as 900 ng/ml. The level of myoglobin usually returns to normal 12 hours after the onset of the myocardial infarction
Levels of myoglobin start to rise within 2-3 hours of a heart attack or other muscle injury, reach their highest levels within 8-12 hours, and generally fall back to normal within one day. If the myoglobin test is available, it may be ordered to assess persons with chest pain who are suspected of having a heart attack. Blood samples are drawn on admission and every 2-3 hours for up to 12 hours in those who come to the emergency room with a possible
Blood (serum) myoglobin is a test that measures the amount of myoglobin in the blood. Myoglobin is a protein in heart and skeletal muscles. When you exercise, your muscles use up any available oxygen. Myoglobin has oxygen attached to it, which provides extra oxygen for the muscles to keep at a high level of activity for a longer period of time. 
The range of normal results for the serum myoglobin test will vary slightly based on the laboratory completing the analysis. In most instances, the normal or negative range for the serum myoglobin test is zero to 85 ng/mL. Normal results will allow the physician to rule out a heart attack. Abnormal results can also be seen in: 1  muscular inflammation (myositis). 2  muscular dystrophy (hereditary disorders that have muscles wasting and weakness). If it is to be used, this test should be performed every two to three hours for up to 12 hours following admission. Serum myoglobin levels begin to increase within two to three hours following a heart attack.
These levels reach their highest values within eight to 12 hours. Myoglobin levels typically return to normal within 24 hours. Thus, use of the myoglobin-serum test allows the physician to compare changes in myoglobin levels. If it is to be used, this test should be performed every two to three hours for up to 12 hours following admission. Serum myoglobin levels begin to increase within two to three hours following a heart attack.