Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. Toyota's view is that the main method of lean is not the tools, but the reduction of three types of waste: muda (non-value-adding work), muri (overburden), and mura (unevenness), to expose problems systematically and to use the tools where the ideal cannot be achieved.
Lean manufacturing is a process improvement methodology based upon the highly acclaimed Toyota Production System (TPS). The main focus in lean manufacturing is the removal of waste from a value stream. Waste in this instance is defined as anything that consumes resource but does not add value for the customer. 
What Lean Is and Is Not. Lean is not about being skinny and it’s not about “cutting to the bone.” Lean is about having the right resources in place to do the right work for the customer, with the right quality, at the right time. Lean is not “mean” (although the words rhyme, unfortunately). Lean is respectful toward everybody who participates in a system, including customers, employees, suppliers, the community, etc. Lean does not mean cutting heads in the name of cutting costs (see “Lean is not mean”)
ServiceNow. vs. BMC Remedy. Lean management is an approach to running an organization that supports the concept of continuous improvement, a long-term approach to work that systematically seeks to achieve small, incremental changes in processes in order to improve efficiency and quality. Lean management seeks to eliminate any waste of time, effort or money by identifying each step in a business process and then revising or cutting out steps that do not create value. The philosophy has its roots in manufacturing.
To answer the question, what is Lean, you first have to imagine a group of business processes with a lot of steps in them. After all, business is a combination of processes. Each process has multiple steps that get the process from start to finish. To learn more about the History of Lean, please click here. Lean is a simple strategy of removing waste from your processes. This waste can be caused by many things such as redundant steps, variation, work imbalance, quality issues, etc.
To accomplish this, lean thinking changes the focus of management from optimizing separate technologies, assets, and vertical departments to optimizing the flow of products and services through entire value streams that flow horizontally across technologies, assets, and departments to customers. Not true. Lean applies in every business and every process. It is not a tactic or a cost reduction program, but a way of thinking and acting for an entire organization. Businesses in all industries and services, including healthcare and governments, are using lean principles as the way they think and do.
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. Toyota's view is that the main method of lean is not the tools, but the reduction of three types of waste: muda (non-value-adding work), muri (overburden), and mura (unevenness), to expose problems systematically and to use the tools where the ideal cannot be achieved.
The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste. Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. Not true. Lean applies in every business and every process. It is not a tactic or a cost reduction program, but a way of thinking and acting for an entire organization. Businesses in all industries and services, including healthcare and governments, are using lean principles as the way they think and do.
Lean is not an acronym (“LEAN”). A list of things Lean is not: “ Lean ” is the set of management practices based on the Toyota Production System (TPS). The phrase “Lean Production” was coined by a group of MIT researchers who wrote the book The Machine That Changed the World. Lean is not about being skinny and it’s not about “cutting to the bone.” Lean is about having the right resources in place to do the right work for the customer, with the right quality, at the right time. Lean is not “mean” (although the words rhyme, unfortunately).