Nepeta cataria, commonly known as catnip, catswort, or catmint, is a species of the genus Nepeta in the family Lamiaceae, native to southern and eastern Europe, the Middle East, central Asia, and parts of China. Nepetalactone is a mosquito and fly repellent. Oil isolated from catnip by steam distillation is a repellent against insects, in particular mosquitoes, cockroaches and termites. Research suggests that it is not as effective as a repellent when used on the skin when compared to DEET or SS220.
A study from China compared catnip essential oil along with other plant essential oils and DEET. Catnip essential oil (composed of 36%, 45%, 18% isomer 1, isomer 2, and caryophyllene) provided the best protection against mosquitoes and the only oil to provide complete protection for over six hours.
One can make a very simple blend including catnip alone in this manner: Mix 1 cup of rubbing alcohol (or Vodka) and 1 cup of water, plus 2 milliliters (40 drops) Catnip essential oil in a spray bottle. Shake vigorously. Learn about our conscientious selection process here... Catnip essential oil is an especially pungent, herbal oil. The essential oil has been found to be 10 times more effective than DEET at repelling mosquitos, and can be used at very low concentrations in your formulas for this purpose.
Catnip Essential Oil There are currently only two farms in Canada producing high quality catnip oil with 80-90% nepatalactone. antities. A very nice golden colored oil direct from the farm and best of all the oil has no pesticide residues! 
The data suggests that catnip can be used as an effective insect repellent when used as an unfractionated essential oil due to the presence of both nepetalactone isomers and other components such as caryophyllene. Catnip essential oil (composed of 36%, 45%, 18% isomer 1, isomer 2, and caryophyllene) provided the best protection against mosquitoes and the only oil to provide complete protection for over six hours.
Safety Information: Tisserand advises that Catnip Oil may be a skin sensitizer and to use it with caution. Reading Tisserand and Young's full profile is recommended. [Robert Tisserand and Rodney Young, Essential Oil Safety (Second Edition. United Kingdom: Churchill Livingstone Elsevier, 2014), 237.]. Aromatic Description: Herbaceous with a subdued mint aroma. Catnip Oil Uses: Minimal documentation on essential oil use. Lots of anecdotal statements exist that it is effective as an insect repellent. May act as a topical anesthetic, anti-inflammatory, anti-rheumatic, astringent, carminative, nervine, sedative.
The Nepeta plants became known as catnip very simply due to the effect of the plants on cats. The ingredient that causes a reaction in cats is called Nepetalactone. It is an essential oil found in the stems and the leaves of the Nepeta plant. This chemical is thought to mimic the effects of a cat pheromone and causes a variety of behaviors. When a cat encounters catnip, a chain reaction occurs. 
From Ananda Aromatherapy, pure Catnip essential oil steam distilled from the flowering tops of catnip herb grown in Canada. Catnip oil has an herbaceous, complex aroma, and is prized for its exceptional ability to repel mosquitos. Learn about our conscientious selection process here... Catnip essential oil is an especially pungent, herbal oil. The essential oil has been found to be 10 times more effective than DEET at repelling mosquitos, and can be used at very low concentrations in your formulas for this purpose.