A service-level Agreement is an agreement between two or more parties, where one is the customer and the others are service providers. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A service-level agreement (SLA) is a part of a service contract where a service is formally defined. Particular aspects of the service-scope, quality, responsibilities-are agreed between the service provider and the service user. A common feature of an SLA is a contracted delivery time (of the service or performance). As an example, Internet service providers and telcos will commonly include service level agreements within the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level(s) of service being sold in plain language term
CONTRACT. This term, in its more extensive sense, includes every description of agreement, or obligation, whereby one party becomes bound to another to pay a sum of money, or to do or omit to do a certain act; or, a contract is an act which contains a perfect obligation.
A service agreement is an agreement between two persons or businesses where one agrees to provide a specified service to the other. It can also be an express undertaking of employment signed by both the employer and the employee detailing therein the explicit terms and conditions of service. A service agreement is different from a bond. A service agreement binds both the parties to the agreement, whereas bond is one sided and binds the employee to the agreement only. There are various types of service agreements
Landslide Sales Force Automation. A service-level agreement (SLA) is a contract between a service provider and its internal or external customers that documents what services the provider will furnish. SLAs originated with network service providers, but are now widely used by telecommunication service providers and cloud computing service providers. 
Generally, a service agreement should include the following: a. a description of the services to be provided, and their frequency; b. identification of the persons or categories of persons who are to provide the services; c. the schedule or frequency of sessions of supervision or monitoring required, if any; A service agreement is different from a bond. A service agreement binds both the parties to the agreement, whereas bond is one sided and binds the employee to the agreement only. There are various types of service agreements.
Term Service Contract. The Term Service Contract (TSC) is intended to be used for the appointment of a supplier for a period of time to manage and provide a service. NEC3: Term Service Short Contract (TSSC). This contract is an alternative to the NEC3 Term Service Contract and us for use with contracts which do not require sophisticated management techniques.
Service Agreement. By checking I have read and agree to the service agreement, you will be bound to the following for a two-year term (renewable in accordance with the Terms of Service); provided, however, with respect to a SIM card only purchase you will have no Service Commitment:
We are working on updated language in the terms to make sure this is clear. Terms of service (also known as terms of use and terms and conditions, commonly abbreviated as ToS or TOS and TOU) are rules which one must agree to abide by in order to use a service. Terms of service can also be merely a disclaimer, especially regarding the use of websites. 