Methotrexate use has rarely caused serious (sometimes fatal) side effects, such as lung problems, lung infections (Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia), skin reactions, diarrhea, and mouth sores (ulcerative stomatitis). When used to treat tumors, methotrexate sometimes causes side effects due to the rapid destruction of cancer cells (tumor lysis syndrome). To lower your risk, drink plenty of fluids unless your doctor directs you otherwise. Also, your doctor may prescribe an additional medication.
1 Methotrexate is one of the most commonly used drugs in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 2  It helps with pain and swelling and also slows the progression of arthritis over time. 3  Methotrexate requires careful monitoring to reduce risk of liver injury and infections. 1 It is important to take methotrexate exactly as directed. 2  Generally, this medication should be taken on one day a week, but the dose is occasionally split into two doses all in one day per week to avoid side effects.
Do not use methotrexate to treat psoriasis or rheumatoid arthritis if you have liver disease (especially if caused by alcoholism), a blood cell or bone marrow disorder, or if you are breast-feeding a baby. This medication can cause birth defects in an unborn baby. Methotrexate can cause serious or life-threatening side effects on your liver, lungs, kidneys, and bone marrow (immune system). Do not take this medication in larger amounts, or take it for longer than prescribed. Follow the directions on your prescription label.
Uses. Methotrexate is used to treat certain types of cancer or to control severe psoriasis or rheumatoid arthritis that has not responded to other treatments. It may also be used to control juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Methotrexate belongs to a class of drugs known as antimetabolites. When used to treat tumors, methotrexate sometimes causes side effects due to the rapid destruction of cancer cells (tumor lysis syndrome). To lower your risk, drink plenty of fluids unless your doctor directs you otherwise. Also, your doctor may prescribe an additional medication.
Pharmacist Tip. Tell your dentist or doctor that you are taking methotrexate before you have a surgical procedure. Methotrexate is a medicine that comes from folic acid and is called an antimetabolite. Methotrexate is given to patients to treat a number of medical conditions, including a skin condition called psoriasis. It is also given to patients to treat rheumatoid arthritis and certain types of cancers. 
Methotrexate is a prescription medication used to treat certain types of cancers. It is also used to treat psoriasis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (PJIA), and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Methotrexate belongs to a group of drugs called antimetabolites. Oral/Injectable: Methotrexate is a prescription medication used to treat the following conditions: 1  severe psoriasis. 2  rheumatoid arthritis. 3  polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (PJIA). 4  breast cancer. 5  certain types of head and neck cancer. 6  lung cancer. 7  advanced non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).
Uses. Methotrexate is used alone or together with other medicines to treat several types of cancer such as breast, head and neck, lung, blood, bone, lymph node, and uterus cancers. 
Methotrexate has infrequently caused serious (sometimes fatal) side effects. Therefore, this medication should be used only to treat cancer or severe diseases caused by an overactive immune system (such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis). Methotrexate has caused birth defects and death in unborn babies. When used to treat tumors, methotrexate sometimes causes side effects due to the rapid destruction of cancer cells (tumor lysis syndrome). To lower your risk, drink plenty of fluids unless your doctor directs you otherwise. Also, your doctor may prescribe an additional medication.
Methotrexate Safety information. Addition of new safety information to methotrexate package inserts. This is to inform you of changes that have been made to the package inserts for methotrexate products for intravenous administration. The following has been added to the WARNINGS section of the label: