Monserrat /mon-ser-rat/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced mohn-sare-AHT. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Monserrat is jagged mountain. The name of a mountain in Spain (Montserrat), a monastery and a celebrated image of the Virgin Mary. Opera diva Montserrat Caballe. Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Monserrat for girls. Monserrat was first listed in 2000 and reached its top rank of #591 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Montserrat (#571 last year) is the only other popular alternative form of Monserrat (#591 last year) .
It is used mainly in Catalan, English, and Spanish. From Spanish roots, its meaning is 'mountain in the shape of a saw'. Montserrat is a form of the Catalan and English Monserrat. Forms of Montserrat include the name Monserat, the Catalan and English Monserrat, and the Catalan Montse. Montserrat is rare as a baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 2005, 0.012% of baby girls were named Montserrat. 
The name Montserrat is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Montserrat is: Jagged mountain. A mountain in Spain: (Montserrat); a monastery. Latin Meaning: The name Montserrat is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Montserrat is: Jagged mountain. A mountain in Spain: (Montserrat); a monastery. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 8.
Montserrat is a British overseas territory in the Caribbean, originally named after the Virgin of Montserrat, itself named after the Montserrat mountain in Catalonia. In Catalan, the name means serrated mountain. Montserrat can also refer to: 
Meanings and history of the name Montserrat: | Edit. Catalan name from the Latin mons serratus meaning jagged mountain. Montserrat is a Caribbean island and British overseas territory. 
Montserrat /mont-ser-rat/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Montserrat's root is Latin, and the name Montserrat means jagged mountain. Montserrat is an alternate form of Monserrat (Latin). Compare last name Monserrate. Montserrat is also a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Montserrat for girls. Montserrat entered the list in 2014 and reached its highest position of #571 in the U.S. then.
Meaning & History. From the name of a mountain near Barcelona, the site of a monastery founded in the 10th century. The mountain gets its name from Latin mons serratus meaning jagged mountain. 
Hello, Guest. Montserrat is a Catalan name meaning ‘serrated mountain’. That may not be the most appealing meaning, but the exceptional beauty of the Montserrat mountain range near Barcelona, Spain might change your mind. Montserrat is, unsurprisingly, most common among the Spanish community. 
Latin Meaning: The name Monserrat is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Monserrat is: Jagged mountain. A mountain in Spain: (Montserrat); a monastery. American Meaning: The name Monserrat is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Monserrat is: Jagged mountain. 