5. Cancel. A flea can live up to a year, but its general lifespan depends on its living conditions, such as the availability of hosts. Find out how long a flea's life cycle can last with tips from a pet industry specialist in this free video on fleas and pest control. Part of the Video Series: Flea Control.
Fleas are holometabolous insects, going through the four lifecycle stages of egg, larva, pupa, and imago (adult). Adult fleas must feed on blood before they can become capable of reproduction. Flea populations are distributed with about 50% eggs, 35% larvae, 10% pupae, and 5% adults. Generally speaking, an adult flea only lives for 2 or 3 months. Without a host for food a flea's life might be as short as a few days. With ample food supply, the adult flea will often live up to 100 days. Newly emerged adult fleas live only about one week if a blood meal is not obtained
Flea eggs can live in your carpet in a dormant state for up to a year depending on the environment. This is why it is important to vacuum frequently. Vacuuming can get rid of 30-60% of the fleas from carpeting. Fleas can live up to a year and a half when they have a food supply, the optimum temperature (70F to 85F), and ideal humidity (70%).
Flea eggs can remain dormant for astonishingly long periods of time under a variety of conditions. They lay dormant in the garden, or in your carpet and furniture, until they are able to hitch a ride. They jump great distances to find a host and travel on pets and even on people. 1 One flea broke a record with a four-foot vertical jump. 2  Undisturbed and without a blood meal, a flea can live more than 100 days. 3  On average, they live two to three months. 4  Female fleas cannot lay eggs until after their first blood meal and begin to lay eggs within 36-48 hours after that meal.
1 Undisturbed and without a blood meal, a flea can live more than 100 days. 2  On average, they live two to three months. 3  Female fleas cannot lay eggs until after their first blood meal and begin to lay eggs within 36-48 hours after that meal. 1 One flea broke a record with a four-foot vertical jump. 2  Undisturbed and without a blood meal, a flea can live more than 100 days. 3  On average, they live two to three months. 4
6 weeks. In 3 weeks, one flea can pass through its entire life cycle and can lay 1000 eggs. In another 3 weeks, those eggs can hatch and lay 1,000 eggs each, so within 6 weeks, it is possible to have a million new fleas. In a humid environment, over 60% of newly hatched fleas can live without a host for 2 months. In a cool, dry environment, only 10% will live without an immediate host. Humidity is the key to flea survival.
Report Abuse. Adult fleas can live one to two months without a blood meal and seven to eight months with a blood meal ... watch your feet. 
If humans had the jumping power of a flea, a 1.8-m (6-ft) person could make a jump 90 m (295 ft) long and 49 m (160 ft) high. Researchers with the University of Cambridge in England found that fleas take off from their tibiae and tarsi (the insect equivalent of feet) and not their trochantera, or knees. Generally speaking, an adult flea only lives for 2 or 3 months. Without a host for food a flea's life might be as short as a few days. With ample food supply, the adult flea will often live up to 100 days. Newly emerged adult fleas live only about one week if a blood meal is not obtained
The lifecycle of a flea. 5% of fleas live in the environment as an adult, 95 % of fleas live as eggs, larvae or pupae. For effective flea control it is essential to break the lifecycle in the environment. 1  Adult Fleas-jump onto your dog or cat, feed on its blood and then start laying eggs. 1 One flea broke a record with a four-foot vertical jump. 2  Undisturbed and without a blood meal, a flea can live more than 100 days. 3  On average, they live two to three months. 4  Female fleas cannot lay eggs until after their first blood meal and begin to lay eggs within 36-48 hours after that meal.