Chances are, you've heard the word elegy before and you know it has something to do with remembering a person who has died, and you'd be correct. An elegy is a reflective poem that laments the loss of someone or something. Of course, losing someone can refer not only to death but simply an absence. An elegy and a eulogy are so similarly spelled and used that they can easily be misunderstood, but their differences are fairly easy to identify. First, they are different forms of writing. Whereas an elegy is a poem or even a song, a eulogy is written as an essay or a short piece of prose.
The Greek term elegeia (Greek: ἐλεγεία; from ἔλεγος, elegos, lament) originally referred to any verse written in elegiac couplets and covering a wide range of subject matter (death, love, war). The term also included epitaphs, sad and mournful songs, and commemorative verses. Other than epitaphs, examples of ancient elegy as a poem of mourning include Catullus ' Carmen 101, on his dead brother, and elegies by Propertius on his dead mistress Cynthia and a matriarch of the prominent Cornelian family. Ovid wrote elegies bemoaning his exile, which he likened to a death.
Lesson Summary. So, an elegy is a reflective poem that laments the loss of someone or something and differs from a eulogy in form and tone. While modern elegies are loosely structured and have a more broad sadness, traditional elegies follow the three stages of loss: lament, praise and solace. An elegy and a eulogy are so similarly spelled and used that they can easily be misunderstood, but their differences are fairly easy to identify. First, they are different forms of writing. Whereas an elegy is a poem or even a song, a eulogy is written as an essay or a short piece of prose.
Elegy Definition. Elegy is a form of literature which can be defined as a poem or song in the form of elegiac couplets, written in honor of someone deceased. It typically laments or mourns the death of the individual. Elegy is derived from the Greek work “ elegus ”, which means a song of bereavement sung along with a flute. The forms of elegies we see today were introduced in the 16th century.
An elegy is a poem of mourning; this is often the poet mourning one person, but the definition also includes Thomas Gray's 'Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard', which mourns all the occupants of that churchyard, and looks into the future to mourn the poet's own death. 
Full Definition of ELEGY. 1. : a poem in elegiac couplets. 2. a: a song or poem expressing sorrow or lamentation especially for one who is dead b: something (as a speech) resembling such a song or poem. 3. a: a pensive or reflective poem that is usually nostalgic or melancholy b: a short pensive musical composition. See elegy defined for English-language learners.
An elegy is a mournful, melancholy or plaintive poem, especially a lament for the dead or a funeral song. The term elegy, which originally denoted a type of poetic meter (elegiac meter), commonly describes a poem of mourning. An elegy may also reflect something that seems to the author to be strange or mysterious. 
Elegy is a form of poetry natural to the reflective mind. It may treat of any subject, but it must treat of no subject for itself; but always and exclusively with reference to the poet. As he will feel regret for the past or desire for the future, so sorrow and love became the principal themes of the elegy. Other than epitaphs, examples of ancient elegy as a poem of mourning include Catullus ' Carmen 101, on his dead brother, and elegies by Propertius on his dead mistress Cynthia and a matriarch of the prominent Cornelian family. Ovid wrote elegies bemoaning his exile, which he likened to a death.