signal that your eye is affected. Although the rash of active shingles should be gone within a week to a month, about 20% of people continue to have pain and discomfort well after the rash has healed. This syndrome of pain in the area of the previously infected nerve is called ... Once reactivated, the virus travels along nerve paths to the skin ... Affected eyes (in severe cases), which can seriously threaten vision; Sensitivity and pain on the skin at the site of the rash (may be severe); Tingling or itchiness on ...
Orofacial acute herpes zoster (shingles) is an acute viral disease affecting the trigeminal nerve (CN V). It is the result of reactivation of the varicella zoster virus (VZV) that remained dormant in the trigeminal nerve root ganglion following exposure or clinical manifestation of chickenpox. 
Shingles is the reactivation of a viral infection in the nerves to the skin that causes pain, burning, or a tingling sensation, along with an itch and blisters in the skin supplied by the affected nerve. It is caused by the varicella zoster virus[1] , or VZV—the same virus that causes chickenpox. 
Shingles-What Happens. Shingles is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox. After an attack of chickenpox, the virus remains in the tissues in your nerves. As you get older, or if you have an illness or stress that weakens your immune system, the virus may reappear in the form of shingles. 1 If shingles affects the nerves originating in the brain (cranial nerves), complications may include: 2  Inflammation, pain, and loss of feeling in one or both eyes. 3  The infection may threaten your vision.
Shingles is a painful infection of the nerves and skin ... Once reactivated, the virus travels along nerve paths to the skin ... Affected eyes (in severe cases), which can seriously threaten vision; Sensitivity and pain on the skin at the site of the rash (may be severe); Tingling or itchiness on ...
Herpes zoster is caused by the varicella-zoster virus which also causes chickenpox. It is an infection of the nerves that supply certain areas of the skin. Infection starts with pain, then a rash with red spots which turn into blisters. The pain is a consequence of nerve damage. Treatment is with antiviral drugs. 
1 Disseminated zoster, which is a blistery rash that spreads over a large portion of the body and can affect the heart, lungs, liver, pancreas, joints, and intestinal tract. 2  Infection may spread to nerves that control movement, which may cause temporary weakness. 1 If shingles affects the nerves originating in the brain (cranial nerves), complications may include: 2  Inflammation, pain, and loss of feeling in one or both eyes. 3  The infection may threaten your vision.
1 Neurological problems. 2  Depending on which nerves are affected, shingles can cause an inflammation of the brain (encephalitis), facial paralysis, or hearing or balance problems. 3  Skin infections. 4  If shingles blisters aren't properly treated, bacterial skin infections may develop. 1 Shingles in or around an eye (ophthalmic shingles) can cause painful eye infections that may result in vision loss. 2  Neurological problems. 3  Depending on which nerves are affected, shingles can cause an inflammation of the brain (encephalitis), facial paralysis, or hearing or balance problems. 4
1 Cranial nerve complications. 2  If shingles affects the nerves originating in the brain (cranial nerves), complications may include: 3  Inflammation, pain, and loss of feeling in one or both eyes. 4  The infection may threaten your vision. 5  A rash may appear on the side and tip of the nose (Hutchinson's sign). 1 If shingles affects the nerves originating in the brain (cranial nerves), complications may include: 2  Inflammation, pain, and loss of feeling in one or both eyes. 3
Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, the virus that also causes chickenpox. In a person who has been exposed to chickenpox -- or its vaccine -- the virus never really goes away. It can lie dormant in the body's nerves. If you have shingles symptoms, get treatment now and you may avoid permanent nerve pain. Shingles, a viral infection of the nerve roots, affects 1 million people in the U.S each year. Most people recover from their bout, but for as many as 50% of those over age 60 who have not been treated, the pain doesn't go away.