An electron is a subatomic particle with a negative electric charge that is equal, but opposite to, the positive charge of a proton.
Confidence votes 77.6K. An electron is a subatomic particle that has a negative charge. Answer An electron is an elementary particle, and it is the carrier of the negative electrostatic charge. It can be thought of as a building block, along with the protons and neutrons that comprise an atomic nucleus, of an atom.
Easily put, an electron is a subatomic particle that carries a negative electric charge. There are no known components, so it is believed to be an elementary particle(basic building block of the universe). The mass of an electron is 1/1836 of its proton. Electrons have an antiparticle called a positron.
An electron is a negatively charged subatomic particle. It can be either free (not attached to any atom), or bound to the nucleus of an atom. Electrons in atoms exist in spherical shells of various radii, representing energy levels.
Together, all of the electrons of an atom create a negative charge that balances the positive charge of the protons in the atomic nucleus. Electrons are extremely small compared to all of the other parts of the atom. The mass of an electron is almost 1,000 times smaller than the mass of a proton.
An electron is a subatomic particle that has a negative charge. Answer An electron is an elementary particle, and it is the carrier of the negative electrostatic charge. It can be thought of as a building block, along with the protons and neutrons that comprise an atomic nucleus, of an atom.
Electron Definition: An electron is a negatively charged component of an atom. Electrons exist outside of and surrounding the atom nucleus. Each electron carries one unit of negative charge and has a very small mass as compared with that of a neutron or proton. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
The mass (weight) of an electron is approximately equal to 1/1836 that of a hydrogen atom, which has one electron and one proton, so an electron is 1/1836th the size of a proton. Electrons carry a small electronically negative charge. In this model, electrons are in constant motion around the center of the atom.
An electron is a sub-atomic particle which has a negative charge. Electrons have no known structure, and they have negligible mass. Current electron theory states that electro … ns move in random patterns, orbiting the centre of the atom (protons, neutrons) in a 'cloud'.