1. (Building) a wedge-shaped tenon. 2. (Building) Also called: dovetail joint a joint containing such tenons. vb. 3. (Building) (tr) to join by means of dovetails. 4. to fit or cause to fit together closely or neatly: he dovetailed his arguments to the desired conclusion. Noun. 1. dovetail-a mortise joint formed by interlocking tenons and mortises. dovetail joint. mortise-and-tenon joint, mortise joint-a joint made by inserting tenon on one piece into mortise holes in the other.
: a type of joint that is used to connect two pieces of wood together. : something resembling a dove's tail; especially: a flaring tenon and a mortise into which it fits tightly making an interlocking joint between two pieces (as of wood). See dovetail defined for English-language learners. See dovetail defined for kids
Noted for its resistance to being pulled apart (tensile strength), the dovetail joint is commonly used to join the sides of a drawer to the front. The dovetail design is an important method of distinguishing various periods of furniture. In Europe the dovetail joint is also called a swallow-tail joint or a fantail joint.
Dovetail (noun). a flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread), and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making an interlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part in all directions except one. Dovetail (verb). to cut to a dovetail
In the mid-sixteenth century, when the term dovetail was used in joinery and carpentry first appeared in print, the joint was also known as “swallowe tayle,” to follow the spelling of the period. You can see an example of the joint on well-made bureau or desk drawers. It is composed of a series of wedge-shaped tenons and mortises which fit snugly into a corresponding series of mortises and tenons. The name arises from the shape, that of the V-like or wedge-like shape of the tail of dove or swallow.
Photo © Russ Chastain. Definition: A dovetail notch is a notch or slot that's most often cut perpendicular to a gun's bore, and is often cut into the gun's barrel, receiver, or slide. The notch is wider at the base than at the top, and when a sight or other item sized to fit that notch is inserted, it gets wedged into the notch and thus stays in place. 
The definition of a dovetail is an interlocking wood joint formed by a wedge-shaped part joined with a matching cut-out area in the wood. An example of dovetail is what woodworkers use to attach the front of a dresser drawer. dovetail. 1  a part or thing shaped like a dove's tail; specif., a projecting, wedge-shaped part (tenon) that fits into a corresponding cut-out space (mortise) to form an interlocking joint. 2  a joint thus formed. 3  to join or fasten together by means of dovetails
Full Definition of DOVETAIL. : something resembling a dove's tail; especially: a flaring tenon and a mortise into which it fits tightly making an interlocking joint between two pieces (as of wood). See dovetail defined for English-language learners. See dovetail defined for kids
A dovetail joint or simply dovetail is a joint technique most commonly used in woodworking joinery (carpentry) including furniture, cabinets, carcase construction, log buildings and traditional timber framing. The dovetail design is an important method of distinguishing various periods of furniture. In Europe the dovetail joint is also called a swallow-tail joint or a fantail joint.