Definition of KREBS CYCLE. : a sequence of reactions in the living organism in which oxidation of acetic acid or acetyl equivalent provides energy for storage in phosphate bonds (as in ATP) —called also citric acid cycle, tricarboxylic acid cycle. See Krebs cycle defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Krebs cycle. A series of chemical reactions in most aerobic organisms in which cells break down glucose and other molecules in the presence of oxygen to produce carbon dioxide and energy in the form of ATP. The Krebs cycle occurs in the mitochondria of all organisms except bacteria. Also called citric acid cycle. Krebs cycle. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a stage of tissue respiration: a series of biochemical reactions occurring in mitochondria in the presence of oxygen by which acetate, derived from the breakdown of foodstuffs, is converted to carbon dioxide and water, with the release of energy.
The Krebs cycle refers to a complex series of chemical reactions that produce carbon dioxide and Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a compound rich in energy. Within the Krebs cycle, energy in the form of ATP is usually derived from the breakdown of glucose, although fats and proteins can also be utilized as energy sources. Since glucose can pass through cell membranes, it transports energy from one part of the body to another.
Medical Definition of KREBS CYCLE. : a sequence of reactions in the living organism in which oxidation of acetic acid or acetyl equivalent provides energy for storage in phosphate bonds (as in ATP)—called also citric acid cycle, tricarboxylic acid cycle. : a sequence of reactions in the living organism in which oxidation of acetic acid or acetyl equivalent provides energy for storage in phosphate bonds (as in ATP) —called also citric acid cycle, tricarboxylic acid cycle. See Krebs cycle defined for kids.
A series of enzymatic reactions in aerobic organisms involving oxidative metabolism of acetyl units and producing high-energy phosphate compounds, which serve as the main source of cellular energy. Also called citric acid cycle, tricarboxylic acid cycle. After Sir Hans Adolf Krebs. a cyclic series of biochemical reactions, usually in the mitochondria, that represents the final common pathway in all aerobic organisms for the oxidation of amino acids, fats, and carbohydrates, and that converts the citric acid, etc. from food into carbon dioxide and ATP.
Krebs cycle. n. A series of enzymatic reactions in aerobic organisms involving oxidative metabolism of acetyl units and producing high-energy phosphate compounds, which serve as the main source of cellular energy. Also called citric acid cycle, tricarboxylic acid cycle. 
Citric Acid Cycle. Definition. noun. (1) A cycle of reactions catalyzed by enzymes in which pyruvate derived from nutrients and converted to Acetyl Coenzyme A is completely oxidized and broken down into carbon dioxide and water to produce high-energy phosphate compounds, which are the source of cellular energy.
Krebs cycle. a cyclic series of biochemical reactions, usually in the mitochondria, that represents the final common pathway in all aerobic organisms for the oxidation of amino acids, fats, and carbohydrates, and that converts the citric acid, etc. from food into carbon dioxide and ATP.
The Krebs cycle (or citric acid cycle) is a part of cellular respiration. Named after Hans Krebs, it is a series of chemical reactions used by all aerobic organisms to generate energy. 