The Nature of Light. The scientific study of the behavior of light is called optics and covers reflection of light by a mirror or other object, refraction by a lens or prism, diffraction of light as it passes by the edge of an opaque object, and interference patterns resulting from diffraction. Also studied is the polarization of light. Any successful theory of the nature of light must be able to explain these and other optical phenomena. The earliest scientific theories of the nature of light were proposed around the end of the 17th cent. More on light The Nature of Light from Infoplease: 1  light: The Nature of Light-The Nature of Light The scientific study of the behavior of light is called optics and covers ...
1 vote Vote for this answer. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optics. Optics (appearance or look in Ancient Greek) is a branch of physics that describes the behavior and properties of light and the interaction of light with matter. Optics explains optical phenomena. 
To put it simply photons are the fundamental particle of light. They have a unique property in that they are both a particle and a wave. This is what allows photons unique properties like refraction and diffusion. However light particles are not quite the same as other elementary particles. They have interesting characteristics that are not commonly observed. This was one of the major breakthroughs Einstein and the father of quantum physics, Planck made about the nature of light. This link is what is behind the photoelectric effect that makes solar power possible.Because light is another form of energy it can be transferred or converted into other types.
1 It can als…. 2  Physical Properties of Chemicals Chemistry is the study of chemical properties and reactions. 3  Every chemical has a set of properties that distinguishes it from other chemicals and makes it unique. It could be neuropsychology, or neurophysiology. The study of the brain could be separate from the study of its functions if you step from the neural level to the thinking lev … el.
Floriculture is the study of growing flowering plants. A floriculturist is a person who specializes in growing and cultivating flowers. If you're just talking about the study … of plants in general (flowering and non-flowering), it's just called botany. 3 people found this useful. It could be neuropsychology, or neurophysiology. The study of the brain could be separate from the study of its functions if you step from the neural level to the thinking lev … el.
Circadian rhythms are physical, mental and behavioral changes that follow a roughly 24-hour cycle, responding primarily to light and darkness in an organism's environment. They are found in most living things, including animals, plants and many tiny microbes. The study of circadian rhythms is called chronobiology. 
Section 24.1 The Study of Light This section describes the electromagnetic spectrum and how scientists usespectroscopy to study it. It also explains the Doppler effect and how it is usedin astronomy. The study of the properties of light that depend on wavelength is. A(n) uses wire mesh as a reflector to collectradiation from space. The siren from an ambulance that is approaching you seems louderbecause of the. Galileo used a(n) that had a lens to bend light.
Light is a wonderful subject for school study partly because you can teach some facet of it at every grade level. Younger primary school students can compare their own shadows against themselves. From the teacher's point of view, light is cheap and easy to manipulate. The activities in this lab are organized under two topics: Light in Color and Laws of Light. For each one, an introduction outlines the rationale for teaching the topic and briefly describes the activities.
Light is everywhere in our world. We need it to see: it carries information from the world to our eyes and brains. Seeing colors and shapes is second nature to us, yet light is a perplexing phenomenon when we study it more closely. Here are some things to think about: Our brains and eyes act together to make extraordinary things happen in perception. 