The eviction process can be a matter of days if the resident and owner reach a cash-for-keys agreement. It can last several months if the court is slow in processing paperwork and the owner is not very diligent. Most of the time it takes 30-60 days.
Thus, the eviction process from the end of the notice period can take from five weeks to three months, assuming there are no delays. Consider speaking with a landlord-tenant lawyer in your area if you have additional questions or need legal assistance.
If a landlord decides to evict a month-to-month tenant without cause -- perhaps to make renovations -- he or she must give notice, typically 30 days. But some cities with rent control, including San Francisco and New York City, do not allow evictions unless the landlord is able to prove a legitimate reason to do so.
The unlawful detainer process. The court process of an unlawful detainer (eviction) usually takes about 30 days. The tenant has 5 days to file a response after being served with the landlord's lawsuit. Then, the court clerk will schedule a trial within 20 days of the landlord's request.
Overview of the eviction process. If the tenant doesn't voluntarily move out after the landlord has properly given the required notice to the tenant, the landlord can evict the tenant. In order to evict the tenant, the landlord must file an unlawful detainer lawsuit in superior court.
You asked for a description of the eviction process, including how long it takes to evict someone and a legislative history of changes affecting the eviction time frame.
The landlord must deliver the writ to the sheriff, who then posts a notice to vacate on the premises. Depending on the county, it usually takes the sheriff from 3 to 15 days to post the notice. The tenant is then given five days to vacate
The typical 30 day eviction notice, as the name indicates, requires a response within 30 days of receiving it. State and local jurisdiction laws, as well as the specific circumstances involved, can also impact how long a tenant has to respond.
Download article as a PDF. An eviction is a process whereby a landlord removes a tenant from a rental property. It may be as simple as a notice to the tenant with an explanation of the eviction and the final date by which he or she must move out, or it may escalate to a legal dispute. Thus, the length of time the eviction process will take is determined largely by your particular situation.