Bicuspid Aortic Valve. Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) affects approximately one to two percent of people. It is the most common congenital heart disorder, impacting both the aortic valve (which controls the flow of blood into the aorta) and the thoracic aorta (the major vessel that sends blood throughout the body). About nine percent of people with BAV have relatives with the disease, so family screening is important
In the simplest terms, a bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) can be a serious heart valve disorder in which the valve only has two leaflets, or flaps, that control bloodflow through the heart. Like the tricuspid valve and the pulmonary valves, normal aortic valves have three tissue leaflets. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is most commonly a congenital condition of the aortic valve where two of the aortic valvular leaflets fuse during development resulting in a valve that is bicuspid instead of the normal tricuspid configuration. Normally the only cardiac valve that is bicuspid is the mitral valve (bicuspid valve) which is situated between the left atrium and left ventricle. Cardiac valves play a crucial role in ensuring the unidirectional flow of blood from the atrium to the ventricles, or the ventricle to the aorta or pulmonary trunk
What is Bicuspid Aortic Valve?Healthy aortic valves have three cusps (or leaflets) that regulate blood flow from the heart’s left ventricle to the aorta. It is the most common congenital heart disorder, impacting both the aortic valve (which controls the flow of blood into the aorta) and the thoracic aorta (the major vessel that sends blood throughout the body).
Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) disease is a defect that occurs during the formation of the aortic valve in the uterus. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta and normally has three cusps, which open and close as the ventricle contracts and relaxes. In bicuspid aortic valve disease, the valve has two cusps. Bicuspid aortic valve disease is an abnormal formation of the aortic valve (the valve connecting the aorta to the heart). Approximately 2% of the population has a bicuspid valve. Often patients will have an awareness of its presence, as they were told they have a murmur during a routine physical examination
People with bicuspid aortic valve disease also may have abnormal coronary arteries, aortic aneurysm or an abnormal thoracic aorta (the portion of the aorta that passes through the upper chest) and unstable (labile) high blood pressure. In bicuspid aortic valve disease (BAVD), the valve has only two leaflets. With this deformity, the valve doesn’t function perfectly, but it may function adequately for years without causing symptoms or obvious signs of a problem.
Bicuspid valve: One of the four valves of the heart, this valve is situated between the left atrium and the left ventricle. 
The aortic valve is a one-way valve between the heart and the aorta, the main artery from the heart that distributes oxygen-rich blood to the body. In bicuspid aortic valve disease (BAVD), the valve has only two leaflets. With this deformity, the valve doesn’t function perfectly, but it may function adequately for years without causing symptoms or obvious signs of a problem.