The lateralization of brain function refers to how some functions, or cognitive processes tend be more dominant in one hemisphere than the other. The medial longitudinal fissure separates the human brain into two distinct cerebral hemispheres, connected by the corpus callosum. If a specific region of the brain, or even an entire hemisphere, is injured or destroyed, its functions can sometimes be assumed by a neighboring region in the same hemisphere or the corresponding region in the other hemisphere, depending upon the area damaged and the patient's age.
Functions: Responsible for control of the right side of the body, and is the more academic and logical side of the brain. If you would split the brain right down the middle into two symmetrical, or equal parts, you would have a right and left hemisphere. Although equal in size, these two sides are not the same, and do not carry out the same functions. The left side of the brain is responsible for controlling the right side of the body. It also performs tasks that have to do with logic, such as in science and mathematics.
Right hemisphere brain damage (RHD) is damage to the right side of the brain. The brain is made up of two sides or hemispheres. Each hemisphere is responsible for different body functions and skills. In most people, the left side of the brain contains the person's language functions. The right side contributes to a number of functions, such as attention, memory, reasoning, and problem solving (all of which contribute to effective communication). 1 Stand to the person's right side and place objects to the person's right if he or she is experiencing left-side neglect. 2  Use calendars, clocks, and notepads to remind the person of important information.
Left and Right Brain Functioning. Each hemisphere of the brain functions like two different personalities with their own way of processing information. The left brain thinks methodically and likes to organize and categorize information from the environment. It connects new information with old, making sense of our world. What's important to know. Whatever that part of the brain which sends this type of information is the same part of the brain that receives it. And, for our purposes it's also important to know that the right hemisphere functioning is the first area of the brain to develop. The left hemisphere develops later.
The two hemispheres communicate information, such as sensory observations, to each other through the thick corpus callosum that connects them. The brain's right hemisphere controls the muscles on the left side of the body, while the left hemisphere controls the muscles on the right side of the human body. When you wink your right eye, that's the left side of your brain at work. Because of this criss-cross wiring, damage to one side of the brain affects the opposite side of the body. In general, the left hemisphere is dominant in language: processing what you hear and handling most of the duties of speaking
Cerebral Dominance. Each hemisphere of the brain is dominant for other behaviors. For example, it appears that the right brain is dominant for spatial abilities, face recognition, visual imagery and music. The left brain may be more dominant for calculations, math and logical abilities. 
The vertebrate cerebrum (brain) is formed by two cerebral hemispheres that are separated by a groove, the medial longitudinal fissure. The brain can thus be described as being divided into left and right cerebral hemispheres. 
Damage to the right hemisphere of the brain may lead to disruption of these cognitive processes, resulting in unique cognitive and communication problems. In many cases, the person with right brain damage is not aware of the problems that he or she is experiencing (anosognosia). 1 Stand to the person's right side and place objects to the person's right if he or she is experiencing left-side neglect. 2  Use calendars, clocks, and notepads to remind the person of important information.
Hemisphere Brain Functions. The brain is divided into two halves (hemispheres). Usually, the left half of the brain controls the right side of the body. The right half of the brain controls the left side of the body. LEFT BRAIN DAMAGE. Problems seen on the right side of the body. RIGHT BRAIN DAMAGE. Problems seen on the left side of the body.
Brain function lateralization is evident in the phenomena of right-or left-handedness and of right or left ear preference, but a person's preferred hand is not a clear indication of the location of brain function. If a specific region of the brain, or even an entire hemisphere, is injured or destroyed, its functions can sometimes be assumed by a neighboring region in the same hemisphere or the corresponding region in the other hemisphere, depending upon the area damaged and the patient's age.