Esophageal dilatation is a medical procedure used to widen a narrowed part of the esophagus. The esophagus is a long tube that leads from the mouth to the stomach, and is used in swallowing and carrying foods or liquids. When the esophagus narrows, it becomes hard to swallow, and causes discomfort or pain. The esophagus is a long tube that leads from the mouth to the stomach. The potential complications of an esophageal dilatation include chest pain and fever. A balloon endoscope may be used to dilate the esophagus to a normal width. An esophagaeal dilatation procedure might include endoscopy.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Wire guided dilators (Savary dilators) These dilators are tapered and shaped like Maloney dilators. The scope is used to pass a guide-wire through the stricture. The scope is then removed and the Savary dilators are passed over the guide-wire through the stricture. The dilators have a small passageway through the center which allows them to slide over the wire. These are used when strictures are too firm or too narrow to be dilated with
A new method of esophageal dilation has been developed for tight, firm esophageal strictures. The Savary dilating system was evaluated in 300 patients by two groups of investigators who concluded that the Savary dilators were easier to use and more efficacious than the Eder-Puestow dilators.
26 This type of dilator isused for simple strictures with a diameter of 12 to 14mm. The risk of esophageal perforation may be higherwith blind passage of Maloney dilators than with Savaryor TTS balloons, particularly in patients with a large hiatalhernia, a tortuous esophagus, or those with complex stric-tures. DILATOR TYPES Three general types of dilators are currently in use.These are (1) mercury or tungsten-ﬁlled bougies (Maloneyor Hurst), (2) wire-guided polyvinyl dilators (Savary-Gilliard or American), and (3) TTS (‘‘through-the-scope’’)balloon dilators.
Used for dilation of gastrointestinal strictures over a previously placed Savary-Gilliard® wire guide. This devices is supplied non-sterile and is reusable if the device integrity is intact. Each set includes Savary-Gilliard® wire guide, flushing adapter and dilator carrying case. 
Washington Subscriber. Answer: A Savary dilator is the brand name for a dilator that can be passed over a guide wire during EGDs, especially when strictures become too tight (American is another brand name for a similar dilator also used for the same purpose). Gastroenterology Coding Alert. - Published on Wed, Sep 07, 2005 Question: My gastroenterologist's notes indicate that he performed an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (EGD), during which he used a guide wire and Savary dilators.
Abstract. The efficiency and safety of the 2 most commonly used endoscopic dilators, Savary-Gilliard and pressure balloons, were compared in 2 groups, each including 30 patients, with benign esophageal strictures. Comparison between Savary-Gilliard and balloon dilatation of benign esophageal strictures. 1  Eliahou ShemeshAffiliated withDepartment of Surgery, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv UniversityGastroenterology Department, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center.
A new method of esophageal dilation has been developed for tight, firm esophageal strictures. The Savary dilating system was evaluated in 300 patients by two groups of investigators who concluded that the Savary dilators were easier to use and more efficacious than the Eder-Puestow dilators. © 1985 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by Elsevier Inc.
It can be used to treat a number of medical conditions that result in narrowing of the esophageal lumen, or decrease motility in the distal esophagus. 1 Pneumatic dilatation or balloon dilatation is also typically done at the time of endoscopy or fluoroscopy. 2  A balloon is inserted in the deflated form into the area of narrowing. 3  It is then inflated with air to a certain pressure that is pre-set for a given circumference.
Esophageal dilatation is a therapeutic endoscopic procedure that enlarges the lumen of the esophagus. 1 Pneumatic dilatation or balloon dilatation is also typically done at the time of endoscopy or fluoroscopy. 2  A balloon is inserted in the deflated form into the area of narrowing. 3  It is then inflated with air to a certain pressure that is pre-set for a given circumference.