Managers usually take 15% commission, which may be in addition to and agent’s 10% if an agent is involved. In recent years, the distinctions between an agent and manager have blurred a bit, and there is a lot of overlap. 
Licensing. One main difference between a manager and agent is that an agent has to be licensed by the state and a manager does not. This is why so many artists are managed by an uncle, brother, or best friend (think of the character E from HBO's hit show Entourage). 
Both agents and managers can be important partners of a writer's business team. Whether a writer has an agent, a manager, or both depends on the writer's (service) needs, objectives, credits (or lack thereof), and his or her business and career strategy. Good luck! 
The Bottom Line for Actors: Both talent agents and talent manager can be very important to the success of your career in entertainment. An important step to building a healthy and successful career is to understand the difference between the two. Many beginning actors mistakenly think that “talent agent” and “talent manager” are two names for the same job. Actually, they are very different, but in a similar way. The best way to explain the differences is to tackle the job responsibilities separately, giving actors a good idea of those differences.
The Difference Between an Agent and a Manager. Mike Ovitz plans to return to Hollywood as a talent manager . This is thought to be a big deal since Ovitz's last Hollywood job was talent agent . In return the agent pocketed 10 percent of the entertainer's earnings. A few big stars also hired managers, who collected an additional 10 to 15 percent. Managers helped with matters ranging from confirming plane reservations to developing a long-range business plan.
Here is a little cheat sheet of the differences between agents and managers: Talent Agents There are about 120 talent agents in New York, and more in L.A. (and thousands of actors looking to secure one). Talent agents are licensed by the state, and by law are only allowed to take a 10 percent cut of whatever you make. 
In recent years, more Hollywood stars have engaged a manager in addition to an agent, and the manager has assumed some of the agent's roles. For instance it was Leo's manager--he doesn't even have an agent--who convinced the director of Titanic to cast his client. In return the agent pocketed 10 percent of the entertainer's earnings. A few big stars also hired managers, who collected an additional 10 to 15 percent. Managers helped with matters ranging from confirming plane reservations to developing a long-range business plan.
The difference is small and getting smaller. Traditionally, every entertainer would hire an agent. The agent identified projects and negotiated contract terms. In return the agent pocketed 10 percent of the entertainer's earnings. A few big stars also hired managers, who collected an additional 10 to 15 percent. Managers helped with matters ranging from confirming plane reservations to developing a long-range business plan.
A manager manages the overall career of a professional, whereas an agent is just responsible for the live aspect of a professional’s career. Summary: 1. An agent is one who finds and sells work for another person. A manager is one who manages a person’s career. 2. Unlike the agent, a manager is a person who coordinates every aspect of a professional who does not have much time. 3. Contrary to agents, managers are closely linked to the persons involved. 4. Now, coming to managers, he or she is a person who is part of a person’s career. Unlike the agent, the manager works in a supportive role. A manager is one who manages a person’s career.