1 Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, known as MRSA, is a type of Staphylococcus aureus that is resistant to the antibiotic methicillin and other drugs in this class. 2  Staph infections are treated with topical, oral, or intravenous antibiotics, depending upon the type of infection. Staph infection facts. 1  Staphylococcus is group of bacteria that can cause a multitude of diseases. 2  Staph infections may cause disease due to direct infection or due to the production of toxins by the bacteria.
General Information about Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus aureus [staf I lō-kok is aw ree us] (staph), is a type of bacteria that about 30% of people carry in their noses. Most of the time, staph does not cause any harm; however, sometimes staph causes infections. In healthcare settings, these infections can be serious or fatal, including:
Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is one of the leading causes of infections acquired in the community and after surgery or hospital. Around 30% of individuals carry S. aureus in their nose, pharynx or back of throat and on their skin. S. aureus causes numerous infections at various sites of the body. Some of these include: 1  Skin infections – S. aureus causes boils, furuncles, styes, impetigo and other superficial skin infections in humans.
1 Boils, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, and toxic shock syndrome are all examples of diseases that can be caused by Staphylococcus. 2  Symptoms and signs of a localized staph infection include a collection of pus, such as a boil, furuncle, or abscess. Staph infection facts. 1  Staphylococcus is group of bacteria that can cause a multitude of diseases. 2  Staph infections may cause disease due to direct infection or due to the production of toxins by the bacteria.
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus or “staph”) facts, including how S. aureus is spread, common symptoms and complications. S. aureus has long been recognized as one of the most important bacteria that cause disease in humans. Although most staph infections are not serious, S. aureus can cause serious infections such as bloodstream infections, pneumonia, or bone and joint infections. On this page: Signs and symptoms of infection. Duration of illness. Transmission.
S. aureus can cause a range of illnesses, from minor skin infections, such as pimples, impetigo, boils, cellulitis, folliculitis, carbuncles, scalded skin syndrome, and abscesses, to life-threatening diseases such as pneumonia, meningitis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, toxic shock syndrome, bacteremia, and sepsis. It is often positive for catalase and nitrate reduction. Although S. aureus is not always pathogenic, it is a common cause of skin infections such as abscesses, respiratory infections such as sinusitis, and food poisoning.
1 Staphylococcus is group of bacteria that can cause a multitude of diseases. 2  Staph infections may cause disease due to direct infection or due to the production of toxins by the bacteria. Staph infection facts. 1 
1 S. aureus can also cause serious infections such as pneumonia (infection of the lungs) or bacteremia (bloodstream infection). 2  Symptoms of these infections include: difficulty breathing, malaise, fever, or chills. Although most staph infections are not serious, S. aureus can cause serious infections such as bloodstream infections, pneumonia, or bone and joint infections. On this page: Signs and symptoms of infection. Duration of illness. Transmission.