The hardening of concrete is a chemical reaction that requires certain conditions and temperatures. Ideally, concrete should be poured when the air temperature is between 50 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Cold temperatures slow the concrete-setting process, and when temperatures dip below freezing, the delay allows the water in the mix to freeze before the concrete hardens. This creates cracks in the concrete because water expands as it freezes.
Most thin set, grout and mastic manufacturers ask that you maintain between 50 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit, with a minimum time of 72 hours allowed for drying. Although you can usually install and grout tile down to temperatures as low as 35 F, the colder the temperature, the longer the various elements take to sure.
Concrete’s strength is in part a function of the temperature at which it cures. Normal compressive strength is based on curing concrete at its ideal curing temperature, 72 degrees F for a period of 28 days. Warmer temperatures reduce the cure time. On the other hand, cooler temperatures increase the length of the cure period. 
For a one-hour delivery time, the concrete temperature will drop about one-fourth the difference between the air temperature and the concrete temperature. So if the concrete's 65°F and the air is 45°F, in one-hour of travel it will drop 5°F and the concrete will end up at 60°F. Same goes for concrete work in general, but especially when cold weather comes on unexpectedly. To handle the cold, have everything you might need on hand and review these tips: Frozen ground-NEVER place concrete on frozen ground or onto ice or snow. There are a couple of problems with this.
We stop pouring exterior concrete when the local temperature hits 35. The weather at this time of year is very unpredictable and not worth the risk with the cost of repairing. For more information about concrete construction in Appleton WI visit http://www.appletonconcrete.com. Concrete is used in Alaska to the desert. However cold weather affects the properties of concrete. As a result, engineers and contractors take (or should take) precautions to minimize the change in properties. This is why placing concrete in winter is more expensive that placing the same concrete in the fall or summer.
First, frozen ground will settle when it thaws, cracking the concrete. Second, when the ground is cold, the concrete in contact with it will be cold and will set more slowly. You can even get crusting, with the top part of the concrete set and the bottom still soft. Same goes for concrete work in general, but especially when cold weather comes on unexpectedly. To handle the cold, have everything you might need on hand and review these tips: Frozen ground-NEVER place concrete on frozen ground or onto ice or snow. There are a couple of problems with this.
If the water in the young concrete is allowed to freeze, the concrete will be damaged to such an extent that it is unfit for use. Even if the temperature does not drop below zero, the concrete will not gain strength as quickly as it would during the warmer months. 
I had concrete poured today. The temp at the time of pouring was around 50-55 degrees. I'm now worried after reading about concrete since the temp has dropped to 27 degrees. The temp tomorrow will be close to 60 when they pour a pool deck, but again in the evening should be around 30. We had a 20' x 40' cement slab poured in 60 degree weather yesterday. The temperature got around 30 degrees in the night. Today's high was 39 and now it's 21 degrees with a possible wind chill of -5 to -8 in the night. The contractor covered it with a heavy black plastic looking sheet.
During cold weather, it may be necessary to heat one or more of the concrete materials (water and/or aggregates) to provide the proper concrete temperature as delivered. Due to the quantities and heat capacity of cement, using hot cement is not an effective method in raising the initial concrete temperature. The exposure of concrete to cold weather will extend the time required for it to reach initial set, which may require finishing crews to be available for a longer period. Depending on the actual ambient temperature, protection of a concrete placement may require the use of windbreaks, enclosures, or supplementary heat. It may also be appropriate to adjust the concrete mixture constituents for the effect of ambient temperature on setting time.
Best Answer: You can place concrete at almost any temperature. Concrete is used in Alaska to the desert. However cold weather affects the properties of concrete. As a result, engineers and contractors take (or should take) precautions to minimize the change in properties. This is why placing concrete in winter is more expensive that placing the same concrete in the fall or summer. Concrete can freeze when it is still wet. When it does freeze, the concrete deteriorates and the compressive strength falls. When concrete is placed in cold weather, the strength gain is slower