Traffic tickets generally come in two forms, citing a moving violation, such as exceeding the speed limit, or a non-moving violation, such as a parking violation, with the ticket also being referred to as a parking citation, notice of illegal parking or parking ticket. The most expensive speeding ticket ever given is believed to be the one given to Jussi Salonoja in Helsinki, Finland, in 2003. Salonoja, the 27-year-old heir to a company in the meat-industry, was fined 170,000 euros for driving 80 km/h in a 40 km/h zone.
Report Abuse. A speeding ticket is a moving violation. Paying the fine is an admittance of guilt, which is why you have the option of appearing before a judge to plead your case. peersignal · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. As opposed to a parking violation, a speeding citation is a moving violation. You are not convicted (found guilty) until the Judge says so. If you pay the fine, then you are admitting guilt. Source(s): Me, retired Police Officer.
Report Abuse. Yes, a speeding ticket is a moving violation. Non-moving violations are like parking, where the car wasn't being driven. If you pay the fine, that is the same as pleading guilty or being convicted. As opposed to a parking violation, a speeding citation is a moving violation. You are not convicted (found guilty) until the Judge says so. If you pay the fine, then you are admitting guilt. Source(s): Me, retired Police Officer.
In United States law, reckless driving is a major moving traffic violation. It is usually a more serious offense than careless driving, improper driving, or driving without due care and attention and is often punishable by fines, imprisonment, or driver's license suspension or revocation. (List specific to the USA.). Reckless Driving in New York is not a non-criminal petty offense or traffic infraction.. Reckless Driving is a misdemeanor and therefore a crime.. A conviction for Reckless Driving is a conviction for a crime and such a conviction results in a permanent criminal record.
Financial reasons exist too. Reckless driving fines can go up to $2,500. While that number is not imposed often, it's not unusual to see a fine of $350 or more for these offenses; whereas, the maximum fine for a regular Virginia speeding ticket is $250. 