Full Definition of COMPETENCY. : competence. See competency defined for English-language learners. See competency defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
competence. n. 1. the condition of being capable; ability. 2. a sufficient income to live on. 3. (Law) the state of being legally competent or qualified. 4. (Biology) embryol the ability of embryonic tissues to react to external conditions in a way that influences subsequent development. 5. com路pe路tence. n. 1. a. The ability to do something well or efficiently. b. A range of skill or ability: a task beyond his competence. c. A specific ability or skill: a surprising competence in dealing with animals. 2. Law The quality or condition of being legally qualified or fit to perform an act
References in classic literature? Moreover, a small but sufficient competency was mine, allowing me reasonable comforts, and the luxuries of a small but choice library, and a small but choice garden. The Quest of the Golden Girl by le Gallienne, Richard View in context. There is no happiness in this world without a competency.
Career competencies are the skills required to successfully perform a job. One of the many terms that you'll likely come across during your working life is career competency.. Competencies are skills, knowledge or abilities that enable good performance in a particular role. Self Assessment. Your career competencies are clues to areas in which you'll perform well. For example, if you are decisive and have a knack for influencing others, you might be suited for a manager's role.
Definitions (2). 1. A cluster of related abilities, commitments, knowledge, and skills that enable a person (or an organization) to act effectively in a job or situation. Competence indicates sufficiency of knowledge and skills that enable someone to act in a wide variety of situations.
Oracle BPM. A core competency is a company's unique characteristic or capability that provides a competitive advantage in the marketplace, delivers value to customers, and contributes to continued organizational growth. Establishing a core competency strategy. Once an organization has identified its desired core competencies, it must develop a strategy for maximizing their potential. Doing so will allow a company to deliver value to its customers based on a sustainable competitive advantage.
Competence. answer the bell To meet demands, requirements, or requests; to respond to a challenge, to pick up the glove or gauntlet. The allusion is to a boxing match in which a bell is sounded to signal the beginning of each round. com路pe路tence. n. 1. a. The ability to do something well or efficiently. b. A range of skill or ability: a task beyond his competence. c. A specific ability or skill: a surprising competence in dealing with animals. 2. Law The quality or condition of being legally qualified or fit to perform an act
Moreover, a small but sufficient competency was mine, allowing me reasonable comforts, and the luxuries of a small but choice library, and a small but choice garden. The Quest of the Golden Girl by le Gallienne, Richard View in context. There is no happiness in this world without a competency. 
DEFINITION of 'Core Competency'. A narrowly defined field or task at which a company excels. A firm's core competencies are difficult for its competitors to mimic, allowing the company to differentiate itself. 