Pharmacy technicians are responsible for handling all aspects of the prescription fulfillment process and assisting the pharmacist with day-to-day operations. Aspiring pharmacy techs can complete a 1-year diploma or certification program at a pharmacy technician school or a 2-year associate degree program. This career guide provides in-depth information about pharmacy technician careers and job opportunities in this fast-growing field.
3. Become certified. Some states require pharmacy technicians to become certified. Even in states where certification is not required, most employers will only hire pharmacy techs who are certified by the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board (PTCB) or the National Healthcareer Association (NHA).
Education Requirements. Besides a high school diploma, there are no formal training requirements for becoming a pharmacy technician. Many receive training on the job; however, employers may prefer that you graduate from a 1-2 year pharmacy technology program.
Pharmacy technicians work under the supervision of a licensed pharmacist and are responsible for dispensing medications. They must always direct patient questions about health or prescription medications to a pharmacist. Pharmacy technicians' duties include filling prescriptions and interacting with patients.
2. Have a high school diploma. In order to pursue a job as a pharmacy technician, a high school diploma or equivalent level of education is required. 3. Enroll in a pharmacy technician program at an accredited vocational/technical college or online program.
As a pharmacy technician, you will be prepared to help licensed pharmacists provide medication and other health care products to patients. Your job will include counting and measuring medication, managing inventories, and completing pharmaceutical dosage forms, on a full-or part-time basis.
The PTCB requires applicants to pass an exam, while the NHA requires students to complete a training program or have at least one year of experience working as a technician. Both organizations require applicants to have a high school diploma.
Pharmacy Technicians & Technician Trainees. To perform the duties of a pharmacy technician or pharmacy technician trainee, an individual must have an ACTIVE registration with the Texas State Board of Pharmacy (TSBP). Print and Read: Information Guide For Pharmacy Technicians & Technician Trainees (pdf).