I have nice stainless steel cookware but I do like the non-stick for omelettes, fried eggs, grilled sandwiches etc. I have a large circulon pan which almost doesn't seem like a teflon type coating. I have had it for 5 years, no scratches or anything. It almost has like a tiny ribbed affect. I have also heard great things about calphalon.
The answer is no. Anodized cookware is not coated cookware. Calphalon One infused hard anodized (not nonstick) touts its stick-resistant quality, but it has no coating and no teflon. Calphalon One Nonstick, however, does have some type of coating applied. But I really miss the non-stick surface for frying pans. I've seen some frying pans recently that were labelled Hard anodized coating. Now I know what anodizing is, but the surface looks just like regular old Teflon Silverstone.
In addition, most nonstick cookware is not dishwasher safe, although Calphalon does have products like Calphalon Unison that are 100% dishwasher safe. Calphalon carefully controls its nonstick coating process to maximize the durability and resilience of the cooking surface. When I first bought non-stick pans, I would buy the cheap kind, like the $20 specials you’d find at Target or in Chinatown. Those might last a year. I quickly wised up. I moved on to Calphalon, the standard-bearer in non-stick pans.
Calphalon is a brand of cookware products owned by Newell Rubbermaid. Calphalon cookware has stick resistant surfaces made of anodized aluminum rather than the more common Teflon coating. Calphalon also produces the more traditional non-stick coated cookware. Calphalon is a premium cookware company which is currently owned by Newell Rubbermaid. 
Hard anodizing is not teflon. And it is not a coating. The outer surface of the aluminum is oxidized via an electro-chemical process, creating a surface harder than stainless steel. But most hard anodized cookware has a non-stick coating (Teflon or similar PTFE) on the cooking surface. But I really miss the non-stick surface for frying pans. I've seen some frying pans recently that were labelled Hard anodized coating. Now I know what anodizing is, but the surface looks just like regular old Teflon Silverstone.
No. Teflon is a very specific product produced by DuPont. If a pan has a Teflon coating, it will have a blue Teflon label clearly showing on the packaging. Most nonstick pans use a nonstick coating that is similar to Teflon, but is not Teflon. Some are more durable, like the ones used by Calphalon, Analon, and AllClad. With proper use and care (no high heat cooking, no Pam, no metal utensils) they will last 20 years.
Teflon, a non-stick coating brand owned by the company DuPont has become synonymous with non-stick coatings on cookware. However, not all non-stick coatings are Teflon and if you are wondering or not sure about the coating on your cookware, this guide will help you figure it out. 
I have a set of the Calphalon anodized cookware purchased in 2001, and the anodized aluminum coating has worn off -- the insides are now silver, which means that over time, this aluminum coating has made it's way from the pots to... 