Mixed connective tissue disease (MTCD) is a rare connective tissue disorder. MCTD is used to describe what may be an overlapping group of connective tissue disorders that cannot be diagnosed in more specific terms. These disorders include systemic lupus erythematosus, polymyositis, and scleroderma. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Mixed Connective Tissue Disease (MCTD) is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
In medicine, mixed connective tissue disease (also known as Sharp's syndrome), commonly abbreviated as MCTD, is an autoimmune disease in which the body's defense system attacks itself. It was characterized in 1972, and the term was introduced by Leroy in 1980. MCTD combines features of scleroderma, myositis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis (with some sources adding polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and inclusion body myositis) and is thus considered an overlap syndrome.
Definition. Mixed connective tissue disease has signs and symptoms of a combination of disorders — primarily lupus, scleroderma and polymyositis. For this reason, mixed connective tissue disease is sometimes referred to as an overlap disease. In mixed connective tissue disease, the symptoms of the separate diseases usually don't appear all at once. Instead, they tend to occur in sequence over a number of years, which can make diagnosis more complicated.
Mixed Connective Tissue Disease. Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare autoimmune disorder featuring signs and symptoms of three different disorders: lupus, scleroderma and polymyositis. An autoimmune disorder is one in which the body’s immune system turns against the body it was designed to protect for unknown reasons. 
Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD), which was first described in 1972, is classically considered as an overlap, or mix, of three specific connective-tissue diseases: systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and polymyositis. 
General Discussion. Mixed connective tissue disease (MTCD) is a rare connective tissue disorder. MCTD is used to describe what may be an overlapping group of connective tissue disorders that cannot be diagnosed in more specific terms. These disorders include systemic lupus erythematosus, polymyositis, and scleroderma. 
Mixed connective-tissue disease (MCTD) was first recognized by Sharp and colleagues (1972) in a group of patients with overlapping clinical features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), scleroderma, and myositis, with the presence of a distinctive antibody against what now is known to be U1-ribonucleoprotein (RNP). 
Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare autoimmune disorder. An autoimmune disorder is one in which the immune system mistakenly views the body’s own tissues as “invaders” and attacks them. In the beginning stages, patients who have MCTD have symptoms similar to those of patients with other connective tissue disorders, including: 1  fatigue. 2  muscle pain with no apparent cause. 3  joint pain. 4  low-grade fever. 5  Raynaud phenomenon (reduced blood flow to the fingers, toes, ears, and nose).
Mixed Connective Tissue Disease (MCTD). Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Mixed Connective Tissue Disease (MCTD) is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.