Arm span measurement is a simple measure that is important in the anthropometrical profiling of athletes in many sports in which reach is important, such as rowing and basketball. 1 Measure from one furthermost finger tip to the other. 2  results: The arm length measures can be compared to the person's height. 3  On average, arm span should be about equal to height. 4  By subtracting a measurement for shoulder width from this measurement you can get a measure of average arm length.
Knee height is correlated with stature and, until recently, was the preferred method for estimating height in bedridden patients. Knee height is measured using a sliding broad-blade caliper. A device designed for this purpose is commercially available. The patient's height is then estimated using a standard formula. 
Background: Arm span is the closest physiologic measurement to standing height. Increased arm span to standing height ratio, therefore, indicates possible loss of height, which is a feature of aging, often resulting from osteoporosis-related vertebral collapse. The correlation between arm span to height ratio and severity of symptoms was statistically significant for the NYHA classification (Spearman ρ = 0.309; p = 0.016), and nearly significant for the MRC dyspnea scale (ρ = 0.209; p = 0.058) [Fig 1].
1 Use nonstandard units to measure arm span, height, and length of leg from waist. 2  Explain why arm spans and heights differ in length. 3  Record the names of the students who are unable to measure using yarn as a nonstandard unit. 4  Provide extra experiences for these students. Group students in pairs and have them measure each other's arm span, height, and leg length from waist to floor. Remind them to label the yarn lengths appropriately. Have the pairs of students compare the length of their arm spans and heights.
Results. The mean arm span was 159.14 cm (SD=7.06), which was on average 2 cm more than standing height. There was a strong positive correlation of arm span and leg length with standing height. (r=0.816 and 0.842 respectively). For arm span, a standard metal measuring tape of 7.5m with 0.1cm intervals was used. The mean values of arm span and height measurement were calculated using a SHARP EL-531VH scientific calculator.
Arm span or reach (sometimes referred to as wingspan) is the physical measurement of the length from one end of an individual's arms (measured at the fingertips) to the other when raised parallel to the ground at shoulder height at a one-hundred eighty degree angle. The average reach correlates to the person's height. 
Prior research has already indicated that the use of arm span length to predict height is accurate enough to be used as a predictor of height (Brown, et al., 2000; Brown, et al., 2002;Parker, et al., 1996). Our findings strengthen external reliability. The study also compared self-reported height and arm span measurement to actual height, to determine their level of accuracy. Self-reported height data is found to be closer to actual height measurements.
Arm Span. Arm span measurement is a simple measure that is important in the anthropometrical profiling of athletes in many sports in which reach is important, such as rowing and basketball. See also the related arm length measure, which is the length of each individual arm. 1 Measure from one furthermost finger tip to the other. 2  results: The arm length measures can be compared to the person's height. 3  On average, arm span should be about equal to height. 4  By subtracting a measurement for shoulder width from this measurement you can get a measure of average arm length.
Your arms and body should make a 90-degree angle. Measure the arm span using the measuring tape, measuring from the tip of the right hand middle finger to tip of the left hand middle finger. This gives the accurate measurement of your arm span. 
The mean armspan was 159.14 cm (SD=7.06), which was also onaverage 2 cm more than standing height.Table 2 presents the correlation between thedifferent physical measurements. The correlation ofsitting height with arm span and leg length was poor(r=0.561, 0.294 respectively). The correlation of armspan and leg length with standing height was verygood (r=0.816 and 0.842 respectively).The results of linear regression analysis are shownin Table 3. 