Lance Armstrong on Oprah: Live updates as shamed cyclist makes drugs confession. Lance Armstrong has admitted taking banned substances, including EPO, to help win the Tour de France, in his interview with Oprah Winfrey. 1  FleetStreetFox: Why Lance Armstrong's Oprah apology has made him even more unlikeable. 2  Sheryl Crow dodges questions about whether she knew ex Lance Armstrong's used drugs. US cyclist Lance Armstrong confessed to using performance-enhancing drugs in an explosive TV interview broadcast this morning. In a breath-taking start to the interview, chat show host Oprah Winfrey fired a series of yes-no questions at the 41-year-old-and he admitted everything.
28 photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall. Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – After denying the allegations for years, cyclist Lance Armstrong admitted to using performance-enhancing drugs. As a result, he was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles and an Olympic bronze medal. Click through the gallery for a look at his life and career. Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong rides at the Ikon Ride for the Roses to benefit the Lance Armstrong Foundation in May 1998. He established the foundation to benefit cancer research after he was diagnosed with testicular cancer in 1996. After treatment, he was declared cancer-free in February 1997.
Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – After winning the 2001 Tour de France, Armstrong presents President George W. Bush with a U.S. Postal Service yellow jersey and a replica of the bike he used to win the race. Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong rides at the Ikon Ride for the Roses to benefit the Lance Armstrong Foundation in May 1998. He established the foundation to benefit cancer research after he was diagnosed with testicular cancer in 1996. After treatment, he was declared cancer-free in February 1997.
Follow @TIMEHealth. “Enough is enough.” With those loaded words, seven-time Tour de France winner, cancer survivor, and patient advocate Lance Armstrong put an end to the accusations of doping that have dogged him for years. USADA swiftly revoked all seven of Armstrong’s Tour titles and banned him for life from the sport of cycling. The international cycling federation, Union Cycliste Internationale, has yet to take action, demanding an explanation from USADA for the agency’s censure.
No, he said. Armstrong said he thought taking the drugs was similar to filling his tires with air and bottle with water. He never thought of his actions as cheating, but leveling the playing field in a sport rife with doping. Armstrong passed more than 500 drug tests during his career. 
View. comments. Actor Ben Foster has revealed that taking performance-enhancing drugs in order to play Lance Armstrong in a new film has taken a 'tremendous' toll on his body. The star, who plays drug-cheat cyclist Armstrong in The Program, admitted secretly taking doping drugs last month. He has not said which drugs he took, or for how long, but has now admitted that the side-effects were severe and he believes he has 'definitely damaged' his body as a result
Here’s a rundown of the banned substances that Armstrong allegedly used to fuel his historic seven Tour de France wins from TIME Healthland : “ Erythropoietin (EPO), also known as “E,” “Po,” “Edgar” or “Edgar Allen Poe,” among other names. 