Digital History ID 3354. Over the course of the 20th century, the presidency gradually supplanted Congress as the center of federal power. Presidential authority increased, presidential staffs grew in size, and the executive branch gradually acquired a dominant relationship over Congress. Beginning with Theodore Roosevelt, the president, and not Congress, established the nation's legislative agenda. Increasingly, Congress ceded its budget-making authority to the president. Presidents even found a way to make agreements with foreign nations without congressional approval.
Largely driven by the revelations of Watergate, lawmakers in the 1970s passed a series of good government bills designed to repair the political process and rejuvenate public confidence in their elected officials. Supporters say it is the only credible way for the executive branch to handle allegations of high-level wrong-doing. The independent counsel law survived a 1988 Supreme Court challenge and has been re-authorized three times -- most recently in 1994, after an 18-month lapse.
Confidence votes 11.1K. Congress, actually the Senate, empaneled a committee titled The Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities chaired by Senator Sam Ervin of North Carolina to investigate the activities of the participants in the incident that later became known as the Watergate Scandal. The House of … Representatives then voted three days later to impeach President Nixon. He resigned and Gerald Ford took over the presidency. Nixon was the only Watergate conspirator to not serve any jail time. Also, he was the only president in the history of the United States to resign from
In the aftermath of Watergate, public confidence in government reached a nadir and Congress passed good government laws to not only to reform political campaigns but also to restore faith in elected officials. Here are the major laws passed in the wake of Watergate. In 1978, Congress, determined to find a way to restored the public's confidence in government and curb the powers of the president and other senior executive branch officials, passed the Ethics in Government Act.
Almost a quarter century ago, Tennessee Sen. Fred Thompson served as Republican counsel on the Senate Watergate committee. Now he chairs the Senate panel investigating the current White House fund-raising scandal. Supporters say it is the only credible way for the executive branch to handle allegations of high-level wrong-doing. The independent counsel law survived a 1988 Supreme Court challenge and has been re-authorized three times -- most recently in 1994, after an 18-month lapse.
Congress, as part of a compromise with the President, passed Public Law 98-119 in October 1983 authorizing U.S. troops to remain in Lebanon for 18 months. This resolution was signed by the President, and was the first time a President had signed legislation invoking the War Powers Resolution. 
Public confidence in government had reached a nadir, and in response Congress several passed good government laws to not only to reform political campaigns but also to restore faith in elected officials. Read about the Watergate scandal and its key players, impeachment, and legislation passed in the aftermath. The Watergate Complex. The scandal that ended the Nixon presidency began more than 40 years ago, on June 17, 1972, when five employees of Nixon's reelection campaign were caught breaking into the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate complex in Washington, DC.
In 1974, fueled by public reaction to the Watergate Scandal, Congress passed amendments to the Act establishing a comprehensive system of regulation and enforcement, including public financing of presidential campaigns and creation of a central enforcement agency, the Federal Election Commission. 
Ethics in Government Law (1978). In 1978, Congress, determined to find a way to restored the public's confidence in government and curb the powers of the president and other senior executive branch officials, passed the Ethics in Government Act.