Photo Credit Ablestock.com/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Potassium and magnesium are important minerals needed for all cells in the body to function properly. They are also both electrolytes, involved in conducting electricity throughout the body, affecting nerve function, muscle contraction and the rhythm of the heart. Potassium and magnesium are found in many foods, and meeting your daily requirements for each mineral is not difficult.
Consuming foods high in these minerals, is always a safer and better option than consuming supplements. The table given below enlists the foods that are rich in potassium, calcium and magnesium, along with the amount of these minerals, contained in each. Foods high in potassium, calcium and magnesium play an important role in the diet of hypertension patients, because these minerals exhibit great effects of lowering blood pressure. Here is a list of foods rich in potassium, calcium and magnesium...
Dairy products are a source of magnesium and potassium in addition to calcium. Photo Credit olgakr/iStock/Getty Images. Magnesium, potassium and calcium are minerals that your body needs to maintain strong bones and normal muscle function. They are all electrolytes, or minerals that conduct electrical impulses in your body. These minerals help to maintain fluid balance, nerve transmissions and a healthy blood pressure. Magnesium also helps transport both calcium and potassium across cell membranes. Eating certain foods can help you meet your needs for all three of these essential minerals.
1 Brazil nuts contain high levels of minerals such as selenium, magnesium, copper, manganese, potassium, calcium, iron, phosphorus, and zinc. 2  Magnesium is a key nutrient in a whole host of biological processes. 1 Dark, leafy greens are rich sources of minerals, but spinach in particular contains an abundance of magnesium, calcium, potassium, manganese
Foods Rich In Calcium. Foods such as milk, cheese and yogurt contain calcium. So do dark leafy vegetables. Kale, turnip greens, broccoli, brussel sprouts and cabbage are rich sources of calcium. Canned fish (with bones), such as salmon, sardines and mackerel are also good choices. Fruits rich in potassium include bananas, apricots, prunes, dates, cantaloupe, watermelon and strawberries. Foods such as salmon, beans, turkey and fish also contain potassium as do peas, greens, spinach and tomatoes. If you are consuming three of these items a day, you are probably getting enough potass
This is not wrong—by our Rating System, bananas are a good source of potassium. But there are 32 foods on our Rating Chart with more potassium per calorie than the banana. Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness System. 
People suffering from hypertension should increase the intake of potassium by consuming foods that are rich in potassium. Even though supplements that contain potassium, calcium and magnesium, are available, they should be consumed in limited amounts, and only after consulting a physician. Foods high in potassium, calcium and magnesium play an important role in the diet of hypertension patients, because these minerals exhibit great effects of lowering blood pressure. Here is a list of foods rich in potassium, calcium and magnesium...
Other legumes rich in magnesium include black beans, kidney beans, white beans, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lentils. 1  Avocado Loaded with multivitamins, heart-healthy nutrients, and disease-thwarting chemical compounds, avocados are one of the most nutritious and versatile produce picks around. 1 Other nuts and seeds high in magnesium include almonds, sunflower seeds, Brazil nuts, cashews, pine nuts, flaxseed, and pecans.
For example, oranges and lemonade are high in potassium and calcium, but have comparatively less amount of magnesium. Raw longans are rich in potassium and magnesium and contain low percentage of calcium. Note that the list given here is not comprehensive, and only includes some common food items. You can find many other foods that are rich sources of these minerals. Foods high in potassium, calcium and magnesium play an important role in the diet of hypertension patients, because these minerals exhibit great effects of lowering blood pressure. Here is a list of foods rich in potassium, calcium and magnesium...