The calf is the area on the back of the leg between the knee and the ankle. It is made up of two muscles collectively known as the triceps surae. Triceps surae simply means “three-headed calf (muscle)”. It comprises of a pair of muscles, gastrocnemius and soleus. 
The calf (TA: sura) is the back portion of the lower leg in human anatomy. The muscles within the calf correspond to the posterior compartment of the leg. The two largest muscles within this compartment are known together as the calf muscle and attach to the heel via the Achilles tendon. Several other, smaller muscles attach to the knee, the ankle, and via long tendons to the toes.
Many muscles that power foot movements begin as high up as the back of the knee and extend down to the foot. Possibly the most important structure in the lower leg is the Achilles tendon. It connects three muscles—the plantaris, calf, and soleus—to the heel bone. 
Try these simple, effective exercises for strengthening your calf muscles. You'll target the two muscles that make up the calf: 1  The gastrocnemius muscle, which gives the calf its rounded shape. 2  The soleus, which is the flatter, longer muscle running underneath the gastrocnemius and lower down your leg. 
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The calf muscle, on the back of the lower leg, is actually made up of two muscles: 1  The gastrocnemius is the larger calf muscle, forming the bulge visible beneath the skin. 2  The gastrocnemius has two parts or heads, which together create its diamond shape
Anatomy Chart courtesy of FCIT. The Gastrocnemius is the calf muscle that is visible from the outside of the body. It attaches to the heel with the Achilles Tendon and originates behind the knee on the femur, crossing two joints. The Gastrocnemius has two heads: the medial and the lateral. 
Both the gastrocnemius and the soleus run the entire length of the lower leg, connecting behind the knee and at the heel. A third muscle, the plantaris muscle, extends two-to-four inches down from the knee and lies between the gastrocnemius and the soleus. The gastrocnemius branches at the top behind the knee; the two branches are known as the medial and lateral heads. The flexing of this muscle during walking and bending of the knee creates traction on the femur, pulling it toward the tibia in the lower leg and causing the knee to bend.
Gastrocnemius. The gastrocnemius muscle is a muscle located on the back portion of the lower leg, being one of the two major muscles that make up the calf. The other major calf muscle, the soleus muscle, is a flat muscle that lies underneath the gastrocnemius. The gastrocnemius branches at the top behind the knee; the two branches are known as the medial and lateral heads. The flexing of this muscle during walking and bending of the knee creates traction on the femur, pulling it toward the tibia in the lower leg and causing the knee to bend.