Doctor of Nursing. A Doctor of Nursing (ND) program takes three to five years to complete. These programs train established nursing professionals in research skills, including data and statistics analysis. Students also study leadership roles and the history and science of the nursing field. Doctor of Nursing Philosophy. Doctor of Nursing Philosophy programs require four to six years to complete. This research-based doctorate program requires that students prepare a dissertation consisting of original research that will advance healthcare delivery systems and nursing practice.
In this type of degree program, the coursework, teaching, research and dissertation take at least 2 1/2 years, but often longer depending on how long it takes to complete the dissertation. 
Best Answer: Hopefully this website will help you out with what you're looking for. http://www.allnursingschools.com/nursing... I looked into finding how long it will take to get a Doctor of Philosophy in nursing and none of the programs websites gave the amount of time. I'll assume it's the same as the regular PhD nursing program and say it's about 3 to 4 years of full time work. Blessings. Source(s): 
A doctorate in nursing degree takes, on average, four to six years to complete. You will spend a great deal of time focusing on an area of research that you choose. For students who have the time and resources, there is the chance to finish your program sooner. About a doctoral degree in nursing. Completing a doctoral degree in nursing (DNP) program will take anywhere from three to five years and has the ability to propel you further in your career. While it's not required for all advanced nursing jobs, a DNP can help you move into nurse leadership roles
Amount of Time Needed for a Ph.D. in Nursing. Earning a Ph.D. in Nursing can take from four to six years. The degree program requires a significant time commitment on the part of the student. Students can expect to engage in full-time study, including classes in the summer. Doctor of Nursing Philosophy. Doctor of Nursing Philosophy programs require four to six years to complete. This research-based doctorate program requires that students prepare a dissertation consisting of original research that will advance healthcare delivery systems and nursing practice.
A bachelor’s-to-doctoral program can require an additional three to four years of study beyond the bachelor’s degree to complete graduate level courses in nursing. Registered nurses with a two-year associate degree in nursing may complete an RN-to-master’s degree program, which can take two to three years to complete. According to the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, there are 170 RN-to-master’s degree programs available. Nursing programs that qualify students for a license as a registered nurse must include clinical practice to meet state requirements. A bachelor’s degree program in nursing can take four
The doctorate would take approximately four years post bachelor's degree to complete. The degree can run up to 60 credits in coursework particular to a specific field of study. There are three major educational paths to registered nursing-a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN), an associate degree in nursing (ADN), and a diploma. BSN programs, offered by colleges and universities, take about 4 years to complete. In 2006, 709 nursing programs offered degrees at the bachelor's level.
Doctoral Programs. Students seeking a doctorate in nursing may complete a bachelor’s-to-doctoral program, which can take three to four years to complete. These programs include clinical experiences and allow students to select a focus in research or nursing practice. Nursing programs that qualify students for a license as a registered nurse must include clinical practice to meet state requirements. A bachelor’s degree program in nursing can take