Umbra is a graphics software technology company founded 2007 in Helsinki, Finland. Umbra specializes in occlusion culling, visibility solution technology and provides middleware for video games running on Windows, Linux, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, handheld consoles, iOS, Wii U and other platforms. 
Umbra, penumbra and antumbra formed through windows and shutters. The umbra (Latin for shadow) is the innermost and darkest part of a shadow, where the light source is completely blocked by the occluding body. An observer in the umbra experiences a total eclipse. The umbra of a round body occluding a round light source forms a right circular cone; to a viewer at the cone's apex, the two bodies are equal in apparent size. The distance from the Moon to the apex of its umbra is roughly equal to that between the Moon and Earth.
1 When the Moon is fully immersed in the umbra a total lunar eclipse occurs. 2  If the Moon completely enters the umbra, a total lunar eclipse occurs. 3  The Moon can then pass through a part of the umbra (region of total shadow) and then there is a partial eclipse. Compare with penumbra. Example sentences. 1  When the Moon is fully immersed in the umbra a total lunar eclipse occurs. 2  If the Moon completely enters the umbra, a total lunar eclipse occurs. 3  The Moon can then pass through a part of the umbra (region of total shadow) and then there is a partial eclipse.
Umbra, penumbra, and antumbra. Umbra (A) and penumbra (B). The umbra, penumbra and antumbra are three distinct parts of a shadow, created by any light source after impinging on an opaque object. For a point source only the umbra is cast. The umbra of a round body occluding a round light source forms a right circular cone; to a viewer at the cone's apex, the two bodies are equal in apparent size. The distance from the Moon to the apex of its umbra is roughly equal to that between the Moon and Earth.
umbra. n, pl-brae (-briː) or-bras. 1. (Astronomy) a region of complete shadow resulting from the total obstruction of light by an opaque object, esp the shadow cast by the moon onto the earth during a solar eclipse. 2. (Astronomy) the darker inner region of a sunspot. [C16: from Latin: shade, shadow]. 
Umbra (the person) attacking with Umbra (the sword). Umbra is a Bosmer warrior who can be found in the Ayleid ruin of Vindasel. She named herself after her sword, the powerful artifact Umbra. If the story seems familiar, this is because the sword Umbra also appeared during Morrowind, along with another character who had named himself after the sword. 
Definition of UMBRA. 1. : a shaded area. 2. a: a conical shadow excluding all light from a given source; specifically: the conical part of the shadow of a celestial body excluding all light from the primary source b: the central dark part of a sunspot. — um·bral \-brəl\ adjective. See umbra defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.