Carbohydrates are are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which are arranged into small units called sugars, or monosaccharides. Small carbohydrates, like glucose or sucrose (table sugar) are composed of one or two sugar units, respectively, and are the molecules that give food a sweet taste. 
Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. 
Structural formulae of fructose (left) and glucose (right). High fructose corn syrup (HFCS) (also called glucose-fructose, isoglucose and glucose-fructose syrup) is a sweetener made from corn starch that has been processed by glucose isomerase to convert some of its glucose into fructose. HFCS is 24% water, the rest mainly fructose and glucose with 0–5% unprocessed glucose oligomers, HFCS 55 (≈55% fructose if water were removed) is mostly used in soft drinks; HFCS 42 is used in beverages, processed foods, cereals, and baked goods. HFCS-90 has some niche uses but mainly mixed with HFCS 42 to make HFCS 55
Simple carbohydrates are classified as either monosaccharides or disaccharides. Monosaccharides are the simplest, most basic units of carbohydrates and are made up of only one sugar unit. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharides and are the building blocks of sucrose, a disaccharide. Thus, disaccharides are just a pair of linked sugar molecules. They are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed -- a dehydration reaction
Overview. Simple sugars are known as monosaccharides, and are a carbohydrate found in may different foods, according to the Elements Database website. Simple sugars are digested quickly by the body because there are typically fewer nutrients for them to break down. Simple sugars include glucose, fructose and galactose. 
Sugar cane is a natural source of sucrose, or table sugar. Sucrose, glucose and fructose are important carbohydrates, commonly referred to as simple sugars. Sugar is found naturally in whole foods and is often added to processed foods to sweeten them and increase flavor. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharides and are the building blocks of sucrose, a disaccharide. Thus, disaccharides are just a pair of linked sugar molecules.
There are two types of sugars derived from different sources such as – simple sugars (monosaccharides) and compound sugars (disaccharides). On the other hand, there is the sugar substitute – an additive used in most foods and drinks to give similar taste as sugar, but less energy. Monosaccharides. These are simple sugars such as glucose, fructose and galactose whose chemical formula is C6H12O6. Monosaccharides have five hydroxyl (-OH) groups and a carbonyl (C=O) group. Glucose: Also grape sugar or dextrose occurs naturally in fruits and plant juices.
Monosaccharides. Polysaccharides are supplements that contain monosaccharides (or simple sugars), something that some nutritionists and healthcare professionals believe have become deficient in today's over-processed and fast-food laden diets. 
Definition of sugar: A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in -ose. For example, note the suffix -ose in fructose, glucose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, and maltose. The two main categories of sugars are monosaccharides and disaccharides. They are often described together with polysaccharides, and sometimes also oligosaccarides, due to the chemical relationship between these types of carbohydrates: 1  Categories of sugars 2  : Monosaccharides are simple (unit) sugars.