Home » Active Ingredients » Propiconazole. Propiconazole, the active ingredient found in Banner Maxx, is an odorless, yellowish clear foliar fungicide. In other words, it inhibits the growth of fungus on certain plants. Propiconazole first appeared in 1981 to protect seed grass. It is registered for use on bananas, cereal grains, citrus, rye, sugarcane, and wheat. Propiconazole is also used to protect turf including golf courses and sod farms, and on ornamental plants. Propiconazole is labeled as having moderately low acute toxicity. Extreme caution should be used when using this chemical near water as it is highly toxic to fish and may pollute water source
Propiconazole. Propiconazole is a broad spectrum fungicide with both systemic and foliar effects. First developed in 1979, Propiconazole is both a curative fungicide and a preventative fungicide. Propiconazole is a broad spectrum fungicide with both systemic and foliar effects. First developed in 1979, Propiconazole is both a curative fungicide and a preventative fungicide. Fungal diseases shown to be effected by propiconazole include a large variety of Ascomycetes (such as Erysiphe graninis, Mycosphaerella spp. Propiconazole is approved for use on grasses grown for seed, sod farm and utility turf, crops (like corn/maize, wheat, rice, rye, sugar cane, sugar beets, sorghum and oats), ornamentals, fruit (banana; stone fruits – apricots, prunes, plums, nectarines and peaches) and nuts (coffee, peanuts, pecan and almond).
Propiconazole is in the triazole class of fungicides. Commercially, propiconazole is available as an emulsifiable concentrate, flowable concentrate, ready-to-use liquid, liquid soluble concentrate, wettable powder, and dust (#EPA). Propiconazole is registered for use on a variety of food crops, most notably banana, nuts, barley, corn, stone fruits, wheat, cereal grains, citrus, oats, rice, rye, sugarcane, and wheat. Nuts, rice, and wheat account for the heaviest usage (#EPA).
Uses. Propiconazole targets fungi, bacteria, and viruses affecting plants (#EPA). Propiconazole is used to protect ornamental plants and turf, including golf courses and sod farms. It may be used as a preservative to wood, adhesives, paints, coatings, leather, paper, textiles, and other industrial products (#EPA). Propiconazole is registered for use on a variety of food crops, most notably banana, nuts, barley, corn, stone fruits, wheat, cereal grains, citrus, oats, rice, rye, sugarcane, and wheat. Nuts, rice, and wheat account for the heaviest usage (#EPA).
There is no evidence that propiconazole accumulates in the soil. Results from a range of toxicity studies show that propiconazole is of low toxicity to birds, mammals, and insects, and will not bioaccumulate. Propiconazole will not harm non-target plants when used according to label directions. Once propiconazole is absorbed by plants it is degraded within a few days to minor metabolites that are insignificant to the environment. Some crops may contain propiconazole residues at harvest but when used in accordance with the label recommendations these residue levels pose negligible risk
Propiconazole is a triazole fungicide, also known as a DMI, or demethylation inhibiting fungicide due to its binding with and inhibiting the 14-alpha demethylase enzyme from demethylating a precursor to ergosterol. 
Based on the available chronic toxicity data, EPA has established the RfD for propiconazole at 0.013 mg/kg/day. This RfD is based on a 1 year dog feeding study with a NOEL of 1.25 mg/kg/day and an uncertainty factor of 100. Propiconazole's mode of action is demethylation of C-14 during ergosterol biosynthesis, and leading to accumulation of C-14 methyl sterols. The biosynthesis of these ergosterols is critical to the formation of cell walls of fungi.