1 March, St. David's Day, is the national day of Wales. National Days and National Holidays This is the flag of St David. St David's Day is celebrated in Wales on 1 March, in honour of St David (Dewi Sant), the patron saint of Wales. He was a Celtic monk, abbot and bishop, who lived in the sixth century. He spread the word of Christianity across Wales. The national flag of Wales, depicting a fiery red dragon (Y Ddraig Goch) against a green and white background, is also flown. Flag to colour. 17 March, St. Patrick's Day, is the national day of Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland. This is the flag of St Patrick.
At that time, with the union of Ireland and Great Britain, it became necessary to represent Ireland in the Union Flag and so the cross of St. Patrick was include thus creating the flag as we now have it. THE HISTORY OF THE UNION JACK. The first step taken in the creation of the flag of Great Britain was on 12th April 1606. When King James VI of Scotland became king of England (King James I) it was decided that the union of the two realms under one king should be represented symbolically by a new flag.
The arms of the Prince of Wales are based on those of Llewelyn ap Gruffydd, the last native Prince of Wales. The Patron saint is St. David who was the founder and first abbot-bishop of St. David's, a small city in the county of Pembrokeshire. The national day is celebrated on the 1st of March. The Flags of the UK and Ireland. The Flags of the UK and Ireland. As you travel around the British Isles, you may see many different flags that you will perhaps be unfamiliar with.
The flag of Wales (Welsh: Baner Cymru or Y Ddraig Goch, meaning  The Red Dragon ) consists of a red dragon passant on a green and white field. As with many heraldic charges, the exact representation of the dragon is not standardised and many renderings exist. 
– in the United Kingdom (green). England and Wales (Welsh: Cymru a Lloegr) is a jurisdiction covering two of the four countries of the United Kingdom, which form the constitutional successor to the former Kingdom of England and follow a single legal system, known as English law. The powers of the Assembly were expanded by the Government of Wales Act 2006, which allows it to pass its own laws, and the Act also formally separated the Welsh Government from the Assembly. There is no equivalent body for England, which is directly governed by the Parliament and the government of the United Kingdom.
The British Union Flag is commonly called the 'Union Jack' and is it represents the flags of the kingdoms of England and Wales, Scotland and of Northern Ireland. The Flags of the UK and Ireland. The Flags of the UK and Ireland. As you travel around the British Isles, you may see many different flags that you will perhaps be unfamiliar with.
The Scottish Bluebell is also seen as the flower of Scotland. Wales-St. David and the Daffodil The national flower of Wales is the daffodil, which is traditionally worn on St. Davids Day. The vegetable called leek is also considered to be a traditional emblem of Wales. There are many explanations of how the leek came to be adopted as the national emblem of Wales. EMBLEMS OF BRITAIN. Each country in Britain has its own patron saint and floral emblem: England-St. George and the Rose The national flower of England is the rose.
1 Some professional bodies represent England and Wales, for example the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales, the General Council of the Bar, the Law Society, the National Farmers Union and the Police Federation of England and Wales. The powers of the Assembly were expanded by the Government of Wales Act 2006, which allows it to pass its own laws, and the Act also formally separated the Welsh Government from the Assembly. There is no equivalent body for England, which is directly governed by the Parliament and the government of the United Kingdom.