Optic disc drusen are abnormal deposits of protein-like material in the optic disc – the front part of the optic nerve. We do not know the exact cause of optic disc drusen but they are thought to come from abnormal flow of material in optic nerve cells. Optic Disc Drusen, Page 3 optic nerve from increased intracranial pressure. This prompts referral to a neurologist, neuro-surgeon, or even the emergency room. Diagnosis Optic disc drusen either can be buried within the substance of the optic nerve head or located superficially on the surface of the optic nerve head.
3. 9. Optic disc swelling can be caused by a number of conditions; papilloedema relates more specifically to optic disc swelling secondary to raised intracranial pressure. Disc swelling is distinct from disc atrophy which refers to a loss of nerve fibres at the optic nerve head and which results in a pale disc. 
Disc hemorrhages are characteristic linear hemorrhages perpendicular to the optic disc, most commonly on the superotemporal or inferotemporal margin. The cause of disc hemorrhages has not been fully characterized, and mechanical and vascular hypotheses with evidence supporting both have been proposed. 
blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each eye. The optic nerve (also known as cranial nerve II) is a continuation of the axons of the ganglion cells in the retina. There are approximately 1.1 million nerve cells in each optic nerve. The optic nerve, which acts like a cable connecting the eye with the brain, actually is more like brain tissue than it is nerve tissue.
Papilledema (or papilloedema) is optic disc swelling that is caused by increased intracranial pressure. The swelling is usually bilateral and can occur over a period of hours to weeks. Unilateral presentation is extremely rare. 
Optic disc drusen are abnormal deposits of protein-like material in the optic disc – the front part of the optic nerve. We do not know the exact cause of optic disc drusen but they are thought to come from abnormal flow of material in optic nerve cells. Optic disc drusen are caused by an abnormal deposition of a protein-like material in the optic nerve. The cause of this material is unknown. In some individuals, the deposition of this material can be inherited, while in others it occurs without a family history.
The optic disc tissue rises above the surface and its margins are blurred. These findings could be caused by a congenital optic disc anomaly or by optic disc edema, an acquired slowing of axoplasmic flow. They reflect ischemic leakage of retinal vessels on the optic disc surface. The toothpaste-like white spots on the disc surface.
Optic disc drusen are caused by an abnormal deposition of a protein-like material in the optic nerve. The cause of this material is unknown. In some individuals, the deposition of this material can be inherited, while in others it occurs without a family history. Optic Disc Drusen, Page 3 optic nerve from increased intracranial pressure. This prompts referral to a neurologist, neuro-surgeon, or even the emergency room. Diagnosis Optic disc drusen either can be buried within the substance of the optic nerve head or located superficially on the surface of the optic nerve head.
The optic disc or optic nerve head is the point of exit for ganglion cell axons leaving the eye. Because there are no rods or cones overlying the optic disc, it corresponds to a small physiological blind spot in each eye. The ganglion cell axons form the optic nerve after they leave the eye. The optic disc represents the beginning of the optic nerve and is the point where the axons of retinal ganglion cells come together. The optic disc is also the entry point for the major blood vessels that supply the retina. The optic disc in a normal human eye carries from 1 to 1.2 million neurons from the eye towards the brain. The optic disc is placed 3 to 4 mm to the nasal side of the fovea. It is a vertical oval, with average dimensions of 1.76mm horizontally by 1.92mm vertically. There is a central depression, of variable size, called the optic cup.