Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans (DFSP) is a tumor of the skin. It is a rare type of sarcoma (soft tissue cancer). It comprises fewer than 0.1% of all cancers and 1% of all soft tissue sarcomas. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans (DFSP) is a rare type of cancer, a soft tissue sarcoma that develops in the deep layers of skin. It is sometimes described as having tentacles that can grow into surrounding fat, muscle and even bone. 1 Bednar tumors (pigmented DFSP) contain dark-colored cells called melanin-containing dendritic cells. 2  Melanin is the substance that gives skin its color. 3  As a result, this type of tumor may contain various colors, including red and brown. 4  Bednar tumors account for approximately 1%-5% of all DFSP cases.
Pathophysiology. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a cutaneous malignancy that arises from the dermis and invades deeper tissue (eg, fat, fascia, muscle, bone). The cellular origin of DFSP is not clear. Evidence supports the cellular origin being fibroblastic, histiocytic, or neuroectodermal. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is diagnosed with a biopsy, when a portion of the tumor is removed for examination. In order to ensure that enough tissue is removed to make an accurate diagnosis, the initial biopsy of a suspected DFSP is usually done with a core needle or a surgical incision. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans begins as a minor firm area of skin most commonly about to 1 to 5 cm in diameter. It is a slow growing tumor and is usually found on the torso but can also be found on the arms, legs, head and neck.
Myxoid dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans tumors contain an abnormal type of connective tissue known as myxoid stroma. Giant cell fibroblastoma, which is sometimes referred to as juvenile dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans because it typically affects children and adolescents, is characterized by giant cells in the tumor. In dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, the tumor has a tendency to return after being removed. However, it does not often spread to other parts of the body (metastasize). There are several variants of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in which different cell types are involved
1 Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans: A rare form of slow growing tumor that develops deep in the skin. 2  Metastatis is rare but it often regrows after being surgically removed. 3  It occurs mostly on the trunk, shoulders and chest. 1 Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans: An intermediate cutaneous fibrohistiocytic neoplasm, presenting as a nodular cutaneous mass, most often on the trunk and the proximal extremities. 2  The tumor diffusely infiltrates the dermis and the subcutaneous tissues.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a very rare tumor. It is a rare neoplasm of the dermis layer of the skin, and is classified as a sarcoma. There is only about one case per million per year. DFSP is a fibrosarcoma, more precisely a cutaneous soft tissue sarcoma. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans begins as a minor firm area of skin most commonly about to 1 to 5 cm in diameter. It is a slow growing tumor and is usually found on the torso but can also be found on the arms, legs, head and neck.
Overview. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is an uncommon tumor that arises in the skin. The tumor is firm and often flesh-colored although it can be reddish, bluish, or purplish. The tumor is often found on the chest or shoulders, but it can be found on other parts of the body
Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans is a rare soft tissue growth that is slow-growing, not often metastasize (less than 4% of total number of cases), in some cases of spreading, the lungs are the most common direction. It frequently recurs or remains. It can enter both the muscle and bone. 
This condition is a type of soft tissue sarcoma, which are cancers that affect skin, fat, muscle, and similar tissues. In dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, the tumor most often starts as a small, firm patch of skin, usually 1 to 5 centimeters in diameter, that is usually purplish, reddish, or flesh-colored. The tumor typically grows slowly and can become a raised nodule. In dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, the tumor has a tendency to return after being removed. However, it does not often spread to other parts of the body (metastasize). There are several variants of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in which different cell types are involved in the tumor.