A lahar from the 1982 eruption of Galunggung. The last major eruption on Galunggung was in 1982, which had a Volcanic Explosivity Index of 4 and killed 18 people (due to indirect cause (traffic accident, starvation)). All four engines failed due to the buildup of volcanic ash, and the aircraft descended for 16 minutes, losing 7,500 m (24,606 ft) of its 11,500 m (37,730 ft) altitude, until the crew managed to restart the engines and land in Jakarta.
Several types of volcanic eruptions —during which lava, tephra (ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and blocks), and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure —have been distinguished by volcanologists. These are often named after famous volcanoes where that type of behavior has been observed. Strombolian eruptions are a type of volcanic eruption, named after the volcano Stromboli, which has been erupting continuously for centuries. Strombolian eruptions are driven by the bursting of gas bubbles within the magma. These gas bubbles within the magma accumulate and coalesce into large bubbles, called gas slugs.
Galunggung is a stratovolcano on the west side of the island of Java. The caldera of Galunggung is open to the southeast. The first historic eruption of Galunggung was in 1822. Since then the volcano has erupted four times, most recently in 1984. This photo shows a column of ash rising above the summit during the large (VEI=4) Vulcanian-type eruption. Eruption columns at Galunggung reached heights as great as 15 miles (24 km). 
The most common type of volcanic eruption occurs when magma (the term for lava when it is below the Earth's surface) is released from a volcanic vent. Eruptions can be effusive, where lava flows like a thick, sticky liquid, or explosive, where fragmented lava explodes out of a vent. Here are some of the most common types of eruptions: In a Hawaiian eruption, fluid basaltic lava is thrown into the air in jets from a vent or line of vents (a fissure) at the summit or on the flank of a volcano. The jets can last for hours or even days, a phenomenon known as fire fountaining.
Volcanologists classify eruptions into several different types. Some are named for particular volcanoes where the type of eruption is common; others concern the resulting shape of the eruptive products or the place where the eruptions occur. Here are some of the most common types of eruptions: In a Hawaiian eruption, fluid basaltic lava is thrown into the air in jets from a vent or line of vents (a fissure) at the summit or on the flank of a volcano. The jets can last for hours or even days, a phenomenon known as fire fountaining.
A Vulcanian eruption is a short, violent, relatively small explosion of viscous magma (usually andesite, dacite, or rhyolite). This type of eruption results from the fragmentation and explosion of a plug of lava in a volcanic conduit, or from the rupture of a lava dome (viscous lava that piles up over a vent). Here are some of the most common types of eruptions: In a Hawaiian eruption, fluid basaltic lava is thrown into the air in jets from a vent or line of vents (a fissure) at the summit or on the flank of a volcano. The jets can last for hours or even days, a phenomenon known as fire fountaining.
Plinian eruptions (or Vesuvian) are a type of volcanic eruption, named for the historical eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 of Mount Vesuvius that buried the Roman towns of Pompeii and Herculaneum and, specifically, for its chronicler Pliny the Younger. Strombolian eruptions are a type of volcanic eruption, named after the volcano Stromboli, which has been erupting continuously for centuries. Strombolian eruptions are driven by the bursting of gas bubbles within the magma. These gas bubbles within the magma accumulate and coalesce into large bubbles, called gas slugs.
Galunggung is a stratovolcano on the west side of the island of Java. The caldera of Galunggung is open to the southeast. Photo by Jack Lockwood, U.S. Geological Survey, August 17, 1982. The first historic eruption of Galunggung was in 1822. Since then the volcano has erupted four times, most recently in 1984. This photo shows a column of ash rising above the summit during the large (VEI=4) Vulcanian-type eruption. Eruption columns at Galunggung reached heights as great as 15 miles (24 km). Photo by Jack Lockwood, U.S. Geological Survey, August 16, 1982. Two eruptions at Galunggung have caused fatalities.
Mount Galunggung is part of the Sunda Arc extending through Sumatra, Java and Bali, which has resulted from the subduction of the Australian plate beneath the Eurasian plate. All four engines failed due to the buildup of volcanic ash, and the aircraft descended for 16 minutes, losing 7,500 m (24,606 ft) of its 11,500 m (37,730 ft) altitude, until the crew managed to restart the engines and land in Jakarta.