One of the realities of your credit score is that the higher your credit score is, the bigger hit it will take if you are late on one payment. This is true of one late mortgage payment or one late credit card payment as well, when paying 30 days late can drop your score 100 points if you have a score of 780. The drop is less if you have a lower credit score. The same is true of a late car loan payment. If you have a higher score, you have more to lose
As you can see, even if you have pretty good credit, your score can be taken down a few notches just by a single missed mortgage payment. If you are 30 days late on your payment, your 780 credit score can plummet to between 670 and 690. That’s a potential drop of more than 100 points. On top of that, it can take someone with good credit about three years to recover the excellent score. 
‎09-13-2012 04:15 PM. I had a 30 day late payment on a credit card Feb. 2011. The account was paid in full next month. CRA still show the 30 day late from 2/11. How long does this late payment negatively affect my credit score. It shows as potentially negative still.
1 A late payment on your credit report could stay on your credit report for seven years. 2  It might decrease your credit score. 3  Payment history information typically accounts for nearly 35% of your credit score, making it one of the single most important factors in calculating your score. If your bills are past due, the sooner you can pay the bill, the better. The damaging effect of a late payment on your credit score can increase the longer the delinquency. If you've made a late payment recently, you could attempt to do the following: 1  Request removal of a late payment fee.
1 It may end up on your credit report. 2  If your payment is more than 30 days late, the three major credit bureaus are usually notified, meaning the late payment will show up on your credit reports. 3  A late payment on your credit report could stay on your credit report for seven years. 4  It might decrease your credit score. If your bills are past due, the sooner you can pay the bill, the better. The damaging effect of a late payment on your credit score can increase the longer the delinquency. If you've made a late payment recently, you could attempt to do the following: 1  Request removal of a late payment fee.
Late payments hurt your score less and less as they age. I do not know old lates have to be before they negatively affect scores less. It seems like the last two years of payment history is very important. It could be that once that late payment is over two years old, it will hurt much less than one as recent as '11. The account was paid in full next month. CRA still show the 30 day late from 2/11. How long does this late payment negatively affect my credit score. It shows as potentially negative still.
For example, all other things being equal, a payment that is 90 days late can have a more significant negative impact on your credit score than a payment that is 30 days late. In addition, the more recent the late payment, the more negative of an impact it could have. In comparison, a consumer with a 680 FICO Score and two late payments (a 90-day delinquency on a credit card account from two years ago and a 30-day delinquency on an auto loan from a year ago) would experience a 60- to 80-point drop after being hit with another 30-day delinquency.
Late payments on your credit accounts can cost you in both late fees and damage to your credit score. While a single instance of a late payment may not do too much damage to your credit rating, it can trigger concern in other creditors which can raise your interest rates. Credit Considerations. If you have a good payment record, one 30-day late payment probably won't affect your credit score too much. But a 90-day late payment can have a very serious effect on your credit score, as will a pattern of late payments.
Time Frame. Creditors can report late payments to the credit bureaus, which stay on the report for up to seven years after the late payment occurs. Your credit report will also show the length of the delinquency, usually by listing the late payments as 30 days, 60 days or 90 days past due. The older the negative item on your credit report, the less impact it has on your score. Credit Considerations. If you have a good payment record, one 30-day late payment probably won't affect your credit score too much. But a 90-day late payment can have a very serious effect on your credit score, as will a pattern of late payments.
If you have a payment that is more than 30 days late, your creditor may report it to the credit reporting agencies (CRAs). In this case, the late payment can show up on your credit report and be factored into your credit score. Late payments will be listed on your credit report depending on how late they are: 30 days late, 60 days late, 90 days late, 120 days late, 150 days late, or charged off. In comparison, a consumer with a 680 FICO Score and two late payments (a 90-day delinquency on a credit card account from two years ago and a 30-day delinquency on an auto loan from a year ago) would experience a 60- to 80-point drop after being hit with another 30-day delinquency.