Creeping Charlie or ground ivy (Glechoma hederacea) is a perennial weed that spreads by seeds, rhizomes, and creeping stems that root at the nodes. The leaves are round or kidney-shaped, bright green, hairy, and opposite with scalloped leaf edges. The flowers are small, purplish blue, and funnel-shaped. 
Overview. The creeping Charlie plant is called ground ivy (Glechoma hederacea L.) by many and is considered an invasive plant or noxious weed by most. It is similar to mints in the way that it spreads through lawns and flowerbeds. The roots grow out of stems that spread in the soil. Considerations. If you plant creeping Charlie, choose the location wisely and be prepared for it to spread. In an area where you need a ground cover, it is an attractive plant and does the job beautifully. In your lawn or vegetable garden, it is a noxious weed.
Successfully killing creeping charlie is the dream of most homeowners who like a nice lawn. The creeping charlie plant is rivaled only by dandelions in terms of difficulty to get rid of and control. While getting rid of the creeping charlie weed is difficult, if you know a few tips and tricks about how to get rid of creeping charlie, you can beat this annoying lawn invader. Creeping charlie plant is most easily identified by its growth habit. It is a vine that grows close to the ground and will form a mat-like ground cover if allowed to. The vines have nodes at each of the places where leaves grow and these nodes will form roots if they come in contact with the soil.
Fields of Nutrition has medicinal benefits and vitamin/mineral content of Creeping Charlie. Leaves: The leaves are heart-shaped, are opposite, scalloped, dark green, sometimes they may appear to be tinted purple. Height: Creeping Charlie is a ground cover. Habitat: Damp waste ground, hedgerows, shady locations, woodland margins and this wild edible thrives in moist, shady areas of the lawn and garden, and in sunny areas too if the lawn is thin. To support our efforts please browse our store (books with medicinal info & subscriptions). Google search Creeping Charlie and you will get a plethora of websites that offer suggestions how to kill this invasive weed; yet if you truly want to get rid of it, eat it!
On a 16-acre turf research facility at the University of Minnesota in St. Paul, there is no Creeping Charlie --- a weed that is the most common problem in Minnesota's home lawns. That's because the land has absolutely no shade. 
While creeping charlie weed is considered a broadleaf weed, it is not affected by all broadleaf spectrum herbicides. The only weed killers that are successful at killing creeping charlie are weed killers that contain dicamba. Even dicamba is only successful if applied several times at the right time. Creeping charlie plant is most easily identified by its growth habit. It is a vine that grows close to the ground and will form a mat-like ground cover if allowed to. The vines have nodes at each of the places where leaves grow and these nodes will form roots if they come in contact with the soil.
Names. Glechoma hederacea L. has many common names. It is called creeping Charlie, ground ivy, gill-over-the ground, robin runaway, cat's foot (due to the shape of the leaves), lawn ivy and ale hoof (when it was used to clarify beer). Considerations. If you plant creeping Charlie, choose the location wisely and be prepared for it to spread. In an area where you need a ground cover, it is an attractive plant and does the job beautifully. In your lawn or vegetable garden, it is a noxious weed.
Creeping Charlie is resistant to a number of chemical herbicides, making it difficult to control this annoying weed. Its growing habits can also make it a daunting task to kill creeping Charlie, but don’t despair. With diligence you can rid your lawn of creeping Charlie. Small, isolated patches of creeping Charlie can be hand pulled or removed with a hoe. Keep pulling out or hoeing Charlie as it reappears, and over time you can eliminate this pesky weed. In many cases, however, creeping Charlie is so widespread that hand pulling or hoeing is out of the question.
The first thing to understand when working to get rid of creeping charlie plant is that it, like most lawn weeds, thrive best in an unhealthy lawn. Be sure to use proper mowing, watering and fertilizing practices when caring for your lawn. Creeping charlie plant is most easily identified by its growth habit. It is a vine that grows close to the ground and will form a mat-like ground cover if allowed to. The vines have nodes at each of the places where leaves grow and these nodes will form roots if they come in contact with the soil.