Chapter 33. Why alcohol should not be prohibited. In contrast to the many logical arguments in favor of alcohol prohibition, the one decisive argument against such a measure is purely pragmatic: prohibition doesn't work. It should work, but it doesn't. 
Alcohol should be banned. Alcohol is not something like water, or air that is required to live on this earth. Alcohol consumed in smaller amounts and occasionally is good for health but the majority of people cannot limit their amount of alcohol intake once they have started consuming it. We should BAN Alcohol. 11,000 people are KILLED each year in America just from Alcohol related car crashes. Just recently a teacher and her unborn child were KILLED when a drunk hit them head on.
1 Alcohol should be banned/restricted on principal; tax revenue is a practicality. 2  It is also true that tax revenues would be lost if alcohol were banned. 3  However, again, this is not a principled reason to reject the proposition, simply a practical problem. 
Alcohol advertisements should be banned from TV. Alcohol Advertisements is the promotion of alcohol beverages by alcohol producers through ads on TV and also in a variety of media. 
Why alcohol ads should be banned. Save | Email | Print | PDF By: Bhekisisa Mncube. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has urged society to support him in his bid to stop the advertising of alcoholic beverages. He announced that draft legislation to provide a total ban is to be presented to Parliament this month.
Alcohol has been part of human culture for centuries and should not become illegal. Although it causes various health problems and has caused the deaths of a plethora of individuals, making it illegal would solve nothing. People would still find a way to buy and drink it. Alcohol would be illegal if it was discovered today. The only reason alcohol isn't illegal is because it's been around for so long and plays become a major part in most cultures. Health risks and negative externalities aren't taken into account at all otherwise illegalalising alcohol would be obvious.
Though alcohol can be fun and can take the edge off, many people die from it each year. These deaths are only one of the many reasons why alcohol should be banned. Alcohol can cause health problems. Alcohol can cause cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic lung disease and diabetes in moderate drinkers. Alcoholics, when they drink, can't always predict when they'll stop, how much they'll drink or what the consequences of their drinking will be. I've already mentioned that over 2.5 million people die each year worldwide due to alcohol related causes. Four percent of all deaths are related to alcohol.
Alcohol should be banned because it is the way that the government controls us! Just look at the commercials on your television, always wine or beer commercials and the government uses it to keep society happy. We should BAN Alcohol. 11,000 people are KILLED each year in America just from Alcohol related car crashes. Just recently a teacher and her unborn child were KILLED when a drunk hit them head on.
Alcohol should be banned since it serves no other purpose than to get people drunk and kill kids. We should BAN Alcohol. 11,000 people are KILLED each year in America just from Alcohol related car crashes. Just recently a teacher and her unborn child were KILLED when a drunk hit them head on. Alcohol is NOT a right
It should not be banned. Firstly I think alcohol should not be banned as it helps people to get jobs and keeps people in business. Secondly if alcohol was banned drugs would become more popular so that people who liked to drink might start to take drugs instead. Thirdly even if alcohol was banned it does not stop people from drinking it also people need to learn to take responsibility for their own actions. Alcohol would be illegal if it was discovered today. The only reason alcohol isn't illegal is because it's been around for so long and plays become a major part in most cultures. Health risks and negative externalities aren't taken into account at all otherwise illegalalising alcohol would be obvious.