reverberation. an artifact in ultrasound imaging resulting from the production of spurious echoes which are caused by reflections at the skin-transducer interface or by bone or gas. See also comet-tail. Mentioned in? 1  amphoric resonance. 2  anechoic chamber. 3  artifact. 4  axial resolution. 5  circuit. 6  comet sign. 7  comet tail artifact. 8  comet tail sign. 9  comet-tail. 10  dirty shadowing. 11  echo. 12  mirror-image artifact. 13  neural oscillation. 14  NMR. 15  nuclear magnetic resonance. 16  palpatory percussion. 17  resonance. 18  ring-down artifact. 19  skoda
There are two subtypes of reverberation artifact: 1  comet-tail artifact: a short train of reverberations from an echogenic focus which has strong parallel reflectors within it (e.g. cholesterol crystals in adenomyomatosis). When the ultrasound beam reflects back and forth between the reflectors (revereberates), the ultrasound transducer interprets the sound waves returning from the reverbration as deeper structures since it took longer for the wave to return to the transducer.
Case Discussion: Reverberation artifact is a common ultrasound artifact and occurs when a sound pulse reverberates back and forth between two strong parallel reflectors. With the exception of comet-tail artifact, a subtype of reverberation, reverberation artefact has little diagnostic use. A: Reverberation artifact occurs when an ultrasound pulse gets trapped between two strong parallel reflectors. The wave reflects back and forth between the reflectors (reverberates)
An artifact is any phenomenon that affects the acquisition or interpretation of an ultrasound image. Artifacts can occur because of properties within the tissue itself, or be created by the anesthetist. The most commonly seen artifacts are air artifact, shadow artifact, reverberation, and acoustic enhancement. Air artifact occurs when the transducer does not fully contact the skin. Because of the large disparity in acoustic impedance between air and tissue, sound cannot penetrate the skin and is reflected off
A comet tail artifact is similar to reverberation. It is produced by the front and back of a very strong reflector (air bubble, BB gun pellet). The reverberations are spaced very narrowly and blend into a small band (Figure 10). This artifact is caused by low energy ‘side lobes’ of the main ultrasound beam. When an echo from such a side lobe beam becomes strong enough and returns to the receiver, it is ‘assigned’ to the main beam and displayed at a false location.
Reverberation. Reverberation (or reverb) is the persistence of sound in an enclosed space after its generation. It is relatively common artifact that limits the interpretation of the final imaging. This phenomenon is due to continuing repeated echoes between anatomic interfaces which are strong reflectors. Shadowing. This very common artifact might be characterized as the “Achilles heel” of echocardiography and occurs when the transmitted ultrasound beam encounters a medium of significantly different acoustic impedance and as a result is reflected back to the transducer.
When imaging instruments, this artifact is likely to occur in conjunction with reverberation artifacts. Two likely candidates are the comet tail artifact, which can be very long because of the low inherent absorption of steel, and reverberation between the probe and the instrument. The artifacts observed with rods can be seen in these images. The images of the 19-gauge needle (Figure 16A ⇓ and Video 1) include a comet tail artifact, 3 guided wave artifacts, a tip reverberation artifact, a diffractive side lobe artifact, and a specular side lobe artifact.
Resources (1). Reverberation Artifact. Reverberation artifacts are produced from the multiple reflections from an object if the acoustical impedances of tissue layers are too much different and the detected echo does not run the shortest sound path because it bounces back and forth between the object and the transducer. An empyema or lung abscess can be simulated by a mirror image artifact of a hepatic cyst. This liver lesion can appear like a lesion within the lung because the wave is reflected off the diaphragm back into the liver. The angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence.