The northern snakehead fish is said to not be a threat to humans. However, a more vicious species, the giant snakeheads have reportedly attacked and even killed peo … ple who have went near its young. They have been found in Maine, California, Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. 
DCL |. The giant snakehead, Channa micropeltes, is a nasty, nasty fish. It's a native of lakes, rivers and other bodies of freshwater in South and Southeast Asia, from India to Vietnam. 
In the United States, there are four species of snakeheads: Channa argus (northern snakehead), Channa micropeltes (giant snakehead), Channa marulius (bullseye snakehead), and Channa maculate (blotched snakehead). The northern snakehead fish has succeeded in establishing breeding populations in the wild. Northern snakehead fish are strong predators at the juvenile and adult stages of their life cycle. Many native species are outcompeted for food resources. Small prey, such as zooplankton, larvae, and small fish and crustaceans populations may be threatened by feeding juvenile snakehead fish.
Posted. There is a snakehead thread on the first page of this very section of the forum. Lots of snakehead discussion there already. They are being hunted for the threats they could pose and as a response to the sensationalized stories the media has created about them. I have it on good authority that in the Potomac, no snakeheads have been found with bass in their stomachs. Bass on the other hand, love to eat baby snakeheads. I'm not going to go into the whole snakeheads aren't actually that bad argument because we've beaten it to death and I would simply be restating what's already been said in other threads. Calling them dangerous is a joke, at least in regards to humans.
The snakeheads are members of the freshwater perciform fish family Channidae, native to parts of Africa and Asia. These elongated, predatory fish are distinguished by their long dorsal fins, large mouths, and shiny teeth. They breathe air with gills, which allows them to migrate short distances over land. Humans have been introducing snakeheads to nonindigenous waters for over 100 years. In parts of Asia and Africa, the snakehead is considered a valuable food fish, and is produced in aquacultures (fisheries motivation) or by ignorance (as was the case in Crofton, Maryland).
Background. The northern snakehead fish (Channa argus) has been identified as an invasive aquatic fish across the country. Snakehead fish got their name because of their long, cylindrical body plan and large scales on their head that give them a snake-like appearance. Northern snakehead fish are strong predators at the juvenile and adult stages of their life cycle. Many native species are outcompeted for food resources. Small prey, such as zooplankton, larvae, and small fish and crustaceans populations may be threatened by feeding juvenile snakehead fish.
The northern snakehead is an aggressive freshwater fish that can grow to be about 4 feet long. It has been found in a variety of freshwater lakes, swamps, ponds, and streams of various temperatures, but cannot tolerate saltwater. The northern snakehead fish is native to parts of Asia and Africa. 1 The northern snakehead fish has a large mouth with a strong jaw and sharp, canine-like teeth. 2  Its head resembles that of a snake; it has an elongated cylindrical shape with enlarged scales and eyes on each side near the top front of the head.
The northern snakehead is an invasive fish native to China, Russia and Korea. Other snakehead species are native to parts of Asia and Africa. Two populations of this air-breathing predator have been identified in New York State; one in two connected ponds in Queens, NYC and one in Ridgebury Lake in the Town of Wawayanda, Orange County. Northern Snakehead in a tank. Snakeheads are highly invasive and have the potential to disrupt recreational and commercial fishing, harm native fish and wildlife, and impact our economy. New York State prohibits possession, sale and live transport of snakehead fish (genus Channa and Parachanna) and their viable eggs.
The northern snakehead fish was first discovered in the United States in California in 1997. This species is considered established in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York and Arkansas. Individual fish have also been collected in California, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Delaware and North Carolina. Northern snakehead fish are strong predators at the juvenile and adult stages of their life cycle. Many native species are outcompeted for food resources. Small prey, such as zooplankton, larvae, and small fish and crustaceans populations may be threatened by feeding juvenile snakehead fish.