1 Renter's insurance is too expensive, and I already have enough bills to pay.. 2  The average renter's insurance policy costs between $15 and $30 per month. 3  Replacing all of your possessions or being liable for an accident on your premises will cost much more. 
Facts about Renters Insurance in Georgia. The average cost of a renters insurance policy in Georgia works out to only $218 per year. Georgia Renters insurance is a must for people renting an apartment home, townhome, condo or living on a college campus. No need to worry because you can find affordable renters insurance quotes on the web. The average cost for an Georgia renters quote is $218 which works out to be $18 per month. This is a small cost of purchase renters insurance for your home or apartment in Georgia.
Further, the cost of renter's insurance depends on the insurance company selected. According to Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America (IIAB), the average cost for renter's insurance is about $12 per month for $30,000 worth of property coverage and $100,000 of liability coverage. A renter can choose to insure only certain items and leave others uninsured. Even if the renter has $45,000 worth of possessions, he does not have to use that value as the policy coverage amount. He may instead decide to insure them for only $20,000 or $30,000, which would hold down the cost of the policy.
While Georgia renters insurance is one of the few bargains in the insurance industry, there are many ways you can reduce your premiums even more. For example, while $250 is a typical deductible amount, you may want to consider raising it to $500 or even $1,000. This move can reduce your premiums by up to 25%. Some experts estimate that less than one quarter of Atlanta, Georgia's renters have renters insurance. When you consider that renters insurance is surprisingly inexpensive, you will see that it just makes sense to get Georgia
On average, Atlanta renters insurance costs more or less what it costs anywhere else in the country – between fifteen and twenty dollars a month. Quite honestly, there’s not much else that you could buy for that much money. You couldn’t park in Atlanta for that much money, much less buy a souvenir at the Coke factory. Many things in Atlanta are expensive, and the cost of living is rising. Georgia Renters Insurance is not expensive, and never will be. No matter how much it costs, it will always be a great value.
Think of it: for just over $17 per month (less than half the cost of a tank of gas), you can get about $20,000 worth of renters coverage, the same coverage you would get for HO-3 homeowner's insurance, which costs on average $703 per year. But I haven't got anything that needs coverage, you may say. Some experts estimate that less than one quarter of Atlanta, Georgia's renters have renters insurance. When you consider that renters insurance is surprisingly inexpensive, you will see that it just makes sense to get Georgia
An insurance deductible is the part of the coverage that the insured is responsible for in the event of a loss. Deductibles can range from $500 to $2,000. Selecting a lower deductible raises the renter's insurance premium. Similarly, a high deductible lowers the premium. A renter can choose to insure only certain items and leave others uninsured. Even if the renter has $45,000 worth of possessions, he does not have to use that value as the policy coverage amount. He may instead decide to insure them for only $20,000 or $30,000, which would hold down the cost of the policy.
What is the average renters insurance cost in Texas?   Depends on where you live, but for $30,000 of property coverage $100,000 liability and 1% deductible you are looking at $15-$20 per month. The cost for renters insurance in Florida starts at as little as $10 per month, but depends on the amount of coverage, the type of property you are renting and other factors.