Best Answer: It is an abbreviation for the word quiet.. On the q.t. is slang for quietly. q.t.. is an abbreviation for quiet. The phrase dates to at least 1884 when it appears in George Moore’s A Mummer’s Wife:  (Source: Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd Edition) www.wordorigins.org (chock full of info)...
Origin. The slang term 'qt' is a shortened form of 'quiet'. There's no definitive source for the phrase ' on the q.t .', although it appears to be of 19th century British origin-not, as is often supposed, American. The longer phrase ' on the quiet ' is also not especially old, but is first recorded somewhat before ' on the qt ', in Otago: Goldfields & Resources, 1862: All early citations of the phrase have it as 'on the strict q.t.'. The first recorded use of any version of the phrase in print that I can find documentary evidence for is by the Irish novelist George Moore, in A mummer's wife 1884: . It will be possible to have one spree on the strict q.t..
The term long QT refers to an abnormal pattern seen on an EKG (electrocardiogram). An EKG is a test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads from the top of your heart to the bottom. 
5 Answers 5. active oldest votes. up vote 7 down vote accepted. The slang term 'qt' is a shortened form of 'quiet'. There's no definitive source for the phrase 'on the q.t.', although it appears to be of 19th century British origin-not, as is often supposed, American. World Wide Words cites the use of QT as an abbreviation as a clear sign that the origin must have been US, based on abbreviationism being a known linguistic feature of late 19th-century American English.
Apparently Q.T. is derived from quiet and originated in the 19th century, although its provenance is not certain. From phrases.org.uk: The slang term 'qt' is a shortened form of 'quiet'. There's no definitive source for the phrase 'on the q.t.', although it appears to be of 19th century British origin-not, as is often supposed, American. World Wide Words cites the use of QT as an abbreviation as a clear sign that the origin must have been US, based on abbreviationism being a known linguistic feature of late 19th-century American English.
In cardiology, the QT interval is a measure of the time between the start of the Q wave and the end of the T wave in the heart's electrical cycle. The QT interval represents electrical depolarization and repolarization of the ventricles. Like the R-R interval, the QT interval is dependent on the heart rate in an obvious way (the faster the heart rate the shorter the R-R Interval and QT interval) and may be adjusted to improve the detection of patients at increased risk of ventricular arrhythmia.
On the QT means on the quiet. That informal phrase is used to indicate the discussion or action is confidential. For example: 1  Chris and Diane were dating on the QT so Sheila, Chris's former girlfriend who works with Diane, would not find out. The second time, two quarts should go into the 9 qt pail, filling it up, and two should remain in the 4 qt pail.   Empty the contents of the 9 qt pail, and transfer that of the 4 qt pail into the 9 qt pail. Fill the 4 qt pail and empty it into the 9 qt pail. There are now 6 quarts in