A lesion is an area of tissue that has been damaged through injury or disease. So a brain lesion is an area of injury or disease within the brain. While the definition sounds simple, understanding brain lesions can be complicated. That's because there are many types of brain lesions. Symptoms of a brain lesion vary depending on the type, location, and size of the lesion. Symptoms common to several types of brain lesions include the following: 1  Headaches.
MRI showing a brain lesion. A brain lesion is an abnormality seen on a brain-imaging test, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or a computerized tomography (CT) scan. On CT or MRI scans, brain lesions appear as dark or light spots that don't look like normal brain tissue. 
No significant changes in biomechanical and biochemical properties were found either in the lesion tissue or in adjacent cartilage with genetic modification of the chondrocytes. Biochemical and biomechanical properties of lesion and adjacent articular cartilage after chondral defect repair in an equine model.
The term biomechanical is defined as the study of the mechanics of a living body, especially of the forces exerted by muscles and gravity on the skeletal structures.. The word biomechanics developed during the early 1970s, and was the application of engineering mechanics to biological and anatomical systems. In short, biomechanical is now a widely understood and easily comprehended term with 40 years of usage; there is no ambiguity or uncertainty in its definition. Lesion. The term lesion is defined as any pathological or traumatic discontinuity of tissue or loss of function of a part..
bi·o·me·chan·ics. n. 1. (used with a sing. verb) The study of the mechanics of a living body, especially of the forces exerted by muscles and gravity on the skeletal structure. 2. (used with a pl. verb) The mechanics of a part or function of a living body, such as of the heart or of locomotion. bi′o·me·chan′i·cal adj. 
Biomechanical Lesion. The term spinal biomechanical lesion then would imply a pathological condition involving discontinuity (loss of cohesion) of tissue, and loss of normal vertebral joint function (kinesio-pathology) that often has injury as its cause. In short, biomechanical is now a widely understood and easily comprehended term with 40 years of usage; there is no ambiguity or uncertainty in its definition. Lesion. The term lesion is defined as any pathological or traumatic discontinuity of tissue or loss of function of a part..
The new term is biomechanical lesion and the code is M99, with decimal designations used for various sections of the body – e.g., M99.01, Biomechanical lesion, cervical region. It is thought that the ICD-10 system will be required sometime in 2014. In short, biomechanical is now a widely understood and easily comprehended term with 40 years of usage; there is no ambiguity or uncertainty in its definition. Lesion. The term lesion is defined as any pathological or traumatic discontinuity of tissue or loss of function of a part..
Biomechanical lesion, unspecified. 1  M99.9 is a billable ICD-10-CM code that can be used to indicate a diagnosis for reimbursement purposes. 2  Reimbursement claims with a date of service on or after October 1, 2015 require the use of ICD-10-CM codes. 3  This is the American ICD-10-CM version of M99.9. 1
Pronounced lee-sion with the emphasis on the lee, a lesion can be almost any abnormal change involving any tissue or organ due to disease or injury. There are numerous types of lesions with different naming classifications. Lesions can be categorized according to whether or not they are caused by cancer. For example, a biopsy of a skin lesion may prove it to be benign or malignant, or evolving into a malignant lesion (called a premalignant lesion). Lesions can be defined according to the patterns they form. For example, a bull's-eye or target lesion is one that looks like the bull's eye on a target.
A lesion is any abnormality in the tissue of an organism (in layman's terms, damage), usually caused by disease or trauma. Lesion is derived from the Latin word laesio meaning injury. 