IMPORTANT INFORMATION. STCW only applies to Mariners employed on vessels greater than 200 Gross Register Tons (Domestic Tonnage), or 500 Gross Tons (ITC Tonnage), operating seaward of the boundary lines specified in Title 46 CFR Part 7. All mariners serving on U.S. vessels subject to STCW must comply with the requirements set forth in the STCW. These requirements are clarified in U.S. Regulation and Policy. All mariners serving in positions requiring STCW endorsements must be fully compliant on 1 January 2017.
The full five-day STCW Basic Safety Training (BST) modular course, consisting of the four independent modules, costs approximately US$900–$1,000 if taken in the United States. The cost of STCW Basic Training courses can range anywhere from US$900–$1,880 if taken in Europe or Australia. These figures will also vary depending on what school you attend. Most institutions offer each separate STCW module a à la, carte so you can take them one at a time if’you d, like rather than the (five or in some cases) six straight days in a. row
This course is designed to meet the mandatory minimum requirements for seafarers for familiarisation, basic training and instruction in accordance with the STCW Convention, as amended. The Certificate of Safety Training (CoST) is made up of five short courses as follows: Personal Survival Techniques (PST). 
The 1978 STCW Convention was the first to establish basic requirements on training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers on an international level. 
Standards of Training, Certification, and Watchkeeping (STCW). All mariners serving on U.S. vessels subject to STCW must comply with the requirements set forth in the STCW. These requirements are clarified in U.S. Regulation and Policy. All mariners serving in positions requiring STCW endorsements must be fully compliant on 1 January 2017.
Your STCW endorsement may include a limitation based on the domestic endorsement you are issued. Review the checklist for the domestic endorsement you hold or are applying for to see the STCW requirements. STCW Deck Endorsements currently being issued: 1  Regulation II/1 - Officer in Charge of a Navigational Watch (OICNW). All mariners serving on U.S. vessels subject to STCW must comply with the requirements set forth in the STCW. These requirements are clarified in U.S. Regulation and Policy. All mariners serving in positions requiring STCW endorsements must be fully compliant on 1 January 2017.
If you stay in this industry longer than five years though, you will likely have to take all four modules again. If you are employed on a vessel at that point, it might be a situation where a yacht is likely to take on the cost. Otherwise, look at the cost of taking the STCW BST courses as an investment. These figures will also vary depending on what school you attend. Most institutions offer each separate STCW module a à la, carte so you can take them one at a time if’you d, like rather than the (five or in some cases) six straight days in a. row
The United States exempted mariners from STCW 95/2010 Amendments that serve on vessels of less than 200 Gross Registry Tons (GRT) (U.S. domestic tonnage) sailing on voyages which begin and end in a U.S. port. This is now known as a national (formerly domestic) voyage. For those mariners that are applying for an original license, or presently hold a Coast Guard license for vessels of not more than 200 GRT, Near Coastal, may also comply with STCW by simply completing Basic Training (BT), and then apply for the STCW certificate from the Coast Guard.
The STCW Basic Safety Training Course is a five-day training course made up of four separate modules. To find out what the STCW Basic Safety Training (BST) course will cost you, click here. While some schools refer to their modules by different titles, the course names given below are essentially what you will find. Regardless of title, however, the information in parenthesis refers exactly to the corresponding STCW ’95 code sections: 1  STCW Personal Survival Techniques (Ref A-VI/1-1): 1½ days of basic sea survival; this course includes a practical session in a swimming pool. 2  Some schools will take two full days for this module.
This is required by the STCW '95 code for mariners serving on vessels over 500t and in many cases for inspected vessels of any size. Basic Safety Training combines all four modules of STCW A-VI/1-1 to 1-4 into a 5-day program to satisfy the requirements for Basic Safety Training on any size of vessel. There are no pre-requisites for this class, but this course includes strenuous physical activity