After malaria and intestinal helminthiasis, schistosomiasis is the third most devastating tropical disease in the world, being a major source of morbidity and mortality for developing countries in Africa, South America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, and Asia. (See Epidemiology and Prognosis.).
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by blood flukes (Trematodes) of the genus Schistosoma (S.). It is well documented that schistosomiasis haematobium was endemic in Ancient Egypt. Infection was diagnosed in mummies 3000, 4000 and 5000 years old.
Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic worms. Although the worms that cause schistosomiasis are not found in the United States, more than 200 million people are infected worldwide. In terms of impact this disease is second only to malaria as the most devastating parasitic disease.
Schistosomiasis is an acute and chronic parasitic disease caused by blood flukes (trematode worms) of the genus Schistosoma. At least 261 million people required preventive treatment in 2013.
Schistosomiasis is the second most prevalent tropical disease in the world; malaria is the first. The disease is found mainly in developing countries in Africa, Asia, South America, the Middle East, and the Caribbean. More than 200 million people in at least 74 countries are estimated to have the disease.
Found predominantly in tropical and sub-tropical climates, schistosomiasis infects 240 million people in as many as 78 countries, with a vast majority of the burden occuring in Africa. Schistosomiasis ranks second only to malaria as the most common parasitic disease. Schistosomiasis is transmitted by contact with contaminated fresh water (lakes and ponds, rivers, dams) inhabited by snails carrying the parasite.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that is not directly contagious from person to person. Five types of Schistosoma worm, also called blood flukes, can infest people and cause schistosomiasis: S. mansoni, S. japonicum, S. mekongi, S. intercalatum, and S. haematobium.
Schistosomiasis is a disease of poverty that leads to chronic ill-health. Infection is acquired when people come into contact with fresh water infested with the larval forms (cercariae) of parasitic blood flukes, known as schistosomes.