The Canadian Prairies is a region in western Canada, which may correspond to several different definitions, natural or political. Notably, the Prairie provinces or simply the Prairies comprise the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba, as they are partially covered by prairie (grasslands). 
Savannas, characterized by a grassy prairie-type ground cover underneath an open tree canopy, were common in northeastern Illinois. Scattered out on the prairie were patches of rich forests completely surrounded by prairie; these forests are called prairie groves. Prairies developed and were maintained under the influence of three major non-biological stresses: climate, grazing, and fire. Occurring in the central part of North America, prairies are subject to extreme ranges of temperatures, with hot summers and cold winter
Midwest prairies were formed relatively recently in geologic time. About 18,000 years ago much of the Midwest was covered by glaciers. As the glaciers moved through the area, their massive weight and grinding action flattened the soil. When the glaciers receded about 10,000-12,000 years ago, the huge amounts of melting water helped form river valleys. The melting waters also carried large amounts of soil and rocks. These were deposited as they receded.
Prairies are formed over thousands of years by sediments of mountains and shield regions that erode, filling in what were once bodies of water until the sediments become so plentiful that it creates new land. A prairie dog is a small burrowing rodent, genus Cynomys, of the squirrel family, being closely related to ground squirrels, chipmunks, and marmots, mostly being herbivorous, … although the eat some insects. They are named for their habitat and warning call which sounds like a dog barking.
About 8,300 years ago, the climate became substantially warmer and drier, and within the relatively short time of 500 to 800 years, most of the forests in Illinois died out, except along stream banks, and prairies spread over the landscape. Scattered out on the prairie were patches of rich forests completely surrounded by prairie; these forests are called prairie groves. Prairies developed and were maintained under the influence of three major non-biological stresses: climate, grazing, and fire.
Prairies are one of the most recently developed ecosystems in North America, formed after the period of Pleistocene glaciation. About 18,000 years ago, much of Illinois was covered by glaciers. As the glaciers melted, the land was covered at first with tundra type vegetation, then by spruce forests. Scattered out on the prairie were patches of rich forests completely surrounded by prairie; these forests are called prairie groves. Prairies developed and were maintained under the influence of three major non-biological stresses: climate, grazing, and fire.
1 Prairies are one of the most recently developed ecosystems in North America. 2  Prairies formed about 8,000 years ago. 3  About one percent of the North American prairies still exists. 4  Iowa had the largest percentage of its area covered by tallgrass prairie - 30 million acres. Tallgrass Prairie. 1  Tallgrass prairie once covered 142 million acres. 2  Prairies once covered about 40% of the United States. 3  Prairies are one of the most recently developed ecosystems in North America. 4  Prairies formed about 8,000 years ago. 5  About one percent of the North American prairies still exists. 6  Iowa had the largest percentage of its area ...
There are many prairies in the world that have been made in many different ways. One common way is a prairie forms of what use to be a large body of water. After the water evaporates, their is great soil for plants to grow. Wild grasses take off and cover the large area of land. Many of the prairie lands of the world have been taken over by farms. You can still find many large areas of prairies in the central United States. Some prairie landforms are overtaken by different types of forests of the world. Sometimes fires can help prevent this from happening and actually make the prairies thrive.
1 Prairies formed about 8,000 years ago. 2  About one percent of the North American prairies still exists. 3  Iowa had the largest percentage of its area covered by tallgrass prairie - 30 million acres. 4  In Iowa, 99.9 percent of the historic natural landscape is gone. Tallgrass Prairie. 1  Tallgrass prairie once covered 142 million acres. 2  Prairies once covered about 40% of the United States. 3  Prairies are one of the most recently developed ecosystems in North America. 4  Prairies formed about 8,000 years ago. 5  About one percent of the North American prairies still exists. 6  Iowa had the largest percentage of its area ...
The formation of the North American Prairies started with the upwelling of the Rocky Mountains. The mountains created a rain shadow that killed most of the trees. The parent material of most prairie soil was distributed during the last glacial advance that began about 110,000 years ago. Temperate grassland regions include the Pampas of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay as well as the steppes of Eurasia. Lands typically referred to as prairie tend to be in North America.