All of our engineers have several combined years of PLC (Programmable Logic Controller) and HMI (Human-Machine Interface) programming experience in a variety of industrial settings, which gives the customer peace of mind when PCA is steering this effort. 
A programmable logic controller, PLC, or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of typically industrial electromechanical processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines, amusement rides, or light fixtures. PLCs are used in many machines, in many industries. 
HMI stands for H uman M achine I nterface. This is the interface between the operator and the controller. The HMI is the controller operating panel. The panel comprises a numeric keypad and a LCD screen that displays text. The keypad is used to input data into the application, such as Timer values. The PLC's Display screen can show operator messages, variable information from the program and system information. HMI messages are created in the Display Editor.
Turn off more accessible mode. Skip directly to content SIMATIC HMI-Efficient to a new levelWith SIMATIC HMI, we offer a complete, integrated Human Machine Interface suite that includes best-in-class products and systems for all HMI tasks. Efficient to a new level. 
SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) is a system that operates with coded signals over communication channels so as to provide control of remote equipment (using typically one communication channel per remote station). Data acquisition begins at the RTU or PLC level and includes meter readings and equipment status reports that are communicated to SCADA as required. Data is then compiled and formatted in such a way that a control room operator using the HMI can make supervisory decisions to adjust or override normal RTU (PLC) controls.
SCADA vs HMI. SCADA and HMI are control systems that are used in any organization. While SCADA refers to supervisory control and data acquisition, HMI is simply human machine interface. Industrial and infrastructure processes are normally monitored by computers. Summary. • SCADA refers to supervisory monitoring and control in organizations, and HMI is a subset of SCADA. • HMI is the Human Machine Interface, it connects with all the processes and then present this data to a human operator. • Proper functioning of HMI is critical for the smooth running SCADA.
A Human-Machine Interface or HMI is the apparatus which presents process data to a human operator, and through which the human operator controls the process. An HMI is usually linked to the SCADA system's databases and software programs, to provide trending, diagnostic data, and management information such as scheduled maintenance procedures, logistic information, detailed schematics for a particular sensor or machine, and expert-system troubleshooting guides.