Heme iron can be obtained mainly from protein found in red meats, white meats, and fish. Nonheme iron can be obtained from meat, dairy products, plant foods, and iron salts that are sometimes added to various foods. The following factors can enhance and inhibit the absorption of nonheme iron into your blood: 
Your body is better at absorbing animal sources of iron, or heme iron. As beer's iron comes from plant sources, your body cannot easily use the minimal amounts that it provides. However, eating a source of vitamin C and fruit acids can help to increase the absorption of non-heme sources of iron. Other Vitamins and Minerals. Although beer contains large amounts of some B vitamins, its alcohol content inhibits your body's ability to absorb these nutrients. Most beers are not a source of any other vitamins. However, they do contain significant amounts of minerals other than iron. For example, one can of lager beer contains 7.1 percent of your daily phosphorus and 5 percent of a man's and 6.6 percent of a woman's daily magnesium
Grapes are a source of the minerals copper, potassium, manganese and iron. Grapes also contain calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and zinc, but only in trace amounts. The iron in plant foods like grapes is non-heme iron. This form of iron is not as easily absorbed as the heme iron found in poultry, meat and fish. You can increase the amount of iron you receive from grapes by eating them with a rich source of vitamin C or with meat
Direct comparison showed greater absorption from white wine (10.4%) than from red wine (4.4%). Removal of about 80% of the polyphenols in red wine increased the geometric mean iron absorption from 1.9% to 3.6%. In vitro experiments indicated that iron was less soluble and less dialysable in red wines than in white wines.
Tannin (coffee, tea, chocolate), fiber, eggs and oxalates impair absorption of non-heme iron. Red meat contains the most easily absorbable formof iron called heme iron. Fats (lipids) when in combination with unbound iron can generate free radical activity, which is destructive to cells and can damage DNA. Sugar enhances the absorption of iron. These beverages contain tannins which inhibit the absorption of non-heme iron. Excessive consumption of tannins is not recommended for individuals with liver damage. These foods are high in fiber, which impairs the absorptionof non-heme iron and promote healthy digesti
Iron (3 mg) was added as ferrous sulphate to 2 dl red wine, white wine and 7% alcohol and its absorption was then measured in 38 fasting male subjects. (The original concentrations of iron in the two wines were low, being 1.01-1.08 mg/l (red wine) and 0.13-0.20 (white wine]. The geometric mean absorption from red wine was only 20% of that from the alcohol solution whilst more than 4 times as much was absorbed from white wine as from the alcohol. Removal of about 80% of the polyphenols in red wine increased the geometric mean iron absorption from 1.9% to 3.6%. In vitro experiments indicated that iron was less soluble and less dialysable in red wines than in white wines.
Fruits and vegetables contain non-heme iron which is not absorbed well. Alcohol enhances the absorption of iron Too much alcohol can damage the liver Red wine can be of benefit when consumed in moderation because of the tannins it contains. Red meat contains the most easily absorbable formof iron called heme iron. Fats (lipids) when in combination with unbound iron can generate free radical activity, which is destructive to cells and can damage DNA. Sugar enhances the absorption of iron.
Another of the red wine health benefits is wine's ability to increase the body's absorption of calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and zinc. All these important minerals help prevent osteoporosis-another great red wine benefit. Red wine also contains iron, a necessary mineral for oxygen transport in the body. 