The small white flatworms found in aquariums are planaria. Fish  that eat these small worms include angel fish, Betta fish, mollies,  guppies, common blowfish, and goldfish. …. 1 person found this useful. Planarian is a regenerating non-parasitic flatworm. Most planarian  are striped or lined and some of the large type has bright colors. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
1 lanaria belong to the phylum, Platyhelminthes, (flatworms). 2  They are a free-living, flat bodied, freshwater creatures that exhibit the remarkable ability. Planarian is a regenerating non-parasitic flatworm. Most planarian  are striped or lined and some of the large type has bright colors. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
When a planaria’s head is cut off, the remaining tail section will first regenerate a head. Even if the cut is made very close to the tail, the small tail section first regenerates the head and then continues to regenerae the rest of the tissue between the head and the tail. This activity uses the planaria's property for regeneration and compares how long it takes for planaria cut in different places to
Planaria is a small aquatic genus of flatworm. The term is also used for other similar flatworms. They are fresh water animals which move in a smooth wave-like manner. Planaria are free-living. They can live in fresh water or very damp soil, depending on the type.
A planarian is one of many flatworms of the Turbellaria class. It is also the common name for a member of the genus Planaria within the family Planariidae. Sometimes it also refers to the genus Dugesia. Planaria are common to many parts of the world, living in both saltwater and freshwater ponds and rivers. Some species are terrestrial and are found under logs, in or on the soil, and on plants in humid areas.
: any of a genus (Planaria) of 2-eyed planarian worms; broadly: planarian. See planaria defined for kids. Medical Definition of PLANARIA. 1. capitalized: the type genus of the family Planariidae comprising planarian worms having two eyes. 2. : any worm of the genus Planaria
The link i used: http://www.planarians.org/ by:Jonathan © 1996-2006. 1  lanaria belong to the phylum, Platyhelminthes, (flatworms). 2  They are a free-living, flat bodied, freshwater creatures that exhibit the remarkable ability. 3  to regenerate their lost body parts. Planarian is a regenerating non-parasitic flatworm. Most planarian  are striped or lined and some of the large type has bright colors. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Definition of PLANARIA. : any of a genus (Planaria) of 2-eyed planarian worms; broadly: planarian. See planaria defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of PLANARIA. 1. capitalized: the type genus of the family Planariidae comprising planarian worms having two eyes. 2. : any worm of the genus Planaria
Noun. 1. planaria-free-swimming mostly freshwater flatworms; popular in laboratory studies for the ability to regenerate lost parts. planarian. flatworm, platyhelminth-parasitic or free-living worms having a flattened body. class Turbellaria, Turbellaria-free-living flatworms. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Unravelling How Planaria Regenerate. Planarian flatworms are one of nature's little wonders. Although their 'cross-eyed' appearance is endearing, their real claim to fame comes from their regenerative ability.