Growth hormone (GH or HGH), also known as somatotropin or somatropin, is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, cell reproduction and regeneration in humans and other animals. It is a type of mitogen which is specific only to certain kinds of cells. In recent years in the United States, some doctors have started to prescribe growth hormone in GH-deficient older patients (but not on healthy people) to increase vitality. While legal, the efficacy and safety of this use for HGH has not been tested in a clinical trial.
Physiologic Effects of Growth Hormone. Growth hormone (GH) is a hormone made up of 191 amino acids that are produced and secreted by the so-called somatotroph cells of the anterior pituitary gland. This hormone controls several complex physiological processes including growth and metabolism. Growth effects of the growth hormone are mostly related to the action of IGF-I. Keeping this distinction in mind, we can discuss two major roles that the growth hormone and IGF-I play in physiology. Growth. Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones.
• Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is a hypothalamic peptide that stimulates both synthesis and secretion of the growth hormone. • Somatostatin (SS) is a peptide produced by several tissues in the body, including the hypothalamus. Growth effects of the growth hormone are mostly related to the action of IGF-I. Keeping this distinction in mind, we can discuss two major roles that the growth hormone and IGF-I play in physiology. Growth. Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones.
For example, an excess of thyroid hormone in the blood signals to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary gland to stop their respective release of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). TSH stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete thyroxine. This inhibition of TSH release is an example of hormone self-regulation and is also called feedback inhibition. Other hormones such as estrogen, progesterone, testosterone and cortisol are also regulated by negative feedback inhibition. 
1 Somatostatin inhibits growth hormone release in response to GHRH and to other stimulatory factors such as low blood glucose concentration. 2  Ghrelin is a peptide hormone secreted from the stomach. 3  Ghrelin binds to receptors on somatotrophs and potently stimulates secretion of growth hormone. IGF-I also appears to be the key player in muscle growth. It stimulates both the differentiation and proliferation of myoblasts. It also stimulates amino acid uptake and protein synthesis in muscle and other tissues. Growth hormone has important effects on protein, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism.
Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: December 12, 2014. Growth hormone-releasing hormone stimulates the secretion of growth hormone, an important regulator of growth, metabolism and body structure. Alternative names for growth hormone-releasing hormone Growth hormone-releasing factor; GRF; GHRF; GHRH. The principal function of growth hormone-releasing hormone is to stimulate the pituitary gland to produce and release growth hormone into the bloodstream. This then acts on virtually every tissue of the body to control several physical functions and processes.
1 Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is a hypothalamic peptide that stimulates both the synthesis and secretion of growth hormone. 2  Somatostatin (SS) is a peptide produced by several tissues in the body, including the hypothalamus. IGF-I also appears to be the key player in muscle growth. It stimulates both the differentiation and proliferation of myoblasts. It also stimulates amino acid uptake and protein synthesis in muscle and other tissues. Growth hormone has important effects on protein, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism.
Growth hormone-releasing hormone is a hormone produced in the hypothalamus. The principal function of growth hormone-releasing hormone is to stimulate the pituitary gland to produce and release growth hormone into the bloodstream. This then acts on virtually every tissue of the body to control several physical functions and processes.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 is a hormone produced in the liver and other organs in response to growth hormone, which in turn acts in many tissues to cause metabolic and growth actions. In addition to its effect on growth hormone secretion, growth hormone-releasing hormone also affects sleep, food intake and memory. The action of growth hormone-releasing hormone on the pituitary gland is counteracted by somatostatin, a hormone also produced by the hypothalamus, which prevents growth hormone release. The principal function of growth hormone-releasing hormone is to stimulate the pituitary gland to produce and release growth hormone into the bloodstream. This then acts on virtually every tissue of the body to control several physical functions and processes.