A housing cooperative, or co-op, is a legal entity, usually a corporation, which owns real estate, consisting of one or more residential buildings; it is one type of housing tenure. The word cooperative is also used to describe a non-share capital co-op model in which fee-paying members obtain the right to occupy a bedroom and share the communal resources of a house that is owned by a cooperative organization.
Cooperative law focuses on settlement. Like collaborative practice, in cooperative law there is an agreement among the lawyers and clients for a peaceful settlement—however, it does not require the lawyers to withdraw if settlement cannot be reached. However, there is controversy in the collaborative law community about cooperative law. Many believe that the commitment to settlement from the beginning is critical to creating an atmosphere of trust and settlement.
Cooperatives Law & Legal Definition. A cooperative in its simplest sense is formed when individuals organize together around a common, usually economic, goal. For business purposes, a cooperative refers to the creation of a nonprofit enterprise for the benefit of those individuals using its services. Cooperatives may be consumer-owned, producer-owned, or worker-owned. A consumers' cooperative is one in which individuals combine their buying power, usually for the purchase and wholesale or retail distribution of agricultural or other products.
ACT XXX of 2001. The co-operative legislation in Malta – The Cooperative Societies Act 2001 – was enacted to replace an older Act which dated back to 1978. The Act brought about some interesting changes, foremost of which is the incorporation of the seven Cooperative Principles as part and parcel of local legislation. 
Guidelines for Cooperative Legislation 16 3.5 Language of the cooperative law Understanding the law is a prerequisite of its implementation.It is not unusual that the primary addressees of the cooperative law neither master the official language in which the textis written nor understand the legal terminology. Guidelines for Cooperative Legislation 48 related risks, a small profit margin must be included which will, however, be returned to the members at the end of the financial year, should the risk not have materialized, and should the balance sheet show a profit.
It is not an all-encompassing term for the settlement approach to divorce. Cooperative divorce law is the name of our newest alternative to fighting it out in court. It is not mediation and it is not collaborative law. It is our third minimally invasive way to divorce, and it comes complete with its own settlement process. Cooperative divorce law is the process of getting through a divorce with the hopes of avoiding court. Unlike collaborative divorce, where it almost never goes to trial, there is still a small chance of cooperative divorce leading to divorce litigation.
It is not an all-encompassing term for the settlement approach to divorce. Cooperative divorce law is the name of our newest alternative to fighting it out in court. It is not mediation and it is not collaborative law. It is our third minimally invasive way to divorce, and it comes complete with its own settlement process. Cooperative is similar to collaborative law in that it centers on a respectful negotiation process that takes place at 4-way meetings with the divorcing parties and their lawyers. The process assists in creating and maintaining a non-confrontational negotiation climate where compromise and settlement can take place
The term cooperative also signifies the ownership of an apartment building by a nonprofit corporation that holds title to it and the property upon which it is situated. Stock in the corporation is allotted among the apartment units on the basis of their relative value or size. 