There are a number of languages spoken in Egypt, but Egyptian Arabic is by far the most widely spoken in the country. Arabic was adopted by the Egyptians after the Arab invasion of Egypt. Of the many varieties of Arabic, Egyptian Arabic is the most widely understood first dialect in the Middle East-North Africa, probably due to the influence of Egyptian cinema throughout the Arabic-speaking world.
Confidence votes 10.0K. Most Egyptians speak (Egyptian) Arabic, though its not the native language of their country as well as other middle eatsern countries which came as a result of the Arab invasions. Arabic varies widely among Arabic-speaking countries. So refugees from nearby Sudan speak Sudanese Arabic. They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
Ahlan wa sahlan! – Welcome. Egyptian Arabic, also known as Egyptian Spoken Arabic, Masri, Massry, Normal Egyptian Arabic and Egyptian Colloquial Arabic, is a variety of Arabic which belongs to the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family. It is spoken by 52,500,000 people in Egypt (Ethnologue). It also serves as a second language in many other countries of the Middle East, e.g., in Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen (Ethnologue). The total number of speakers of Egyptian Spoken Arabic is estimated to be upwards of 54 million (Ethnologue). Prior to the Arab conquest of Egypt in the 7th century AD, the Egyptians spoke Coptic, a later phase of ancient Egyptian.
Egyptians don't speak French. The most common foreign language that is spoken (and not widely) is English. However, for some official purposes, French is the language to use (e.g. the second language on an Egyptian passport is French, e.g. Nome instead of Name. 
Arabic came to Egypt in the 7th century, and Egyptian Arabic has become the modern spoken language of the Egyptians and is understood by almost all Egyptians. In southern Egypt, Saidi Arabic is the main spoken language for most non-urbanized people. Of the many varieties of Arabic, Egyptian Arabic is the most widely understood first dialect in the Middle East-North Africa, probably due to the influence of Egyptian cinema throughout the Arabic-speaking world.
Egyptian Arabic is part of the Eastern Arabic subclass, which includes the Arabic dialects spoken in a large region of North Africa (Egypt and Sudan), the Middle East (Syria, Iraq, and the Arabian Peninsula), and Arabic countries in Asia. The official language of Egypt is Arabic, though with an Egyptian dialect. Today, Arabic ranks as the sixth most common language with an estimated 186 million native speakers.
Although Arabic is the official language of the UAE, English is the most spoken language in Dubai. You will also find a lot of expatriates who speak Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, Tagalog, Persian, Chinese, Malayalam, in addition to many other languages. 1  Share on Facebook. 2  Share on Twitter. 
220,164 Contributions. Most Egyptians speak (Egyptian) Arabic, though its not the native  language of their country as well as other middle eatsern countries  which came as a result of the Arab in … vasions. Arabic varies widely  among Arabic-speaking countries. So refugees from nearby Sudan  speak Sudanese Arabic. 
Egyptian was spoken until the late 17th century AD in the form of Coptic. The national language of modern-day Egypt is Egyptian Arabic, which gradually replaced Coptic as the language of daily life in the centuries after the Muslim conquest of Egypt. Coptic is still used as the liturgical language of the Coptic Church. 