The term GI Bill refers to any Department of Veterans Affairs education benefit earned by members of Active Duty, Selected Reserve and National Guard Armed Forces and their families. The benefit is designed to help servicemembers and eligible veterans cover the costs associated with getting an education or training. There are several types of training you can use your GI Bill benefits for. 1  College degree programs including Associate, Bachelor, and advanced degree programs. 2  Vocational/Technical Training including non-college degree programs. 3  On-the-job/Apprenticeship Training.
For approved programs, the Post-9/11 GI Bill provides up to 36 months of education benefits. Be sure to use the GI Bill Comparison Tool to research schools and employers based on affordability and value. The Post-9/11 GI Bill offers higher education and training benefits to Veterans and Servicemembers who served after Sept. 10, 2001, and, in some cases, to their families. The Post-9/11 GI Bill covers support for the following activities:
The military member can transfer up to 36 months of GI Bill benefits and can allocate them among eligible recipients at any time (but only once per month). The service member may also cancel a family member’s use of the benefits at any time. Scott, the ability to transfer Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to family members is a retention tool, and requires the servicemember to sign on for additional years of service before he or she can transfer the benefits. Unfortunately, you won’t be able to transfer your Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits if you have already retired.
While the Post-9/11 GI Bill offers a very generous post-service education benefit, a special provision of the program allows career service members the opportunity to share their education benefits with immediate family members. NOTE: NOAA and USPHS personnel are also eligible to transfer their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to their dependents. Eligible Family Members. An individual approved to transfer an entitlement to educational assistance under this section may transfer the individual's entitlement to: 1  The individual's spouse.
The Post 9/11 GI Bill is the only one which allows transferring education benefits. Allowing career service members to transfer their GI Bill benefits to family members has long been one of the most requested items among military family readiness and advocacy groups. NOTE: NOAA and USPHS personnel are also eligible to transfer their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to their dependents. Eligible Family Members. An individual approved to transfer an entitlement to educational assistance under this section may transfer the individual's entitlement to: 1  The individual's spouse.
Type of Assistance. Eligible Servicemembers may transfer all 36 months or the portion of unused Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits (unless DoD or the Department of Homeland Security has limited the number of transferable months). Transfer Post-9/11 GI Bill to Spouse and Dependents. The transferability option under the Post-9/11 GI Bill allows Servicemembers to transfer all or some unused benefits to their spouse or dependent children. The Department of Defense (DoD) determines whether or not you can transfer benefits to your family
An eligible Servicemember may transfer up to the total months of unused Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits, or the entire 36 months if the member has used none. Family member use of transferred educational benefits is subject to the following: 1  Spouse: 2  May start to use the benefit immediately. NOTE: NOAA and USPHS personnel are also eligible to transfer their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to their dependents. Eligible Family Members. An individual approved to transfer an entitlement to educational assistance under this section may transfer the individual's entitlement to: 1  The individual's spouse.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to transfer the Montgomery GI Bill to a family member. the only GI Bill that can be transferred is the Post-9/11 GI Bill, and it can only be transferred while the member is still serving. Sorry to be the bearer or bad news. Scott, the ability to transfer Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to family members is a retention tool, and requires the servicemember to sign on for additional years of service before he or she can transfer the benefits. Unfortunately, you won’t be able to transfer your Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits if you have already retired.