New Jersey lighthouses can be seen in a variety of settings and in the serenity of the landscape that surrounds them. The scenic beauty of a lighthouse takes on a different backdrop depending on the time of day it's viewed. Not to be forgotten are the heroic stories associated with lighthouses. They are the keepers of a harbor, beacons during stormy nights, and the providers of direction to those off course. During World War II, the beacons of New Jersey lighthouses were turned off so as not to give direction to enemy ships.
Georgia’s 100 miles of coast is home to several beautiful lighthouses, three of which are open for tours. Located at the tip of the Savannah River, the Tybee Island Lighthouse/Museum was built in 1732 by order of Georgia’s founding father, General James Oglethorpe. Boasting of an active museum, where guests can explore centuries of history, the lighthouse also allows guests to hike the 178 steps to the top. Travel farther down the coast for a stop at the St. Simons Island Lighthouse Museum and Keeper's Dwelling.
Passionate about all things Australian. Lighthouses are found along the eastern and western coastlines of continents such as America, Australia, Africa, Asia and Europe. They are typically found where there are hidden rocks and reefs on which ships could be wrecked. They are found on jutting headlands and peninsulas and wherever the seascape poses danger to ships.
By staying there, you can go to the Currituck Lighthouse about 25 mi. to the north, The Wright Brothers Memorial and Bodie Island, about 10 miles to the south. These three can be seen the same day. The Northern Lighthouses (Currituck, Bodie Island and Cape Hatteras) are all open to the public most days. 2) Cape Hatteras Lighthouse-Go to http://www.outerbanks.org/attractions/lighthouses/cape_hatteras_lighthouse.asp for current schedule and fees. 3) Cape Lookout Lighthouse-The grounds are always open, it will open in the spring at least 3 days a week through the end of the summer.
… the lighthouse provides a signal to ships that they are close to such areas.   Lighthouses also need to be visible during the day, as they perform the similar function of warning of reefs and underwater hazards such as rocks. They are typically found where there are hidden rocks and reefs on which ships could be wrecked. They are found on jutting headlands and peninsulas and wherever the seascape poses danger to ships.
You can continue from there to the south and see the Cape Hatteras Lighthouse, about 50 miles to the south (about 40 mi. south of Bodie.) Then continue on to Ocracoke. It's about a 30 min. ferry ride south of Hatteras Island. The Ocracoke Lighthouse is on the southern end of the Island. 2) Cape Hatteras Lighthouse-Go to http://www.outerbanks.org/attractions/lighthouses/cape_hatteras_lighthouse.asp for current schedule and fees. 3) Cape Lookout Lighthouse-The grounds are always open, it will open in the spring at least 3 days a week through the end of the summer.
New Jersey is home to many of the oldest and historically significant lighthouses in the nation. They can be found along the 127 mile coastline from the northernmost point in Sandy Hook down to the southern tip of in Cape May. Not to be forgotten are the heroic stories associated with lighthouses. They are the keepers of a harbor, beacons during stormy nights, and the providers of direction to those off course. During World War II, the beacons of New Jersey lighthouses were turned off so as not to give direction to enemy ships.
The closest lighthouse to Emerald Isle is Cape Lookout. It can only be gotten to by passenger ferries out of Beaufort, Morehead City or Harker's Island. Morehead is about 20 minutes from Emerald Isle. The next closest one it Oak Island in Southport. It is just south of Wilmington. 2) Cape Hatteras Lighthouse-Go to http://www.outerbanks.org/attractions/lighthouses/cape_hatteras_lighthouse.asp for current schedule and fees. 3) Cape Lookout Lighthouse-The grounds are always open, it will open in the spring at least 3 days a week through the end of the summer.
Related Web Sites. 1  Lighthouses and the Fresnel Lens-This Web site gives a brief description of the Fresnel lens, along with additional Web links where you can find more information about the Fresnel lens. This light could be seen for more than 20 miles. Fresnel’s design of concentric glass rings to concentrate light is still used today in the production of automobile headlights, traffic signals and projectors.