Easy to read plus (+) or minus (-) results within 3 minutes. *Clearblue recommends that you test from the day your period is due. However, the pregnancy hormone increases rapidly in early pregnancy and Clearblue can be used to test up to 4 days before your period is due. Clearblue Plus Pregnancy Test can be used up to 4 days before your period is due. If you test before your period is due and get a 'Not Pregnant' result, there is still a chance that you may be pregnant. See the chart below for results from clinical testing of Clearblue Plus Pregnancy Test with early pregnancy samples
Clearblue Pregnancy Tests can be used up to 4 days before the period is due. Published literature shows that pregnancy hCG levels reach at least 50 milli-International Units per milliliter (mIU/ml) on the day a pregnant woman’s period is due. 
1 Accurate-over 99% accurate from the day the period is due 1. 2  Fast-easy-to-read + or -− result in just 3 minutes. 3  Sensitive-can be used up to 4 days before the day of the expected period (5 days sooner than the day of the missed period) 2. 4  Trustworthy-the tip changes color so the user knows urine has been absorbed. In clinical testing, Clearblue PLUS Pregnancy Test detected the pregnancy hormone in 56% of women when testing 4 days before their expected period, 88% at 3 days before their expected period, 97% at 2 days before their expected period, and 98% at 1 day before their expected period.
Clearblue recommends that you test from the day your period is due. However, the pregnancy hormone increases rapidly in early pregnancy and Clearblue Plus can be used to test up to 4 days before your period is due. In clinical testing with early pregnancy samples, Clearblue Plus gave the following results: Clearblue Plus Pregnancy Test can be used up to 4 days before your period is due. If you test before your period is due and get a 'Not Pregnant' result, there is still a chance that you may be pregnant. See the chart below for results from clinical testing of Clearblue Plus Pregnancy Test with early pregnancy samples.
3-5 If a Clearblue PLUS Pregnancy Test is used from the day the period is expected, it is more than 99% accurate in detecting whether or not a woman is pregnant. 2 This allows women to be confident in the results given by the Clearblue PLUS Pregnancy Test. Can be used up to 4 days before the expected period2. In clinical testing, Clearblue PLUS Pregnancy Test detected the pregnancy hormone in 56% of women when testing 4 days before their expected period, 88% at 3 days before their expected period, 97% at 2 days before their expected period, and 98% at 1 day before their expected period.
– All Clearblue pregnancy tests are over 99% accurate. So sensitive you can test early – All Clearblue pregnancy tests can be used up to 4 days before your period is due. Find out more about the different Clearblue Pregnancy Tests by clicking on the links below. That is why all Clearblue pregnancy tests deliver over 99% accuracy from the day your period is due; they are designed to be easy to use and read, and can be used up to 4 days before the
When to take a pregnancy test. Clearblue recommend you test from the day the period is due, however, because levels of hCG rise rapidly in early pregnancy, Clearblue pregnancy tests are so sensitive they may detect pregnancy up to four days before your period is due. Which Pregnancy Test to Choose. When testing for pregnancy you simply can't afford to get a wrong result so it's important to choose a test that combines three important factors, each of which you can find in ALL Clearblue Pregnancy Tests: 1  Over 99% accuracy from the day your period is due. 2  Ease of use.
Yes. All Clearblue® Pregnancy Tests are sensitive enough to detect hCG in your urine from the day of your expected period 1. Additionally, you can use Clearblue® Pregnancy Tests up to 5 days before your missed period 2, although the pregnancy hormone levels in your urine may not be high enough to be detected. If you have no idea when your period is due, we recommend testing at least 19 days from the last time you had unprotected sex. If the result is “Not Pregnant” and you still think you might be pregnant, wait at least 3 days before doing another Clearblue® Pregnancy Test.
Hi I had sex the 7th and its the 20th, usually my period starts around the 24 or 25 and I’ve taken a clearblue pregnancy test that can detect if your pregnant 3 to 4 days before your period and it came negative. I’ve taken 2 test. 14 days before my missed period I had a positive pregnancy test. Took four others before expected period date and still was positive. Four days after expected period date had another positive pregnancy test. Now five days late according to my expected period date,I starting seeing my periods.