Definition. Officer or representative vested (explicitly, implicitly, or through conduct) with the powers to commit the authorizing organization to a binding agreement. Also called signing officer. See also signing authority. Nearby Terms. 1  authorization c... 2  authorized bank. 3  authorized capi... 4  Authorized Econ... 5  authorized pers... 6  authorized pric... 7  authorized sett... 8  authorized shar... 9  authorized sign... 10  authorized stoc... 11  authorized unpr... 12  authorized user. 13  authorized work. 14  auto container. 15  auto coverage. 16  auto discrimina... 17  auto financing.
This approval must be granted in memo form by the Authorized Signatory and should be filed with the employee’s personnel file as well as be on file with the Department. This authority is given only for contracts that directly impact or relate to the department of the person holding the signatory authority. If the individual who approved and signed the original is other than an Authorized Signatory listed above, the individual can approve and sign the renewals, extensions, amendments and modifications only if and to the extent their written delegation memo clearly gives them such authority.
The primary reasons for this policy are to: 1  identify those individuals with signatory authority; 2  set forth the university’s expectations of individuals who sign contracts on its behalf; 3  establish a signatory authority delegation procedure; and. 1 set forth the university’s expectations of individuals who sign contracts on its behalf; 2  establish a signatory authority delegation procedure; and. 3  highlight certain provisions of existing University policy that must be considered prior to the execution of any contract.
Section 3.1.3 of the Bylaws provides that: 3.1.3 Signatory Authority The President shall have power to sign in the name and on behalf of the Corporation all duly authorized contracts, deeds and other instruments, including acceptances of gifts, bequests and devises to the University. The President has inherent authority to sign all contracts and agreements on behalf of the University pursuant to Section 3.1.3 of the Bylaws. This authority is retained and may be exercised notwithstanding delegations of authority to sign certain contracts to other administrative officers.
Contracts can be approved and signed by individuals who are not designated as “Authorized Signatories” in the preceding section only if, and to the extent, they have been given written authority to do so by an Authorized Signatory who is also their Division Head or Department Manager or Chair. If the individual who approved and signed the original is other than an Authorized Signatory listed above, the individual can approve and sign the renewals, extensions, amendments and modifications only if and to the extent their written delegation memo clearly gives them such authority.
adjective. noun. The definition of signatory is being bound by the signing of a document. An example of signatory is the person who signed a rental agreement and is responsible for the rent. Signatory is defined as any of the people that signed a document. An example of a signatory is a person who signed a contract. 
Authorized Signatory is an individual who is authorized to execute a binding document on behalf of a corporation, partnership or other legal entity. Glossary: authorized signatory. Authorized Signatory is an individual who is authorized to execute a binding document on behalf of a corporation, partnership or other legal entity. Click here for more authorized signatory / Dictionary of Factoring Terms.
signatory. Person who binds himself or herself, or the entity he or she is authorized to represent, by his or her signature to the terms of an agreement. By becoming a signatory on the loan, he was responsible to pay the bank $500 every month by the 31st or he would be taken to court over his failure to pay.