A stamen is part of the reproductive system of a flower. Stamens are usually referred to as the male parts of the flower, because they generate pollen which is used to fertilize the pistils, commonly known as the female parts, of other flowers. The stamen is the male reproductive part of a flower's reproduction system. There is sometimes nectar at the base of the stamen to act as an incentive for pollinators like bees. Stamens generate the pollen that fertilizes the female parts of flowers and causes allergic reactions in human
stamen-the male reproductive organ of a flower. blossom, flower, bloom-reproductive organ of angiosperm plants especially one having showy or colorful parts. anther-the part of the stamen that contains pollen; usually borne on a stalk. the pollen-bearing organ of a flower, consisting of the filament and the anther. stāmen warp, thread, stamen = stā(re) to stand + -men n. suffix]. sta′mened, adj.
The stamen is the male reproductive organ of a flower.   The organ includes the anther and the filament.   Its function is to produce haploid (n) male gametes, these a … re then  encapsulated into a pollen granule. Confidence votes 117. The 'stamen' is the male part of a flower and consists of a 'filament' and 'anther' where 'pollen' is produced. The 'pistil' is the female part, which consists of the 'stigma', 'style', and 'ovary' containing 'ovules'. After fertilization the ovules mature into seeds.
Answer by Maxyman3000. Confidence votes 117. The 'stamen' is the male part of a flower and consists of a 'filament' and 'anther' where 'pollen' is produced. The 'pistil' is the female part, which consists of the 'stigma', 'style', and 'ovary' containing 'ovules'. After fertilization the ovules mature into seeds.
Morphology and terminology [edit]. A stamen typically consists of a stalk called the filament and an anther which contains microsporangia. Most commonly anthers are two-lobed and are attached to the filament either at the base or in the middle portion. The sterile tissue between the lobes is called the connective. The stamen (plural stamina or stamens) is the pollen-producing reproductive organ of a flower.
A stamen typically consists of a stalk called the filament and an anther which contains microsporangia. Most commonly anthers are two-lobed and are attached to the filament either at the base or in the middle portion. The stamen (plural stamina or stamens) is the pollen-producing reproductive organ of a flower.
stamen. n, pl stamens or stamina (ˈstaemɪnə). ˈstæmɪnə. (1) botany the male reproductive organ of a, flower consisting of a (stalk) filament bearing an anther in which pollen is. [Produced: c17 From: latin the warp in an upright, loom from stāre to]. stand the pollen-bearing organ of a flower, consisting of the filament and the anther. stāmen warp, thread, stamen = stā(re) to stand + -men n. suffix]. sta′mened, adj.
stamen. One of the male organs of a flower, consisting typically of a stalk (filament) and a pollen-bearing portion (anther). The male reproductive organ of a flower.The male organ of angiosperm flowers where pollen grains are produced in the anther component of the stamen. These pollen grains are produced by meiosis and provide the building blocks required for reproduction of an angiosperm species