A few facts about the girl's name Zina: Records indicate that 2,265 girls in the United States have been named Zina since 1880. The greatest number of people were given this name in 1964, when 792 people in the U.S. were given the name Zina. Those people are now 51 years old. So ... 
Zina /zi-na/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Greek origin, and the name Zina means guest, stranger. Zina is an alternate spelling of Xenia (Greek). Zina is also a variation of Zena (Greek). Kreatif forms: Zivna. Zina is a very prominent first name for females (#1790 out of 4276, Top 42%) and a slightly less prominent last name for all people (#92601 out of 150436, Top 62%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Zina for girls
Zina is also a derivative of the Latin name Diana. Zana, zâna a pronunciation, variant means a (fairy-demi goddess of a place such as a, forest, river meadow.), etc coming originally from The roman Goddess. Diana one other form Is cosanziana cosânziana which survives From The Latin Quo. sancta diana Zina means ,good witch ,fairy (usually beautiful) in Romanian folklore. Zina is also a derivative of the Latin name Diana. Zana, zâna a pronunciation, variant means a (fairy-demi goddess of a place such as a, forest, river meadow.), etc coming originally from The roman Goddess. diana
[ 2 syll. zi-na, zin-a ] The baby girl name Zina is pronounced as Z IY-Naa- †. Zina's language of origin is Old Greek and African-Nsenga, and it is used largely in the Czech, English, Greek, and Russian languages. From African-Nsenga roots, its meaning is 'name'. In addition, Zina is a variant spelling (Czech, English, Greek, and Russian) of the English, German, Greek, Italian, and Romanian Xenia. Zina is also a derivative (Czech, English, and Russian) of the English, Greek, Italian, Romanian, and Polish Zena. Zina is unusual as a baby name for girls. Its usage peaked modestly in 1964 with 0.041% of baby girls being given the name Zina. Its ranking then was #339. The baby name has since dropped out of favor, and is currently used only on a very light scale.
Meanings and history of the name Zina: | Edit. It is of Greek origin and means shining  or going back. Another meaning for it is sun flower , also in Arabic it means beautiful and strong. It is originally of Arabic origin. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Zina is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Zina is: Shining, going back. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details. 
Zina the unIslamic act, is not to be confused with 'Zina' or 'Zeina' (زينة), the woman's name. The name has a different linguistic root, a different meaning (guest, stranger), is pronounced differently (either Zīnah or Zaynah), and is usually spelled differently. To prove an act of zina, a qadi (religious judge) in a sharia court relies on an unmarried woman's pregnancy, the confession in the name of Allah, or four witnesses to the actual act of penetration.
In American the meaning of the name Zena is: Woman. Greek Meaning: The name Zena is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Zena is: Born of Zeus. Also a welcoming; hospitable; friendly. Latin Meaning: The name Zena is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Zena is: Abbreviation of Zenobia, a third century Arab Queen. Russian Meaning: The name Zena is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Zena is: From Zeus. 