Dwarf tapeworm (Hymenolepis nana, previously known as Vampirolepis nana, Hymenolepis fraterna, and Taenia nana) is a cosmopolitan species though most common in temperate zones, and is one of the most common cestodes (a type of intestinal worm or helminth) infecting humans, especially children. 
Once inside the digestive tract, a larva can grow into a very large adult tapeworm. Additionally, many tapeworm larvae cause symptoms in an intermediate host. For example, cysticercosis is a disease of humans involving larval tapeworms in the human body. ), and the dwarf tapeworm (Hymenolepis spp. ). Infections involving the pork and beef tapeworms are also called taeniasis. Tapeworms of the genus Echinococcus infect and cause the most harm to intermediate hosts such as sheep and cattle.
Causes of tapeworm infection. In human beings, tapeworm infection is most commonly caused by the pork tapeworm (Taenia solium), beef tapeworm (Taenia saginata), dwarf tapeworm (Hymenolepis nana), and fish tapeworm (Diphyllobothrium latum) from raw freshwater fish. Most people become infected after ingesting tapeworm eggs or larvae. Fish tapeworm infection is more common in countries where the consumption of raw fish is common practice, such as Eastern Europe, Scandinavia and Japan. Undercooked or raw freshwater fish, such as salmon, are the most common sources.
Among the most common tapeworms in humans are the pork tapeworm (T. solium), the beef tapeworm (T. saginata), the fish tapeworm (Diphyllobothrium spp. ), and the dwarf tapeworm (Hymenolepis spp. ). Infections involving the pork and beef tapeworms are also called taeniasis. Tapeworms of the genus Echinococcus infect and cause the most harm to intermediate hosts such as sheep and cattle.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. 
Parasites. A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. Parasites can cause disease in humans. Some parasitic diseases are easily treated and some are not
The most common types of tapeworm disease in humans are contracted by eating food that contains tapeworm larvae (immature forms of the worm). Tapeworm infections may not produce any recognizable symptoms. There are six different tapeworm varieties that infest humans. This condition is caused by eating raw or undercooked beef (Taenia saginata) or pork (Taenia solium and Taenia asiatica). Taeniasis produces mild symptoms, and most people are unaware that they have it. However, T. solium tapeworm infections can lead to cysticercosis, a disease that can cause seizures or eye damage.
Common Viral Diseases. T. saginata and T. solium are most common in Eastern Europe, Russia, eastern Africa, and Latin America. T. solium infections in the United States occur most often in areas with large immigrant populations from these regions. This condition is caused by eating raw or undercooked beef (Taenia saginata) or pork (Taenia solium and Taenia asiatica). Taeniasis produces mild symptoms, and most people are unaware that they have it. However, T. solium tapeworm infections can lead to cysticercosis, a disease that can cause seizures or eye damage.
Tapeworm infection is the infestation of the digestive tract by a species of parasitic cestodal flatworm called tapeworms. Live tapeworm larvae (coenuri) are sometimes ingested by consuming undercooked food. ), and the dwarf tapeworm (Hymenolepis spp. ). Infections involving the pork and beef tapeworms are also called taeniasis. Tapeworms of the genus Echinococcus infect and cause the most harm to intermediate hosts such as sheep and cattle.