In the financial world, it's common to differentiate among types of value.. Specifically, there is a difference between an asset's market value and its intrinsic value.. Market value is the value that someone else places on an asset-what that asset is worth to some other market participant. Intrinsic value is the actual value or worth of a firm. 
Options Pricing Concepts. For an option, the intrinsic value is the difference between the current share price and the price at which the option can be exercised. To illustrate, suppose a call option has a strike price -- the exercise price -- of $20, and the current share price is $22. 
By Investopedia AAA |. A: There is a significant difference between intrinsic value and market value. Intrinsic value is an estimate of the actual true value of a company. Market value is the value of a company as reflected by the company's stock price. Therefore, market value may be significantly higher or lower than the intrinsic value. 
Definitions (3). 1. The actual value of a security, as opposed to its market price or book value. The intrinsic value includes other variables such as brand name, trademarks, and copyrights that are often dificult to calculate and sometimes not accurately reflected in the market price. 
Market Value. Market value is what investors and buyers are willing to pay for an asset in a public auction. For example, the market value of a public company is what investors are willing to pay for its shares, while the market value of a home is its closing price. Valuation of private companies is more difficult. Significance. Market value is generally different from intrinsic value. For example, stock prices seldom reflect the true value of companies, just as the selling price of a home is almost never equal to its appraised value. This is because market prices reflect supply and demand.
2. Intrinsic value in options is the in-the-money portion of the option's premium. For example, If a call options strike price is $15 and the underlying stock's market price is at $25, then the intrinsic value of the call option is $10. The actual value of a company or an asset based on an underlying perception of its true value including all aspects of the business, in terms of both tangible and intangible factors. This value may or may not be the same as the current market value.
(2) An option's intrinsic value is the in-the-money portion of that option's premium. For example, if a call option's strike price is $15 and the underlying stock's market price is at $25, the intrinsic value of the call option is $10. The term is also used in options trading to indicate the amount by which an option is in-the-money. For example, an equity call option with a strike price of 35 has an intrinsic value of $4 if the market price of the underlying stock is $39.
DEFINITION of 'Intrinsic Value'. Intrinsic value is: 1. The actual value of a company or an asset based on an underlying perception of its true value including all aspects of the business, in terms of both tangible and intangible factors. This value may or may not be the same as the current market value.