The appendix is usually located in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen, near the right hip bone. The base of the appendix is located 2 cm beneath the ileocecal valve that separates the large intestine from the small intestine. 
In most adults, your appendix can be located on the lower right side of your abdomen usually one third of the way between your belly button and hip bone. Note that this location may be different for pregnant woman. Watch for a path of pain. 
The location of the appendix is in the lower right quadrant of your abdome n. If you place your hand on your abdomen with the tip of your little finger just touching your pelvic bone and your thumb at your navel, your appendix is right under there usually about where your middle finger lands. 
1 Your appendix is located at the end of your large intestine. 2  It is normally located in the lower right quarter of the abdomen. 3  Checking my scar... 4  It is (or should I say was) on the lower right side of the abdomen, about half way between the top of the right hip bone and the belly button. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions:
1 The appendix is located at the lower right quadrant of the abdomen and it is connected to the cecum which is part of the large intestine. 2  The cecum is a pouch at the beginning of the large intestine and not the end, the end is the anus. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions:
The appendix is a small, pouch-like sac of tissue that is located in the first part of the colon (cecum) in the lower-right abdomen. Lymphatic tissue in the appendix aids in immune function. The official name of the appendix is veriform appendix, which means worm-like appendage.. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Appendix is located over the Lower RIGHT quadrant of your abdomen; not on the left. It is not the appendix that is dangerous. Appendix is a normal small tail like organ without any function (vestigial organ) inside the abdominal cavity. The appendix is located near the beginning of the large intine in the lower RIGHT side. So your pain has to be related to something else. Source(s): I am a cancer registrar. Denisedds · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 0. Comment. Add a comment.
Symptoms of appendicitis. Appendicitis typically starts with a pain in the middle of your abdomen (tummy) that may come and go. Within hours, the pain travels to your lower right-hand side, where the appendix is usually located, and becomes constant and severe. Pressing on this area, coughing or walking, may all make the pain worse. If you have appendicitis, you may also have other symptoms, including: 1  feeling sick (nausea).
The vermiform appendix is a narrow, worm-like appendage or pouch that is normally located on the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. It corresponds to the common location of base of the appendix, where it is attached to the cecum. The term 'taeniae coli' refers to the three narrow, longitudinal bands of smooth muscle running along the entire length of the cecum and large intestine. All the three bands converge at the base of the vermiform appendix.