Registered nurses (RNs) are required to have a minimum of an associate's degree, but bachelor's degrees in nursing (BSN) are also available and can help an RN's chances to earn better pay. Weigh your school options based on your current educational needs and timetable. Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma.
Becoming an RN. In order for a person to become an RN, successful completion of high school is needed. This is most definitely the first step within the required training to become an RN. A high school diploma or a GED is acceptable and depending on the program and degree chosen, the prerequisites will vary. 
The first requirement in becoming a registered nurse is to obtain the proper education. There are several different paths that can lead to licensure as an RN. Aspiring RNs may earn a diploma, an Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) . Because requirements vary by state, you should check with your State Board for details. Once you become a registered nurse, you may wish to pursue a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree. An MSN can lead to high-level positions in nursing administration, advanced practice or nursing
Education Requirements for an RN. There are generally three educational approaches to becoming a RN. RNs usually train by completing a bachelor's or associate's degree program in nursing. Less commonly, RNs prepare for the occupation by earning a diploma in nursing. Licensing requirements vary by state, but all licensing boards require RNs to pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) before practicing in the profession.
Degree Types. There are many educational paths that you can pursue to become an RN. RN education degree requirements range from a diploma to a bachelor’s degree. Diploma programs are offered at hospitals and typically last three years. Associate’s degrees in nursing are offered at community colleges and take two to three years to complete
A: To become a RN nurse you can either take ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) or you can take BSN (Bachelors of Science in Nursing) degree. Associate's degree in nursing takes two years to complete while a BSN is more comprehensive and therefore takes four years to complete. A: To become a registered nurse, you need to enroll in an accredited nursing school. The criterion for enrollment in a nursing school is a high school diploma or GED, good grades in science subjects like chemistry and biology and a high percentage in SAT or ACT exam.
A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school. A: To become a registered nurse, you need to enroll in an accredited nursing school. The criterion for enrollment in a nursing school is a high school diploma or GED, good grades in science subjects like chemistry and biology and a high percentage in SAT or ACT exam.
In order to become a registered nurse, students must graduate from an accredited program. Several options are available, including nursing diplomas, associate degrees or bachelor’s degrees. An associate degree in nursing typically takes two years to complete, though accelerated programs can shorten this timeframe. If a registered nurse decides to become an advanced practice registered nurse and specialize their knowledge, a master’s degree will be needed. After completing this education, graduates can apply for roles as certified nurse specialists, nurse anesthetists, nurse practitioners, and nurse midwives.
Licensure Requirements for Registered Nurses. To practice in the profession, registered nurses must become licensed. While licensure requirements vary according to state, they typically include passage of a state-approved training program and the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN). Educational Requirements for Registered Nurses. Nursing students may choose from a variety of education options to become a registered nurse. Some teaching hospitals offer 3-year diploma programs in nursing; however, these programs are rare. Most RNs earn associate degrees or bachelor's degrees in nursing.
Licensure for an RN. All states require RNs to obtain licensure after completion of an approved nursing program. Licensing requirements vary by state, but all licensing boards require RNs to pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) before practicing in the profession.