Together with natural gas, it makes up petroleum, which is Latin for rock oil. Petroleum is basically a mix of naturally occurring organic compounds from within the earth that contain primarily hydrogen, carbon and oxygen. When petroleum comes straight out of the ground as a liquid it is called crude oil if dark and viscous, and condensate if clear and volatile. When solid it is asphalt, and when semi-solid it is tar. There is also natural gas, which can be associated with oil or found alone.
Petroleum products are produced from the processing of crude oil and other liquids at petroleum refineries, from the extraction of liquid hydrocarbons at natural gas processing plants, and from the production of finished petroleum products at blending facilities. 
An introduction to Petroleum. Petroleum, along with oil and coal, is classified as a fossil fuel. Fossil fuels are formed when sea plants and animals die, and the remains become buried under several thousand feet of silt, sand or mud. 
petroleum, rock oil (mid-14c. in Anglo-French), from Medieval Latin petroleum, from Latin: petra : rock + oleum : oil. ) is a naturally occurring, yellow-to-black liquid found in geological formations beneath the Earth 's surface, which is commonly refined into various types of fuels. The use of fossil fuels, such as petroleum, has a negative impact on Earth's biosphere, damaging ecosystems through events such as oil spills and releasing a range of pollutants into the air including ground-level ozone and sulfur dioxide from sulfur impurities in fossil fuels.
Sometimes, petroleum and crude oil are used to mean the same thing, but petroleum itself is a broad range of petroleum products including crude oil itself. We use the term 'petroleum products after crude oil is refined in a factory. Crude oil (a non-renewable resource) is usually found in underground areas called reservoirs. It is liquid in nature and yellowish black in colour. They are composed mainly of hydrocarbons and organic compounds.
­ Crude oil is the term for unprocessed oil, the stuff that comes out of the ground. It is also known as petroleum. Crude oil is a fossil fuel, meaning that it was made natural­ly from decaying plants and animals living in ancient seas millions of years ago -- most places you can find crude oil were once sea beds. Crude oils vary in color, from clear to tar-black, and in viscosity, from water to almost solid.
Petroleum (Oil). Petroleum is an oily, flammable liquid with a specific odor. It is found in the sedimentary mantle of the earth and is a very important mineral resource. It is formed together with gaseous hydrocarbons, usually at depths in excess of 1.2–2.0 km. Petroleum consists of various hydrocarbons (alkanes, cycloalkanes, arenes [aromatic hydrocarbons], and their hybrids) and compounds containing heteroatoms (oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen) in addition to carbon and hydrogen.
Petroleum is recovered mostly through oil drilling (natural petroleum springs are rare). This comes after the studies of structural geology (at the reservoir scale), sedimentary basin analysis, reservoir characterization (mainly in terms of the porosity and permeability of geologic reservoir structures). The use of fossil fuels, such as petroleum, has a negative impact on Earth's biosphere, damaging ecosystems through events such as oil spills and releasing a range of pollutants into the air including ground-level ozone and sulfur dioxide from sulfur impurities in fossil fuels.
The exact chemical composition is a sort of fingerprint for the source of the petroleum. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Petroleum Definition: Petroleum or crude oil is any naturally-occurring flammable mixture of hydrocarbons found in geologic formations, such as rock strata. Most petroleum is a fossil fuel, formed from the action of intense pressure and heat on buried dead zooplankton and algae. Technically, the term petroleum only refers to crude oil, but sometimes it is applied to describe any solid, liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons. 
Petroleum – Oil and Natural Gas. Oil and natural gas together make petroleum. Petroleum, which is Latin for “rock oil,” is a fossil fuel, meaning it was made naturally from decaying prehistoric plant and animal remains. It is a mixture of hundreds of different hydrocarbons molecules containing hydrogen and carbon that exist sometimes as a liquid (crude oil) and sometimes as a vapor (natural gas). 