1 The minerals found in crab meat include potassium (for healthy cells), sodium (for blood pressure regulation), phosphorus (for strong teeth and bones) and calcium (for overall health maintenance). 2  Low Mercury Content: You may avoid eating crab meat because of the fact that seafood contains high levels of mercury. 1 Low Mercury Content: You may avoid eating crab meat because of the fact that seafood contains high levels of mercury. 2  Crab meat, however, is actually low in mercury, making it safe to eat. 3  Low Caloric and Fat Content: Crab meat is a highly recommended food for losing weight.
Vitamins and Minerals. Imitation crab serves as an good source of vitamin B-12; one serving provides 23 percent of the daily value for this vitamin. A serving of imitation crab also provides 24 percent of the daily value for phosphorus and 9 percent of the daily value for magnesium.
The favorite choice for the term Crab is 1 medium, NFS Baked or Broiled Crab which has about 2 % of daily Vitamin C. The percent daily values of Vitamin C, Vitamin A, Calcium and Iron for a variety of types and serving sizes of Crab is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories, Carbs or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins. 
Crab is also a natural source of omega-3 fatty acids, which can help to improve memory, decrease the chances of having a heart attack, decrease risk of cancer, and possibly help to improve depression and anxiety. Crab is a low risk seafood for mercury. Many fish, particularly at the higher end of the food chain, contain dangerous amounts of mercury and are not recommended as frequently eaten foods. Crab contains many of the benefits of other seafood, but without the risk of mercury poisoning. Crab is also a good source of vitamins A, C and the B vitamins including B12, and minerals like zinc and copper. It is a source of selenium, which may be a means of preventing cancer
Vitamins and Minerals. Crab meat provides multiple essential nutrients. It is particularly rich in vitamin B-12, which, along with the other B vitamins, helps to convert food into energy. Crab meat can be a healthy addition to any diet. Fresh whole crabs or crab legs may be available in your store’s seafood section. Alaskan king crab legs are usually available frozen. Fresh lump crab meat is available in some specialty markets, but canned crab is widely available alongside canned sardines and tuna fish. A lean source of protein, crab meat also provides more than a dozen essential vitamins and minerals
The Nutrition of Crab. Crab meat is a popular and versatile type of seafood. It is also very healthy and a good addition to a balanced diet, as it contains many nutrients coupled with a low fat content. Crab is a low risk seafood for mercury. Many fish, particularly at the higher end of the food chain, contain dangerous amounts of mercury and are not recommended as frequently eaten foods. Crab contains many of the benefits of other seafood, but without the risk of mercury poisoning.
Crab meat contains several essential vitamins and minerals, such as vitamin B12, which is necessary for proper nerve function. 