10 hilariously insightful foreign words. IgA deficiency, often called selective immunoglobulin A deficiency, is a type of immune disease. Generally, this genetic condition is fairly mild and affects about one in every 400 to 2,000 people. 
Definition of Selective IgA Deficiency. Selective IgA Deficiency is defined as a primary immunodeficiency characterized by an undetectable level of immunoglobulin A (IgA) in the blood and secretions but no other immunoglobulin deficiencies. There are five types (classes) of immunoglobulins or antibodies in the blood: IgG, IgA, IgM, IgD and IgE. Although individuals with Selective IgA Deficiency do not produce IgA (or produce only extremely small amounts), they do make all the other immunoglobulin classes; hence the term Selective IgA Deficiency. Furthermore, the functions of their T-lymphocytes, phagocytic cells and complement systems are all normal.
Selective immunoglobulin A deficiency (SIgAD) is a primary immunodeficiency disease and is the most common of the primary antibody deficiencies. IgAD is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4 + and CD8 + T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts. 
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Selective IgA deficiency is an immune system condition in which you lack or don't have enough immunoglobulin A (IgA), a protein that fights infection (antibody). Most people with selective IgA deficiency don't have recurrent infections. Selective IgA deficiency may also be found with autoimmune disease, in which your immune system attacks particular organs or tissues in your own body. Common autoimmune conditions found with IgA deficiency include rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and celiac disease.
Selective Immunoglobulin A Deficiency (usually abbreviated as IgA Deficiency or SIgAD but also known as IgAD1, Immunoglobulin A Deficiency, IgA, Immunoglobulin A Deficiency 1) is a disease of primary immunodeficiency wherein a person has low or absent levels of a protein in the blood called immunoglobulin A. 
People with selective IgA deficiency are usually asymptomatic, but can have increased frequency of infections, particularly in the respiratory, digestive and genitourinary systems, for example, sinusitis and urinary tract infections. People with this deficiency lack immunoglobulin A (IgA), a type of antibody that protects against infections of the mucous membranes lining the mouth, airways, and digestive tract. It is defined as an undetectable serum IgA level in the presence of normal serum levels of IgG and IgM
IgA deficiency, a selective lack of immunoglobulin A (IgA). The most common type of immunoglobulin deficiency, it occurs in about 1 in 400 individuals. IgA is a major antibody in the saliva and in the mucous membranes of the intestines and the bronchi. It protects against bacterial and viral infections. IgA deficiency is inheritied as an autosomal-dominant or autosomal-recessive trait and is associated with autoimmune abnormalities.
IgA deficiency is a defect in the immune system characterized by an inadequate amount of the antibody class known as immunoglobulin A (IgA). Antibodies are large proteins produced by the body to fight infections caused by invaders, such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites, and other foreign agents. IgA is found in the saliva, mucous membranes, and intestinal secretions, where it may serve as the first line of defense against various sinus, respiratory, and gastrointestinal infections. Consequently, a deficiency of IgA heightens one’s vulnerability to such
IgA deficiency, n a selective lack of immunoglobulin A, which constitutes the most common type of immunoglobulin deficiency, appearing in about 1 in 400 individuals. Immunoglobulin A is a major protein antibody in the saliva and the mucous membranes of the intestines and bronchi. IgA is a major antibody in the saliva and in the mucous membranes of the intestines and the bronchi. It protects against bacterial and viral infections. IgA deficiency is inheritied as an autosomal-dominant or autosomal-recessive trait and is associated with autoimmune abnormalities.