A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. 
A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  There is one unusual exception. 4  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 5  Has a regular crystal structure. 6  The crystal structures are described as crystal systems. 1 A solid. 2  There is one unusual exception. 3  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 4  Has a regular crystal structure.
Snow passes all of the requirements necessary to be defined as a mineral. In Review. A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  Has a regular crystal structure. 4  Made by nature which means minerals are not made, directly or indirectly, from human activity. 5  Has a predictable chemical formula. 
Mineral Properties. A mineral is a naturally-occurring, inorganic solid which possesses a characteristic internal atomic structure and a definite chemical composition. If we take the definition of a mineral term by term, it becomes easier to understand: 
A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  Has a regular crystal structure. 4  Made by nature which means minerals are not made, directly or indirectly, from human activity. 5  Has a predictable chemical formula. 1 A solid. 2  There is one unusual exception. 3  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 4  Has a regular crystal structure.
Defining a mineral. A mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic solid, with a definite chemical composition, and an ordered atomic arrangement. This may seem a bit of a mouthful, but if you break it down it becomes simpler. 1  Minerals are naturally occurring. 2  They are not made by humans. 3  Minerals are inorganic. 
Definition of MINERAL for Kids. 1. : a naturally occurring solid substance (as diamond, gold, or quartz) that is not of plant or animal origin. 2. : a naturally occurring substance (as ore, coal, salt, or petroleum) obtained from the ground usually for humans to use. Tweet. : a substance (such as quartz, coal, petroleum, salt, etc.) that is naturally formed under the ground. : a chemical substance (such as iron or zinc) that occurs naturally in certain foods and that is important for good health.
Rocks and Minerals. Enjoy our wide range of fun facts and information about different types of rocks and minerals for kids. Learn what rocks and minerals are, what the difference is, examples of rocks and minerals, the difference between igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, Mohs scale of hardness and much more. Read on and have fun finding out about rocks and mineral
1 Has a regular crystal structure. 2  The crystal structures are described as crystal systems. 3  Made by nature which means minerals are not made, directly or indirectly, from human activity. 4  Has a predictable chemical formula. 1 A solid. 2  There is one unusual exception. 3  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 4  Has a regular crystal structure.