And Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years, and was gathered to his people. Douay-Rheims Bible. And decaying he died in a good old age, and having lived a long time, and being full of days: and was gathered to his people. And Abraham expired, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. Jubilee Bible 2000. Then Abraham expired and died in a good old age, an old man
Lincoln  was assassinated on April 14, 1865, and died the following morning.   The 16th President of the US, Abraham Lincoln (February 12, 1809 -  April 15, 1865) was 56 years of age when he was assassinated  by John Wilkes Booth.   He was assassinated at the age of 56. Abraham was 175 yrs old when he died (Genesis 25:7). Abraham was 86  years old when Ishmael was born (Genesis ch.16) and 100 years old  when Isaac was born (Genesis ch.21). …   Therefore, Ishmael was 89 years old when Abraham died, and Isaac  was 75 years old when Abraham died. 9 people found this useful.
75 years old Abram [Abraham] was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. Genesis 12:4 At least 135 years old Abraham's father, Terah, was 70 years old when Abram was born. And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram [Abraham]. Genesis 11:26-32 Abraham didn't leave Haran until after Terah died. Our father Abraham ... dwelt in Haran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed himself into this land.
Abraham Lincoln was 56 when he died.He was assasinated while he was  at our american cousin the play   President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, was 56 years old  … when he died from being assassinated by John Wilkes Booth. Abraham was 175 yrs old when he died (Genesis 25:7). Abraham was 86  years old when Ishmael was born (Genesis ch.16) and 100 years old  when Isaac was born (Genesis ch.21). …   Therefore, Ishmael was 89 years old when Abraham died, and Isaac  was 75 years old when Abraham died. 9 people found this useful.
King James 2000 Bible. Then Abraham died at a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. American King James Version. Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. And Abraham expired, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. Jubilee Bible 2000. Then Abraham expired and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years,
Report Abuse. Abraham was 175 when he died: And these are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he lived, a hundred and seventy-five years. Then Abraham expired and died in a good old age, old and satisfied, and was gathered to his people.. -Genesis 25:7, 8 I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses (Christian)
New American Standard 1977. And Abraham breathed his last and died in a ripe old age, an old man and satisfied with life; and he was gathered to his people. King James Bible. Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. And Abraham expired, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. Jubilee Bible 2000. Then Abraham expired and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years,
Genesis 25:8 German Bible Alphabetical: a Abraham age an and at breathed died full gathered good he his in last life man of old people ripe satisfied Then to was with years OT Law: Genesis 25:8 Abraham gave up the spirit and died (Gen. And Abraham expired, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. Jubilee Bible 2000. Then Abraham expired and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years,