Enterprise Bank is a large financial services provider in Nigeria. As of December 2012, the bank's total assets were estimated at about US$1.63 billion (NGN:261.1 billion). According to the bank's website, shareholders' equity was valued at about US$186.5 million (NGN:29.8 billion) in August 2011. As of September 2013, the assets of Enterprise Bank Limited are 100% owned by Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON), an arm of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Plans are underway to sell the shares of the bank to a private financial entity or consortium, and for AMCON to divest its ownership entirely in 2014.
Welcome to Enterprise Bank! We are your local bank of Omaha, providing a full range of banking services, from business banking to banking for individual customers. Our experienced team is committed to being your first choice for all your local bank services.
Corporate Profile. ENTERPRISE BANCORP, INC. (NASDAQ-EBTC). Enterprise Bank is a locally owned and managed full-service commercial bank that is highly responsive to the needs of individuals, professionals, non-profits and growing businesses. Our employees are highly motivated, actively involved in the community and extremely comfortable working in an entrepreneurial environment. 
DBS. DBS is a leading financial services group in Asia, with over 280 branches across 18 markets. We are headquartered in Singapore, with a growing presence in Greater China, Southeast Asia and South Asia. As a bank born and bred in Asia, we are well-positioned as your partner to capture opportunities across the region. DBS is honoured to be recognised as the Bank of the Year, Asia by The Banker, a member of the Financial Times Group, and Best Bank in Asia-Pacific by Global Finance. The bank has also been named Safest Bank in Asia by Global Finance for six consecutive years from 2009 to 2014.
Enterprise bank routing number is a nine digit number used to identify bank transfers. Routing numbers will be different based on the account branch. It is based on the bank account origin by state and region. The routing number on check is available for each branch in the table below. 
As a full-service commercial institution, Enterprise Bank provides financial resources for growing businesses, professionals, non-profits and individuals that we welcome, not just as our customers, but as our neighbors. If you cannot find what you are looking for on our website please feel free to contact us. The common stock of Enterprise Bancorp, Inc. is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol . EBTC . Enterprise Bancorp, Inc. is the holding company of Enterprise Bank and Trust Company, Enterprise Bank and Trust Company is commonly referred to as Enterprise Bank.
An enterprise architecture (EA) is a conceptual blueprint that defines the structure and operation of an organization. The intent of an enterprise architecture is to determine how an organization can most effectively achieve its current and future objectives. 
Enterprise Bank Limited (EBL), also referred to as Enterprise Bank, is a commercial bank in Nigeria. It is licensed as a commercial bank by the Central Bank of Nigeria, the country's banking regulator. As of September 2013, the assets of Enterprise Bank Limited are 100% owned by Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON), an arm of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Plans are underway to sell the shares of the bank to a private financial entity or consortium, and for AMCON to divest its ownership entirely in 2014.