Between 20 to 50 days after death, the body begins to dry out as all of the remaining flesh is consumed by insects. Maggots can no longer feed on the dry body because they can’t chew through the tough tissue. This is where the beetles take over. They can chew through the remaining tendons and ligaments, until all that is left is bone and hair. Between 50 to 365 days after death, moths and bacteria consume the hair. All that is left is bone; it can last indefinitely as long as there are no predators around. This whole process can be hastened or slowed depending upon what happens to the body after death. Depending upon the type of soil that they body is buried in, the bones can last for decades. If the soil is more peaty, the bones will decompose much more quickly. Egyptian Mummies were embalmed using a different process than that of today, and given their hot, dry climate, an untouched body would last much longer.
It depends on the environmental conditions on how long it takes it to completely decompose. It can take several weeks or even months. Extra: It takes about a year for the body to decompose to a skeleton and teeth. The process of decomposition slows if it is in a casket. The process of decomposition is the same for everyone, but how much time it would take varies if the body is in a casket buried in the ground. Some may decompose within a few … months, and some may take many years.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long does it take your body to decompose after you die? You know, after it&#39;s been embalmed, you&#39;ve had the funeral and it&#39;s been put in the casket laid to rest in the dirt, how long does it take until it starts to decay? And what happens to your eyes and tongue and stuff like that? Report Abuse. The human body starts to decompose as soon as death occurs. The temperature of the body actually rises at death, which sets decomposition into motion. One hour after death, bacteria from the intestines are released.
And the decomposition ends. It will take around a year to decompose the body. But this depends on the amount of moisture, temperature, and the availability of the insects and other organisms that feed on the body. It will also take longer for the body to decompose if it is buried compared to it left exposed. So, how those saintly bodies are kept from being decomposed is still a mystery.
If the body does not get enough protection from the elements, it can even skeletonize in a space of a year. However, the teeth and bones can last even for a hundred years if the soil is not highly acidic and warm. The following table shows body decomposition after death in a timeline (in moderate temperature). Therefore, if a dead body is exposed to water or air, then it will dramatically decompose. Insects and animals will feed on tissues if a dead body is exposed to them, and this also quickens the decomposing process.
But within a year all that is usually left is the skeleton and teeth, with traces of the tissues on them-it takes 40 to 50 years for the bones to become dry and brittle in a coffin. In soil of neutral acidity, bones may last for hundreds of years, while acid peaty soil gradually dissolves the bones. Decomposition in the air is twice as fast as when the body is under water and four times as fast as underground. Corpses are preserved longer when buried deeper, as long as the ground isn't waterlogged.
If it's buried in hot, dry sand, not for hundreds or thousands of years. If it's frozen in ice, hundreds or thousands of years.. It depends on access to moisture and bacteria. If these do not exist, the body doesn't really decompose, or if it does, it's at a very slooooow rate. 
Part 4: How Long Does It Take for a Body to Decompose at ... The duration it takes for a dead body to decompose depends on various factors, any of which may affect the necessary time it takes to break the body down. If a dead body is inside a coffin and buried deep underground for instance, the body could even take 50 years for every tissue of the body to disappear. Therefore, if a dead body is exposed to water or air, then it will dramatically decompose. Insects and animals will feed on tissues if a dead body is exposed to them, and this also quickens the decomposing process.
Even if perfectly embalmed, every body will sooner or later decompose. How soon depends on the quality of embalming, burial container, burial location (such as mausoleum or in-ground). One funeral director I know exhumed a body 5 years after it was buried. 