Liana tangle across a forest in the Western Ghats. A liana is any of various long-stemmed, woody vines that are rooted in the soil at ground level and use trees, as well as other means of vertical support, to climb up to the canopy to get access to well-lit areas of the forest. The term liana is not a taxonomic grouping, but rather a description of the way the plant grows – much like  tree  or  shrub . Lianas may be found in many different plant families.
Wildlife. The web of woody liana vines provides a variety of animals with mobility across the rain-forest canopy. Some animals, such as sloths and spider monkeys, rarely touch the ground, using lianas and other trees and plants to get them from one place to another. Growth Habits. Very few plants grow at ground level in the rain forest because the area receives only 1 percent to 2 percent of available sunlight. Liana, however, becomes rooted in the soil at ground level as a small shrub.
Overview. Lianas are vinelike plants that grow in the rain forest and require some type of support to grow toward the canopy of the forest, where more light occurs. Lianas play an important role in rain forests, where they make up about 20 percent of the woody plants. Growth Habits. Very few plants grow at ground level in the rain forest because the area receives only 1 percent to 2 percent of available sunlight. Liana, however, becomes rooted in the soil at ground level as a small shrub.
More than 2,500 species of vines from about 90 families of lianas thrive in the canopy of the rain forest. The plants range from small vines to gigantic lianas that appear as thick as tree trunks. Some of the vines grow to more than 3,000 feet in length. Growth Habits. Very few plants grow at ground level in the rain forest because the area receives only 1 percent to 2 percent of available sunlight. Liana, however, becomes rooted in the soil at ground level as a small shrub.
Lianas. Ninety per cent of the world's vine species grow in tropical rainforests. Lianas are a type of climbing vine found throughout tropical rainforests. They have thick, woody stems and come in various lengths (up to 3,000 ft) and varying shapes. They begin life on the forest floor but depend on trees for support as they climb upwards towards the sunlight they need for survival
Liana Plants are Most Often Found in Rainforests. A plant in the vine family, liana plants are found in the tropical rainforests 90 percent of the time, according to the Cal Institute of Technology's website. Liana Plants Can Be Uprooted. Like trees, liana plants can be uprooted if they are attached to a tree that is chopped down. However, liana plants will protect a tree from strong storm winds by helping anchor it (and itself) to the ground.
Creepers, vines, and lianas (woody vines) are abundant in the canopy and make up a significant proportion of the vegetation in tropical rainforests. There are over 2,500 species of vines from about 90 families [ liana distribution ]. They range from small, indiscrete vines that grow against the tree to giant lianas thick as trees that seemingly hang in the middle of the forest independent of trees. Some of the larger woody lianas may exceed 3,000 feet in length. Upon reaching the canopy, vines and lianas spread from tree to tree, and in some forests their leaves may make up 40 percent of canopy leaves. Hemiepiphytes rely on a different strategy. These plants start life in the canopy as epiphytes and grow down to the ground.
Liana Plants are Needed by Animals. Liana plants are an important part to the rainforest, as their rope-like trunks are used by animals to move from tree to tree, protecting them from prey on the ground. Animals and birds also enjoy the fruit and flowers of the liana plant. Liana Plants Can Be Uprooted. Like trees, liana plants can be uprooted if they are attached to a tree that is chopped down. However, liana plants will protect a tree from strong storm winds by helping anchor it (and itself) to