Three Days in Riviera Maya Riviera Maya One of the best ways to enjoy nature is to visit the Riviera Maya, a 120 km shore line with spectacular landscape. This area, stretching from Puerto Morelos through Carrillo Puerto (in the heart of the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve) to Punta Allen, is full of attractions. Tulum: more than archaeology Riviera Maya Tulum is one of the most visited and beautiful Mayan cities in Mexico; part of its charm is that it was built facing the ocean, on a cliff from where the turquoise shades of the Caribbean Ocean can be admired in all their splendor.
The term Riviera Maya is fairly new and has varied definitions, but it starts approximately 10 miles south of Cancun at the seaside village of Puerto Morelos and includes places like Playa del Carmen, Puerto Aventuras, Akumal, and Tulum. It ends at the town of Carrillo Puerto. Mayan Riviera. The Mayan Riviera is comprised of the area just south of the tip of the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. It stretches along 75 miles of the Mexican Caribbean coastline in the southeastern part of of the Yucatan Peninsula.
Going to the Catalonia Riviera Maya in May, never been-dont know what kind of weather to expect. This is about an hour from Cancun Between Playa and Tulum. Source(s): weather riviera maya mexico may: https://bitly.im/PalJg. Blondell · 1 month ago. Going to the Catalonia Riviera Maya in May, never been-dont know what kind of weather to expect. This is about an hour from Cancun Between Playa and Tulum. Add your answer. Source.
Punta Maroma, Riviera Maya, Mexico. The Riviera Maya was originally called the  Cancun–Tulum corridor , but in 1999 it was renamed as the Riviera Maya with the aid of Lic. Miguel Ramon Ramón Martin martín azueta who at the time was the municipal President, Of Solidaridad. quintana roo Target areas for urbanization include the towns and villages of: Puerto Morelos, the Riviera Maya), Puerto Aventuras, Akumal, Chemuyil, and Tulum.
Map of Riviera Maya. From north to south: Puerto Morelos, Tres Rios, Ríos playa Del, Carmen, Xcaret, Paamul Puerto, Aventuras-Xpu, Ha, Há-Akumal, Xel ha Há Bahia, Bahía, De, Punta Soliman, Tankah Tulum. boca paila punta allen Target areas for urbanization include the towns and villages of: Puerto Morelos, the Riviera Maya), Puerto Aventuras, Akumal, Chemuyil, and Tulum.
The Riviera Maya (. [ri'βjeɾa 'maʝa]) is a tourism and resort district in Mexico. It straddles the coastal Highway 307 along the Caribbean coastline of the state of Quintana Roo, located on the eastern portion of the Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula Target areas for urbanization include the towns and villages of: Puerto Morelos, the Riviera Maya), Puerto Aventuras, Akumal, Chemuyil, and Tulum.
Situated on a sugar white sand beach on Mexico’s Riviera Maya coast, Excellence Riviera Cancun is a classic all-suite Mediterranean-style resort of stucco, tile and marble. It may be secluded but it’s not isolated. Vibrant Cancun, cosmopolitan Playa del Carmen and the ancient Mayan world are all at your doorstep. 
The Riviera Maya stretches along the coast of the Caribbean Ocean, in the eastern part of the Yucatan Peninsula. It includes the area going from Puerto Morelos to the Sian Ka’an Biosphere Reserve. In what were once fishing villages, today stands a tourist corridor with an offering of luxury hotels. Tulum: more than archaeology Riviera Maya Tulum is one of the most visited and beautiful Mayan cities in Mexico; part of its charm is that it was built facing the ocean, on a cliff from where the turquoise shades of the Caribbean Ocean can be admired in all their splendor.
more interesting sites The climate of Riviera Maya (Mexico) Riviera Maya is the coastal area along the Caribbean Sea in the federal state of Quintana Roo on the Yucatan peninsula. Riviera Maya is situated in between Tulum and Cancun. The name Riviera Maya is a combination of two things that can be found here: beautiful white beaches and ancient Maya temples. 
Puerto Morelos is in the northern part of the Riviera Maya just 20 minutes south of the Cancun International Airport. With its iconic lighthouse, Puerto Morelos is one of the oldest communities on Mexico's Caribbean coast. Playa del Carmen is a cosmopolitan city in the heart of the Riviera Maya. A global mix of fun-loving travellers and vacationers gather year round to relax on white sandy beaches, check out the happening night-life and soak up the international atmosphere.