~~ Vitamins Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins. 
1 Green beans are a good source of vitamin C, folic acid, iron, and potassium. 2  Dried beans provide protein, B vitamins, folic acid, iron, magnesium, and potassium. 3  Cabbage is high in vitamin C, folic acid, calcium, potassium, and fiber. 4  Carrots are rich in beta-carotene, vitamins A and K, and potassium. 1 Peppers have lots of beta-carotene; vitamins B6, C, and A; and potassium. 2  Potatoes, with skins, are a good source of protein, iron, vitamin C, and potassium. 3  Shallots are a good source of potassium, vitamin B6, manganese, and folic acid. 4  Summer squash is high in vitamin C, fiber, potassium, and magne
Fruits and vegetables contain essential vitamins and nutrients that can help lower blood pressure, reduce the risk of certain cancers and fight heart disease and stroke. Women should aim for 2 to 3 cups of each fruits and vegetables per day. B Vitamins. B vitamins, such as folate, niacin, riboflavin and thiamin, reduce heart disease and stroke, ease stress, alleviate depression, help the nervous system and help break down carbohydrates. B Vitamins can be found in bananas, lentils, chili peppers, dark leafy vegetables, berries and beans. email.
1 Leeks are a good source of fiber, iron, and vitamins A and C, and they contain the cancer-fighting phytochemical diallyl sulfide. 2  Okra provides vitamin C and the B vitamins, magnesium, lutein, and potassium. 3  Peas pack plenty of protein, B vitamins, vitamins C and A, manganese, iron, potassium, and lutein. 1 Peppers have lots of beta-carotene; vitamins B6, C, and A; and potassium. 2  Potatoes, with skins, are a good source of protein, iron, vitamin C, and potassium. 3  Shallots are a good source of potassium, vitamin B6, manganese, and folic acid. 4  Summer squash is high in vitamin C, fiber, potassium, and magnesium
Vegetable Nutrition Chart. As you select vegetables to cook and eat, consider the nutrients and minerals in your common vegetables 1  : Green beans are a good source of vitamin C, folic acid, iron, and potassium. 2  Dried beans provide protein, B vitamins, folic acid, iron, magnesium, and potassium. 1 Peppers have lots of beta-carotene; vitamins B6, C, and A; and potassium. 2  Potatoes, with skins, are a good source of protein, iron, vitamin C, and potassium. 3  Shallots are a good source of potassium, vitamin B6, manganese, and folic acid. 4  Summer squash is high in vitamin C, fiber, potassium, and magne
Vitamin A, also called retinol, is essential for eye and skin health. Vitamin A is an antioxidant, helping your body fight free radicals that can cause tissue and cell damage. Vitamin A is found in vegetables and fruits such as carrots, broccoli, kale, pumpkin, sweet potatoes, cantaloupe and red peppers. B Vitamins. B vitamins, such as folate, niacin, riboflavin and thiamin, reduce heart disease and stroke, ease stress, alleviate depression, help the nervous system and help break down carbohydrates. B Vitamins can be found in bananas, lentils, chili peppers, dark leafy vegetables, berries and beans. email.
~~ Vegetables Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables