Birds of paradise are toxic to cats, but they aren't feathered friends that Kitty catches and devours. If you also share your home with a dog, keep Fido away from the plant as well. Several varieties of plants go by the name bird of paradise -- none are safe. What to Do. If you suspect your cat has eaten any part of a bird of a paradise, take him to the veterinarian at once. You should have the number of a regional or national pet poison control hotline handy. Call the number for additional information or if for some reason you can't get your cat to the vet immediately.
Pleasing to the eye, not to the palate. Bird of paradise (Stelitzia reginae) is a tropical plant that is beautiful to look at but toxic to dogs. The flower on top of the stalk resembles a bird in flight and stands 4- to 5-feet tall, which often is the perfect height for curious canine mouths
When a dog near bird of paradise displays obvious symptoms of plant poisoning, call the vet, describe what was ingested, and tell the dog's weight and symptoms. In addition, put anything the dog vomited and a sample of the plant in an airtight bag. Bird of paradise (Stelitzia reginae) is a tropical plant that is beautiful to look at but toxic to dogs. The flower on top of the stalk resembles a bird in flight and stands 4- to 5-feet tall, which often is the perfect height for curious canine mouths
Submit. The bird of paradise plant is poisonous to dogs. It causes symptoms of mouth and throat irritation, vomiting, nausea and diarrhea when ingested. It is believed that the tannins or hydrocyanic acid in the plant are the toxic compounds. Keywords: poisonous pet plants, dog poison plants, poisonous plants.
Hi, Welcome to Just Answer. The bird of paradise plant seeds are considered toxic to dogs and cats. The toxic signs are-oral irritation, intense burning and irritation of mouth, tongue and lips, excessive drooling, vomiting, diarrhea, difficulty swallowing and incoordination is possible. 
Domanski/iStock/Getty Images. Bird of paradise plants (Strelitzia spp. ) make a striking statement in the home or garden. Prized for their long-lasting beauty as cut flowers, bird of paradise plants grow best in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11 and are often cultivated as houseplants. According to the ASPCA, bird of paradise plants are toxic to cats, dogs and horses. On the other hand, the University of Connecticut categorizes the plants as safe for humans. Cats, horses and dogs may show signs of poisoning if they ingest part of the plant. Specific symptoms and the severity of the symptoms will vary depending on how much of the plant was consumed and the overall health of the animal. The seeds and the fruit are the most toxic parts of the plant, according to the ASPCA.
Strelitzia Reginae. Strelitzia reginae, the bird of paradise, is a South African native plant. It's called a bird of paradise because of the orange flower's resemblance to a beautiful bird in flight. Other names include bird's tongue flower and crane flower. What to Do. If you suspect your cat has eaten any part of a bird of a paradise, take him to the veterinarian at once. You should have the number of a regional or national pet poison control hotline handy. Call the number for additional information or if for some reason you can't get your cat to the vet immediately.
Bird of Paradise poisoning: Various parts of the Bird of Paradise plant are poisonous-the seeds contain toxic tannins and the leaves can contain hydrocyanic acid. Eating five seed pods can result in poisoning symptoms but the plant is generally considered to have low toxicity. 
If you eat the seeds or the angled seed capsule of the bird-of-paradise plant, internal poisoning can occur, according to the government of Alberta, Canada. Vomiting is one of the symptoms these plant parts can cause. The seeds also cause poisoning in dogs and other animals that eat them. If dogs eat bird-of-paradise seeds mild vomiting can occur. The Pet Owner's Guide to Toxic Plants reports that the seeds of this plant are minimally toxic. The plant known as Strelitzia reginae is commonly called the bird-of-paradise or crane flower for its showy orange and blue flowers that resemble an exotic bird. It originated in South Africa and has been introduced to many areas of the world.