It is used to weave some of the popular quilting fabrics which have a silk-like hand. Pique. Piqué a-medium weight cotton or cotton blend fabric with a pebbly weave that looks almost like a. Check suitable for, vests jackets and fitted. blouses A type of yarn texturizing in which a crimped yarn is made by knitting the yarn into a fabric, and then heat-setting the fabric. The yarn is then unraveled from the fabric and used in this permanently crinkled form.
Seersucker is a thin, puckered, all-cotton fabric, commonly striped or chequered, used to make clothing for spring and summer wear. Seersucker is comfortable and easily washed and was the choice for the summer service uniforms of the first female United States Marines. The decision was made by Captain Anne A. Lentz, one of the first female officers selected to run the Marine Corps Women's Reserve during the Second World War.
Details & Care. With sheer mesh construction and tropical-print raglan sleeves, this full-zip track jacket offers a breezy, summer take on the sporty adidas style. Signature 3-stripes along the rib-knit cuffs, hem and collar add a classic touch to the warm-weather workout essential. Color(s): black/ multi. Brand: ADIDAS ORIGINALS. 
A type of fabric that is commonly used for drapery, this fabric has the distinctive quality of blocking light, and comes in two forms: 2-pass and 3-pass. Two-pass has two “passes” of foam on a fabric, which means the black layer of foam will be visible. 3-pass has two layers of white and one layer of black foam. A type of yarn texturizing in which a crimped yarn is made by knitting the yarn into a fabric, and then heat-setting the fabric. The yarn is then unraveled from the fabric and used in this permanently crinkled form.
Common items of clothing made from seersucker include suits, shorts, shirts, and robes. The most common colors for it are white and blue; however, it is produced in a wide variety of colors, usually alternating colored stripes and puckered white stripes slightly wider than pin stripes. Seersucker is comfortable and easily washed and was the choice for the summer service uniforms of the first female United States Marines. The decision was made by Captain Anne A. Lentz, one of the first female officers selected to run the Marine Corps Women's Reserve during the Second World War.
A very stiff cotton fabric that is been soaked in a substance to fill in the gaps between the fibers. The fiber is usually cotton and is finished with starch and resin. Buckram fabric is most commonly used as the supporting material inside of baseball caps. It is also used in lady's hats, costumes, belts, and handbags. A type of yarn texturizing in which a crimped yarn is made by knitting the yarn into a fabric, and then heat-setting the fabric. The yarn is then unraveled from the fabric and used in this permanently crinkled form.
Cotton vs Wool. Cotton and wool are two of the most widely used natural products used for our clothing. While both provide comfort to us, wool is used in winters whereas cotton is used more during summers though there are many who use it all round the year. Cotton. Cotton comes from the plant of cotton and is known to mankind since time immemorial. Cotton is the fluffy part around the seeds of the cotton plant ands is designed to help in carrying the seeds to longer distances through wind.
Mankind has been using this natural fiber for the purpose of clothing since ancient civilizations. In all countries of the world, cotton is harvested to obtain natural fibers that are used to make fabrics of all kinds. Cotton combing is done to reflmove the seeds from the fiber and combed cotton is ready for spinning. Cotton. Cotton comes from the plant of cotton and is known to mankind since time immemorial. Cotton is the fluffy part around the seeds of the cotton plant ands is designed to help in carrying the seeds to longer distances through wind.
One fact that many do not know is that even goat hair is used to manufacture woolen clothing and goat hair is called mohair while sheep hair is called wool. Difference Between Cotton and Wool. • Both cotton and wool are natural fibers but whereas cotton is obtained from cotton plant, wool is obtained from sheep. Cotton. Cotton comes from the plant of cotton and is known to mankind since time immemorial. Cotton is the fluffy part around the seeds of the cotton plant ands is designed to help in carrying the seeds to longer distances through wind.