10 How much does it cost to apply for a visa? The general visa fee of EUR 60 must be paid when you submit the visa application. The visa fee for children from the age of six years and below the age of 12 years is EUR 35. Nationals of countries with which the EU has concluded Visa Facilitation Agreements shall pay a fee of EUR 35. 
For countries part of the Schengen area the cost of a visa is EUR 60, the cost in Rands depends on the current exchange rate. If you plan on visiting countries not part of the Schengen area, such as the UK, you will most likely require additional visas and the cost varies from country to country. 
The Schengen visa allows the holder to a total stay of up to 90 days within a period of 6 months for tourist or business purposes. If you get a multiple entry Schengen visa, you may leave and return any number of times within the 180-day period, but the combined stay within the region must not total more than 90 days. You need to apply for a Schengen visa if you are a citizen of a country whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement. A Schengen visa must be applied in person, NOT by mail.
Schengen Visa Fee. When applying for a Schengen visa there is a non-refundable mandatory visa fee every applicant must pay. The visa costs vary depending on the type of visa and age of the applicant as well as some other exceptions stated in the text. The regular fee (in Euro). 1  Airport transit visa – 60.00 EUR. 2  Short stay visa, less than 90 days – 60.00 EUR. 3  Long stay visa, more than 90 days – 99.00 EUR.
The regular application fee for a short-stay Schengen visa is set at €60. A reduced fee of €35 is paid by children of age 6 to 11, and by nationals of Visa Facilitation Agreement countries (Bosnia-Herzegovina, Georgia, Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Russia, Serbia, and Ukraine). The holder of a long-stay visa or a residence permit issued by a Schengen country is entitled to move freely within the other states which comprise the Schengen Area for a period of up to 90 days in any 180 days.
The Schengen Area consists of 22 European Union member states and four non-members: Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus and Romania are not yet part of the Schengen Area, but nonetheless have a visa policy that is based on the Schengen acquis. The holder of a long-stay visa or a residence permit issued by a Schengen country is entitled to move freely within the other states which comprise the Schengen Area for a period of up to 90 days in any 180 days.
Schengen Visa Fee. When applying for a Schengen visa there is a non-refundable mandatory visa fee every applicant must pay. The Schengen visa costs vary depending on the type of visa and age of the applicant as well as some other exceptions stated below in the text. The Schengen visa fee can be paid in the designated consulate/embassy via cash, debit or credit card. However, some consulates may not allow you to pay by credit card. The Schengen visa costs include the visa fee and the service fee, payable at the corresponding embassy/consulate when applying.
The visa fee for a short-term Schengen visa is €60 or the equivalent in the currency of the country where the application is made. Some countries of the former Soviet Union and former Yugoslavia are offered a special reduced fee of €35. Source(s): http://www.germany.info/Vertretung/usa/e... Source(s): 
The visa policy of the Schengen Area is set by the European Union and applies to the Schengen Area and to other EU member states without opt-outs. The holder of a long-stay visa or a residence permit issued by a Schengen country is entitled to move freely within the other states which comprise the Schengen Area for a period of up to 90 days in any 180 days.
General Information. Schengen visas are issued by: Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. 1