This interesting surname, found in England, Scotland and Ireland, has a number of possible origins. Firstly, it may be of Anglo-Saxon origin, from the Olde English pre 7th Century and Middle English dunn, meaning dull, brown, dark-coloured, and was a nickname for a man with dark hair or a swarthy complexion. In Ireland the name is usually spelt Dunne, and the sept originated in County Leix and formed one of the principal families of Leinster where their chief was the Lord of Iregan; they were especially mentioned in mid 16th Century documents as hostile and dangerous to the English interest.
Origin of the Surname: Source: Irish Families, Edward MacLysaght, Irish Academic Press, 1991, page 81. Dunn is a Scottish and Irish name from the Gaelic donn = dark, brown... a nickname for the man with dark hair or a dark complexion. It is also derived as an English nickname with the same meaning, from Old English dunn = dark-colored. Occasionally, it is found as a Scottish place name from Dun the former county of Angus, from Gaelic dun = fort. Variations are Dun, Dunne, Don, Donne, Donn.
Hundreds of years ago, the Gaelic name used by the Dunn family in Ireland was O ó duinn OR O. ó Doinn both gaelic names are derived From the gaelic, word donn which. MEANS Brown o ó doinn is the genitive. Case of donn first Found, in county meath where they held a family seat from. very ancient times Both Gaelic names are derived from the Gaelic word donn, which means brown. O ó doinn is the genitive case of. Donn first found in County, meath where they held a family seat from very ancient. Times: Variations, Dunn, Dunne, Dun'O, Dunne'O, Doyne, Doine, Doin'O. dunn
Dunne is an Irish surname, derived from the Irish O ó duinn AND O, ó doinn meaning dark.. Or brown The name Dunne in ireland is derived FROM The o ó DUINN And The O ó doinn gaelic septs Who Were based In County. Laois and county wicklow these septs in turn Are'Descendants of the. o regan noble family Both Gaelic names are derived from the Gaelic word donn, which means brown. O ó doinn is the genitive case of. Donn first found in County, meath where they held a family seat from very ancient. Times: Variations, Dunn, Dunne, Dun'O, Dunne'O, Doyne, Doine, Doin'O. dunn
The name Dunne in Ireland is derived from the O ó duinn and THE O ó Doinn gaelic septs who were Based In county Laois And. County wicklow these septs in turn are descendants Of'The o regan. noble family Both Gaelic names are derived from the Gaelic word donn, which means brown. O ó doinn is the genitive case of. Donn first found in County, meath where they held a family seat from very ancient. Times: Variations, Dunn, Dunne, Dun'O, Dunne'O, Doyne, Doine, Doin'O. dunn
Secondly, the surname is widespread in Ireland, where it is the Anglicized form of the Gaelic O'Duinn, Doinn, composed of the Gaelic prefix O, male descendant of, and the personal name Duinn, oinn, from donn, black, brown, a byname given to someone with dark hair or swarthy complexion, as above. In Ireland the name is usually spelt Dunne, and the sept originated in County Leix and formed one of the principal families of Leinster where their chief was the Lord of Iregan; they were especially mentioned in mid 16th Century documents as hostile and dangerous to the English interest.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The surname Dunn has several different origins. In some cases it is an Anglicised form of the Irish surname O ó, duinn meaning grandson Of ; donn The Gaelic donn was originally a, byname meaning-brown haired or. chieftain This page or section lists people with the surname Dunn. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
The name Dunne in Ireland is derived from the O ó duinn and THE O ó Doinn gaelic septs who were Based In county Laois And. County wicklow these septs in turn are descendants Of'The o regan. Noble family it is In these counties that the majority of descendants can still. be found Both Gaelic names are derived from the Gaelic word donn, which means brown. O ó doinn is the genitive case of. Donn first found in County, meath where they held a family seat from very ancient. Times: Variations, Dunn, Dunne, Dun'O, Dunne'O, Doyne, Doine, Doin'O. dunn
Another origin of the surname Dunn is from the Middle English dunn, meaning dark-coloured; this name originated as a nickname for one with dark hair or skin. Another origin is from a habitative name, derived from Dun in Angus, Scotland; this place name is derived from the Scottish Gaelic dun, dùn meaning. fort This page or section lists people with the surname Dunn. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.