Answer: The district estimates $208 per square foot in hard costs to rebuild elementary grade schools and $220 per square foot for the high schools. This is the mid-range for Portland Metro hard costs. Read the project estimating method for yourself. 
Simply enter a zip code or select a state below for the state's average home construction cost per square foot and the average new square foot size for homes sold in that state. Then just click Submit for your results! 
Of coarse it depends on your location. Here in North Eastern PA The average is $16-$20 per square foot, depending on the county, township, or city you are in. It costs roughly … $11-$13 for the materials and contractors average about $5-$8 per square foot for labor, not including steps. For example, my company charges approximately $18 per square foot to build a deck.
Your permits, fees and taxes will be different from city to county. Construction costs are really dependant on quality of finishes and lot location. That being said you can figure on $60.00 per sq. foot for an Adair home which is a site built manufactured home quality. A mid quality tract home at $100 per sq. foot. If you general the project, $120.00 per ft. if you higher a builder.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Building costs in Oregon average between $100 - $150 per square foot right now, depending on the quality of materials and finishes you want. Typically, buying an already-existing home is going to cost you between $200 - $300 per square foot, so building is a good option if you can afford the lot. Eugene is a nice place to live and has a great school district.
The construction cost per square foot in Asheville, North Carolina  is about $88 per square foot. This means a 3000 square foot  building would cost about $264,000 to build. Average cost of home construction in Maine is about 120 to 140  dollars per square foot. Depending on the type of construction, it  could be somewhat more or less.
Average construction cost per square foot in portland oregon for a condominium currently is.... 1. 0. The average construction cost per square foot in portland oregon for a condominium currently is about one hundred to two hundred dollars per square foot. It will also depend upon the quality of the material one is using for the construction purpose and also the style one wants to maintain. Modular homes are cheaper
Does anyone know the average construction cost per square foot for a new modest home in Roseburg oregon area? Say 1000 to 1300 square foot. That being said you can figure on $60.00 per sq. foot for an Adair home which is a site built manufactured home quality. A mid quality tract home at $100 per sq. foot. If you general the project, $120.00 per ft. if you higher a builder.
An average commercial steel building costs between $16 and $20 per square foot, including building package (I-Beams, purlins, girts etc.) , delivery, foundation and the cost of construction. 
What is the average per square foot home construction cost in East Medford Oregon. It depends on the quaility of construction that you are after, of course the sky can be the limit. On an average $85.00 per square foot with little frills for basic construction. Upper end would be $125 a square with the frills like Granite, trvatine, wood floors, higher end lighting and cabinets.