There are a number of plants you can add to your garden and yard to naturally repel mosquitoes, and in some cases, you can even crush or rub plants on your skin to keep mosquitoes away. This will help deter mosquitoes in areas of your home or yard that may not contain mosquito-repellent plants, in addition to keeping your skin protected away from home. 1  Apply crushed catnip, citronella, vanilla leaf, tea tree, lemon balm, clove, lavender, eucalyptus, sagebrush, or pineapple weed directly to your skin.
Plants that are commonly used to repel mosquitoes are citronella, marigolds, catnip, horsemint, and ageratum, in addition to several others. Continue reading this article to learn about the many ways in which plants can be used to keep mosquitoes away from your living environment. This will help deter mosquitoes in areas of your home or yard that may not contain mosquito-repellent plants, in addition to keeping your skin protected away from home. 1  Apply crushed catnip, citronella, vanilla leaf, tea tree, lemon balm, clove, lavender, eucalyptus, sagebrush, or pineapple weed directly to your skin.
Grow herbs that repel mosquitoes. In addition to having the ability to eat them, herbs such as rosemary, basil, lemongrass, and garlic will naturally keep mosquitoes away. 7. Crush and rub certain species of mosquito-repellent plants on your skin. This will help deter mosquitoes in areas of your home or yard that may not contain mosquito-repellent plants, in addition to keeping your skin protected away from home. 1  Apply crushed catnip, citronella, vanilla leaf, tea tree, lemon balm, clove, lavender, eucalyptus, sagebrush, or pineapple weed directly to your skin.
When spring arrives so do those annoying mosquitoes. Instead of going the chemical route, here is a collection of mosquito repelling plants to make mosquito control more natural. Basil – Ocimum americanum – has essential oils that can be extracted and used as a spray to repel mosquitoes. Cadaga Tree – Eucalyptus torelliana – can repel mosquitoes simply by being planted in an area where mosquitoes are not wanted. The scent from the tree acts as a barrier to repel mosquitoes. Catmint – Nepeta faasseni i – is very effective at keeping mosquitoes away.
You must be thinking what plants repel mosquitoes and flies. Do not worry; here is good information about famous and easy to grow plants that repel bugs. All those herbs, plants and shrubs that contain natural oils are considered the best mosquito repellent. Lavender oil is another important item used to make commercial mosquito repellents and DEETs. The fact is that all the bugs, insects and related beings cannot stand any kind of strong smell, so Lavender works best in this respect.
Lemongrass. Repels mosquitoes. You’ve no doubt seen citronella candles in stores during the summer and read how citronella will keep mosquitoes away. Citronella is a natural oil found in lemongrass, an ornamental that can grow up to 4 feet tall and 3 feet wide in one season. Repels house flies and mosquitoes. Plant basil in containers by your house doors and in outdoor areas where you like to relax or entertain. Basil is delicious in salads, in many pork and chicken recipes and with a variety of soups. You also can use fresh basil to make an insect repellent spray.
1 These flowers can help keep mosquitoes away from the house. 2  Plant garlic and rosemary in your garden. 3  They can be used for cooking, while the outdoor plant will help to deter insects. 4  If you need to bring your herbs inside in the winter, plant them in a container that can go on a windowsill in the winter. 1 Keep scented geraniums, or pelargonium citrosum vanieenii, on window sills. 2  These flowers can help keep mosquitoes away from the house. 3  Plant garlic and rosemary in your garden. 4  They can be used for cooking, while the outdoor plant will help to deter insects.
There are a variety of plants that repel mosquitoes, including both wild and cultivated species. Almost anywhere you go, it is reasonable to find several plant species that you can use to ward off these pesky critters. Catnip (Nepeta cataria) is a common garden plant that can be used to repel mosquitoes. The crushed plant can be applied directly to the skin or the dried plant can be infused in an oil, such as olive oil. There is an interesting article about research conducted on the mosquito-repelling qualities of catnip.
Wild plants that repel mosquitoes. Vanilla Leaf (Achlys triphylla) is a plant native to the northwest and Japan. Indigenous peoples were known to hang bundles of the dried plants in and around their dwellings to keep mosquitoes and flies away. The plant can be rubbed on the skin fresh or dried to deter mosquitoes. Catnip (Nepeta cataria) is a common garden plant that can be used to repel mosquitoes. The crushed plant can be applied directly to the skin or the dried plant can be infused in an oil, such as olive oil. There is an interesting article about research conducted on the mosquito-repelling qualities of catnip.