The following are generally recognized (or certified) nurse practitioner specialties: Family NPs, Pediatric NPs, Adult NPs, Geriatric NPs, Women's Health Care NPs, Neonatal NPs, Acute Care NPs, Occupational Health NPs, Certified Nurse Midwives, and Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists.
A: To be a Nurse Practitioner in California, you will need a high school diploma or an equivalent GED to be eligible to apply for nursing programs. You can take the certificate in nursing education to be a nurse practitioner in California at the quickest.
Obtaining licensure as a registered nurse through the National Council Licensure Examination-Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN), is required for all nurse practitioners. This is a post-undergraduate prerequisite to becoming an RN, which is a prerequisite to becoming a NP.
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program.
A nurse practitioner (NP) is an advanced practice registered nurse who provides health care services similar to those of a physician. NPs may choose to specialize in family, pediatric or geriatric nursing.
A: To become a nurse practitioner at the quickest, you can take up the certificate of nursing which is a one year program and the shortest to get nursing education. Certificate in nursing allows students to be able to practice and have introductory level knowledge and skills in the field of nursing.
Registered nurses with a bachelor's degree who are interested in becoming nurse practitioners can qualify for the position by earning a master's or doctoral degree in nursing. Many nurse practitioners specialize in a specific area of medicine, such as pediatrics or family medicine during their graduate study.
To become a nurse practitioner, an nursing degree is required. This is the most basic level of nursing education that one can earn to become a nurse. Other nursing programs that lead to nursing careers include RN degrees, BSN degrees, and MSN degrees.
Nurse practitioners are known as advanced practice nurses (APRNs) and, if they have a Doctorate in Nursing Practice, can be referred to as DNPs. With their many years of training, they are qualified and licensed to provide a wide array of health services to their patients, such as:
A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school.