Yes, the Patriot Act violates our civil liberties in America. Of course, with terrorism as a possibility, the Patriot Act was passed in order to see if it could be headed off. In doing that, though, we have seen a number of rights of American citizens violated.
1 ABSTRACT Throughout American history national security has been valued more than civil liberties. In the twenty first century the Patriot Act was implemented to increase national security. However, this legislation violates the First and Fourth Amendments of the Bill of rights.
Patriot Act and the Constitution. The Patriot Act poses many threats to the civil liberties of individuals. There are a number of sections in the Patriot Act that seem to go against the general notion of privacy that is implied in
The Patriot Act crossed the line on several keyareas of civil liberties” (Margulies 82). As a result of growing support for a review of thecontroversial provisions of the Patriot Act, the legislators and elected officials are now openlyquestioning the motives behind certain provisions of the Act.
Patriot Act violates American civil liberties. The Patriot Act violates civil liberties by enabling unwarranted wire tapping leading to abuse by authorities, under the pretense of curbing terrorism.
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- The internal watchdog of the Justice Department has found 34 new credible civil rights and civil liberties violations under the anti-terrorism USA Patriot Act, according to a report released Monday.
So, civil means society. Liberty means freedom. The society determines what freedoms it gives its citizens. Whatever the governing body considers just, that is the liberties the citizens have. So in all essence, the patriot act is part of the socities liberties and doesn't infringe apon anything.
86 The USA Patriot Act: Impact on Freedoms and Civil Libertiesby Sunya Kashan(English 1102)espite being the super-power of the world, the United States of America does not enjoy anyexception from the global threats and challenges.