To export data from Excel, first select the range of data you wish to select in Excel. Then copy it either using the 'Copy' button, which is in the clipboard box of the home tab, or using the keyboard command Control + C. Next, in the Word document you wish to export the data to, click the area you wish to paste it in. 
Step 3. Click the “Create from File” tab on the Object window and browse to the Microsoft Word document to import. Step 4. Double-click the name of the file and click “OK” to close the Object window. You are brought back to the Excel spreadsheet with the Word document merged into it. Start Microsoft Word and open the document with the table of data to import into Excel. Step 2. Click the small hatch mark in the table's top-left corner, which highlights the table in default Word blue, then press Ctrl-C to copy the table.
Click the Finish and Merge icon on the Mailings tab to export the data from the Excel spreadsheet into Microsoft Word. Click File and choose Print to print out the labels. Click the Select Recipients option in the Start Mail Merge program group, located on the mailings tab. Click Use Existing List.. Locate the Excel spreadsheet file using the Select Data Source dialog window. Click Microsoft Excel Worksheets via DDE (*.xls) option from the drop-down menu, then click OK..
Best Answer: Here is how to do it in Word 2007/2010: 1. In Word, click on the Mailings tab, then Start Mail Merge / Labels 2. Select the type of labels to print, then click OK. 3. Click Select Recipients / Use Existing List 4. Find your Excel file, and choose the sheet that has the addresses, then click OK 5. Click Address Block and choose how you want your addresses to look.
Create mailing labels from an Excel spreadsheet using this guide. I will show you how to use the Mail Merge function of MS Word to import Excel spreadsheet data into a Word document and print out mailing labels. 1.) The first step is to open up a new Word document. Then go up to Tools on the menu bar and go to Mail Merge.. 2.) The Mail Merge Helper box pops up
Select the Product Number of your labels, then click OK. Locate and elect your Excel workbook, then click Open. If necessary, select the sheet with data. Use the Address Block, Greeting Line or Insert Merge Field buttons to fill the first label. When the first label is OK, click Update Labels.
• Save and close the .csv file. To create custom labels in Word using data in a .csv file based on formatted labels in CDS – • Open Word. • Select Tools from the main menu then select Mail Merge. Figure 6: The Tools menu in Word (Mail Merge selected). • In the Mail Merge Helper, select the Create button in Step 1. • In the Choose Export File window, select a location to save the formatted label data in the Save in field. Figure 4: The Choose Export File window. By default, the export has the .csv file extension (for Comma-separated values) and the name of the label report used to create the labels in CDS.
If you want to save the contacts and fields that you selected so that they can be reused, select the Permanent file check box, and then click Browse to save the file. The data is saved in a Word document as comma-delimited data. Under Document type, click Mailing Labels. Click OK. When the document opens in Word, on the Mailings tab in the Write & Insert Fields group, click the arrow next to Insert Merge Field, and then click the fields that you want to add to the label main document. Connect the labels to your worksheet data Your address list is the data source that Microsoft Word uses in the mail merge. In this case, it is an Excel worksheet that contains the addresses to be printed on the labels.
Select the cell range or spreadsheet from the Microsoft Office Excel dialog window under the Named or Cell Range text. Click OK.. The labels are now connected to the Excel spreadsheet data. Click the Edit Recipient List option in the Start Mail Merge program group, located on the mailings tab. Click the Select Recipients option in the Start Mail Merge program group, located on the mailings tab. Click Use Existing List.. Locate the Excel spreadsheet file using the Select Data Source dialog window. Click Microsoft Excel Worksheets via DDE (*.xls) option from the drop-down menu, then click OK..