Finally I got my son to take it away and he put it in the garbage.. That wasn’t the end of DIRECTV for the Nolans. When Nolan signed on for the service, he penned a contract for 24 months of service. Early cancellation would cost him a hefty fee. Yes, I did sign their contract, which does call for a $400 cancellation fee. No doubt about that, he said
DirectTV binds customers to a contract when they sign up for service. Customers are then charged an early termination fee if they try to cancel their service before the term of the contract is up, which is usually one to two years. In all fairness, DirectTV is not the only company that does this. The typical DirectTV early termination fee is $20 for every month left on the contract. In this case, the reader would have to pay $220 to cancel her DirectTV service with 11 months left on her contract. This can be a hefty chunk of change to come up with for most people, though.
If you cancel before your contract ends, you will be charged a deactivation fee of $15 plus a prorated early cancellation fee of up to $20 a month. With DIRECTV, you get the TV you love anywhere you love to watch it, plus the technology to experience it like never before! It’s the only way to get all your favorite sports and more full-time HD channels than any cable company. Plus, we’re #1 in Customer Satisfaction over all cable and satellite providers.
Yes, the early termination fee for DirecTV service is $20 per month for every month left on the contract. That means if there are 20 months left, you will be charged a minimum early termination fee of $400. In addition, all equipment must be returned to DirecTV at the expense of the customer. Early Cancellation Policy. The early cancellation policy for DirecTV is simple – customers are not allowed to cancel early. If you cancel your service you will pay an early termination fee. If you don’t return the equipment, you will pay an equipment fee for each piece.
Most DIRECTV contracts require an 18- to 24-month commitment. If you cancel during the term of your contract, you will be charged a cancellation fee. If you cancel after your contract period has passed, you will not be charged a cancellation fee. Be aware that DIRECTV's cancellation fees can be steep. If you have standard equipment, you can be charged as much as $360 for early contract cancellation, as of 2010. If you have advanced equipment, such as HD receivers, you can be charged up to $480 for early cancellation. 
D Girl. DIRECTV • 4437 answers • 90% helpful. Early Cancellation Fees are pro-rated at $20 per month for each month of the agreement not completed-This fee will be applied to your billing within 3 days, You will receive your final billing within 8 days. It is due in 20 days. To find out exact cost, you can call 1-800-531-5000 and they can tell you exactly how much time you have on contract (if any) in about 20 seconds. Also, if money is an issue LET THEM KNOW. Whenever a customer wants to cancel, you're sent to a special department that can throw a LOT of free stuff your way.
Please call 1-800-531-5000 to speak with a customer service representative. *DIRECTV and AT&T bundle customers: Your cancellation fees will vary depending on the service you wish to cancel. Also, if you choose to cancel only one of the services, you may no longer qualify for certain discounts. Please call us at 1-800-288-2020 for more information. With DIRECTV, you get the TV you love anywhere you love to watch it, plus the technology to experience it like never before! It’s the only way to get all your favorite sports and more full-time HD channels than any cable company. Plus, we’re #1 in Customer Satisfaction over all cable and satellite providers.
How To Beat DirecTV's Early Termination Fee. Depending on the contract you are stuck in, it can cost anywhere between $100 and $480 to cancel your DirecTV account early. On average, DirecTV charges about $20 per month remaining on your contract
If you cancel your service or if your account was deactivated because you did not maintain the minimum programming requirements, you will be charged a deactivation fee of $15. With DIRECTV, you get the TV you love anywhere you love to watch it, plus the technology to experience it like never before! It’s the only way to get all your favorite sports and more full-time HD channels than any cable company. Plus, we’re #1 in Customer Satisfaction over all cable and satellite providers.