Antibodies are proteins that exist in bodily fluids, and are used both as a detection and response device by the immune system. Antibodies are made in plasma cells, which are a type of white blood cell, and are an integral part to the body’s natural defense system. In mammals, there are five primary types of antibodies, each with similar basic structures.
A type of hemolytic anemia called autoimmune hemolytic anemia is a rare disease that causes antibodies to be made against a person's own red blood cells. Two blood tests can check for antibodies that attack red blood cells: the direct Coombs test and the indirect Coombs test. The direct Coombs test is done on a sample of red blood cells from the body. It detects antibodies that are already attached to
Antibodies are proteins produced by your body when you have an infection and they help fight infection. If you are infected with HIV, your body makes very specific antibodies to fight the infection. The HIV antibodies are different from antibodies for the flu, hepatitis, or other infections. 
Monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer. One way the immune system attacks foreign substances in the body is by making large numbers of antibodies. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen. Once attached, they can recruit other parts of the immune system to destroy the cells containing the antigen. 
Antibodies are small proteins that circulate in the bloodstream. They are part of the immune (defence) system and are sometimes called immunoglobulins. They are made by B lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). Antibodies attach to proteins and other chemicals in the body, which they recognise to be foreign (not normally found in the body). The foreign proteins and chemicals that antibodies attach to are called antigens
An autoantibody is an antibody (a type of protein) produced by the immune system that is directed against one or more of the individual's own proteins. Antibodies are produced by B cells in two ways: (i) randomly, and (ii) in response to a foreign protein or substance within the body. Initially, one B cell produces one specific kind of antibody
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies.
Antibody tests are done to find certain antibodies that attack red blood cells. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system. Normally, antibodies bind to foreign substances, such as bacteria and viruses, and cause them to be destroyed. The following conditions cause antibodies to be made. Two blood tests can check for antibodies that attack red blood cells: the direct Coombs test and the indirect Coombs test. The direct Coombs test is done on a sample of red blood cells from the body.