Annabeth Chase is a fictional character in Rick Riordan 's Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. She is a demigod, meaning she is half-mortal and half god. Her father is the mortal Frederick Chase and her mother is Athena, the goddess of wisdom, crafts and battle strategy. 
United States. Rick Riordan is the award-winning, bestselling author of the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. Rick Riordan (pronounced Ryer'-dan) is a #1 New York Times bestselling author, and helped create the entire 39 Clues series. A bedtime story shared with Rick's oldest son was just the beginning of his journey into the world of children's books.
The San Diego Comic-Con International 2010 featured Riordan as a guest. Riordan lives in Boston with his wife, Becky, and their two sons Patrick and Haley, who inspired his Percy Jackson series, as a bedtime story. Riordan published the first novel in the series, The Lightning Thief in 2005. Four sequels followed, the last, The Last Olympian in 2009. Prior to Percy Jackson, Riordan had written the Tres Navarres series, a series of mystery novels for adult readers.
Rick Riordan is the award-winning, bestselling author of the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series and the creator of a new series The 39 Clues. For Rick Riordan (pronounced Ryer'-dan), a bedtime story shared with his oldest son was just the beginning of his journey into the world of children's books. 
Rick Riordan is a US author, born Richard Russell Riordan Jr. on June 5, 1964. He is the author of the young adult book series Percy Jackson and the Olympians, loosely bas … ed on Greek mythology. The series includes five books published from 2005 to 2010, and a companion book entitled The Demigod Files. This series is expected to have three books. Riordan has a wife named Becky, one daughter named Haley, and a son named Patrick. They live in San Antonio with his Golden Labrador Sunny, and two cats: Slinky and Yoshi. Riordan does not have a favorite book because he likes them all the same.
In September 2014, during a live webstream, Rick Riordan announced the series would be called Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard. At the back of The Blood of Olympus, the new book title was revealed to be The Sword of Summer. Richard Russell Riordan, Jr., more commonly known as Rick Riordan, (born June 5, 1964, age 51) is a highly acclaimed American author from San Antonio, Texas. He currently lives in Boston, Massachusetts.
For the mayor of Los Angeles, see Richard Riordan. Richard Russell Rick Riordan, Jr. (/ˈraɪərdən/ ; born June 5, 1964) is an American author known for writing the Percy Jackson & the Olympians series, which is about a twelve-year-old who discovers he is the son of Poseidon. Riordan published the first novel in the series, The Lightning Thief in 2005. Four sequels followed, the last, The Last Olympian in 2009. Prior to Percy Jackson, Riordan had written the Tres Navarres series, a series of mystery novels for adult readers.
Welcome to the Online World of Rick Riordan. Rick Riordan is the #1 New York Times bestseller author of Percy Jackson & the Olympians, the Kane Chronicles, the Heroes of Olympus, and Magnus Chase & the Gods of Asgard. Learn more about Rick. Visit Disney’s ReadRiordan website! Rick's event calendar. 
Rick Riordan. Richard Russell Riordan Jr. better known as Rick Riordan is The New York Times bestselling American author of the Percy Jackson and Olympians series. Born on June 5, 1964, Rick Riordan grew up in Texas. He attended the Alamo Heights High School, graduating in 1982