While body odor is usually associated with the armpits, bacteria can also produce odor in the groin, anus area, upper thighs, and feet, among other places. Thoroughly washing your skin with a wet washcloth and soap -- especially those areas prone to sweating -- can help prevent body odor. Remember that smelly feet can also cause smelly shoes. Treating your shoes with an over-the-counter deodorizer can help. Also, wear thick, absorbent socks if you can.
Body Odor. Body odor can range from a minor embarrassment to an annoying chronic problem. One of the problems of dealing with body odor medically or with natural methods is that body odors are difficult to describe. Perspiration and sweat is the body's way of eliminating toxins and a host of other chemicals. There is scent that comes from eating certain types of foods. 
Body odor has a strong genetic basis both in animals and humans, but it can be also strongly influenced by various diseases and psychological conditions. These smaller molecules smell, and give body odor its characteristic aroma. Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is present in many sweat samples. This acid is a breakdown product of some amino acids by propionibacteria, which thrive in the ducts of adolescent and adult sebaceous glands.
Body odor (BO), also spelled body odour, is present in animals (including humans), and its intensity can be influenced by many factors (behavioral patterns, survival strategies). These smaller molecules smell, and give body odor its characteristic aroma. Propionic acid (propanoic acid) is present in many sweat samples. This acid is a breakdown product of some amino acids by propionibacteria, which thrive in the ducts of adolescent and adult sebaceous glands.
Causes. Conventional wisdom suggests that perspiration is the cause of body odor. However, perspiration by itself is basically odorless, but it is the bacteria and odors coming from other sources that are the real culprits. Anaerobic bacteria, which flourish when your body doesn't have enough oxygen, may well be the cause of your body odor. Baking soda Baking soda, the odor-eating standby, can be used instead of deodorant. Just apply the powder to your dry armpits. It will kill bacteria and help absorb perspiration. Cornstarch can also be used instead or mixed with the baking soda.
The medical term is bromhidrosis. Occasional abnormal body odor may be a temporary effect of a metabolic change, such as fruity breath in diabetic ketoacidosis, but by far the most common cause of abnormal body odor is excessive perspiration or hyperhidrosis (overactive sweat glands). 
6. What you eat affects your body odor. Foods that tend to make you sweat more, such as hot peppers or other spicy foods, might also contribute to body odor. And the aroma of foods such as onions or garlic can be carried in the sweat, making you smell bad. 
When sweat mixes with the natural bacteria on your skin, it causes body odor. Sweat comes from the areas of your body with the most sweat glands such as under your arms, the palms of your hands, the bottom of your feet, and between your legs. Body odor is natural and is usually caused by sweating. When you are hot, feel nervous, or start exercising, you are likely to sweat more. This is your body’s way of regulating your inner temperature. Yes, it’s annoying, but sweating and body odor is not something to be afraid of
Body odor (or B.O., bromhidrosis, osmidrosis or ozochrotia) is a perceived unpleasant smell our bodies can give off when bacteria that live on the skin break down sweat into acids-some say it is the smell of bacteria growing on the body, but it really is the result of bacteria breaking down protein into certain acids. 