olfactory organ. the organ of smell in the nasal mucosa consisting of specialized cells with a tuft of very fine processes protruding into the nasal cavity. vomeronasal organ. part of the olfactory sense system that consists of a pair of fleshy tubes found on the floor of the nasal cavity on either side of the nasal septum, supported by cartilage sleeve.
Anatomy: Structure of the Olfactory System. The olfactory system consists of olfactory receptors and the olfactory bulb. The olfactory receptors are located in the olfactory mucosa, part of a region in the nose called the olfactory epithelium. The olfactory bulb is a part of our brain that is connected by nerves to the olfactory epithelium.
• OLFACTORY ORGAN (noun). The noun OLFACTORY ORGAN has 1 sense: 1. the organ of smell and entrance to the respiratory tract; the prominent part of the face of man or other mammals. Familiarity information: OLFACTORY ORGAN used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
olfactory organ. Etymology: L, olfactus, sense of smell. the apparatus in the mucous membrane of the nose responsible for the sense of smell. It includes the sensory nerve endings and the olfactory bulb of the brain. vomeronasal organ. part of the olfactory sense system that consists of a pair of fleshy tubes found on the floor of the nasal cavity on either side of the nasal septum, supported by cartilage sleeve.
Olfactory Organ. the organ in man and animals that receives chemical stimuli that are interpreted as smells. The sense of smell is technically known as olfaction. In man the olfactory organ is the superoposterior area of the nasal cavity, including part of the nasal septum and the two turbinate bones, which protrude from the lateral walls of the cavity. The entire olfactory organ is covered by the olfactory epithelium, whose surface area is about 5 cm 2. The spindle-shaped olfactory receptor cells, which are located in the olfactory organs, are the functional units of the olfactory apparatus.
Noun. 1. olfactory organ-the organ of smell and entrance to the respiratory tract; the prominent part of the face of man or other mammals; he has a cold in the nose. nose. neb, snout-a long projecting or anterior elongation of an animal's head; especially the nose. 1. olfactory organ-the organ of smell and entrance to the respiratory tract; the prominent part of the face of man or other mammals; he has a cold in the nose.
olfactory organ. the olfactory neuroepithelium is composed of receptor and supporting cells and olfactory glands of Bowman, located in the superior part of the nasal cavities. vomeronasal organ. part of the olfactory sense system that consists of a pair of fleshy tubes found on the floor of the nasal cavity on either side of the nasal septum, supported by cartilage sleeve.
(February 2011). The olfactory system is the sensory system used for olfaction, or the sense of smell. Most mammals and reptiles have two distinct parts to their olfactory system: a main olfactory system and an accessory olfactory system. The main olfactory system detects volatile, airborne substances, while the accessory olfactory system senses fluid-phase stimuli