Why Choose St. Luke’s: St. Luke’s is a 316-bed community hospital that offers a broad spectrum of services-- and we are always in need of people with a wide variety of skill sets.
Conveniently located in Spokane, Washington, St. Luke’s Rehabilitation Institute serves patients throughout the Inland Northwest including patients in central and eastern Washington, northern Idaho and western Montana.
St. Luke's University Hospital, the Network's flagship, is a non-profit, tertiary-care, teaching hospital with campuses in Bethlehem and Allentown in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania. The hospital offers 90 medical specialties.
St. Luke's volunteers provide a wide range of services for the hospital. Assignments are based on the individual's interests, skills, schedule and the needs of
We at St. Luke’s Hospital take pride in the environment of care that we create. As a member of ProMedica health system (a locally owned, nonprofit healthcare organization), our focus each day is on providing excellent service to the community.
St. Luke's became a multi-state provider with the February 2012 addition of St. Luke's Warren Hospital (a 214-bed acute care hospital in Phillipsburg, NJ). Other recent significant additions include: St. Luke's Wind Gap Medical Center, St. Luke's West End Medical Center and St. Luke's Pocono Outpatient Center.
About the Maumee and northwest Ohio Area: St. Luke’s is located in Maumee, Ohio, a picturesque Toledo suburb that follows the bank of the Maumee River for five miles.
The joint venture hospital will be called Baylor St. Luke’s Medical Center and the individual campuses will be called Baylor St. Luke’s Medical Center Texas Medical Center, and Baylor St. Luke’s Medical Center McNair Campus.
Introduction St. Luke’s Hospital is a private hospital serving Cedar Rapids, Iowa and surrounding suburbs (see snapshot). St. Luke’s is part of the Iowa Health System, a non-profit corporation and the largest integrated health system in the Iowa/Western Illinois region.