Black is the absorption of all color and the absence of light. Black hides, while white brings to light. What black covers, white uncovers. We all use black at various times to hide from the world around us in one way or another. Mystery: Black is the unknown. It is secretive, keeping a lot buried inside, unwilling to show its real feelings. Power and Control: Black is power and control of the self and others. It creates fear and intimidation.
Therefore, most pieces of Depression glass are usually identified by their colors. 1  Canary yellow, purple, black, opaque white or milk, opaque green and cobalt blue, for example, are less common colors of Depression glass that are usually more expensive and highly sought after by collectors. Look at actual pieces of Depression glass. Study the color and patterns to familiarize yourself about what to look for when you begin to shop for your own pieces. There are hundreds of patterns, such as flowers, leaves, waves, swirls, crimps, shapes and animals used to make
The color black relates to the hidden, the secretive and the unknown, and as a result it creates an air of mystery. It keeps things bottled up inside, hidden from the world. In color psychology this color gives protection from external emotional stress. Mystery: Black is the unknown. It is secretive, keeping a lot buried inside, unwilling to show its real feelings. Power and Control: Black is power and control of the self and others. It creates fear and intimidation.
Maybe you're seeing red, because you're green with jealousy. The colors we use to describe emotions may be more useful than you think, according to new research. The study found that people with depression or anxiety were more likely to associate their mood with the color gray, while happier people preferred yellow. Meanwhile, about 30 percent of people with anxiety picked a shade of gray, as did more than half of depressed volunteers. In comparison, healthy volunteers described their mood with a shade of gray only about 10 percent of the time. The researchers also found that when assigning a mood to colors, saturation matters.
Too much black can cause depression and mood swings and create a negative environment. Combined with white only, it can create an argumentative atmosphere. It is best to use some color with black to lighten and brighten its energy. Mystery: Black is the unknown. It is secretive, keeping a lot buried inside, unwilling to show its real feelings. Power and Control: Black is power and control of the self and others. It creates fear and intimidation.
Because blacks, particularly black women, experience higher rates of depression than their white female or black male counterparts, but receive lower rates of treatment for depression -- specifically adequate treatment -- they remain one of the most undertreated groups for depression in the United States. 
Green patterned depression glass pieces. Depression glass is clear or colored translucent glassware that was distributed free, or at low cost, in the United States and Canada around the time of the Great Depression. Depression glass is a subset of Uranium glass. Common colors are clear (crystal), pink, pale blue, green, and amber. Less common colors include yellow (canary), ultramarine, jadeite (opaque pale green), delphite (opaque pale blue), cobalt blue, red (ruby & royal ruby), black, amethyst, monax, and white (milk glass). Although of marginal quality, Depression glass has been highly collectible since the 1960
Maybe you're seeing red, because you're green with jealousy. The colors we use to describe emotions may be more useful than you think, according to new research. The study found that people with depression or anxiety were more likely to associate their mood with the color gray, while happier people preferred yellow. Ten mysteries of the mind Whether depressed, anxious or healthy, people liked blue and yellow. Blue 28 on the color wheel was the most popular favorite color among healthy people, while Blue 27 (which is a little darker than 28) got first place among people with anxiety and depression.