1 Shabu shabu is one of Japan's most popular dishes and is a glorified fondue. 2  It consists of paper-thin slices of raw beef and raw vegetables, cooked by each diner at the table in a pot of hot broth. 3  The name comes from the sound that is made as the meat is swished through the broth: 'swish swish.'. 1 It consists of paper-thin slices of raw beef and raw vegetables, cooked by each diner at the table in a pot of hot broth. 2  The name comes from the sound that is made as the meat is swished through the broth: 'swish swish.'. 3  2 cups (1 pint) cold water. 4  3 ounces (85 grams) dried 'kombu' seaweed*.
About Us. Shabu Shabu is a healthy, flavorful Japanese dish that is cooked and eaten at the same table. The freshest vegetables and finest cuts of thinly slice meats are always chosen and prepared at ZEN for your Shabu Shabu experience. 
Dear Customers. Shabu Shabu Zen and Sake Bar will be closed for late summer vacation. from October 4th through October 21st, and reopen October 22nd Thursday at 4:30 pm. 
Ingredients. 1  Shabu shabu is one of Japan's most popular dishes and is a glorified fondue. 2  It consists of paper-thin slices of raw beef and raw vegetables, cooked by each diner at the table in a pot of hot broth. 3  The name comes from the sound that is made as the meat is swished through the broth: 'swish swish.'. 1 It consists of paper-thin slices of raw beef and raw vegetables, cooked by each diner at the table in a pot of hot broth. 2  The name comes from the sound that is made as the meat is swished through the broth: 'swish swish.'. 3  2 cups (1 pint) cold water. 4  3 ounces (85 grams) dried 'kombu' seaweed*.
Even though it's a cook your own way of dining, it does not mean that putting everything into the boiling soup will do. Here, you can learn a unique way of enjoying this modern shabu shabu dining developed by Healthy Shabu Shabu Restaurant. By knowing which comes first-the vermicelli noodle or the egg noodle, the seafood or the meat-and how long each should be cooked, you are well on your way to perfecting the art of shabu shabu.
At Roaring Bowl, this interactive Asian experience brings excitement and spontaneity to dining out and our menu features three essential components: The Robota Grill, the Shabu Shabu Bowls, and the Gamjatang Bowls. Each offering a unique experience with ingredients sourced from some of the Northwest’s finest purveyors. Owner and entrepreneur Sean Kaywood is the force behind the bowl and understands that this interactive Asian technique brings excitement and spontaneity to dining out. So, head to Roaring Bowl, craft a shabu shabu to your liking, and and Reach for the Roar.
At Shabu-shabu House we pride our self as a “Traditional” Shabu-shabu establishment.We specialize in a much healthier style of Shabu-shabu dining, relying on the natural tastes of the meats and vegetables to accent each other in the pot. Besides offering all different types of sides like KOBE beef, seafood, mushrooms and Baby Bok Choy that you can order, we also offer a nice wine and sake selection as well as desserts. We aim to please and satisfy so the next time you’d like to try unadulterated, traditional Shabu-shabu COME ON DOWN!!