Sigmund Freud was convinced to have found the royal road to reach the core of our unconscious. Freud is synonymous with the father of psychoanalysis Sigmund's extensive research and conclusive studies on the theory of transference and how they connect with the symbols of dreams as a source into unconscious wishes. 
Originally trained as a neurologist, Freud is best known for his theories on the unconscious mind, dreams, infantile sexuality, libido, repression, and transference–all of which continue to influence the field of psychology to varying degrees. 
Freud is best known for his theories of the unconscious mind and the defense mechanism of repression, and for creating the clinical practice of psychoanalysis for treating psychopathology through dialogue between a patient and a psychoanalyst. 1 The 6 Tenets of Freud's Psychoanalytic Theory Although most of his theories have been modified or disproved, Sigmund Freud was essential in bringing the world of clinical psychology to the masses.
Sigmund Schlomo Freud was born May 6, 1856 in Freiberg, Moravia. Then located in the Austrian Empire, the region is now part of the Czech Republic. Sigmund Freud's father, Jacob, was a Jewish merchant of limited means, and a former widower. And his mother, Amalia, was Jacob s second wife.
Sigmund Freud is best known as the creator of the therapeutic technique known as psychoanalysis. The Austrian-born psychiatrist greatly contributed to the understanding of human psychology in areas such as the unconscious mind, sexuality, and dream interpretation. Sigismund Freud (later know as Sigmund) was born on May 6, 1856 in the town of Frieberg in the Austro-Hungarian Empire (present day Czech Republic). He was the first child of Jacob and Amalia Freud and would be followed by two brothers and four sisters.
Sigmund Freud was born in 1856 in Moravia, an area located in the modern-day Czech Republic. When he was just a small boy, his family moved to Vienna, where he grew up, studied, and spent most of his career. Late in life, Freud immigrated to England in order to avoid the growing hostilities against Jews in Vienna. He is best known for his theory of the unconscious. Freud theorized that the conscious mind — the part of the mind that people are aware of — made up only a minuscule proportion of the mind. Much more important was the unconscious mind, which determines people's feelings and actions without them even being aware of it
Sigmund Freud emphasized the importance of the unconscious mind, and a primary assumption of Freudian theory is that the unconscious mind governs behavior to a greater degree than people suspect. Indeed, the goal of psychoanalysis is to make the unconscious conscious. His contributions to psychology are vast. Freud was one of the most influential people of the twentieth century and his enduring legacy has influenced not only psychology, but art, literature and even the way people bring up their children.
Synopsis. Sigmund Freud was born in Freiberg, which is now known as the Czech Republic, on May 6, 1856. Freud developed psychoanalysis, a method through which an analyst unpacks unconscious conflicts based on the free associations, dreams and fantasies of the patient