The principal ingredient is calcium silicate, an inorganic material comprising silica and lime. The product is a certified non-combustible material under Japan’s applicable laws. The material is resistant to heat up to 1000 degrees Celsius and tolerant to any type of heat. 90% savings of man-hours and installation costs compared with conventional products*. *Comparison based on values obtained by covering an elbow by on-site-cut pieces made of cylindrical calcium silicate thermal insulation material.
Calcium-Silicate applications over three (3) inches thick are typically ‘layered’ requiring significantly more labor to install. In most cases, HITLIN™ material will be less costly than Calcium-Silicate on a “thermal equivalent” basis. In all cases, the total installed cost (TIC) should be significantly lower. 
= 0.252 Kcal/sq.ft./hr. = 0.252 x 10.764 x 8040 Kcal/Sq.m. for 8040 hrs (335 working days) = 0.0218 Mil. KCal/Sq.m. for 8040 hours Current Price: Cost of heat energy Case to case basis Cost of Calcium Silicate insulation: Rs. 650/- for 50 mm. thickness/ m2 Cost of Calcium Silicate insulation: Rs. 1248/- for 100 mm. Use of hollow refractory box or hollow CSI box in required shape and size containing Calcium Silicate insulation in Powder form will be most cost beneficial. General M/s. Saurashtra Cement Ltd., Ranavav, Gujarat state, has insulated their plant equipment using our Calcium Silicate insulation Materials.
1755/- for 150 mm. thickness/ m2 Cost of Calcium Silicate insulation: Rs. 2236/- for 200 mm. thickness/ m2 The system of mathematical heat flux and thermal performance equations used in this analysis has been accepted by A.S.T.M., U.S.A. and calculated using NAIMA, U.S.A. s 3E plus program. Use of hollow refractory box or hollow CSI box in required shape and size containing Calcium Silicate insulation in Powder form will be most cost beneficial. General M/s. Saurashtra Cement Ltd., Ranavav, Gujarat state, has insulated their plant equipment using our Calcium Silicate insulation Materials.
Foamglas Insulation. Typical application is usually 2-inches thick with a .016 thick aluminum cover. Advantages: water resistant, will not lose insulation properties if it gets wet, will also dry out if it gets wet, good for higher temperature pipe than fiberglass, more durable than fiberglass. Start-to-finish service means we offer comprehensive insulation assistance including: design and engineering, budgeting, cost tracking & documentation, specification writing, material procurement, scheduling, work scope development, and installation.
ARCH-COVER is a calcium silicate thermal insulation material for large radial curved surfaces. Available pre-formed to fit on or around equipment tower tanks, other types of tanks, large diameter piping, etc. 90% savings of man-hours and installation costs compared with conventional products*. *Comparison based on values obtained by covering an elbow by on-site-cut pieces made of cylindrical calcium silicate thermal insulation material.
Description. Calcium silicate insulation is composed principally of hydrous calcium silicate that usually contains reinforcing fibres; it is available in moulded and rigid forms. Flexural and compressive strength is good. Calcium silicate is water absorbent; however it can be dried out without deterioration. The material is non-combustible and used primarily on hot piping and surfaces. Jacketing is field applied.
BLOCK-MIRROR is a calcium silicate thermal insulation material pre-cut to fit around curved surfaces of end plate sections on equipment such as towers, tanks, heat exchangers, and degasifiers. Ordered sizes are pre-cut to reduce on-site labour, and improve worksite environments. 90% savings of man-hours and installation costs compared with conventional products*. *Comparison based on values obtained by covering an elbow by on-site-cut pieces made of cylindrical calcium silicate thermal insulation material.
Historically, common practice was to use calcium silicate for applications with operating temperatures between 200 ºC and 650 ºC; however mineral wool can be used in the range 90 ºC to 425 ºC and has slightly better thermal resistance than calcium silicate at lower temperature ranges, and is typically less costly. Flexural and compressive strength is good. Calcium silicate is water absorbent; however it can be dried out without deterioration. The material is non-combustible and used primarily on hot piping and surfaces. Jacketing is field applied.
Insulation. Although CSI does not sell insulation, the insulation is critical to the performance of a bolt-on heating system. There is a large variety of insulation types available on the market. The following information summarizes the most common types used for piping and vessels. 