Stakeholders can be internal to the organization or external. In many projects the public at large will become a stakeholder to be considered during the project. The challenge for the project manager when the public is a stakeholder will be to act while considering public needs. Often there is no direct representative of the public to be consulted during project planning and execution.A project manager must be sure to identify and list all potential stakeholders for a project. 
To illustrate this information for the reader, requirements may include not only clearly written text, but charts, graphs, diagrams, use cases, and mock-ups, to name just a few tools in the business analyst's box. Your resulting requirements would specify how often the delivery service would run, whether it would run year-round, how customers could participate, effective routes, what to do with produce that is not picked up, etc. Thus requirements unearth real needs and define effective, clear solutions.
Another way of determining stakeholders is to identify those who are directly impacted by the project and those who may be indirectly affected. Examples of directly impacted stakeholders are the project team members or a customer who the project is being done for. One of the first steps in project management planning is the identification of stakeholders. In order to accomplish this, you need to understand what a stakeholder is. Loosely defined, a stakeholder is a person or group of people who can affect or be affected by a given project.
Stakeholder Management. Stakeholder Management is where you will use all of the information you’ve collected and develop a strategy to manage stakeholders. No matter how much you plan or how invested you are in a project, poor stakeholder management can easily cause a project to fail. One of the first steps in project management planning is the identification of stakeholders. In order to accomplish this, you need to understand what a stakeholder is. Loosely defined, a stakeholder is a person or group of people who can affect or be affected by a given project.
Arrange a half-day meeting. Invite stakeholders who have knowledge about the business objectives, the intended users and usage. This may include: 1  business manager. 2  project manager. 3  user representative(s). 4  marketing. 5  developer(s). 6  training. 7  support. 
Showing interactions between users and your system. You can use a sequence diagram to show the interchange of messages between your system and external actors, or between parts of your system. This provides a view of the steps in a use case that shows very clearly the sequence of interactions. You can use UML class diagrams to help you develop a consistent vocabulary of the business concepts used for the following purposes: By the users themselves to discuss the business in which the system works. To describe the users' needs, for example in the descriptions of use cases, business rules, and user stories. The types of information exchanged at the system's API or through the user interface. Descriptions of system or acceptance test
A good way to collect the information is to arrange a half-day meeting. Invite stakeholders who have knowledge about the intended users and usage. This may include: 1  project manager. 2  user representative(s). 3  developer(s). 4  training. 5  support. 
For a software system, this can include managers, designers, and users of a system. Since, by definition, stakeholders are those who are impacted by (or have an impact on) the project, their perspectives need to be taken into account in order for a project to be successful. 1 Such stakeholders (if they are in favor of your project) can be valuable sources of information: they can get you access to documents relevant to your project, fill you in on the institutional history of past efforts in your project domain, and help you identify what the organizational challenges to the project will be.
Table of Contents There are many ways to get information. The most common research methods are: literature searches, talking with people, focus groups, personal interviews, telephone surveys, mail surveys, email surveys, and internet surveys. A literature search involves reviewing all readily available materials. Focus groups can be conducted within a couple of weeks and cost between two and three thousand dollars. Their disadvantage is that the sample is small and may not be representative of the population in general. Personal interviews are a way to get in-depth and comprehensive