(More on figuring energy use without directly measuring it.). But if you want to measure the energy use yourself, you can definitely do that too. There are three ways to measure how much electricity something uses: 1  Buy a cheap, simple watt-hour meter. 2  Buy and install a whole-house meter. 3  Look at the meter on the side of your house and time it
Plug in electricity meters (or Plug load meters) measure energy used by individual appliances. There are a variety of models available on the market today but they all work on the same basic principle. The meter is plugged into an outlet, and the appliance to be measured is plugged into the meter. Another type of smart meter uses nonintrusive load monitoring to automatically determine the number and type of appliances in a residence, how much energy each uses and when. This meter is used by electric utilities to do surveys of energy use.
The most common unit of measurement on the electricity meter is the kilowatt hour [ kWh ], which is equal to the amount of energy used by a load of one kilowatt over a period of one hour, or 3,600,000 joules. Another type of smart meter uses nonintrusive load monitoring to automatically determine the number and type of appliances in a residence, how much energy each uses and when. This meter is used by electric utilities to do surveys of energy use.
An electricity meter, electric meter, or energy meter is a device that measures the amount of electric energy consumed by a residence, business, or an electrically powered device. Another type of smart meter uses nonintrusive load monitoring to automatically determine the number and type of appliances in a residence, how much energy each uses and when. This meter is used by electric utilities to do surveys of energy use.
The function of the electric meter is to inform the power company how much electricity you have used-so they know how much to charge you !   Answer What is colloquially … known as an 'electric meter', or 'electricity meter', is correctly termed an energy meter. 
The most popular unit of measurement used by electricity meter is kilowatt hour. One kilowatt hour is equal to the quantity of power used by one kilowatt of load during a time period of one hour or 3,600,000 joules. Volt-amperes reactive, (varh) in kilovar-hours are the units of measurements used by electric meter to measure the reactive power. An inductive load or a lagging such as a motor has negativ
A smart meter is usually an electronic device that records consumption of electric energy in intervals of an hour or less and communicates that information at least daily back to the utility for monitoring and billing. Smart meters enable two-way communication between the meter and the central system. The term Smart Meter often refers to an electricity meter, but it also may mean a device measuring natural gas or water consumption.
Well, before doing so, let us see what is an electric meter and what does it do. An electric meter or more commonly used term, the electricity meter is meant for measuring the total electrical energy consumed in a house, shop, offices etc and the units of measurements are usually kilowatt-hour (KWh). 
What Electric Meters Do. Electrical meters measure the amount of power a building uses in a unit called Kilowatt-hours (kWh.) Electrical power is measured in watts. Electrical appliances are rated by how fast they use electricity in a unit called watts