These elements are radioactive. They either have no stable naturally occurring isotope, or else are entirely artificial (all artificial elements have no stable isotopes). Click any element tile below to get the full entry for that element, or click on the sample picture to go directly to the description of that sample. 
Half-life is the amount of time required, for half quantity of radioactive element to decay. For example C 14 has a half life of 5730 years. That is, if you take 1 gm of C 14, then half of it will have been decayed in 5730 years. In the list presented below, half-lives of all the radioactive elements are presented. Radioactive Elements List. Here is a detailed and comprehensive list of natural radioactive elements along with their atomic and mass numbers, decay modes and half-lives. Here 'Beta Decay (β -)' denotes electron emission while Beta Decay (β +) denotes positron emission.
A radioactive element is one with an unstable nucleus, which radiates alpha, beta or gamma radiation and gets converted to a stable element. This article has a comprehensive list of radioactive elements and their properties. Here is a detailed and comprehensive list of natural radioactive elements along with their atomic and mass numbers, decay modes and half-lives. Here 'Beta Decay (β -)' denotes electron emission while Beta Decay (β +) denotes positron emission.
Of the first 83 elements in the periodic table, 80 have isotopes considered to be stable. Technetium, promethium (atomic numbers 43 and 61, respectively) and all the elements with an atomic number over 82 only have isotopes that are known to decompose through radioactive decay. Only 13 of the 38 known-but-unstable elements (assuming the total number of elements is 118) have isotopes with a half-life of at least 100 years. Every known isotope of the remaining 25 elements is highly radioactive; these are used in academic research and sometimes in industry and medicine.
radioactive element, an element subject to spontaneous degeneration of its nucleus accompanied by the emission of alpha particles, beta particles, or gamma rays. All elements with atomic numbers greater than 83 are radioactive. Naturally occurring radioactive elements include radium, thorium, and uranium. Several radioactive elements not found in nature have been produced by the bombardment of stable elements with subatomic particles in a cyclotron. Compare stable element. See also radioactivity. 
Half-Life of a Radioactive Element. The half-life of a radioactive element is the time needed for half of the material to decay. The blue and orange points represent the original number of radioactive nuclei and those that decay; the number of blue points decreases by half at each step in time. 
This radioactive metal is unique in that one of its isotopes, uranium-235, is the only naturally occurring isotope capable of sustaining a nuclear fission reaction. (An isotope is a version of the element with a differing number of neutrons in its nucleus.). 
Share. This is a list or table of elements that are radioactive. All elements have radioactive isotopes. This table contains the elements that have no stable isotopes. Each element is followed by the most stable known isotope and its half-life. This list is sorted by increasing atomic number. Reference: International Atomic Energy Agency ENSDF database (Oct 2010).
A chemical element or element is a chemical substance consisting of atoms having the same number of protons in their atomic nuclei (i.e. the same atomic number, Z). There are 118 elements that have been identified, of which the first 94 occur naturally on Earth with the remaining 24 being synthetic elements. There are 80 elements that have at least one stable isotope and 38 that have exclusively radioactive isotopes, which decay over time into other elements. Iron is the most abundant element (by mass) making up the Earth, while oxygen is the most common element in the crust of the earth.
Isotopes are atoms of the same element (that is, with the same number of protons in their atomic nucleus), but having different numbers of neutrons. Most (66 of 94) naturally occurring elements have more than one stable isotope. There are 80 elements that have at least one stable isotope and 38 that have exclusively radioactive isotopes, which decay over time into other elements. Iron is the most abundant element (by mass) making up the Earth, while oxygen is the most common element in the crust of the earth.