The act established penalties of up to five years imprisonment and/or a $250,000 fine ($1,000,000 fine for a corporation or other legal entity) for selling or attempting to sell counterfeit goods or services. It increased such penalties for a second or subsequent conviction under the Act. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984 is a United States federal law that amended the federal criminal code to make it a federal offense to violate the Lanham Act by the intentional use of a counterfeit trademark or the unauthorized use of a counterfeit trademark.
Most copyright litigation is civil in nature, with the courts imposing economic penalties for copyright infringement. Criminal misdemeanor penalties such as imprisonment are a part of copyright law since 1987, and usually apply when the infringer willfully performs or represents copyright works unlawfully. Copyright infringement is the use of works covered by copyright law in a way that violates the copyright holder's rights, such as the exclusive right to make and sell copies or to make derivative works. Penalties for copyright infringement include monetary compensation, fines, and prison terms. slide 1 of 6.
To avoid the penalties that might result from a trademark violation lawsuit, the person engaging in trademark violation might agree to change her business logo or marketing phrase to avoid confusion with the lawful trademark. If the court finds that the trademark violation was intentional, such as a case in which the violator is selling goods that he is trying to pass off as coming from a known popular brand, the court may impose penalties of three times the amount of actual lost profits.
Civil penalties for infringement include paying back damages to the copyright, patent or trademark owner. Criminal penalties for infringement can result in prison time and hefty monetary fines. The three most common types of infringement are copyright infringement, patent infringement and trademark infringement. Infringement is the act of violating a law or a right, and is most commonly related to intellectual property. Punishment for infringement can be either civil or criminal.
A trademark is a symbol, word or phrase that identifies the source of a product or service. Trademarks are valuable business assets that help consumers distinguish a particular brand in the marketplace. Trademark violations can diminish a brand's value and popularity, costing a business sales and profit. If the court finds that the trademark violation was intentional, such as a case in which the violator is selling goods that he is trying to pass off as coming from a known popular brand, the court may impose penalties of three times the amount of actual lost profits.
The ACTA trade agreement, signed in May 2011 by the United States, Japan, Switzerland, and the EU, requires that its parties add criminal penalties, including incarceration and fines, for copyright and trademark infringement, and obligated the parties to active police for infringement. (December 2010). Trademark infringement is a violation of the exclusive rights attached to a trademark without the authorization of the trademark owner or any licensees (provided that such authorization was within the scope of the licence).
Severe Penalties. In the case of severe violations -- for example when a violator is using a trademark to sell counterfeit goods or blatantly violating trademark law -- courts may issue criminal and civil penalties. Civil penalties may include compensating the trademark holder for lost profits or paying the trademark holder all profits obtained by the infringement. At the discretion of the court, the damages awarded to trademark holders can be tripled.
Generally, most trademark infringement actions result in a letter or an injunction forcing the infringing party to cease all use of the trademark. In limited instances, civil and criminal penalties can be imposed for willful violation of trademark law. Civil penalties may include compensating the trademark holder for lost profits or paying the trademark holder all profits obtained by the infringement. At the discretion of the court, the damages awarded to trademark holders can be tripled.