Everyone is intrigued by snow leopard habitat because home for these cats is such remote and rugged locations. Snow leopard habitat covers about 2 million square kilometres in 12 countries across the majestic Himalayan Mountains and the mountains of Central Asia. The 12 countries are Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. In Nepal all snow leopard habitat is in the beautiful Himalayan Mountains in areas like Sagarmatha National park near Everest and Mustang in the western part of the country. Where prey is abundant, there may be between 5 to 10 cats sharing an area of 100 square km.
Snow leopards live in the high, rugged mountains of Central Asia – in a cold and dry climate. While their habitat range covers 2 million km2 (approximately the size of Greenland or Mexico) , there are only between 4,000 to 6,500 snow leopards left in the wild. the snow leopard range. Their habitat extends through twelve countries: Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. China is one of the most influential countries for our conservation efforts, as it contains as much as 60% of all snow leopard habitat areas. In the Himalayas, snow leopards are usually found between 3,000 and 5,400 meters above sea level. In Mongolia and Russia, these cats are found at lower altitudes of 1000 meters. At the snow leopard’s typical elevation, the climate is cold and dry, and only grasses and small shrubs can grow on the steep mountain slopes.
Snow leopards occur in the mountains of Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Mongolia, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and possibly also Myanmar (Burma). 
Known for choosing cold, high mountains as their habitat of choice, snow leopards are found only in twelve countries across the world. In the Europe and Central Asia region, that includes the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Russia in Europe and Central Asia. 1 Snow leopards can only be found in Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. 2  A 7-year approx. 3  $200 mln strategy is being planned to conserve these rare animals
Snow leopards live in the mountains of Mongolia, southern Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, China, Tibet, India, Nepal, and Bhutan. The snow leopard, is a medium large cat native to the mountain ranges of Central Asia.  Snow leopards live between 3,000 and 5,500 metres (9,800 and 18,000 ft) above sea le … vel in the rocky mountain ranges of Central Asia.
China has almost 60% of the world’s snow leopard habitat in the areas like Xinjiang which is a huge, sparsely populated region of over 1.6 million square kilomteres (about one sixth of the China’s territory) and shares a border with the Tibet Autonomous Region. In Nepal all snow leopard habitat is in the beautiful Himalayan Mountains in areas like Sagarmatha National park near Everest and Mustang in the western part of the country. Where prey is abundant, there may be between 5 to 10 cats sharing an area of 100 square km.
Snow leopard habitat is rugged and remote. These endangered big cats can even be found at the base of earth’s highest mountain, Mt. Everest, called Chomolungma by the people who live around it. Here you will find a map showing the snow leopard’s range. Within their mountain habitat, snow leopards like high, steep and rocky places where there are few plants, places that scientists call the alpine and sub-alpine zones. Snow leopards live in the alpine zone in the warmer, summer months of the year. 