The Supreme Court Justices. The Supreme Court is the highest court in the land. It has a chief justice, or head judge, and eight associate justices. The justices are appointed by the president and approved by a vote of the Senate. 
A Supreme Court justice must be at least 30 years of age. He or she must be licensed to practice law in the state where he or she is sitting as a judge. If you're asking whether you can sue a Supreme Court justice for something that occurred outside the realm of his or her job, then yes, supreme court justices can be sued just like any other person under US jurisdiction. The immunity doesn't extend to actions taken in their personal lives. 3 people found this useful.
A Supreme Court judge must be at least 30 years old, licensed to practice law in Missouri, a United States citizen for at least 15 years, and a qualified voter of the state for nine years preceding selection. 
No, a Supreme Court Justice does not need to be a lawyer. In fact, the Constitution does not have any qualifications or restrictions for the position. The only constitutional requirement to be a Supreme Court Justice is you need to be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Supreme court justices do not necessarily have to be lawyers. By law, the President can nominate anyone he or she chooses to. However, nominees must still be confirmed by the Senate. If the Senate decides that a nominee is unqualified, the nominee wil not be confirmed. As such, all recent justices have been lawyers.
Answer: Ironically, there are no requirements given in the Constitution for becoming a Supreme Court justice. No age, experience, or citizenship rules exist. In fact, a Supreme Court justice does not need to even have a law degree. However, since the Senate confirms justices, experience and background have become important factors in the confirmations.
Answer by Johnson2231 (237). Supreme court justices do not necessarily have to be lawyers. By law, the President can nominate anyone he or she chooses to. However, nominees must still be confirmed by the Senate. If the Senate decides that a nominee is unqualified, the nominee wil not be confirmed. As such, all recent justices have been lawyers.
The President of the United States (Executive branch) nominates US Supreme Court justices and other federal judges. The Senate must approve the nomination by a simple majori … ty vote (51%) in order for the appointment to be made. If the Senate rejects the nomination, the President must choose someone else. The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) has nine justices: one Chief Justice and eight Associate Justices. The Judiciary Act of 1789 provided for a 6-member Court, w … ith a Chief Justice and 5 Associate Justices. Congress adjusted the size of the Court a number of times through the during the 19th-century.
· just now. Report Abuse. No,the US Constitution does not require that you have a law degree in order to become a Supreme Court Justice. However, in this day and time, chances are slim to none that you will ever be appointed without the proper qualifications. Blubber · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
I do not think there is a minimum age to be on the Supreme Court. You do not even have to have a law degree or be licensed as an attorney. Supreme Court justices are appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. Citicop is almost exactly right. Joseph Story was indeed only 32 years old when appointed. But so was another member of the Supreme Court back during the early 19th century.