Report Abuse. America didn't so much 'react' to the 1919 Treaty of Versailles as have a heavy hand in creating it. It wasn't something the European Allies did on their own after defeating Germany in the Great War (1914-1918 for the Allies but only 1917-1918 for the Americans). The US was right there making decisions along with every other Allied country. What was the German reaction to the botched Treaty of Versailles? The rise of Adolph Hitler, World War II and 52 000 000 dead to add to the 35 000 000 of what then became World War I.
On March 19, 1920, the United States Senate rejected for the second time the Treaty of Versailles, by a vote of 49-35, falling seven votes short of a two-thirds majority needed for approval. The Treaty of Versailles was a formal peace treaty between the World War I Allies and Germany. In place of the Treaty of Versailles, in 1921 Congress passed a resolution, known as the Knox–Porter Resolution, to formally end the war with Germany. The United States would never join the League of Nations, which was just one of several problems the organization would have in building power and credibility.
1 4. REACTION OF THE US-America refused to ratify the Treaty-Republicans in the US opposed Wilson’s involvement in Europe-Refuse to sign treaty-US isolated itself from the problems of Europe. 2  5. 1 He meant Germany had not been weakened, they would rise again in twenty-one years. 2  4. REACTION OF THE US-America refused to ratify the Treaty-Republicans in the US opposed Wilson’s involvement in Europe-Refuse to sign treaty-US isolated itself from the problems of Europe. 3  5.
This is the reaction to the Treaty of Versailles as represented by 'The Big Three' in the illustration because Versailles was ultimately the cause the Second World War and therefore not a successful peace settlement. 
Best Answer: The United States, represented by President Woodrow Wilson, wanted a peace treaty that would address the causes of World War I, such as international recklessness, and did not want to severely punish Germany for its actions. However, the final Treaty was not what President Wilson wanted. 
Americans were also uneasy about Wilson's scheme for a League of Nations. They were concerned that belonging to the League would drag the USA into international disputes that were not their concern. In the end, the Congress rejected the Treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations. The German politicians were not consulted about the terms of the Treaty. They were shown the draft terms in May 1919. They complained bitterly, but the Allies did not take any notice of their complaints. Germany had very little choice but to sign
The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles.
Anyway, it's not so much that America reacted to the treaty, but influenced-obviously Wilson was dissappointed that much of the 'self-determination' had been ignored when it came to the Versailles treaty-but they could've exerted a larger influence-they had the power to do so. Best Answer: I disagree (to the first answer).... As far as I know America had a big role in the peace treaties-much of the clauses were based on Wilson's idea of 'self-determination' - which in short, drew the lines of what was a nation.
When the Treaty terms were announced in June 1919, there was a mixed reaction. The general opinion in Britain was that the terms were fair and should probably have been more severe. British newspapers suggested that Germany would no longer threaten world peace. The German politicians were not consulted about the terms of the Treaty. They were shown the draft terms in May 1919. They complained bitterly, but the Allies did not take any notice of their complaints. Germany had very little choice but to sign
The terms of the Treaty of Versailles were announced in June 1919. The German politicians were not consulted about the terms of the Treaty. They were shown the draft terms in May 1919. They complained bitterly, but the Allies did not take any notice of their complaints. Germany had very little choice but to sign the Treaty.