Hello, I believe that if you are of Sicilian origin and 'better that you go to make a beautiful holiday in Sicily, you will see that many Sicilians are blond skin and clear blue eyes clear passage of the Normans in Italy, no dark skin black passed the Moors.
Sicily has been colonized by many different peoples over the past 5000 years. Both white and black, as well as Arab, Greek, French, and Spanish have took over the island. Sicilians are generally dark skinned and have dark features because the dark genes seem to always take over the light genes. Some of us Sicilians are offended when people say they have negro genes, but I'm ok with that. Proof that we have negro genes is that Sicily has a high rate of sickle cell disease.
Even if Sicilians were Black (which is a ridiculous generalization in itself), you are only PART Sicilian. This is what is true. YOU are a combination of your ancestors. You are the only one in this world who is going to take time to find out who they ALL were, and where they all came from.
Sicilians have black blood pumping through their hearts. If you don't believe me, you can look it up. 100′s and 100′s of years ago, the Moors conquered Sicily and the Moors are niggers.. 1  Film & Animation. 2  Standard YouTube License.
The usual things happened: looting, conquering and, of course, rape. So, many Sicilians have black blood from just over 1,000 years ago. This is why we Italians get a great tan, and why we have curly hair.
Contrary to popular opinion, NOT all Sicilians are dark, so by saying, and I quote,  they have features like dark curly hair, thick eyebrows and lips, and olive colored skin. Anyone from a place in the Mediteranean sea shoud have those features.
YOU ARE WRONG and you have obviously never spent a lot of time in the Mediterranean or in Sicily because most Sicilians are a mix, as the island was conquered by many different types of people. There are plenty of blond, blue and light Sicilians, just as many as black and dark and curly.
The answer is No, you are not North African, Arab or Black if you are Sicilian. Go to Sicily and observe the people for yourself. They look like other Southern European Caucasians from Greece, France, Spain, Portugal and even Turkey.
So, no they're not black they are the same color as other Italians. Yes, Sicilians are much like other Italians but since Sicily was invaded and held by many other cultures many different bloodlines are in the Sicilian genome. Romans, Greeks, Spanish, Normand, Austrian, French, etc.