According to MARP, over the past 25 years more than 210,000 people have been arrested for marijuana possession in Colorado -- and of those arrests, communities of color have been disproportionately impacted. 
$95: The national average per-diem cost of housing an inmate arrested due to a marijuana-related offense. $2: The average amount communities spend each day on marijuana supervision. Previous attempts have been made to assess how much energy law enforcement expels enforcing marijuana possession laws. Here are some most startling numbers from the ACLU’s report with regards to the cost of enforcing marijuana laws: $20 billion: The amount states will spend enforcing marijuana laws over the next six years. $900: The minimum per-capita cost spent by California, Nevada and Washington on criminal justice for marijuana offenders. $750: The low-level estimate that states pay for each marijuana arrest
In reality, nearly 1 out of 8 U.S. drug prisoners are locked up for pot. Of course, several hundred thousand more Americans are arrested each year for violating marijuana laws, costing taxpayers another $8 billion dollars annually in criminal justice costs. Among those arrested, about 88 percent -- some 696,074 Americans -- were charged with possession only. The remaining 90,471 individuals were charged with sale/manufacture, a category that includes all cultivation offenses, even those where the marijuana was being grown for personal or medical use.
Comments. American taxpayers are now spending more than a billion dollars per year to incarcerate its citizens for pot. That's according to statistics recently released by the U.S. Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Statistics. Among those arrested, about 88 percent -- some 696,074 Americans -- were charged with possession only. The remaining 90,471 individuals were charged with sale/manufacture, a category that includes all cultivation offenses, even those where the marijuana was being grown for personal or medical use.
TALKING POINT #4: Criminal laws prohibiting marijuana possession do not deter marijuana use. TALKING POINT #1: Decriminalizing marijuana frees up police resources to deal with more serious crimes. 60,000 individuals are behind bars for marijuana offenses at a cost to taxpayers of $1.2 billion per year. REFERENCE: Marijuana Arrests and Incarceration in the United States
9. The cost to put a single drug dealer in jail is about $450,000, composed of the following: The cost for arrest and conviction is about $150,000. The cost for an additional prison bed is about $50,000 to $150,000, depending upon the jurisdiction. It costs about $30,000 per year to house a prisoner. With an average sentence of 5 years, that adds up to another $150,000.
Washington, DC: Marijuana prohibition costs US taxpayers nearly $42 billion dollars per year in criminal justice costs and in lost tax revenues, according to an economic analysis released this week. 
These marijuana possession arrests cost taxpayers $75 million a year. Nearly 70 percent of those arrested are under 30 years old, and most are under 21 years old. Eighty-four percent of those arrested are black and Latino, even though whites use marijuana at higher rates. 