Bacterial skin infections in dogs often result from an underlying immune disorder. The most common predisposing causes include allergies (inhalant/contact, food, and/or flea bite). Bacterial skin infections often occur in dogs secondarily to underlying skin allergies, hormonal (endocrine) disorders, or other internal disease. Through a combination of shampoo therapy and antibiotics, the prognosis for your dog's recovery from a bacterial skin infection is excellent.
The most common type of skin infection is a bacterial infection (pyoderma). Bacteria live on healthy skin. That is not a problem until the skin is damaged, often by chewing, scratching or rubbing. Then the bacteria penetrate the skin, overgrow and cause infection. This single-injection antibiotic is called Convenia® (cefovecin sodium), and it provides up to 14 days of antimicrobial therapy* against bacteria that are the most common causes of skin infections in dogs & cats.
There are many different types of dog infections, such as distemper, kennel cough, parvo and coronavirus. Your dog could also suffer from a simple viral infection, similar to a cold in humans, a bacterial infection or parasite infection, such as roundworm or whipworm. 
Bacterial Skin Infections. Bacterial skin infections are usually caused by gram-positive strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus or other organisms. Common bacterial skin infections include: 1  Cellulitis causes a painful, red infection that is usually warm to the touch. Sometimes, these infections aren't associated with any symptoms but can still cause serious damage to the reproductive system. Common STDs caused by bacterial infections include: 1  Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis.
1 Urinary tract infection *, specifically cystitis or bladder infection, is common in dogs and usually caused by bacteria. 2  Signs include blood in the urine (hematuria), difficulty urinating (dysuria), and frequent urination (polyuria). 1 Liver failure * is common in dogs. 2  Signs include vomiting, loss of appetite, weight loss, and jaundice. 3  Causes include bacterial or viral infection, toxic insult, cancer, copper storage diseases, or it may be idiopathic.
Canine Pyoderma (Pus in the skin) or Bacterial Skin Infection. Bacterial folliculitis is the most common type of bacterial skin infection in the dog. The Staphylococcus pseudintermedius bacteria, which is a normal resident bacteria of canine skin, can cause infection of the skin in some dogs. 
Proteus mirabilis infections are a common bacterial infection in dog ears. These organisms are commonly found in the intestines of humans and dogs, however they can also infect the ears and cause the same symptoms as other ear infections. 
Pyoderma in Dogs. When a dog's skin is cut or wounded, there is an increased risk of infection. Pyoderma refers to a bacterial infection of the skin that is very common in dogs. Lesions and pustules (inflamed pus-filled swelling) on the skin, and in some cases partial hair loss, often characterize the infection. Treatment is typically given on an outpatient basis and prognosis is good. 
Though rare, bacterial infections can also cause the plague in dogs who can contract the bacteria from infected fleas. Dogs are generally resistant to most symptoms but may develop swollen lymph nodes. Bacterial infections range in severity based on the type of bacteria, but dogs can recover from most of them, especially with the help of antibiotics. The biggest danger is infections left untreated too long, which can cause permanent organ damage
Bacteria infections of the skin and ears are often a result of untreated allergies that cause dogs to chew on their skin or scratch their ears, providing openings for the bacteria to enter. Skin infections usually cause itchy skin, crusted or scaly skin, discoloration or small lesions. Bacterial infections range in severity based on the type of bacteria, but dogs can recover from most of them, especially with the help of antibiotics.