Types of rubato [edit]. [...] this loose term rubato.. It describes the practice of playing with expressive and rhythmic freedom. Specifically tempo rubato [...] some time is robbed from one passage or group of notes and given to another. One can distinguish two types of rubato: in one the tempo of the melody is flexible, while the accompaniment was kept in typical regular pulse (yet not rigidly in mechanical fashion; but adjusting to the melody as necessary— see below). Another type affects melody and accompaniment.
A tempo rubato. Lit. in robbed time, i. e. time in which, while every bar is of its proper time value, one portion of it may be played faster or slower at the expense of the remaining portion, so that, if the first half be somewhat slackened, the second half is somewhat quickened, and vice versa. One can distinguish two types of rubato: in one the tempo of the melody is flexible, while the accompaniment was kept in typical regular pulse (yet not rigidly in mechanical fashion; but adjusting to the melody as necessary— see below). Another type affects melody and accompaniment.
Definition of RUBATO. : a fluctuation of tempo within a musical phrase often against a rhythmically steady accompaniment. ADVERTISEMENT. Italian, literally, robbed. First Known Use: circa 1883
{Click here to go to the first audio clip}. Article by Christos Tsitsaros. empo rubato (meaning robbed or stolen time) is a broad term that denotes tempo flexibility of an expressive nature. These may include: 1  melodic emphasis (such as culminating points); 2  harmonic considerations (such as the appearance of a tense harmony or a dissonance); 3  structural considerations (such as sequences, pedal points and endings of pieces).
Tempo rubato is a musical term referring to expressive and rhythmic freedom by a slight speeding up and then slowing down of the tempo of a piece at the discretion of the soloist or the conductor. Rubato is an expressive shaping of music that is a part of phrasing. 
Is tempo rubato too difficult to... show more My Piano teacher never lets me play anything from Chopin, Liszt, Brahms, Rachmaninov and so on. According to her, these works need a lot of tempo rubato and she generally avoids giving me any romantic pieces that needs a lot of rubato interpretation. A good way to do this is to use a metronome, which can prevent you from rushing or miss-counting rests. I find that doing it this way brings more space and depth to the music and you are more likely to play in time. You then add the rubato and take it to another level.
Hand size has nothing to do with tempo rubato. I agree that tempo rubato is quite tricky to interpret. It's not just taking time and giving it back-it has more to do with how the music flows, where are the logical places to slow down/speed up, and generally it is difficult to teach. A good way to do this is to use a metronome, which can prevent you from rushing or miss-counting rests. I find that doing it this way brings more space and depth to the music and you are more likely to play in time. You then add the rubato and take it to another level.
Definition: The Italian musical command rubato, which literally means “robbed,” indicates that the performer may take liberties with the articulation, dynamics, or overall expressiveness of a song for dramatic effect. However, rubato most commonly affects tempo. See ad libitum, a piacere, and espressivo. Also Known As: 
Tempo rubato [ˈtɛmpo ruˈbaːto] (free in the presentation, Italian for: stolen time) is a musical term referring to expressive and rhythmic freedom by a slight speeding up and then slowing down of the tempo of a piece at the discretion of the soloist or the conductor. One can distinguish two types of rubato: in one the tempo of the melody is flexible, while the accompaniment was kept in typical regular pulse (yet not rigidly in mechanical fashion; but adjusting to the melody as necessary— see below). Another type affects melody and accompaniment.