In Gymnosperms the seeds are not enclosed by ovary wall whereas in angiosperms ovary wall is invariably present. Thus Cocoa tree is an Angiosperm because its seeds are present inside the fruit (covered by ovary wall). 2 people found this useful. JD Heyl. Seeds are within a dry or fleshy fruit that develops from the ovary within the plant. And gymnosperm are seed pla … nts having the ovules borne on open scales, usually in cones, and usually lacking true vessels in the woody tissue, including seed ferns, or conifers.
Angiosperm = flowering seed bearing plant Gymnosperm = nonflowering seed bearing plant (produces cones) Cocoa tree has a flower so is an angiosperm Technically both angio … sperms and Gymnosperms belong to the category of flowering plants and both are seed bearing but the difference lies in the formation of fruit. Seeds are within a dry or fleshy fruit that develops from the ovary within the plant. And gymnosperm are seed pla … nts having the ovules borne on open scales, usually in cones, and usually lacking true vessels in the woody tissue, including seed ferns, or conifers.
C. papaya This species is a large herb that can reach up to 30 feet in height. The fruit, for what the species is best known for, has a green skin containing an orange melon like fleshy inside. The fruit itself can be quite large reaching up to 20lbs in weight! The name is easy enough to remember as well because its scientific name is the same as its English name. Papaya simply means what it is, a tropical fruit from an evergreen tropical tree. Plante Papaya's are apart of the kingdom Plante. This is because they are multi cellular organisms with cell walls made of cellulose. The papaya plant is autotrophic using photosynthesis to generate their food. An example of another plant type is the Licorice Fern (Polypodium glycyrrhiza).
Both green papaya fruit and the tree's latex are rich in papain, a protease used for tenderizing meat and other proteins. Its ability to break down tough meat fibers was used for thousands of years by indigenous Americans. It is now included as a component in powdered meat tenderizers. Papaya fruit is a significant source of vitamin C and folate, but otherwise has generally low content of nutrients (right table). Papaya skin, pulp and seeds also contain a variety of phytochemicals, including carotenoids and polyphenols. The ripe fruit of the papaya is usually eaten raw, without skin or seeds.
The papaya is a large, tree-like plant, with a single stem growing from 5 to 10 m (16 to 33 ft) tall, with spirally arranged leaves confined to the top of the trunk. The lower trunk is conspicuously scarred where leaves and fruit were borne. Papaya fruit is a significant source of vitamin C and folate, but otherwise has generally low content of nutrients (right table). Papaya skin, pulp and seeds also contain a variety of phytochemicals, including carotenoids and polyphenols. The ripe fruit of the papaya is usually eaten raw, without skin or seeds.
Angiosperm are plants that flower and form fruits with seeds. Seeds are within a dry or fleshy fruit that develops from the ovary within the plant. And gymnosperm are seed pla … nts having the ovules borne on open scales, usually in cones, and usually lacking true vessels in the woody tissue, including seed ferns, or conifers.
This article is about Carica papaya, the widely cultivated papaya (or papaw or pawpaw), a tropical fruit tree. For the mountain papaya (Vasconcellea pubescens) of South America, see Mountain papaya. For the Eastern North American tree (and fruit) called pawpaw, see Asimina triloba. Papaya fruit is a significant source of vitamin C and folate, but otherwise has generally low content of nutrients (right table). Papaya skin, pulp and seeds also contain a variety of phytochemicals, including carotenoids and polyphenols. The ripe fruit of the papaya is usually eaten raw, without skin or seeds.
The Carica papaya is and angiosperm so that means it is a flowering plant. Flowers and fruit are what make angiosperms such successful plants. The flowers and fruits attract animals and insects. The insects are attracted to the flowers and aid in pollination. Also, the pollen on the flowers is in great abundance and very light making it easier for it to be picked up by the wind to pollinate other C. papaya plants. The animals are attracted to the great taste of the fruit which aids in seed dispersion.