The very first Sign of the Zodiac is Aries. And, much on the same lines, the ones born under this Sign consider themselves as the first. Aries are known for their fiery zeal and exuberance. Most impressive are their leadership qualities and optimism. 
Click Here! The Sun blazed in dynamic Aries, a fire sign, on your birthday. The Sun in astrology stands for your inner nature, the light of your essential character. Aries is the first sign of the Zodiac, a masculine sign ruled by the warrior planet Mars, whose motto must be Crash through, or crash!. A cardinal (creative and inventive) sign, Aries the Ram governs leadership and initiative. Aries people are bold and self-confident, although they do tend to be overly impulsive
The Aries zodiac sign is straightforward, aggressive and adventurous and this is reflected in their approach to sex. Expect it to be physical, quick and rough, they like to dominate and have the upper position. The Aries woman is for the person who likes an independent self-driven woman who can fend for herself and is not clingy and needy. An Aries woman requires freedom. For the Aries woman, the best part of the relationship is the beginning, then the spark is there and she is trying to catch you to be hers. She will find happiness in a long-term relationship because she enjoys sharing everything with her partner. She will not only have a romantic partner but a best friend too
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac, and that's pretty much how those born under this sign see themselves: first. Aries are the leaders of the pack, first in line to get things going. Whether or not everything gets done is another question altogether, for an Aries prefers to initiate rather than to complete. Cardinal Signs love to get things going, and Aries exemplifies this even better than Cancer, Libra or Capricorn. Aries is ruled by Mars. Taking a peek at Roman mythology, we find that Mars was the God of War. Our man Mars was unafraid to do battle, and much the same can be said for Aries.
Aries. Aries is the first sign of the Zodiac in original Astrology, with a symbol that is similar to that of the Devil and representing a Ram, one who fights hard, for leadership, and is action oriented, even using their head. Aries. Aries is an astrological sign that is associated with the constellation Aries. Under the tropical zodiac, Aries is occupied by the Sun from about March 21 to April 19 (depending on the exact year) and is associated with the Spring Equinox.
Aries (♈) /ˈɛəriːz/ (meaning  ram ) is the first astrological sign in the Zodiac, spanning the first 30 degrees of celestial longitude (0°≤ λ Solar Hejri calendar (Farvardin). According to the Tropical system of astrology, the Sun enters the sign of Aries when it reaches the northern vernal equinox, which occurs around March 21.
Aries is the first of the zodiac signs. Aries is the sign of the self, people born under this sign strongly project their personalities onto others and can be very self-oriented. Aries tend to venture out into the world and leave impressions on others that they are exciting, vibrant and talkative. The Aries woman is for the person who likes an independent self-driven woman who can fend for herself and is not clingy and needy. An Aries woman requires freedom. For the Aries woman, the best part of the relationship is the beginning, then the spark is there and she is trying to catch you to be hers. She will find happiness in a long-term relationship because she enjoys sharing everything with her partner. She will not only have a romantic partner but a best friend too
The spring equinox, March 21, is the beginning of the new zodiacal year and Aries, the first sign, is therefore that of new beginnings. The young ram is adventurous, ambitious, impulsive, enthusiastic. and full of energy. The Arian is a pioneer both in thought and action, very open to new ideas and a lover of freedom. 
Aries is one of the constellations of the zodiac. It is located in the northern celestial hemisphere between Pisces to the west and Taurus to the east. The name Aries is Latin for ram, and its symbol is (Unicode ♈), representing a ram's horns. It is one of the 48 constellations described by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and remains one of the 88 modern constellations.