You can use your Santander debit card abroad to make purchases and to withdraw local currency from cash machines as and when you need it. Simply look for the Visa sign, and feel secure knowing that it's a safer option than carrying large amounts of cash or traveller's cheques.
Santander debit card. Santander Visa Debit Card. The Santander debit card is Visa branded, Your Santander Debit Card can be used to. 1  Pay for goods or services in shops, restaurants, wherever you see the Visa logo shown on your debit card. 2  Get up to £100 cash back when you pay with your Santander debit card in many shops, supermarkets and other retailers.
Use your Santander Visa Debit card to pay for goods where ever you see the Visa symbol. Remember to check the amount before you enter your PIN or sign a sales voucher. You can spend up to the balance on your account, or the amount of any agreed overdraft.
Debit cards for purchases. Most debit cards are MasterCard or Visa branded, so you can use them to shop as well as for ATM cash. When you use your ATM card that way, most banks charge the same as on their credit card purchases. HSBC, however, adds only 1% on those charges rather than the usual 3%.
Yes, if you are a Santander Select Customer and use your Gold VISA Debit Card for transactions abroad, you may be charged a foreign exchange fee. With the Santander Gold Visa Debit Card, you can benefit from free withdrawals at Santander ATMs in selected countries abroad.
When you use your debit card to buy goods or services in a currency other than sterling, we will convert the amount into sterling using the exchange rate set by Visa on the date the transaction is charged to your account, together with any applicable foreign usage fees as set out in the table above.
If you do not bank with Santander and are planning to use your credit card abroad this summer, then be aware that overseas card usage often comes with a host of charges. Fees to watch out for include: 1  Foreign loading fees: The Visa/Mastercard wholesale rate is one of the best exchange rates around.