Fuels that have been extracted from plants and crops are known as biofuels. Of these, the most commonly extracted and used one is Bioethanol or simply Ethanol and Biodiesel. It is blended with gasoline and can be used as an alternative fuel for your car. 
Biofuel is made up of hydrocarbons. The key difference between Biofuel, and Fossil fuel: 1  Biofuel is a renewable form of energy because it is obtained from organic matter that is abundant and forever being re-created in short time frames. 2  Biofuels are derived from biomass formed through a process of carbon fixation. Biofuel Info | Production & Facts. A Biofuel is a fuel extracted from organic matter whose energy has been obtained through a process of carbon fixation. Biofuel is made up of hydrocarbons containing the embodied energy of the organic matter and can be used as a fuel source.
The most obvious and the fundamental difference between biofuel and fossil fuel is that the first is a renewable energy source while the latter is a non-renewable energy source. However, before delving further into the difference between biofuel and fossil fuel, let us first look at each fuel separately. • It takes millions of years to generate fossil fuel in the earth but regeneration of biofuel is a very short period. • Fossil fuel is a non-renewable energy source whereas biofuel is a renewable energy source. • Using fossil fuel pollutes the environment in many ways, but the consumption of biofuel is an environmental friendly concept. • We cannot produce fossil fuel; it has to be generated natural
A biofuel is a fuel that is produced through contemporary biological processes, such as agriculture and anaerobic digestion, rather than a fuel produced by geological processes such as those involved in the formation of fossil fuels, such as coal and petroleum, from prehistoric biological matter. 
Relevance: a biofuel alternative to fossil fuels. — filed under: biofuel, biodiesel, biofuel from the ocean, biomara, ocean biofuel, renewable energy. As global fossil fuel supplies dwindle and atmospheric carbon concentrations rise, pressure is on to find viable biofuel alternatives to petroleum products.
Bio fuels are better than fossil fuels in many ways. Although, they are probably not as powerful, bio fuels are renewable compared to the limited resource of fossil fuels. Sure they are. Bio fuels are better than fossil fuels because they do not produce any harmful smoke or gases. They are also obtained from nature. Fossil fuels are obtained from the extracts of animals and other organisms fuels produces toxic gases while burning. They may be harmful to u
The key difference between Biofuel, and Fossil fuel: 1  Biofuel is a renewable form of energy because it is obtained from organic matter that is abundant and forever being re-created in short time frames. 2  Fossil fuel on the other hand take millions of years to form. Biofuel Info | Production & Facts. A Biofuel is a fuel extracted from organic matter whose energy has been obtained through a process of carbon fixation. Biofuel is made up of hydrocarbons containing the embodied energy of the organic matter and can be used as a fuel source.