A 3-week old rabbit shouldn't be eating anything other than its mother's milk. When rabbits start to wean (between 4 and 6 weeks old), they should have unlimited access to hay … and pellets, but that's it. when i got my bunny, eragon, i fed him … small amounts of timothy hay, a handful of mixed bunny feed, and never give 3 weeks old bunnies fruits or veggies until their 2 months old.
Pellets. The main diet of a rabbit should be rabbit pellets. Rabbits can also be fed certain vegetables, and hay. The most common recommended amount of pellet to be fed daily is 1 ounce per 1 pound of rabbit. If your rabbit weighs 4 pounds, then it should receive 4 ounces of rabbit pellets. Bunnies up to 4 months old should be fed as much as they will eat. Good quality pellet should be 16% to 18% protein, and at least 16% fiber. Rabbit pellet can spoil or get mold on it, both can cause illness in your rabbit. 
Baby rabbits' diet. Like all mammals rabbit's initial diet is their mother's milk, which they'll continue to drink until 6-8 weeks old. They first start nibbling on solids (usually hay from around the nest) between 2-3 weeks and by 3-4 they'll be eating the same foods as their mum (plus milk). Diet for Young/Baby Rabbits. What you feed you rabbit has a big impact on their health and well-being. Feeding the correct diet to a young rabbit will support their growth and help them form good eating habits, which in turn will help avoid many diet related issues in adulthood.
Answer   What you should do with a bunnie that young is call your local vet!Then they can get you some food for your rabbit.   when i got my bunny, eragon, i fed him … small amounts of timothy hay, a handful of mixed bunny feed, and never give 3 weeks old bunnies fruits or veggies until their 2 months old.
Hi there. A four week old baby should be eating on its own. Rabbits can have litters every 30-32 days, so they are made to be done nursing at that time, as it might be necessary for mom to have that milk go to new babies. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: At 4 weeks kits have started to eat the pellets that are fed to the doe(mother). You can try a little oatmeal, dry and not the instant kind. But not too much.
Report Abuse. Unless you found this bunny, and you are trying to nurse it back to health, and are planning on letting it go back to the wild when its old enough, you should not have him.(its illgal, you can go to jail. And it can harm the rabbit) At 2-3 weeks, a bunny still needs moms milk. They can not, or are barley staring to eat on their own. Try horse hay. (timmothy hay) That would be the best. And veggies every 2-3 days. Dark grees are the best. good luck. Source(s): been there, dont that. 
How much you feed depends on the age of the bunny. I'll give you some pictures so you can estimate how old it is. The amounts for a cottontail are: 1-2 weeks: 4-5 cc/ml each feeding. 2-3 weeks: 6-7 cc/ml each feeding, plus hay and fresh greens. 3-6 weeks: 8-10 cc/ml each feeding, plus hay and fresh greens. 
Keep them in the house until they are about 4 weeks old so they will be warm enough. Put them in a 2 sq ft cardboard box that has very high sides. Put some hay in it that they can either hide under or lay on top of. Judging their age is important. Rabbits eyes come open at about 10 or 11 days after birth. Hand feed them until they are 14 days old. They will start eating on their own-hay, carrots, and rabbit pellets around 14 days old. They should be released into the wild when they are 4-6 weeks old. Don't keep wild rabbits together after they are 2 months old-they will tear each other apart. Do not mix wild rabbits with domestic rabbits. You could spread parasites and diseases to your domestic rabbits.
What Age to Buy. The age of the rabbit is very important when deciding whether or not to buy it. You should NOT buy a rabbit under 6 weeks old (8 weeks if it is a larger breed). Although some irresponsible people will try to sell bunnies as young as 4 weeks old, they are not yet fully weaned at this age. When a bunny is 4 weeks old, they are typically just starting to eat solid food, but still nursing. Some states have regulations that a rabbit cannot be sold unless it has reached a minimum age. In states without such laws, most pet stores will want to offer rabbits for sale that are still at the little, cute age. This tends to be about 4-6 weeks old, which is before the bunnies are fully weaned.