The quality of stereospecificity is focused on the reactants and their stereochemistry; it is concerned with the products too, but only as they provide evidence of a difference in behavior between reactants. Of stereoisomeric reactants, each behaves in its own specific way. The addition of singlet carbenes to alkenes is stereospecific in that the geometry of the alkene is preserved in the product. For example, dibromocarbene and cis -2-butene yield cis -2,3-dimethyl-1,1-dibromocyclopropane, whereas the trans isomer exclusively yields the trans cyclopropane.
Chiral synthesis is built on a combination of stereospecific transformations (for the interconversion of existing stereocenters) and stereoselective ones (for the creation of new stereocenters), where also the optical activity of a chemical compound is preserved. The addition of singlet carbenes to alkenes is stereospecific in that the geometry of the alkene is preserved in the product. For example, dibromocarbene and cis -2-butene yield cis -2,3-dimethyl-1,1-dibromocyclopropane, whereas the trans isomer exclusively yields the trans cyclopropane.
Our results extend and help define specificity of the interaction of membrane cholesterol with the serotonin1A receptor, and represent the first report utilizing ent-cholesterol to examine stereospecificity of GPCR-cholesterol interaction. Importantly, we show here that while ent-cholesterol could replace cholesterol in supporting receptor function, epi-cholesterol could not. These results imply that the requirement of membrane cholesterol for the serotonin1A receptor function is diastereospecific, yet not enantiospecific.
As applied to a reaction, denoting a process in which stereoisomerically different starting materials give rise to stereoisomerically different products; a stereospecific process is thus necessarily stereoselective, but not all stereoselective processes are stereospecific. /ster·eo·spe·cif·ic/ (ster″e-o-spĕ-sif´ik) exhibiting marked specificity for one of several stereoisomers of a substrate or reactant; said of enzymes or of synthetic organic reactions.
In chemistry, stereospecificity is the property of a reaction mechanism that leads to different stereoisomeric reaction products from different stereoisomeric reactants, or which operates on only one (or a subset) of the stereoisomers. The addition of singlet carbenes to alkenes is stereospecific in that the geometry of the alkene is preserved in the product. For example, dibromocarbene and cis -2-butene yield cis -2,3-dimethyl-1,1-dibromocyclopropane, whereas the trans isomer exclusively yields the trans cyclopropane.
Opioid receptors are a group of inhibitory G protein-coupled receptors with opioids as ligands. The endogenous opioids are dynorphins, enkephalins, endorphins, endomorphins and nociceptin. The opioid receptors are ~40% identical to somatostatin receptors (SSTRs). Sigma (σ) receptors were once considered to be opioid receptors due to the antitussive actions of many opioid drugs' being mediated via σ receptors, and the first selective σ agonists being derivatives of opioid drugs (e.g., allylnormetazocine).
In contrast, stereoselectivity is the property of a reactant mixture where a non-stereospecific mechanism allows for the formation of multiple products, but where one (or a subset) of the products is favored by factors, such as steric access, that are independent of the mechanism. The addition of singlet carbenes to alkenes is stereospecific in that the geometry of the alkene is preserved in the product. For example, dibromocarbene and cis -2-butene yield cis -2,3-dimethyl-1,1-dibromocyclopropane, whereas the trans isomer exclusively yields the trans cyclopropane.
Efficacy is an inherent property of an agonist that determines its ability to produce its biological effect. By definition, it is a property of the drug, not the receptor or tissue. Affinity gets the drug bound to the receptor, and efficacy determines what happens once the drug is bound. Two fundamental properties of agonists are affinity and efficacy. Affinity can be defined as the tenacity with which a drug binds to its receptor. In statistical terms, it can be defined as the probability that a drug molecule will bind to an available receptor at any given instant in time.
ster·e·o·spe·cif·ic. As applied to a reaction, denoting a process in which stereoisomerically different starting materials give rise to stereoisomerically different products; a stereospecific process is thus necessarily stereoselective, but not all stereoselective processes are stereospecific. Anti-secretory and cyto-protective effects of peganine hydrochloride ... by Singh, Vinay Kumar; Mishra, Vaibhav; Tiwari, Sriniwas; Khaliq, Tanvir; Barthwal, Manoj Kumar; Pandey / Phytomedicine: International Journal of Phytotherapy & Phytopharmacology.