The people of the First Fleet established the first settlement in Australia. Convicts of the First Fleet were put to work immediately on building projects, particularly roads, and farming. They cleared the land and native plants, and prepared the ground for tilling and planting. Convicts were sent on the First Fleet to Australia to alleviate difficulties in Great Britain. Conditions in England in the 18th century were tough: the industrial revolutio … n had made it harder for people to earn an honest wage as simpler tasks were replaced by machine labour.
The First Fleet is the name given to the 11 ships which left Great Britain on 13 May 1787 to found a penal colony that became the first European settlement in Australia. The ships of the First Fleet mostly did not remain in the colony. Some returned to England, while others left for other ports. Some remained at the service of the Governor of the colony for some months: some of these were sent to Norfolk Island where a second penal colony was established.
The First Fleet did stay in Australia. It did not, however, stay in Botany Bay, instead moving to Port Jackson. This was due to the lack of a fresh water supply; the absence … of good soil for crops; there was no safe harbour; and the timber that grew in the area was not suitable for building. Convicts were sent on the First Fleet to Australia to alleviate difficulties in Great Britain. Conditions in England in the 18th century were tough: the industrial revolutio … n had made it harder for people to earn an honest wage as simpler tasks were replaced by machine labour.
Between 1788 and 1850 the English sent over 162,000 convicts to Australia in 806 ships. The first eleven of these ships are today known as the First Fleet and contained the convicts and marines that are now acknowledged as the Founders of Australia. This is their story. Before 1788, Australia was populated by about 300,000 aborigines.
In 1788, when the First Fleet of British convicts arrived, around 500,000 Aboriginal people lived in Australia. Today there are only around 270,000; most live in cities and towns. The Eora people lived around what is now Sydney. The word Eora simply meant ‘here’ or ‘from this place’. 
The First Fleet left England on 13th May 1787 for the ‘lands beyond the seas’ – Australia, stopping at Tenerife, Rio de Janeiro and Cape Town, where food supplies were replenished. The fleet arrived at Botany Bay between 18th and 20th January 1788. The first eleven of these ships are today known as the First Fleet and contained the convicts and marines that are now acknowledged as the Founders of Australia. This is their story. Captain James Cook discovered the east coast of New Holland in 1770 and named it New South Wales.
The First Fleet did not choose to come to Australia. The British Government decided to establish a colony in Australia and sent 11 ship loads of people, including convicts, … to do it. Convicts were sent on the First Fleet to Australia to alleviate difficulties in Great Britain. Conditions in England in the 18th century were tough: the industrial revolutio … n had made it harder for people to earn an honest wage as simpler tasks were replaced by machine labour.
The ships sailing into Botany Bay. The First Fleet is the name given to the 11 ships which sailed from Great Britain on 13 May 1787, to start the first European colony in New South Wales. It was a convict settlement, the start of a plan to transport thousands of prisoners to Australia. 
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST FLEET – 1788 by Cathy Dunn. Between 1788 and 1850 the English sent over 162,000 convicts to Australia in 806 ships. The first eleven of these ships are today known as the First Fleet and contained the convicts and marines that are now acknowledged as the Founders of Australia. This is their story. Captain James Cook discovered the east coast of New Holland in 1770 and named it New South Wales.
The First Fleet left England on 13th May 1787 for the 'lands beyond the seas' - Australia, stopping at Tenerife, Rio de Janeiro and Cape Town, where food supplies were replenished. The fleet arrived at Botany Bay between 18th and 20th January 1788. The first eleven of these ships are today known as the First Fleet and contained the convicts and marines that are now acknowledged as the Founders of Australia. This is their story. Before 1788, Australia was populated by about 300,000 aborigines.