Check if you are eligible to take the PMP(R) Certification Examination. There are three requirements, as follows: 1  You should hold a Bachelor's degree or its global equivalent (this is a 4-year degree, not a 3-year degree). 2  You should have 4500 hours of project management experience in not less than 3 years. 
Renewing your PMP certification. PMIs PMP certification is valid for a period of three years. This page explains what is required to renew your hard-earned PMP credentials. PMP certification is extremely respected credential in the industry. The article explains how to extend your certification for another three years. 
PMP-Certification-Exam .com. The Project Management Professional, or commonly known as PMP, certification is a credential given to those who successfully pass an exam by the Project Management Institute (PMI). PMI provides a professional development program that is based upon the Project Management Body Of Knowledge Guide (PMBOK Guide). 
Project Management Professional (PMP) is an internationally recognized professional designation offered by the Project Management Institute (PMI). There are currently 658,523 active PMP certified individuals and 274 chartered chapters across 204 countries and territories worldwide. The PMP exam is based on the PMP Examination Specification, which describes tasks out of five performance domains 1  : Initiating the project (13%). 2  Planning the project (24%). 3  Executing the project (30%).
Project Management Professional (PMP ®) certification is a qualification program overseen by the Project Management Institute (PMI). The process for becoming a certified Project Management Professional involves a review of prior education and work experience followed by a written examination. Holders of the certification may use the designation PMP after their names in professional correspondence and publication.
Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification training will give you the skills and confidence to bring new products and services to market on time and on budget. Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification will make you a more valued contributor to your organization and help your career advance. Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification PMI’ s globally recognized certification is the Project Management Professional (PMP) Credential. 
PMP stands for Project Management Professional. It is a designation offered by the PMI (Project Management Institute). The PMP designation is the most recognized project management professional designation available. There are three main requirements to PMP certification: 1  Project management experience-at least 4,500 hours of experience (7,500 hours if you do not have a Bachelor’s degree or global equivalent) spent leading and directing project tasks within the last 8 years.
The organization outlines its criteria for taking the PMP exam in the PMP Credential Handbook. This free publication is downloadable from the Project Management Institute's website. In it, you'll find a description of the PMP certification, an explanation of who is eligible to apply, and how to go about applying. The Project Management Institute offers the most popular project management certification in the U.S.—the Project Management Professional or PMP credential. It signifies that an individual is proficient in PMI's project management framework, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK Guide).
The exam is based on the PMI Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), and requirements to sit for the exam include, a bachelor's degree, at least 4,500 hours of experience leading and directing projects, and 35 hours of formal project management education. The PMP exam is based on the PMP Examination Specification, which describes tasks out of five performance domains 1  : Initiating the project (13%). 2  Planning the project (24%). 3  Executing the project (30%).
Project managers' views on the value of a PMP certification. Weigh in on whether you think earning a Project Management Professional (PMP) certification is a career booster, or if you believe a better use of time is simply demonstrating delivery. By Andrew Makar | in IT Consultant, July 9, 2013, 12:36 PM PST. 1  Comments. 