A Roofing Permit is Required. A permit is required for each roofing job in excess of one square (100 square feet). Permits must be obtained before work begins. Work begun without a permit will result in assessment of investigation fees. An annual fee of $101 will need to be paid before a roofing permit may be issued. The following items are required and will be checked: 1  The heat source for the kettle must not be in operation when the kettle is in transport. 2  Kettles shall not be used inside or on the roof of a building
You can apply, purchase, and have Building Re-Roof Permits issued via e-mail and printed on your own printer. It takes minutes to apply and permits that do not require plan review are typically returned within three (3) hours. 
Permits-Roofing Permit. District residents and contractors do need a permit for most roof repairs, removals and replacements. A Permit is required if: 1  Metal flashing is to be removed, repaired or replaced. 
For example, if you need only roofing or plumbing work, you may want to hire a contractor licensed in that particular specialty. A general building contractor also may contract for specialty work, but must hold a specialty license for that work or actually have a specialty contractor do the work. You can verify the license or call (800) 321-CSLB (2752). ALERT Be advised that unlicensed individuals pose a risk to you and your family's financial security if a worker is injured while on your property, your property is damaged, or if the work is incomplete and/or faulty.
If you’re looking to hire a roofer or roofing company, it’s critical to choose one who is licensed. Whether you wish to have your roof inspected after a storm or your roof is in need of repairs, it is essential that you choose a qualified, licensed roofing contractor. This is because roof work can be dangerous. If you live in an area that requires roofers to be licensed, it’s against the law for anyone to perform work on your roof without one. If you’re unsure whether or not your state requires licensing, visit www.contractors-license.org.
Pricing for a permit will vary from area to area. Some will be a flat fee whereas others may be based on the size or value of the project. If you are having the roof replaced by a contractor they will typically take care of the permit for you but it is important to confirm that with the company. If they do not take care of the permit and/or you are replacing the roof yourself you will need to talk to city development services. 
This is for your protection and safety. All reroofs require a permit, and if you ever sell your home, you will need to show that a permit was obtained (or disclose that the reroof was done without a permit or inspections). A typical roofing permit averages around $400 and is included in all Signature Roofing estimates. Pulling a roofing permit is an added insurance that your roofing job will be done by the book—the city codebook that is. Depending on your city’s requirements, two to four inspections are involved with the permit.
General building contractors usually oversee projects and coordinate the specific licensed subcontractors for a job. Specialty or subcontractors are usually hired to perform a single job. For example, if you want only roofing or plumbing work, you may want to hire a contractor licensed in that particular specialty. 
Some counties do not require roofing permits at all, but others have specific guidelines to follow regarding their requirements. Often, if you are repairing only a small amount of your roof, and not in it’s entirety, a roofing permit may not be required. Minor repairs or changes may not require that the builder obtain a roofing permit. In addition, if you are doing the work yourself, you may not need a permit. But, it’s imperative that you check out the requirements and make sure that everything is handled before any work actually begins on your property. When hiring a contractor, do your research.