The Vaccine. The childhood vaccine that protects against pertussis is called DTaP (combined diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine). For the best protection against pertussis children should receive all five doses of the DTaP vaccine at ages 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, between 15-18 months and between 4-6 years.
Pertussis vaccines are recommended for people of all ages. Babies and children should get 5 doses of DTaP for maximum protection. A dose is given at 2, 4 and 6 months, at 15 through 18 months, and again at 4 through 6 years. A booster dose of Tdap is given to preteens at 11 or 12 years old.
Most children receive several vaccinations against whooping cough (pertussis) as part of the DTaP series, which also protects against diphtheria and tetanus. The shots start at 2 months of age and continue until the child is 4 to 6 years old.
Pregnant women should have their whooping cough vaccination early in the third trimester (between 28 and 32 weeks), but it can be given any time during the third trimester up to delivery. Newborn babies (up to six weeks of age) are too young to receive their first immunisation. Vaccination during pregnancy can protect newborns from contracting whooping cough until they are old enough to be routinely vaccinated against whooping cough from six weeks of age.
Providing a timely, free whooping cough booster immunisation to pregnant women between 28-38 weeks of pregnancy and providing on-time immunisation to infants at 6 weeks 3 months, and 5 months of age are the best ways to protect our most vulnerable children from the disease.
1 Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months. 2  If not already vaccinated, pregnant women should receive the booster vaccine late in the second trimester or during the third trimester, during each pregnancy.
1 Vaccination of pregnant women with Tdap is especially important to help protect infants. 2  Pregnant women should get the vaccine late in the second trimester or in the third trimester for each pregancy. 3  All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine.
Once your baby is old enough (2 months), he needs to get his whooping cough vaccines ― that will be the best way to protect him from whooping cough as he gets older. The whooping cough vaccine for children (2 months through 6 years) is called DTaP.
1 All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 2  Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months.