Carnitine is a substance found in almost every cell in the body, it is biosynthesized from the amino acids lysine and methionine. The compound plays a crucial role in energy production, as it is responsible for transporting fatty acids to the mitochondria. Mitochondria exist inside every cell in our bodies. 
Acetyl-L-carnitine is an amino acid (a building block for proteins) that is naturally produced in the body. It helps the body produce energy. Acetyl-L-carnitine is used for a variety of mental disorders including Alzheimer's disease, age-related memory loss, late-life depression, thinking problems related to alcoholism, and thinking problems related to Lyme disease. 
Carnitine, derived from an amino acid, is found in nearly all cells of the body. Its name is derived from the Latin carnus or flesh, as the compound was isolated from meat. Carnitine is the generic term for a number of compounds that include L-carnitine, acetyl-L-carnitine, and propionyl-L-carnitine [ 1-2 ]. Carnitine plays a critical role in energy production. It transports long-chain fatty acids into the mitochondria so they can be oxidized (burned) to produce energy. It also transports the toxic compounds generated out of this cellular organelle to prevent their accumulation.
Carnitine is primarily used for heart-related conditions. Several clinical trials show that L-carnitine can be used along with conventional treatment for angina to reduce the needs for medicine and improve the ability of those with angina to exercise without chest pain or discomfort. L-carnitine is synthesized in the body from the amino acids lysine and methionine. Learn how your chances of success can increase with this in your arsenal. L-carnitine is synthesized in the body from the amino acids lysine and methionine. Regardless of what your bodybuilding and fitness goals are, losing fat or gaining muscle, your chances of success will increase greatly if you have l-carnitine in your supplement arsenal
1 1. L-carnitine is THE nutrient, the ferry so to speak, that shuttles fatty acids from the blood into the mitochondria -- the energy producing furnaces in the cells -- so that they can be used as energy. 2  If you want to use fat as a fuel as efficiently and effectively as possible, you need l-carnitine. 
L-carnitine is LIKELY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth and when used as an injection, with the approval of a healthcare provider. It can cause side effects such as nausea, vomiting, stomach upset, heartburn, diarrhea, and seizures. It can also cause the urine, breath, and sweat to have a fishy odor. 1 Intense exercise has been linked to a decrease in L-carnitine blood levels. 2  However, research on the use of L-carnitine for improving athletic performance is inconsistent. 3  Some studies suggest that L-carnitine improves athletic performance and endurance.
L-carnitine is used for conditions of the heart and blood vessels including heart-related chest pain, congestive heart failure (CHF), heart complications of a disease called diphtheria, heart attack, leg pain caused by circulation problems (intermittent claudication), and high cholesterol. 1 Intense exercise has been linked to a decrease in L-carnitine blood levels. 2  However, research on the use of L-carnitine for improving athletic performance is inconsistent. 3  Some studies suggest that L-carnitine improves athletic performance and endurance.
Overview. Carnitine is a substance that helps the body turn fat into energy. Your body makes it in the liver and kidneys and stores it in the skeletal muscles, heart, brain, and sperm. Usually, your body can make all the carnitine it needs. 