Liriope. Used often as a groundcover or an edging plant, liriope is popular for good reason. It stays green year-round in many climates, produces pretty blue or white flowers, and is about as tough a plant as you'll hope to meet. Its dense tufts of almost-evergreen, broadly grassy leaves are often striped
One of the easiest ways to reduce deer damage in your yard is to landscape with plants deer prefer not to eat. This fact sheet is intended to serve as a guide for choosing landscape plants resistant to deer feeding in southeastern North Carolina. 
One of the most common challenges of gardening in the Rogue Valley is the plentiful deer population. Selecting deer resistant plants is often hit-and-miss and, to compound the problem, not all deer have the same tastes. What is deer resistant in Jacksonville may not be deer resistant in Eagle Point or Ashland.
Liriope, or lilyturf, is an ornamental grass effective in deer control. Courtesy Missouri Botanical Garden. You thought you were gaining control over your landscape, replacing the lawn with perennial groundcover plants. You got rid of the turf, planted hostas and mulched them. Fortunately, there is no shortage of such perennial groundcover plants, plus short shrubs such as Blue Rug juniper and Blue Star juniper. Many of the deer-resistant groundcovers are also shade-tolerant, solving yet another landscaping challenge. In addition, plants that humans find aromatic often have the opposite affect on deer: Deer find their smell offensive and leave them alone, making these plants effective for deer control
Deer Resistant Plants. The following list of deer resistant plants was compiled mostly from a pamphlet produced by a group of Master Gardeners in Westchester County, in upstate New York. Be careful using this list.
Alphabetical list of all 3,000+ perennials here. Lily-turf is a grassy-leaved, evergreen perennial most often used as a groundcover or edging plant in shady places. This selection features leaves striped lengthwise with green and creamy white, bearing short stems of violet-purple flowers, like tiny Grape Hyacinths. 
If you wish to use this plant as a ground cover in multiple areas of your landscaping, you can divide and transplant. Spring is listed as the best season for dividing. It is a deer-resistant ground cover. Caveat in Growing Liriope Plants: These ornamental grass look-alikes spread via rhizomes, and are vigorous growers, to the point of being considered invasive plants in some regions. 
The following is a list of landscape plants rated according to their resistance to deer damage. The list was compiled with input from nursery and landscape professionals, Rutgers New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station (NJAES) Cooperative Extension personnel, and Master Gardeners in Northern N.J. Realizing that no plant is deer proof, plants in the Rarely Damaged, and Seldom Severely Damaged categories would be best for landscapes pron
Variegated Liriope (Liriope muscari ‘Variegata’) is one of my all time favorite plants to use as a border around a planting bed or along a sidewalk or even a driveway. They are colorful, low growing and they flower in mid summer with purple flowers on short spikes about 12″ tall. Probably closer to 8″ tall. I thought they were deer resistant – NO. We live in deeply, shaded woods in So. Indiana and the deer are eating everything – Liriope, hydrangea plants, lilies, yews, and, of course, hostas & English Ivy to the point that over the past 3 years it has not come back! Our yard is a mess.