While Quince is still grown for its fruit in some parts of the world, in England, France, and the United States it is primarily grown for use as a dwarfing pear rootstock. In the region around Angers, France, Quince has been used as a pear rootstock since before 1500. The malic acid percentage is high (0.8%). Quince fruits are used to make jams, jellies, and pastes and to flavor cooked apples and pears. Dulce de membrillo, or quince paste, is a sweet, fragrant jellylike confection that is popular (under various names) in several European and South American countries.
1. Know how the various fruit types are distinguished from one another. 2. Know at least one or two representatives of each fruit type. 3. Learn which plant parts are used for specific purposes. 4. Know several representative survival plants, how they are used, and how the toxic plants poison humans. Introduction. In this exercise you will be asked to classify a number of fruits and to know examples of each fruit type. You will also be asked to take notes on what plant parts are used to prepare the various spices on display, know how the sur vival plants are used, and be able to give examples of com mon poisonous plants.
Four other species previously included in Cydonia are now treated in separate genera. These are the Chinese Quince Pseudocydonia sinensis, a native of China, and the three flowering quinces of east Asia in the genus Chaenomeles. Quince foliage and fruit. Quinces are too hard, astringent and sour to eat raw unless 'bletted' (softened by frost). They are used to make jam, jelly and quince pudding, or they may be peeled, then roasted. The very strong perfume means they can be added in small quantities to apple pies and jam to enhance the flavour. The term marmalade, originally meaning a quince jam, derives from the Portuguese word for this fruit marmelo
The names japonica or Japanese quince were (and still are) often loosely applied to Chaenomeles in general, regardless of their species. The most commonly cultivated Chaenomeles referred to as japonica are actually the hybrid C. × superba and C. speciosa; C. japonica itself is not as commonly grown. The leaves are 3–5 cm long. C. speciosa (Chinese Flowering Quince; syn. : Chaenomeles laganaria, Cydonia lagenaria, Cydonia speciosa, Pyrus japonica) is native to China and Korea, and has hard green apple-shaped fruit 5–6 cm diameter. The flowers are shades of red, white, or flecked with red and white.
(Burmese: ချဉ်စော်ကား) These plants are related to the quince (Cydonia oblonga) and the Chinese quince (Pseudocydonia sinensis), differing in the serrated leaves, and in the flowers, born in clusters, having deciduous sepals and styles that are connate at the base. The leaves are 3–5 cm long. C. speciosa (Chinese Flowering Quince; syn. : Chaenomeles laganaria, Cydonia lagenaria, Cydonia speciosa, Pyrus japonica) is native to China and Korea, and has hard green apple-shaped fruit 5–6 cm diameter. The flowers are shades of red, white, or flecked with red and white.
The separation of the four chaenomeles species from the two quince species (Cydonia oblonga and Cydonia sinensis) is now supported by morphological studies of the fruits (Rataru and Ponomarenko 1993) and by molecular studies (Campbell et al. 1995; Kaneko et al. 2000). Species within the Rosaceous genus Chaenomeles (also referred to as the common name of these species) have received increased attention because of their high yield of fruits, which are rich in juice, aroma, and dietary fiber, and because of their presumed potential for cultivation with organic production methods.
The Quince Cydonia oblonga, the sole member of the genus Cydonia, is a small to medium size tree native to warm-temperate southwest Asia in the Caucasus region. Quince foliage and fruit. Quinces are too hard, astringent and sour to eat raw unless 'bletted' (softened by frost). They are used to make jam, jelly and quince pudding, or they may be peeled, then roasted. The very strong perfume means they can be added in small quantities to apple pies and jam to enhance the flavour. The term marmalade, originally meaning a quince jam, derives from the Portuguese word for this fruit marmelo
These plants have also been called Japanese quince, and the name japonica (referring to C. japonica) was widely used for these plants in the 19th and 20th centuries, although this common name is not particularly distinctive, since japonica is a specific epithet shared by many other plants. The leaves are 3–5 cm long. C. speciosa (Chinese Flowering Quince; syn. : Chaenomeles laganaria, Cydonia lagenaria, Cydonia speciosa, Pyrus japonica) is native to China and Korea, and has hard green apple-shaped fruit 5–6 cm diameter. The flowers are shades of red, white, or flecked with red and white.
The crop classification refers to which crops are grown, whereas the product classification refers to the product(s) generated from that crop. Thus, “mustard” is an oilseed crop, whereas “mustard seed” is the oilseed product. There is not always a one-to-one correspondence between a crop and a product. CPC classifies goods and services into categories based on the nature of the product and industry of origin. Crop products are classified mainly according to the type of crop. CPC itself is based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS), a classification of the World Customs Organization.