Where to get PQQ. Foods that contain PQQ include beans, celery, cocoa, fermented foods (e.g., tempeh, natto), kiwi, papaya, parsley, potatoes, spinach, and wine. Breastfed infants have a super source in breast milk. PQQ also is available in supplement form, and the suggested dose is 10 mg twice a day. Although there have been animal studies using PQQ, a few human clinical trials have been conducted as well. One double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolled 71 healthy adults aged 45 to 65 who took either foods containing PQQ only, PQQ plus coenzyme Q10, or placebo foods for 12 weeks.
PQQ has been found in all plant foods analyzed to date. 1 PQQ-rich foods include parsley, green peppers, kiwi fruit, papaya and tofu. 2 These foods contain about 2-3 mcg per 100 grams. Green tea provides about the same amount per 4 oz serving.
PQQ has been found in all plant foods analyzed to date. Particularly PPQ-rich foods include parsley, green peppers, kiwi, papaya, and tofu. These foods contain 2–3 mcg of PQQ per 100 grams. Green tea provides about the same amount per 4-oz. serving. While these amounts appear to be sufficient in helping our cells carry out their basic functions, research indicates that boosting PQQ through supplementation can produce some amazing effects
Several readers have inquired about PQQ in food and whether diet alone is sufficient to obtain enough pyrroloquinoline quinone to be biologically effective. The answer — relative to what is known about optimizing growth in rodent nutritional growth experimental models — is probably yes. Given that most lactating mammals have the same vitamin and mineral requirements, when those amounts are expressed on a food energy or dry food weight basis, one might infer humans -- who consume about 300 to 500 grams of dry food per day (about 2000 Kcal) -- need up to 100-200 micrograms of PQQ per day. PQQ in Food *.
The levels of free pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) in various foods were examined by the use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. PQQ was extracted from the samples, after addition of [U-13C]PQQ as internal standard, with n-butanol and Sep-Pak C18 cartridges. After derivatization of PQQ with phenyltrimethylammonium hydroxide, molecular peaks at m/z 448 and 462 were used for detection of PQQ and [U-13C]PQQ respectively, by selected ion monitoring. 1 Failure to verify the presence of pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) in bovine plasma amine oxidase by gas chromatography/
PQQ may be the perfect answer to preventing or reversing age-related mental decline. PQQ (short for pyrroloquinoline quinone) is a vitamin-like compound found in plant foods that shows a wide range of benefits for brain function and energy production. Learn more about PQQ with the following Q&A. Particularly PPQ-rich foods include parsley, green peppers, kiwi, papaya, and tofu. These foods contain 2–3 mcg of PQQ per 100 grams. Green tea provides about the same amount per 4-oz. serving.
Double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group comparative study. Subjects consumed foods containing PQQ only, PQQ plus CoQ10, or placebo foods for 12 weeks. Cognitive effects were tested using word memorization, recall and other cerebral tests. Stress effects were tested by measuring oxidative stress and mental stress markers. 
Food Sources of PQQ. PQQ has been found in all plant foods analyzed to date.1 PQQ-rich foods include parsley, green peppers, kiwi fruit, papaya and tofu.3 These foods contain about 2-3 mcg/100 g. Green tea provides about the same amount per 4-oz. Serving. Pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) is a novel compound found in plant foods that is showing tremendous promise. Health food store retailers need to familiarize themselves as more customers hear about PQQ or are looking for this super-nutrient’s many benefits.