Chickens never lay more than one egg per day. As a rule, chickens lay in the morning, but each day a little later. Sometimes the last egg of a series is produced in the early afternoon. When it gets too late, they take the next day off. My five commercial hybrids will sometimes lay for a series of 30 days or more. All chickens lay eggs in a series-never more than one per day. If the eggs are not collected, and a sufficient number of eggs are allowed to remain in the nest, the hen may stop laying eggs and start brooding. When the hen leaves the nest after laying an egg, it cools which suspends the development of the embryo inside.
1 For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 2  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 3  Some individual hens never lay eggs, due to narrow pelvises or other anomalies. 1 Most hens will lay eggs in the same nest box as flockmates, so it’s not necessary to have a nest box for each hen. 2  Some hens like to lay their eggs in private and others will join their sisters in the nest box. 3  Often two or three hens will crowd into one box while another nest box remains empty.
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Here are the answers to those questions and many more. Hens and eggs. 1  Female chickens are called pullets for their first year or until they begin to lay eggs. 2  For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 3  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 1 Most hens will lay eggs in the same nest box as flockmates, so it’s not necessary to have a nest box for each hen. 2  Some hens like to lay their eggs in private and others will join their sisters in the nest box. 3  Often two or three hens will crowd into one box while another nest box remains empty.
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
Hens require at least 14 hours of light per day to lay eggs. They produce eggs at a maximum rate with 16 hours of light exposure. Hens generally lay eggs within six hours of sunrise -- or six hours of artificial light exposure for hens kept indoors. Hens without exposure to artificial lighting in the hen house will stop laying eggs in late fall for about two months.
For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
1 Female chickens are called pullets for their first year or until they begin to lay eggs. 2  For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 3  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 1 Most hens will lay eggs in the same nest box as flockmates, so it’s not necessary to have a nest box for each hen. 2  Some hens like to lay their eggs in private and others will join their sisters in the nest box. 3  Often two or three hens will crowd into one box while another nest box remains empty.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. We know of one ancient buff orpington cross who still lays an egg occasionally at 17 years old!!