ARTHRITIS IS A MINERAL DEFICIENCY-BORON IN PARTICULAR.. So claims Rex Newnham PhD DO ND, in his book Away with Arthritis (2nd edition printed 1993). Rex, a Western Australian now resident in the UK, lived at Guildford in the early 1960's. He taught chemistry, biology, geology, soil science and agricultural botany. 
Borax is also effective with other forms of arthritis, such as Rheumatoid Arthritis, Juvenile Arthritis, and Lupus (Systemic Lupus Erythematosus). For instance Dr Newnham saw a young girl aged 9 months with juvenile arthritis. He was able to cure her in 2 weeks. 
A Boron supplement will reduce the daily loss of calcium by nearly 50%. As this calcium is withdrawn mainly from your bones and teeth, Boron deficiency may be the most important factor in causing arthritis, osteoporosis and tooth decay today. Some symptoms of Boron deficiency are arthritis, brittle bones, carpal tunnel syndrome, degenerative joint disease, hormonal imbalance, loss of libido, memory loss, muscle pain, osteoporosis, receding gum, and weak joint cartilage.
HEALTH EFFECTS OF BORON. A Boron supplement will reduce the daily loss of calcium by nearly 50%. As this calcium is withdrawn mainly from your bones and teeth, Boron deficiency may be the most important factor in causing arthritis, osteoporosis and tooth decay today. With its interactions with calcium and other minerals…. …Boron is a very important part of a long chain that intertwines all the minerals necessary for individual cell growth and health! Boron is essential for ALL life in plants as well as animals.
Most people only get between 1.7 and 7 mg of boron per day, mainly from fruits, nuts, legumes and vegetables. It is likely that this level represents a severe deficiency, with the deficiency being worse for people living in those areas where there is little or no boron in the soil. Borax (sodium tetraborate hexahydrate or sodium borate) is a naturally-occurring mineral composed of sodium, boron, oxygen and water. It has been used as a remedy for over 4000 years. Most commercially-produced borax is mined from deposits produced by the repeated evaporation of seasonal lakes.
Vitamin D deficiency is common and is seen frequently in patients with lupus. A 2001 study published in “Lupus” shows that most lupus patients have a vitamin D deficiency and that the deficiency seems to be associated with higher disease activity. Lupus, or systemic lupus erythematosus, is an autoimmune disease where your body’s immune system has short-circuited. Your immune system is designed to fight off and attack foreign bodies such as bacteria and viruses.
Research. Research shows that boron in the diet decreases the rate of different arthritis’s. For instance, in Israel, where the soil is rich in boron, they only have a 1% population rate of arthritis and the Xhosa tribe of South Africa, whose water is high in boron has a 3% population rate. Compare this to the 20% rate in the United States and other countries with boron poor soil. Boron, the Wonder Drug. Boron is one of the many useful chemical found in nature. People often use it to make ceramics, glass, pesticides, detergents and bleach. Boron is also a natural antiseptic, and antibiotic known as boromycin that’s made through bacteria.
2 Medical data is for informational purposes only. You should always consult your family physician, or one of our referral physic ians prior to treatment. taking the boron supplement had harder bones than the normalarthritic patient. This supports the work of Nielsen that boron doesinfluence calcium metabolism. They retained an average of 52 mg. morecalcium which is equal to a gram of calcium every 20 days. Thebody contains roughly 1100 grams of calcium, so over a period ofseveral years, that’s a significant savings in calcium.The absorption of calcium into our body is a verycomplicated process.