Located in Durham, North Carolina, Duke is one of the most prestigious and competitive universities in the south, and it frequently ranked nationally among the top ten universities. Duke is part of the “research triangle” with UNC Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University in Raleigh. The area boasts the highest concentration of PhDs and MDs in the world.
Average SAT: 2250. The average SAT score composite at Duke is a 2250. The 25th percentile SAT score is 2130, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 2370. In other words, a 2130 places you below average, while a 2370 will move you up to above average. There's no absolute SAT requirement at Duke, but they really want to see at least a 2130 to have a chance at being considered. To be safe, you should aim for the 75th percentile, with a 2370 SAT and a 4.17 GPA or higher to be above average. This is only part of the challenge-after this, you'll need to impress them beyond your academic scores, with your accomplishments and extracurriculars.
What are the SAT and ACT requirements for students admitted to Duke University and what score do you need to get in? The tables below describe the SAT and ACT test score percentile profile of the Fall 2013 freshman class. Data indicates that Duke University regularly accepts students with ACT's of 30 and above. We estimate the school accepting minimim ACT composite scores around 28 in some instances. Students submitting a score at or exceeding the estimated average ACT composite of 32 should be in the upper half of appliants and students with 34 and up have the best chances. Likewise, reporting indicates the school consistently takes SAT composite scores down to 2040 on a 2400 scale, below which admission should be considered a reach. We estimate some students will be accepted with SAT's as low as 1895. The estimated average SAT composite for admitted freshman is 2185 out of 2400.
There are three critical numbers when considering your admissions chances: ACT scores, GPA, and acceptance rate. All these combine to tell you what you scores are required to get into Duke University. If you're a junior or senior, your GPA is hard to change from this point on. If your GPA is at or below the school average of 4.19, you'll need a higher ACT score to compensate and show that you're prepared to take on college academics.
To be safe, you should aim for the 75th percentile, with a 35 ACT and a 4.19 GPA or higher to be above average. This is only part of the challenge-after this, you'll need to impress them beyond your academic scores, with your accomplishments and extracurriculars. If you're a junior or senior, your GPA is hard to change from this point on. If your GPA is at or below the school average of 4.19, you'll need a higher ACT score to compensate and show that you're prepared to take on college academics.
1 The issue of ACT scores and colleges receives a lot of attention from students, parents and…. 2  ACT Scores Required for Ivy League Universities There are eight collegiate institutions that comprise the Ivy League. 3  These are Yale, Harvard, Brown, Cornell, Columbia, Dartmouth, Princeton and University of Pennsylvania. Possibly. The published ACT composite range is 23-29, and Baylor requires students take the writing section. Your high GPA will help offset the slightly low ACT score, as woul … d a high class rank. To be on the safe side, you should probably sit for the ACTs (or SATs) again.
The average ACT score composite at Duke is a 34. The 25th percentile ACT score is 32, and the 75th percentile ACT score is 35. In other words, a 32 places you below average, while a 35 will move you up to above average. If you're a junior or senior, your GPA is hard to change from this point on. If your GPA is at or below the school average of 4.19, you'll need a higher ACT score to compensate and show that you're prepared to take on college academics.
Discussion of Duke's Admissions Standards: Duke University is one of the most selective colleges in the country. In the graph above, the blue and green dots representing accepted students are concentrated in the upper right corner. Most students who got into Duke had A averages, SAT scores (CR+M+W) above 2000, and ACT composite scores above 29. Also realize that a lot of red dots are hidden beneath the blue and green -- many students with a 4.0 GPA and extremely high standardized test scores get rejected from Duke. 