Activation energy is the energy at the potential barrier between the two fields with low energy (at left and at right) representing the sum of energies of reactants and products; the reaction is possible if the activation energy can exceed this barrier. And in a graphic this is the pic of a hill.
The reaction energy path controls the speed of the reaction. The molecules follow the path of least resistance, but this path may still require a lot of energy. A picture of the energy of reactants on their way to form products is an energy diagram. The energy requirement is called the activation energy. The activation energy is always positive. for the path may be high and then the reaction will be slow. A common analogy is pushing a boulder over a hill.
But, before the reactants can be converted into products, the free energy of the system must overcome the activation energy for the reaction, as shown in the figure below. The vertical axis in this diagram represents the free energy of a pair of molecules as a chlorine atom is transferred from one to the other.
Chemist for uranium nuclear fuels. The activation energy diagram is drawn as a hill because there is a large amount of energy needed to form the unstable transition state (viewed as the upward slope on the diagram). The difference between this peak energy and the rectants' energy is the activation energy. When this state decomposes in to more stable products (which are more stable than the reactants), the energy of the molecules is lower, thus the downward slope after the peak.
The activation energy diagram is drawn as a hill because there is a large amount of energy needed to form the unstable transition state (viewed as the upward slope on the diag … ram). The difference between this peak energy and the rectants' energy is the activation energy.
Why is the activation energy pictured as a hill in the ... SCIENCE CORE CURRICULUM GUIDE-Detroit Public Schools http://mydps.detroitk12.org/public/Unit%207-III%20matter%20and%20change.doc... pp.203-205, Alien Periodic Table; (Review/Reinforce) p ...