Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Beethoven played the piano and, when a younger fellow, also the violin-and now I find out the viola, its sibling instrument (you learn a lot about writing for all stringed instruments by playing one of them.) All composers need to learn to write for instruments. 
In 1795 Beethoven appeared at some important public concerts in Vienna as a virtuoso and a composer, playing an improvisation, a piano concerto of his and also one by Mozart. When Beethoven began his career as a piano virtuoso, the piano was not the instrument as it is now, it was in its infancy. In this Beethoven biography you’ll find some unusual information about this famous composer and his relation with the viola. Ludwig van Beethoven is one of the most widely popular and admired classical music composers, thanks to the powerful communicativeness of his music. Just to give a personal example...
Back to Beethoven's biography.... As it was common in those times, Beethoven was a piano and violin player, although what hardly anyone knows is that he also played the viola and in this page you'll read about his life, his works and how he used the viola in his chamber music and symphonic works. In this Beethoven biography you’ll find some unusual information about this famous composer and his relation with the viola. Ludwig van Beethoven is one of the most widely popular and admired classical music composers, thanks to the powerful communicativeness of his music. Just to give a personal example...
Synopsis. Composer Ludwig van Beethoven was baptized on December 17, 1770, in Bonn, Germany. He was an innovator, widening the scope of sonata, symphony, concerto and quartet, and combining vocals and instruments in a new way. Ludwig van Beethoven was a deaf German composer and the predominant musical figure in the transitional period between the Classical and Romantic eras.
Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata was one of the piano sonatas which Beethoven wrote. The only instrument used was piano. It's a piano sonata, for solo piano. Confidence votes 371. Beethoven played the piano mainly. He could also play other keyboard instruments like the organ and the harpsichord well. He also played the violin and viola but not to the same virtuosic standard he did with the piano.
For Beethoven's 5th piano concerto, see Piano Concerto No. 5 (Beethoven) . The coversheet to Beethoven's 5th Symphony. The dedication to Prince J. F. M. Lobkowitz and Count Rasumovsky is visible. The Symphony No. 5 in C minor of Ludwig van Beethoven, Op. 67, was written 1804–1808. It is one of the best-known compositions in classical music, and one of the most frequently played symphonies. First performed in Vienna 's Theater an der Wien in 1808, the work achieved its prodigious reputation soon afterward
Follow what each instrument does in Beethoven’s 5th on a scrolling graph. Apr 7, 2012 • By Abraham •. This video combines the audio of Beethoven’s 5th Symphony with a graphical version of the score that represents what each instrument is playing at the moment…. Color key for the instruments…. 
Ludwig van Beethoven (1770–1827). Ludwig van Beethoven was born in 1770, in Bonn, which was at this time the seat of the elector of Cologne. His family was Flemish-his grandfather had emigrated from Belgium to Bonn to become court singer to the elector. Beethoven's father, Johann, held the same position, and he trained Ludwig from early childhood to sing and to play several musical instruments. 
Beethoven played mostly piano, organ and violin; whilst it is not as well known, he also played the viola. He also dabbled with other keyboard instruments like harpsichord and clavier. Whether or not he was actually born on that day is unknown. Beethoven was baptised on 17 December 1770. I … t was the custom of the time to baptise children the day after they were born, and only his official baptism records exist. thus it is assumed he was born on 16