Lighter breeds can lay up to 100 eggs in a season and come into lay earlier, whereas the heavier types may lay as few as 50, with the laying season lasting from 16 to 20 weeks. Laying begins at around 28 weeks onwards, depending on the breed. Kelly Bronze Turkeys. 
average of 1 every other day, younger hens often will lay a spert of 1 a day for a few days in a row, at least mine do, after the first year, they all tend to be 1 every other day, except royal palms, those things are egg making machines. I sell or hatch all of mine and sell them as day old poults. $3-$4 an egg is average price on the rp eggs, and $8-$10 per day old poult, even at that I stay backed up on them, they are in big demand every year, they're just so pretty, I'd keep her laying if you have a market for them!! ~Aubrey & Aimee~.
Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. The average turkey will lay 110 to 115 eggs in a 28/30 week period. The gobbler's sperm is stored in the hen's oviduct, so that fertilized eggs may be laid up to four weeks after mating. One mating is usually sufficient to fertilize an entire clutch. Parakeets lay their eggs over a 9-16 day period depending how many eggs they produce as they can only lay one eggs every 2-3 days. It takes parakeets 18-21 days for the eggs t … o hatch. Answered. In Turtles and Tortoises.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Because they’re expensive. Chicken hens are egg-laying dynamos, dropping one almost every day, while a turkey produces only about two per week. Chickens begin laying eggs at about five months of age, but turkeys don’t have their first cycle until more than two months later. Commercial egg producers typically, although controversially, allocate less than 50 square inches of space to a hen.
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
Best Answer: Her eggs are ok. Leave her to lay a clutch of eggs and she will set when ready. They should hatch on day 28. I would put a dot on the eggs and stop dotting at 12. That way I can remove any older dotted eggs to leave her with 12 of the freshest eggs, a good number for her to cover well for a good hatch. 
A chicken may take from about 5 minutes to an hour to lay her egg.  She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes  about 20 hours for an egg to be made … inside her body. That's why  she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg. It takes 20 hours to make an egg and between 5 minutes and an hour  to lay it, depending on the hen.