Or it can be the officiant, the groom and the best man. Or it can be the officiant, groom, best man and groomsmen. It really does not matter and offers you flexibility if you have an odd number of male and female attendants. *It has become a tradition in the weddings I perform for me (the officiant) to enter first. Pretty simple steps actually. Yet the average wedding ceremony is only about 20 minutes long, therefore each thing that occurs during those 20 minutes tends to stand out in peoples memories. Your wedding is an important event in your life. It takes a lot of dreaming and planning.
Typically the dinner begins approximately 30 minutes to an hour after the rehearsal at the church has concluded and lasts for approximately 2.5 to 3 hours. It’s important that it concludes early enough for the bridal party and families to get a good night’s sleep since the next day is a busy one! 
When I do rehearsals, I run through the ceremony as well, that way a wedding planner (or even the bride) knows how long the ceremony is going to take and they can plan other things accordingly. I have seen wedding parties take as long as 1.5 hours to just get it right. Some people dont take direction very well. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: rehearsal depends on how long it takes to figure out whats going on during the wedding...the dinner depends on how fast you eat...as for alcohol just do a cash bar type mentality...you want it you buy it. Source(s): mender_bender2001 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
A wedding rehearsal usually means a rehearsal dinner and therefore an additional expense. There are a lot of reasons to skip the rehearsal. However my answer is, “If you have more than one attendant on each side, or you are having unity or cultural traditions, then yes”. Pretty simple steps actually. Yet the average wedding ceremony is only about 20 minutes long, therefore each thing that occurs during those 20 minutes tends to stand out in peoples memories. Your wedding is an important event in your life. It takes a lot of dreaming and planning.
Report Abuse. Well typically, the day before the wedding you have the rehearsal which lasts an hour. Immediately following you have the rehearsal dinner, which last anywhere from 2-4 hours. On the wedding day, the ceremony itself can last anywhere from 2o minutes to an hour and a half, depending on the religion. And then I would say a receptions is roughly 4-5 hours long. 
What It Is. The rehearsal dinner is traditionally held the night before the wedding, most often a Friday, and usually starts at about seven P.M. This leaves time for attendants who can't take the day off to get out of work to attend the rehearsal itself at around five thirty, and get to the dinner. 
By Dave Hallstrom. A question that we often receive is, “How long does a rehearsal take?” The short answer is an hour. An hour is what we schedule for the rehearsal, but in reality the actual rehearsal takes 20 to 30 minutes from start to finish at the most. 
It's not that hard. Except for the bride & groom, most wedding attendants have to know how to walk and stand. You can use this information to conduct a brief rehearsal with your wedding party, either at the site of the ceremony or at another location. None of this is what you have to do. You may want less formality.