Chickens never lay more than one egg per day. As a rule, chickens lay in the morning, but each day a little later. Sometimes the last egg of a series is produced in the early afternoon. When it gets too late, they take the next day off. My five commercial hybrids will sometimes lay for a series of 30 days or more. All chickens lay eggs in a series-never more than one per day. If the eggs are not collected, and a sufficient number of eggs are allowed to remain in the nest, the hen may stop laying eggs and start brooding.
A: That depends on three main factors: 1  The breed of chicken. 2  Some chickens are bred for meat production and lay few eggs; some are bred for egg production and can lay as often as once a day; some are bred as dual purpose andare good for both egg-laying and meat, although not optimal for either. 3  The hen's age. 1
Best Answer: Hens lay eggs every 25 hours. They lay by the day light, so because they dont lay an egg everyday at the same time when it comes to afternoon they will hold that egg off until the next morning. Yes you can have only hens and get edible eggs, the only thing a rooster is needed for is to make baby chickens. You only need a rooster if you want fertile eggs. Once the hens are about 6 months and up each should lay eggs at least once a day. They can lay 1 to 3 eggs per hen per day.All the best;~}.
Best Answer: It takes a chicken about 24-26 hours to form a complete egg. Some birds may take a bit longer. Layer-type chickens (leghorns) lay more eggs than brown-egg layers or other breeds because their clutch length is longer and/or their days between clutches is shorter. Chickens lay in clutches which means they lay around 5-12 eggs in a row (about every day) and then take a day or two off
For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age. And they lay eggs regularly. Even if you do not like eggs, friends, neighbors and people you haven't met yet do. If you are considering chicken keeping, here are a few of the basics related to egg-laying biology of chickens and geese. I have been asked many times if hens will lay eggs without a rooster around.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. And they lay eggs regularly. Even if you do not like eggs, friends, neighbors and people you haven't met yet do. If you are considering chicken keeping, here are a few of the basics related to egg-laying biology of chickens and geese. I have been asked many times if hens will lay eggs without a rooster around.
Chickens now lay eggs and have a 1 in 8 to spawn a chick and a 1 in 254 chance an egg will hatch 4 chickens. 0.8.0. Chickens follow the player if the player holds pumpkin seeds, melon seeds, beetroot seeds, or wheat seeds. Thrown eggs can now spawn baby chickens. 
Hens lay eggs on the same schedule as without a rooster present. If the rooster is allowed to mingle with the hens, there is a high likelihood that the eggs will be fertilized. This could result in chicks if the eggs are allowed to incubate (either in the nest under the hen or in an egg incubator). And they lay eggs regularly. Even if you do not like eggs, friends, neighbors and people you haven't met yet do. If you are considering chicken keeping, here are a few of the basics related to egg-laying biology of chickens and geese. I have been asked many times if hens will lay eggs without a rooster around.