An artifact or artefact (from Latin phrase arte factum ~ ars skill + facere to make) is something made or given shape by man, such as a tool or a work of art, esp an object of archaeological interest. In archaeology, however, the word has become a term of particular nuance and is defined as: an object recovered by archaeological endeavor, which may have a cultur
Cultural artifact or artefact is a term used in the social sciences, particularly anthropology, ethnology, and sociology for anything created by humans which gives information about the culture of its creator and users. Artifact is the spelling in American English; artefact is usually preferred elsewhere. Cultural artifact is a more generic term and should be considered with two words of similar, but narrower, nuance: social artifact and archaeological artifact. Social artifacts, unlike archeological artifacts, do not have to have a physical form (see for example virtual artifact), nor do they have to be of historical value (items created seconds ago can be classified as social artifacts).
Examples include stone tools, pottery vessels, metal objects such as weapons, and items of personal adornment such as buttons, jewelry and clothing. In archaeology, however, the word has become a term of particular nuance and is defined as: an object recovered by archaeological endeavor, which may have a cultural interest.
artefact. n. 1. something made or given shape by man, such as a tool or a work of art, esp an object of archaeological interest. 2. anything man-made, such as a spurious experimental result. or ar•te•fact. 1. any object made by human beings, esp. with a view to subsequent use. 2. a handmade object, as a tool, or the remains of one, as a shard of pottery, belonging to an earlier time or cultural stage, esp. such an object found at an archaeological excavation.
Artifacts and Art History. Artifacts are one of the primary studies of archaeological work, and something that many people find of interest. Archaeological investigations have recovered untold numbers of art objects and artifacts created by our ancestors
This topic discusses the various BizTalk Server artifacts. Artifacts include the assemblies, security certificates, business rules policies, BAM configuration files, bindings, and so forth that are necessary for a BizTalk application to function. 
Artifacts like the Aztec calendar are used to understand the Mesoamerican concept of time. The weapons and tools left behind by a Neanderthal are considered artifacts, while the same Neanderthals bones would be considered fossils. Statues and other items are considered artifacts. Finding the product of a society, like a weapon made of a mammoth tusk, would be an artifact. Artifacts that give clues as to how ancient people loved are often found at Greek archeaological sites.
CentriQS -15% OFF. Task Executing Software for multiple users. Free Trial. Project Artifacts are the lowest levels of project document-based objects (diagrams, design schemes, templates, agendas) that explore project work by phases and determine what results to produce upon completion of each phase. 
Examples of primary sources: Artifacts. Artifacts are human-made or human-designed objects that can be used to understand something about the people, institutions, or cultures of the past. For example, if you want to know about the cars of the 1950s, you may want to examine the cars themselves.