A one-minute examination of the placenta performed in the delivery room provides information that may be important to the care of both mother and infant. The findings of this assessment should be documented in the delivery records. Examination of the placenta can yield information that may be important in the immediate and later management of mother and infant. This information may also be essential for protecting the attending physician in the event of an adverse maternal or fetal outcome.
A succenturiate lobe (SL) is a variation in placental morphology and refers to a smaller accessory placental lobe that is separate to the main disc of the placenta. There can be more than one succenturiate lobe. Antenatal ultrasound. Seen as a smaller separate lobe of similar echotexture to the main placental disc. It is important to establish the location of any connecting vessels, and in particular to look for any vascular connection crossing the internal os (i.e. vasa previa).
The placenta provides oxygen and nutrients to growing babies and removes waste products from the baby's blood. The placenta attaches to the wall of the uterus, and the baby's umbilical cord develops from the placenta. The umbilical cord is what connects the mother and the baby. 
placenta fenestra´ta one that has spots where placental tissue is lacking. placenta incre´ta placenta accreta with penetration of the myometrium. placenta membrana´cea one that is abnormally thin and spread over an unusually large area of the myometrium. After birth of the infant the placenta is cast off from the uterus and expelled via the birth canal. placenta accre´ta one abnormally adherent to the myometrium, with partial or complete absence of the decidua basalis. battledore placenta one with the umbilical cord inserted at the edge
1 The fetal portions of this type of placenta are called cotyledons, the maternal contact sites (caruncles), and the cotyledon-caruncle complex a placentome. 2  This type of placentation is observed in ruminants. 3  Zonary: The placenta takes the form of a complete or incomplete band of tissue surrounding the fetus. There are also three layers on the maternal side, but the number of these layers which are retained-that is, not destroyed in the process of placentation-varies greatly among species. The three potential maternal layers in a placenta are: 1  Endothelium lining endometrial blood vessels.
placenta spu´ria an accessory portion without blood vessels connecting it with the main placenta. placenta succenturia´ta an accessory portion with an artery and a vein connecting it with the main placenta. (1) Accessory lobe (of placenta). After birth of the infant the placenta is cast off from the uterus and expelled via the birth canal. placenta accre´ta one abnormally adherent to the myometrium, with partial or complete absence of the decidua basalis. battledore placenta one with the umbilical cord inserted at the edge
1 Succenturiate where an accessory cotyledon forms separately and is attached to the main placenta. 2  The placenta may be Bipartite or divided into two lobes but connected with blood vessels. 3  The placenta may be Annular or ring shaped. Accessory types and abnormal placenta. 1  Succenturiate where an accessory cotyledon forms separately and is attached to the main placenta. 2  The placenta may be Bipartite or divided into two lobes but connected with blood vessels.