Potato Starch can be used to replace cornstarch in most baking recipes. Potato starch tolerates higher temperatures than cornstarch, making it an excellent thickener for sauces, soups and stews. Adds moistness to any baked goods and is an essential ingredient in gluten free baking. Potato Starch is used as a thickener for sauces, soups, and stews. Potato starch tolerates higher temperatures than cornstarch when used as a thickener.
Potato starch is the starch the comes from potatoes that has been dried. It can be used as a thickener and also in gluten free baked goods. Potato starch can be used in gravy, sauces, and soup as a thickener. In some things it does change the texture, so I am carefully what I use it in. I do love it for gluten free sausage gravy though. Potato starch is also used in gluten free baking
It is occasionally sold as starch flour or potato flour instead, but usually all names refer to the same starch. Again, with the lack of gluten, such flour could be used as a substitute for wheat flour in a variety of recipes, greatly enhancing the number of gluten free products that a cook can make. Potato starch can serve as a gluten-free thickener in foods such as gravy. Potatoes. A person with a gluten intolerance may experience abdominal cramping, gas and diarrhea as a result of consuming products containing gluten. Potato starch.
Potato starch is made through an extensive process of washing, sometimes cooking, and then separating the starch present in potato cell walls so that it can be made into powdered or liquid form. In cooking, this starch is often considered a substitute thickener for cornstarch or white flour. Potato starch can serve as a gluten-free thickener in foods such as gravy. Potatoes. A person with a gluten intolerance may experience abdominal cramping, gas and diarrhea as a result of consuming products containing gluten. Potato starch.
Starches & Applications. Potato starch. Potato starch – also known as potato flour – is extracted from potatoes. The cells of the root tubers of the potato plant contain starch granules (leucoplasts). To extract the starch, the potatoes are crushed and the starch grains are released from the cells. The starch is then washed out and dried to powder. 
Potato starch is a very fine white powder starch, similar in texture to cornstarch. If you’re not very careful when working with and measuring potato starch, you can create quite a cloud in the kitchen! It is made from the dried starch component of peeled potatoes. It has no potato flavor so works well in most recipes, sweet or savory. As part of the starch component of a gluten free flour blend, potato starch lends a light, fluffy texture to baked goods. It is also a great thickener in gravies, sauces, and even in custards and puddings, which typically use cornstarch. Knowing the difference between potato STARCH and potato FLOUR is essential when baking gluten-free. For example, substituting potato flour for potato starch in a recipe will take you from light fluffy homemade treats to sad little gluten-free hockey pucks. Nobody wants to eat a hockey puck! Of course, with all the alternative flours we use in our gluten-free baking, it can get confusing
A gluten-free flour made from cooked, dried and ground potatoes. Potato starch is used as a thickener. Potato starch flour is not quite the same as potato flour. Potato flour is ground from the entire dried potato and is heavier and denser than potato starch flour.
Potato starch is starch extracted from potatoes. The cells of the root tubers of the potato plant contain starch grains (leucoplasts). To extract the starch, the potatoes are crushed; the starch grains are released from the destroyed cells. The starch is then washed out and dried to powder. Potato starch is a very refined starch, containing minimal protein or fat. This gives the powder a clear white colour, and the cooked starch typical characteristics of neutral taste, good clarity, high binding strength, long texture and a minimal tendency to foaming or yellowing of the solution.