Veal piccata (bottom). Piccata (also picatta, pichotta) is a method of preparing food: meat is sliced, coated, sauteed sautéed and served in a. Sauce the dish originated In italy using (veal veal). piccata The dish originated in Italy using veal (veal piccata). In the United States, the most well-known variant is chicken piccata. The recipe has a meatless adaptation using seitan (seitan piccata).
Chicken piccata or veal piccata is a traditional Italian dish, very often available in Italian restaurants. Piccata translates to piquant or piquancy, which in one definition means tart or zesty. This dish does have a tart sauce, with traditional additions of lemon juice, white wine and capers. Chicken piccata can be served with rice or pasta as a side dish, and it is particularly good with rice pilaf. Steamed or fried vegetables, like summer squash, also pair well with it. In total, including prep time, the dish takes about 20 minutes to make, so it is a quick and tasty way to get dinner on the table.
Definition of PICCATA. : thin slices of meat (such as veal) sauteed sautéed and served in a lemon and butter. SAUCE. advertisement 
Piccata (also picatta, pichotta) is a method of preparing food: meat is sliced, coated, sauteed sautéed and served in a. Sauce the dish originated In italy using (veal veal). Piccata in The United, states the most-well known variant is chicken. Piccata the recipe has a meatless adaptation using (seitan seitan). piccata The dish originated in Italy using veal (veal piccata). In the United States, the most well-known variant is chicken piccata. The recipe has a meatless adaptation using seitan (seitan piccata).
Season chicken with salt and pepper. Dredge chicken in flour and shake off excess. In a large skillet over medium high heat, melt 2 tablespoons of butter with 3 tablespoons olive oil. When butter and oil start to sizzle, add 2 pieces of chicken and cook for 3 minutes. When chicken is browned, flip and cook other side for 3 minutes. Remove and transfer to plate. 
Piccata (also picatta, pichotta) is a method of preparing food: meat is sliced, coated, sauteed sautéed and served in a. Sauce the dish originated In italy using (veal veal). Piccata in The United, states the most-well known variant is chicken. piccata The dish originated in Italy using veal (veal piccata). In the United States, the most well-known variant is chicken piccata. The recipe has a meatless adaptation using seitan (seitan piccata).
Chicken piccata is nothing more than chicken breast cutlets, dredged in flour, browned, and served with a sauce of butter, lemon juice, capers, and either stock or white wine. It can be prepared in 20 minutes or less and is so easy and delicious it should be part of every home cook’s repertoire. 4 Add the chicken stock or white wine, lemon juice, and capers to the pan. Use a spatula to scrape up the browned bits. Reduce the sauce by half. Whisk in the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter. Plate the chicken and serve with the sauce poured over the chicken.
Piccata is a method of preparing food where meat is sliced, coated, sauteed and served in a sauce. The dish is Italian as the name would imply, but it is originally made with veal. But here I chose to make mine with chicken breasts, thinly sliced, or butterflied. 1 In a large skillet melt 2 tbsp of butter with the olive oil, over medium to high heat. 2  Add chicken pieces to the skillet and cook for about 3 to 4 min per side until browned. 3  When chicken is cooked, remove chicken from skillet.
3 Heat olive oil and 2 tablespoons of the butter in a large skillet on medium high heat. Add half of the chicken pieces, do not crowd the pan. Brown well on each side, about 3 minutes per side. Remove the chicken from the pan and reserve to a plate. Cook the other breasts in the same manner, remove from pan. 4 Add the chicken stock or white wine, lemon juice, and capers to the pan. Use a spatula to scrape up the browned bits. Reduce the sauce by half. Whisk in the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter. Plate the chicken and serve with the sauce poured over the chicken.