General Discussion. Autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), also known as Hashimoto's disease, is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the thyroid gland that is caused by abnormal blood antibodies and white blood cells that mistakenly attack and damage healthy thyroid cells. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Autoimmune Thyroiditis is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hashimoto's thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease in which the thyroid gland is attacked by a variety of cell-and antibody-mediated immune processes, causing primary hypothyroidism. 
Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities. Hashimoto's disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It primarily affects middle-aged women but also can occur in men and women of any age and in children. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease.
In this article. Also called Hashimoto's disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease, a disorder in which the immune system turns against the body's own tissues. In people with Hashimoto's, the immune system attacks the thyroid. People who get Hashimoto's often have family members who have thyroid disease or other autoimmune diseases. This suggests a genetic component to the disease. Hormones. Hashimoto's affects about seven times as many women as men, suggesting that sex hormones may play a role.
With Hashimoto’s disease, the immune system makes antibodies that damage thyroid cells and interfere with their ability to make thyroid hormone. Over time, thyroid damage can cause thyroid hormone levels to be too low. This is called an underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism (heye-poh-THEYE-royd-ism). An underactive thyroid causes every function of the body to slow down, such as heart rate, brain function, and the rate your body turns food into energy. Hashimoto’s disease is the most common cause of an underactive thyroid. It is closely related to Graves’ disease, another autoimmune disease affecting the thyroid.
Autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally hereditary in origin, although environmental factors, such as infection, certain drugs, and iodine consumption, can play a role in their progression. Autoimmune thyroiditis is more common in women than in men, and it primarily affects people between 40 and 60 years of age. While chronic autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally mild or even symptomless, they can progress to significant hypothyroidism. Seek prompt medical care for worrisome symptoms of hypothyroidism, such as depression or unexplained weight gain. 1  Previous. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3.
Autoimmune thyroid disease: Disease of the thyroid gland due to autoimmunity in which the patient's immune system attacks and damages their thyroid. Graves disease and Hashimoto thyroiditis are forms of autoimmune thyroid disease. In these diseases, thyroid-reactive T cells are formed that infiltrate the thyroid gland. Both disorders are common with a prevalence of about 1% in the US.
Hashimoto’s disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It also is called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (theye-royd-EYET-uhss). The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. The thyroid makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. An underactive thyroid causes every function of the body to slow down, such as heart rate, brain function, and the rate your body turns food into energy. Hashimoto’s disease is the most common cause of an underactive thyroid. It is closely related to Graves’ disease, another autoimmune disease affecting
Autoimmune thyroiditis tends to be an innocent bystander with other autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, etc. Most doctors chase these other autoimmune diseases ignoring the possibility that the thyroid is also being attacked. 
Autoimmune thyroid diseases, such as autoimmune thyroiditis, which is also known as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis, are conditions in which the immune system attacks the body’s own thyroid gland. While chronic autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally mild or even symptomless, they can progress to significant hypothyroidism. Seek prompt medical care for worrisome symptoms of hypothyroidism, such as depression or unexplained weight gain. 1  Previous. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3.