difference between magnetite and hematite iron ore. This page is provide professional difference between magnetite and hematite iron ore information for you, we have livechat to answer you difference between magnetite …. What is the difference between Iron composition in Hematite and …. Oct 02, 2010 · magnetite is a spinel (a reverse spinel, actually) and possesses iron in both the +2 and +3 oxidation state.
Tell you the difference between Magnetite and hematite iron. The difference between the iron in magnetite and hematite is the charge. Hematite has all 3+ iron (the iron when make the mineral loses 3 electrons) and magnetite …. » More detailed! What is the difference between Iron composition in Hematite and …. Oct 02, 2010 · magnetite is a spinel (a reverse spinel, actually) and possesses iron in both the +2 and +3 oxidation state.
Answer by Jlsthegeologist. Confidence votes 668. The difference between the iron in magnetite and hematite is the charge. Hematite has all 3+ iron (the iron when make the mineral loses 3 electrons) and magnetite has some 2+ iron (it only loses 2 electrons). 
is that hematite is an iron ore, mainly peroxide of iron, fe. o. while magnetite is (mineralogy) a magnetic mineral, fe]] 3 [[oxygen|o 4, one of the primary ores of iron it has also been called lodestone. As nouns the difference between hematite and magnetite.
Magnetite and hematite are minerals of iron. Both have iron in different oxidation states, and they are in the forms of iron oxides. However, all these types of hematite minerals have the same reddish brown streak. In fact, hematite got its name because of the blood red color it has when it is in the powder form. On the Mohs scale, its hardness is given as 5-6. Hematite is brittle, but it is harder than pure iron.
Hematite is a mineral, colored black to steel or silver-gray, brown to reddish brown, or red. It is mined as the main ore of iron. Varieties include kidney ore, martite (pseudomorphs after magnetite), iron rose and specularite (specular hematite). While the forms of hematite vary, they all have a rust-red streak. Hematite, also spelled as haematite, is the mineral form of iron(III) oxide (Fe 2 O 3), one of several iron oxides. Hematite crystallizes in the rhombohedral lattice system, and it has the same crystal structure as ilmenite and corundum
Hematite, also spelled haematite, hæmatite is the mineral form of (Fe2O3), fe2o3 one of several iron. Oxides hematite crystallizes in the rhombohedral, system and it has the same crystal structure as ilmetinite and. Corundum hematite is a, mineral colored black to steel or-silver, gray brown to reddish, brown or. red . Hematite, also spelled haematite, hæmatite is the mineral form of (Fe2O3), fe2o3 one of several iron. Oxides hematite crystallizes in the rhombohedral, system and it has the same crystal structure as ilmetinite and. corundum
• Magnetite has the chemical formula of FeO·Fe 2 O 3 or Fe 3 O 4. Chemical formula of hematite is Fe 2 O 3. • Magnetite iron is in +2 and +3 oxidation states whereas, in hematite, it is only in +3 oxidation state. • Magnetite has higher iron content than hematite; therefore, its quality is higher. • Magnetite is black in color, but hematite has a variety of colors. However, all these types of hematite minerals have the same reddish brown streak. In fact, hematite got its name because of the blood red color it has when it is in the powder form. On the Mohs scale, its hardness is given as 5-6. Hematite is brittle, but it is harder than pure iron.
In other words, hematine is not a natural stone. You will not find it at earthegy. Magnetite, (Fe3O4) also known as lodestone, is a mineral form of iron oxide, similar to hematite, that is naturally magnetic and slightly lower on the hardness scale. Magnetic iron oxides are often used in magnetic storage, for example hard disks, floppy disks and cassette tapes. 