1 A male horse is called a stallion and a female horse is called a mare. 2  A young female horse is called a filly, and a young male horse is called a colt. 3  When the baby is first born it is called a foal. 4  A horse’s father is called a sire and the mother of a horse is called a dam. 1 A young female horse is called a filly, and a young male horse is called a colt. 2  When the baby is first born it is called a foal. 3  A horse’s father is called a sire and the mother of a horse is called a dam. 4  A pony is not a baby horse.
The Arabian or Arab horse (Arabic: الحصان العربي ‎ [ ħisˤaːn ʕarabiː] , DMG ḥiṣān ʿarabī) is a breed of horse that originated on the Arabian Peninsula. With a distinctive head shape and high tail carriage, the Arabian is one of the most easily recognizable horse breeds in the world. It is also one of the oldest breeds, with archaeological evidence of horses in the Middle East that resemble modern Arabians dating back 4,500 years. The proto-Arabian horse may have been domesticated by the people of the Arabian peninsula known today as the Bedouin, some time after they learned to use the camel, approximately 4,000–5,000 years ago. One theory is that this development occurred in the Nejd plateau in central Arabia.
1 When the baby is first born it is called a foal. 2  A horse’s father is called a sire and the mother of a horse is called a dam. 3  A pony is not a baby horse. 4  It is a fully grown horse that is small. 5  Most foals are born at night under the cover of darkness and away from possible danger. 1 A young female horse is called a filly, and a young male horse is called a colt. 2  When the baby is first born it is called a foal. 3  A horse’s father is called a sire and the mother of a horse is called a dam. 4  A pony is not a baby horse.
Some people think a baby horse is called a pony. In fact, a baby horse is called a foal. A foal is a horse that is younger than one year old. A pony can be any age! Ponies have short legs and wider bodies than full-sized horses. Ponies often have thicker manes too! People can ride ponies, just like they can ride full-sized horses.
A newly born baby horse is called a foal, when the horse gives birth it's often called foaling and as it gets a little bigger the baby grows into a colt. Kind of like a baby growing into a toddler. the_mystical_runt · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 3. Comment. Add a comment. Submit. well a baby horse is called a foal and a baby femae hrse is a filly and a baby male hrse is a colt.The male is called a colt until it is turned 4 years.Sam wth the filly. Source(s): My brain.
1 A horse’s father is called a sire and the mother of a horse is called a dam. 2  A pony is not a baby horse. 3  It is a fully grown horse that is small. 4  Most foals are born at night under the cover of darkness and away from possible danger. 1 A young female horse is called a filly, and a young male horse is called a colt. 2  When the baby is first born it is called a foal. 3  A horse’s father is called a sire and the mother of a horse is called a dam. 4  A pony is not a baby horse.
A foal is an equine, particularly a horse, that is one year old or younger. More specific terms are colt for a male foal and filly for a female foal, but these terms are used until the horse is age three or four. When the foal is nursing from its dam (mother), it may also be called a suckling. A castrated male horse is called a gelding, regardless of age, though colloquially the term gelding colt is sometimes used until a young gelding is three or four years old. (There is no specific term for a spayed female horse, they are simply spayed mares.).