Protein is a source of energy but its main role in the body is growth and repair. It helps in the formation of muscles, hair, nails, skin and organs, such as the heart, kidneys and liver. We all contain a significant amount of protein. For example, a 76kg man is made up of 12kg of protein (16%). Animal sources: meat, fish, chicken, eggs, milk, cheese and yoghurt. Plant sources: soy protein (such as soy beans, tofu and soy milk), grains (quinoa, oats, barley, etc), nuts and pulses (dried beans, peas and lentils).
Meat and Fish. Most forms of animal flesh have significant amounts of protein. Chicken and beef may contain 18 to 35 grams of protein per 100 grams. Fish have approximately 15 to 20 grams of protein per 100 grams, and many fish also contain heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids. Photo Credit Skarie20/iStock/Getty Images. Many different foods contain protein. Meat, fish, eggs and dairy are animal-based protein sources. Plant-derived proteins include soy products, beans, grains, nuts, seeds and some vegetables.
Red meat is one of the foods highest in protein, with lean cuts of beef providing about 31 grams in each 3-ounce serving. Ham and pork sirloin roast each provide about 28 grams of protein per 3-ounce serving, and pork chops contain about 21 grams per 3-ounce serving. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins, so the foods with the highest amount of amino acids are those that are highest in protein.
Fruits can contain between 1/2 gram and 4 grams of protein per cup. One cup of avocado, for example, has 3 grams of protein; one medium tomato has 1 gram of protein, and half of a grapefruit has about 1 gram. Photo Credit Skarie20/iStock/Getty Images. Many different foods contain protein. Meat, fish, eggs and dairy are animal-based protein sources. Plant-derived proteins include soy products, beans, grains, nuts, seeds and some vegetables.
1 Animal sources and dairy products have the highest amount of proteins. 2  They contain all the essential amino acids required to make new proteins in the body. 3  Animal proteins include meat, eggs, poultry, sea food and dairy products. 4  Dairy products that contain proteins include milk, cheese, paneer and yoghurt. Our body gets proteins from the food we eat. There are a number of food sources that provide proteins in ample amounts. These choices include meats, dairy products, fruits, vegetables and nuts. 1  Animal sources and dairy products have the highest amount of proteins. 2  They contain all the essential amino acids required to make new proteins in the body. 3  Animal proteins include meat, eggs, poultry, sea food and dairy products
Fat-free (defatted) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds and many packaged meals; soy vegetable oil is another product of processing the soybean crop. For example, soybean products such as textured vegetable protein (TVP) are ingredients in many meat and dairy analogues. Soybean oil is one of the vegetable oils that contain a significant amount of the omega-3 fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n−3, aLNA). Other plant oils containing aLNA (or ALA) include canola, walnut, hemp, and flax. Soybean oil has an omega-3:omega-6 ratio of 1:7.
Eggs and Dairy. You can get a significant amount of the necessary amino acids from eggs and dairy foods. When it comes to dairy products, low-fat and non-fat sources provide the most protein per gram and per calorie. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins, so the foods with the highest amount of amino acids are those that are highest in protein.