Mucosa: The mucosa of the small intestine is highly modified. The luminal surface is completely covered by a number of finger-or leaf-like projections called villi, 0.5-1.5 mm in length. The core of a villus is an extension of the lamina propria, and its surface is covered by a simple columnar epithelium. Although they may be present in the duodenum and ileum, they are not as large and are not a significant feature in those regions. The small intestine is divided into three parts, the duodenum (25 cm), the jejunum (2.5 m) and the ileum (3.5 m).
Goblet cells are scattered among the absorptive cells in the epithelium of the small intestine and colon. These epithelial cells are specialized for secretion of mucus, which facilitates passage of material through the bowel. The name goblet refers to the cell's shape, narrow at the base and bulging apically. Intestinal Absorptive Cells. Absorptive cells, or enterocytes, are the predominant epithelial cell type lining the lumen of the small intestine and colon. These cells are specialized for absorption of nutrients across the apical plasma membrane and export of these same nutrients across the basal plasma membrane.
The mucosa of the small intestine is lined by a simple columnar epithelium which consists primarily of absorptive cells (enterocytes), with scattered goblet cells and occasional enteroendocrine cells. In crypts, the epithelium also includes Paneth cells and stem cells. The mucosa of the small intestine is characterized by evagination into plicae and villi, which increase the surface area for nutrient absorption, and by short tubular invaginations, the crypts, which provide a protected site for
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The intestinal epithelium is the cell tissue that lines the large and small intestine. It serves primarily to take part in the digestive process, but it also takes part in the function of the immune system. The epithelium of the intestine is simple columnar, and is nonciliated. Epithelium is a tissue that is made up of a variety of types of cells. It covers the surface of the body and organs, as well as forming the inner lining of body cavities and hollow organs. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The type of epithelial cells lining the small and large intestines are simple columnar. However, at the inferior part of the rectum, it changes to stratified squamous epithelium. The intestinal epithelium, which covers the small and large  intestine, is simple columnar and nonciliated. It lines most of the  organs of the digestive tract.
Structure [edit]. The epithelium is part of the intestinal mucosa layer. In the small intestine this takes the form of villi but these are not present in the colon. In both parts of the mammalian intestine, the mucosa is covered by a single layer of epithelial cells that is renewed every 4–5 days.
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal.
The inner wall, or mucosa, of the small intestine is lined with simple columnar epithelial tissue. Structurally, the mucosa is covered in wrinkles or folds called plicae circulares, which are considered permanent features in the wall of the organ. The jejunum is the midsection of the small intestine, connecting the duodenum to the ileum. It is about 2.5 m long, and contains the plicae circulares, and villi that increase its surface area. Products of digestion (sugars, amino acids, and fatty acids) are absorbed into the bloodstream here.