The pancreas is a gland organ that is located in the abdomen. It is part of the digestive system and produces important enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level
By Susan Chow, PhD, ELS. The pancreas is an organ that sits in the abdominal cavity behind the stomach and plays a role in both the digestive and endocrine system. In the endocrine system, it is responsible for producing several hormones, such as insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide. Additionally, its exocrine function involves the secretion of digestive enzymes that aid the digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. Head of pancreas.
1 The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. The pancreas produces chemicals that are crucial for blood sugar regulation and proper digestion. It is an abdominal gland, and is situated in the abdominal cavity, behind the stomach, close to the duodenum with its head pointed toward the small intestine. Both the exocrine and endocrine systems utilize this organ. 
More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. 3  The pancreas is a 6 to 10 inch organ and is located behind the stomach. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level
The pancreas stretches across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach and produces the body's supply of insulin and digestive enzymes. The insulin is essential for controlling blood sugar level. If the pancreas fails the person will have diabetes and have to rely on injected insulin. The pancreas delivers important hormones like insulin, glucagon,  and somatostatin through the body so the digestive system is able  to properly digest nutrients.
The pancreas is a small (5 to 6 inches) gland that produces insulin and enzymes used for digestion. Insulin regulates the use of blood sugar throughout the body and is therefo … re necessary for life. The pancreas also produces a fluid that neutralizes stomach acid. The pancreas delivers important hormones like insulin, glucagon,  and somatostatin through the body so the digestive system is able  to properly digest nutrients.
The pancreas is part of the digestive system. The pancreas is quite high up in your abdomen. It lies across your body where your ribs meet at the bottom of your breastbone, just behind your stomach. It is about 6 inches (15 centimetres) long and shaped like a leaf. What the pancreas does. The pancreas has 2 important jobs in the body. The first is to produce the pancreatic digestive juices. The second is to produce insulin and other hormones to do with digestion. The part of the pancreas which produces the digestive juices is called the exocrine pancreas.
A. The pancreas has two main functions. It produces substances called enzymes that aid in the digestion of fats, carbohydrates and proteins. It also produces hormones that regulate different functions of the body. The two main hormones produced by the pancreas are insulin and glucagon. 