Noun Phrases. Often a noun phrase is just a noun or a pronoun : People like to have money. I am tired. It is getting late. or a determiner and a noun …: Our frie nds have bought a house in the village. Those houses are very expensive. … perhaps with an adjective: Our closest friends have just bought a new house in the village
Nouns and noun phrases function as prepositional complements. A prepositional complement is a word, phrase, or clause that directly follows the preposition in a prepositional phrase. Prepositional complements are also called complements of prepositions and objects of prepositions. Noun phrases are formed by a noun or pronoun and any modifiers, complements, or determiners including adjectives, determiners, prepositional phrases, noun clauses, and verb phrases. Nouns and noun phrases perform ten grammatical functions in the English language.
Pronouns are a subcategory of nouns. Noun phrases are formed by a noun or pronoun and any modifiers, complements, or determiners including adjectives, determiners, prepositional phrases, noun clauses, and verb phrases. Nouns and noun phrases perform ten grammatical functions in the English language.
A noun phrase is a phrase that plays the role of a noun. The head word in a noun phrase will be a noun or a pronoun. In the examples below, the whole noun phrase is shaded and the head word is in bold. Compare the three examples above to these: In these three examples, the words in bold are all pronouns.
Noun phrases often function as verb subjects and objects, as predicative expressions, and as the complements of prepositions. Noun phrases can be embedded inside each other; for instance, the noun phrase some of his constituents contains the shorter noun phrase his constituents.
Main article: Noun phrase. A noun phrase is a phrase based on a noun, pronoun, or other noun-like word (nominal) optionally accompanied by modifiers such as determiners and adjectives. A noun phrase functions within a clause or sentence in a role such as that of subject, object, or complement of a verb or preposition. 
Full Definition of NOUN PHRASE. : a phrase formed by a noun and all its modifiers and determiners; broadly: any syntactic element (as a clause, clitic, pronoun, or zero element) with a noun's function (as the subject of a verb or the object of a verb or preposition) —abbreviation NP. See noun phrase defined for English-language learners.
Definition. A noun phrase is word group with a noun or pronoun as its head. The simplest noun phrase consists of a single noun, as in the sentence  Bells were ringing.. The head of a noun phrase can be accompanied by modifiers, determiners (such as the, a, her), and/or complements, as in . 1 Identifying Noun Phrases.  2  Noun phrases. . . can be replaced by pronouns. ( 3 The noun phrases in the following example are in [italics].) E.g. 4  My father gave this book to my mother.(He gave it to her.) (Geoffrey Leech, Benita Cruickshank, and Roz Ivanic, An A-Z of English Grammar & Usage, 2nd ed.
A noun phrase or nominal phrase (abbreviated NP) is a phrase which has a noun (or indefinite pronoun) as its head word, or which performs the same grammatical function as such a phrase. Noun phrases can be embedded inside each other; for instance, the noun phrase some of his constituents contains the shorter noun phrase his constituents.