This video shows how to install a Front License Plate without drilling holes on the bumper of the 2013 Passat. All you need are 4 zip ties and 4 small screws. Usually it takes less than 10 minutes. Hope this helps you. 1  Autos & Vehicles. 
License Plate Bracket Front: New No Drill Options. License plate bracket Front: License plate brackets for the front of your car have been needed for many years due to the requirements of some states for you to have a second tag on the front of your car. We have come up with this custom Camaro No Drill, No Adhesive license plate bracket front mount that utilizes the two bolts that attach the bumper to the bottom of the front end. All you see is the license plate, the bracket stays hidden from sight.
Where the indent is for your plate there will be two very small round indents where the license plate screw holes should be. You can either drill holes in those indents or just use an awl and push it through the plastic to make holes. Then just attach your plate using license plate screws. Most newer cars with plastic bumper covers do not use any license plate bracket, they just screw directly to the bumper. Report Abuse. since some states dont require a front license plate cars sold in those states dont come with a front license plate holder/ bracket. Go to ebay or the dealer and looking for one. It will mount to your bumber and then when your plate is on it will looking like its supposed to.
This doesn't necessitate drilling holes to attach a license plate; actually, it is relatively simple to attach a license plate to the front bumper--all you need is a no-holes license plate bracket kit, available from your car manufacturer. 
Continue this process for the other three holes. Place your license plate against the license plate area on your front bumper. Move the license plate until the holes in the license plate match up with the holes in your bumper. Place a screw or bolt through one of the holes and screw into place with your drill. Repeat for the other three holes. 
The ORIGINAL ‘NO HOLES’ License Plate Bracket (NHLPB) does not require you to drill into your front bumper. Instead, it utilizes a custom machined stud that screws into the towhook receptacle. All parts are made from Stainless Steel to ensure no rust. We have come up with this custom Camaro No Drill, No Adhesive license plate bracket front mount that utilizes the two bolts that attach the bumper to the bottom of the front end. All you see is the license plate, the bracket stays hidden from sight.
Preparation. You will need the following tools and supplies to successfully install your front license plate bracket. 1  Measuring tape. 2  Phillips screwdriver. 3  Hex key (included with original kit). 4  Cleaning supplies (alcohol or soap and water). 5  7/64 inch drill bit (included with original kit). 6  Pen marker.
For $16.07 you can have a front license plate installed without having to drill holes on your bumper. First off you need to go to any car store like Advance Auto Parts, Murray's, Pep-boys, etc. and get a license plate mount like the one shown below. It's fairly cheap like 5 bucks. Below is the total cost for all the items you need to install the front license plate mount. Next you will see the outline of the area you will be installing the new license plate mount. And here are the tools you need to install it with. Make 4-6 sets of tie straps that look like below, interlinked in pairs.
How to Install a Front License Plate without drilling the Bumper. Well here it is folks, a boltless way of installing a front license plate without having to drill through your bumper. What I have done is pretty much relocated the Japanese style front license plate position to the center of the nose. Below is the total cost for all the items you need to install the front license plate mount. Next you will see the outline of the area you will be installing the new license plate mount. And here are the tools you need to install it with. Make 4-6 sets of tie straps that look like below, interlinked in pairs.