Technically speaking, an intrusion is any formation of intrusive igneous rock; rock formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of the planet. In contrast, an extrusion consists of extrusive rock; rock formed above the surface of the crust. Many mountain ranges, such as the Sierra Nevada in California, are formed mostly by intrusive rock, large granite (or related rock) formations. Intrusions are one of the two ways igneous rock can form; the other is extrusive, that is, a volcanic eruption or similar event.
Intrusive Rocks. Igneous rocks which form by the crystallization of magma at a depth within the Earth are called intrusive rocks. Intrusive rocks are characterized by large crystal sizes, i.e., their visual appearance shows individual crystals interlocked together to form the rock mass. Igneous rocks which form by the crystallization of magma at the surface of the Earth are called ex
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. Extrusive igneous rocks, also known as volcanic rocks, are formed at the crust's surface as a result of the partial melting of rocks within the mantle and crust. Extrusive igneous rocks cool and solidify quicker than intrusive igneous rocks. They are formed by the cooling of molten magma on the earth's surface.
An intrusion is an igneous rock body that forms from crystallized magma under Earth's surface. Many mountain ranges, such as the Sierra Nevada in California, are formed mostly by intrusive rock, large granite (or related rock) formations. Intrusions are one of the two ways igneous rock can form; the other is extrusive, that is, a volcanic eruption or similar event.
The solidification of such injected magma leads to the formation of intrusive rock. (2) An intrusion is a geological body composed of igneous rock and formed in the process of injection and solidification of mag-matic melt in the earth’s crust (intrusion, intrusive body, plutonic intrusion). In relation to the structure of the country rock, intrusions are classified as concordant and discordant. 
Magma can cool to form an igneous rock either on the surface of the Earth-in which case it produces a volcanic or extrusive igneous rock, or beneath the surface of the Earth, - in which case it produces a plutonic or intrusive igneous rock. 
Igneous Intrusions. Igneous intrusions form when magma cools and solidifies before it reaches the surface. Three common types of intrusion are sills, dykes, and batholiths (see image below). form when magma intrudes between the rock layers, forming a horizontal or gently-dipping sheet of igneous rock. The Whin Sill (top left image) in N. England provided a defensive cliff-line on which the Romans built Hadrian’s Wall. form as magma pushes up towards the surface through cracks in the rock.
Igneous intrusions are any igneous rock which hardens underground. There are 6 types of igneous intrusions: 1. A sill is an igneous intrusion that cuts between rock layers. An easy way to remember is that it is horizontal, like a window sill. 2. A dike is an igneous intrusion that cuts across rock layers. 
Gabbro is a coarse-grained, dark colored, intrusive igneous rock that contains feldspar, pyroxene and sometimes olivine. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Obsidian is a dark-colored volcanic glass that forms from the very rapid cooling of molten rock material. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite. Extrusive igneous rocks erupt onto the surface where they cool quickly to form small crystals. Some cool so quickly that they form an amorphous glass.
Igneous rocks are formed from the solidification of molten rock material. There are two basic types. Intrusive igneous rocks crystallize below Earth's surface and the slow cooling that occurs there allows large crystals to form. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite. Extrusive igneous rocks erupt onto the surface where they cool quickly to form small crystals. Some cool so quickly that they form an amorphous glass.