Animal-Based versus Plant-Based Vitamin D. Aside from taking an oral vitamin D supplement, you can also obtain small amounts of vitamin D from your diet. Here too, it's important to realize that not all food sources provide the same kind of vitamin D. Plant sources provide you with D2. Today, we know a lot more about vitamin D, and the featured study offers compelling support for the recommendation to take vitamin D3 if you need to take an oral supplement—which is the same type of D vitamin created in your body when you expose your skin to sunlight.
J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Oct;96(10):3170-4. The fact is that the studies are so conflicting, and the 25(OH)D measurement techniques are so variable, that it simply does not matter if you take vitamin D in oil or as a powder, it does not matter if you take food with your vitamin D, or on an empty stomach. The answer to these questions is generally that it does not matter. Vitamin D is passively absorbed in the lower part of the small intestine (the jejunum and ileum), at least in rats. Surprisingly, one study found that absorption with a very high fat diet decreased vitamin D absorption in rats by 30%.
Fat-Soluble Vitamins. The vitamins that are most important to take with food are the fat-soluble vitamins -- A, D, E and K. These vitamins can only be absorbed in the presence of fat and are then stored in your fat cells until they are needed. It doesn't need to be much fat, as long as a small amount is present in the meal. Learning which vitamins you should take with food and which you can take apart from meals can help you get the most benefits from your vitamin supplements. Check with your doctor before taking vitamin supplements to make sure they are safe for you, as they can interact with certain medications.
The two main ways to get vitamin D are by exposing your bare skin to sunlight and by taking vitamin D supplements. You can’t get the right amount of vitamin D your body needs from food. The most natural way to get vitamin D is by exposing your bare skin to sunlight (ultraviolet B rays). In fact, that is the Vitamin D Council’s recommendation. On days that you do not get enough full body sun exposure, it is important to take a supplement. For most people on the Monday-Friday indoor work schedule, that means taking a supplement 5-6 days a week and getting sun exposure on a day or two during the weekend.
You can also get vitamin D by taking supplements. This is a good way to get vitamin D if you can’t get enough sunlight, or if you’re worried about exposing your skin. Vitamin D3 is the best kind of supplement to take. In fact, that is the Vitamin D Council’s recommendation. On days that you do not get enough full body sun exposure, it is important to take a supplement. For most people on the Monday-Friday indoor work schedule, that means taking a supplement 5-6 days a week and getting sun exposure on a day or two during the weekend.
Vitamin D in these foods is primarily in the form of vitamin D 3 and its metabolite 25(OH)D 3 [ 12 ]. Some mushrooms provide vitamin D 2 in variable amounts [ 13, 14 ]. Mushrooms with enhanced levels of vitamin D 2 from being exposed to ultraviolet light under controlled conditions are also available. Food. Very few foods in nature contain vitamin D. The flesh of fatty fish (such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel) and fish liver oils are among the best sources [ 1, 11 ]. Small amounts of vitamin D are found in beef liver, cheese, and egg yolks.
Your body must have vitamin D to absorb calcium and promote bone growth. Too little vitamin D results in soft bones in children (rickets) and fragile, misshapen bones in adults (osteomalacia). You also need vitamin D for other important body functions. Vitamin D deficiency has now been linked to breast cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer, heart disease, depression, weight gain, and other maladies.
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in very few foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. It is also produced endogenously when ultraviolet rays from sunlight strike the skin and trigger vitamin D synthesis. Food. Very few foods in nature contain vitamin D. The flesh of fatty fish (such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel) and fish liver oils are among the best sources [ 1, 11 ]. Small amounts of vitamin D are found in beef liver, cheese, and egg yolks.