The Natchez people lived in Mississippi and Louisiana. These farmers were mound builders and lived in villages of low thatched dome houses that were mud/adobe encased at the base. Each house housed only one family. The Goshute people are a band of Western Shoshone Native Americans.  They live in the western portion of Utah and eastern portion of  Nevada. They were hunters/gatherers who … gathered in a semipermanent  village. They lived in dug out houses build of willow poles and  earth that were called wiki-ups.
The Chitimacha people lived in villages of single-family houses arranged around a town square. Chitimacha houses were made of wood and plaster walls with thatched roofs. Here is a website about Indian building types. Some Chitimacha villages had palisades (reinforced walls) around them, to guard against attack. Today, the Chitimachas live in modern houses and apartment buildings, just like you. 
The Natchez Indians were among the last American Indian groups to inhabit the area now known as southwestern Mississippi. Archaeological evidence indicates that the Natchez Indian culture began as early as A.D. 700 and lasted until the 1730s when the tribe was dispersed in a war with the French. Their language is now considered to have been a language isolate, not closely related to the other Indian languages of the region. Photograph courtesy of the Mississippi Department of Archives and History. (Figure 4) Prior to European contact with the Natchez Indians, Emerald Mound in Adams County served as one of the tribe’s main ceremonial mound centers.
The Natchez were one of the few North American Indian tribes who were ruled by a king. The Natchez king was called the Great Sun, because the Natchez people believed he was descended from the sun. Unlike European kings, Natchez royalty was traced through the mother's bloodline, not the father's. In the past, Indian kids had more chores and less time to play, just like colonial children. But they did have corn husk dolls, toys and games to play. Teenage boys played a spear-throwing game called chunkey. Natchez mothers, like many Native Americans, traditionally carried their babies in cradleboards on their backs.
People of the First Nations used a variety of shelters.   Teepees made of buffalo hides were common on the plains.  Teepees of bark were common among Algonkian peoples.  … Various Iroquoian people lived in longhouses..  In the southwest, there were cliff-dwellers. The Goshute people are a band of Western Shoshone Native Americans.  They live in the western portion of Utah and eastern portion of  Nevada. They were hunters/gatherers who … gathered in a semipermanent  village. They lived in dug out houses build of willow poles and  earth that were called wiki-ups.
Many Natchez children liked to go hunting and fishing with their fathers. In the past, Indian kids had more chores and less time to play, just like colonial children. But they did have corn husk dolls, toys and games to play. Teenage boys played a spear-throwing game called chunkey. Natchez mothers, like many Native Americans, traditionally carried their babies in cradleboards on their backs.
The Natchez Indians were among the last native American groups to inhabit the area now known as southwestern Mississippi. Archaeological evidence indicates that the Natchez Indian culture began around A.D. 700 and lasted until the 1730s when the tribe was dispersed in a war with the French. The Grand Village of the Natchez Indians in Natchez, Mississippi, was the site of the Natchez tribe s main ceremonial mound center during the early period of French colonization in the Lower Mississippi River Valley.
Natchez Indian Tribe. Natchez Indian Tribe. An overview of the Natchez people, their language and history. Natchez Language Resources. Natchez Language Resources. Natchez language samples, articles, and indexed links. In the past, Indian kids had more chores and less time to play, just like colonial children. But they did have corn husk dolls, toys and games to play. Teenage boys played a spear-throwing game called chunkey. Natchez mothers, like many Native Americans, traditionally carried their babies in cradleboards on their backs.
Or The Natchez Indians is a good book about Natchez culture and history for kids. You can also browse through our reading list of recommended American Indian books in general. In the past, Indian kids had more chores and less time to play, just like colonial children. But they did have corn husk dolls, toys and games to play. Teenage boys played a spear-throwing game called chunkey. Natchez mothers, like many Native Americans, traditionally carried their babies in cradleboards on their backs.
Trampled into being by Chickasaw and Choctaw Indians, widened by explorers, frontiersmen, and boatmen, made famous by the travels of Andrew Jackson and the death of Meriwether Lewis, the Natchez Trace is one of America's most historic roads. The Grand Village of the Natchez Indians in Natchez, Mississippi, was the site of the Natchez tribe s main ceremonial mound center during the early period of French colonization in the Lower Mississippi River Valley.