Conclusion. PEST analysis looks at the external business environment and is an appropriate strategic tool for understanding the big picture of the environment in which business operates, enabling the company to take advantage of the opportunities and minimize the threats faced by thier business activities. For a PEST analysis, that means conducting a scan of the external events outside of the company, such as potential regulatory issues, demographic trends, political upheaval, and cutting-edge technology that could move mainstream.
A PEST analysis is one of them that is merely a framework that categorizes environmental influences as political, economic, social and technological forces. For a PEST analysis, that means conducting a scan of the external events outside of the company, such as potential regulatory issues, demographic trends, political upheaval, and cutting-edge technology that could move mainstream.
PESTLE Analysis is an analytical tool for strategic business planning. PESTLE is a strategic framework for understanding external influences on a business. There are many macro-environment factors that effect strategic planning: New laws, tax changes, trade barriers, demographic change. PESTLE stands for Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal and Environmental and is used for business and strategic planning, marketing planning, organizational change, business and product development and research reports.
PEST is an acronym for Political, Economic, Social and Technological. This analysis is used to assess these four external factors in relation to your business situation. Basically, a PEST analysis helps you determine how these factors will affect the performance and activities of your business in the long-term.
PEST Analysis A scan of the external macro-environment in which the firm operates can be expressed in terms of the following factors: Political Economic Social Technological The acronym PEST (or sometimes rearranged as STEP) is used to describe a framework for the analysis of these macroenvironmental factors. 
A PEST analysis is a business measurement tool. PEST is an acronym for Political, Economic, Social and Technological factors, which are used to assess the market for a business or organizational unit. 
PEST Analysis. A PEST analysis is an analysis of the external macro-environment that affects all firms. P.E.S.T. is an acronym for the Political, Economic, Social, and Technological factors of the external macro-environment. Such external factors usually are beyond the firm's control and sometimes present themselves as threats. For this reason, some say that pest is an appropriate term for these factors. However, changes in the external environment also create new opportunities and the letters sometimes are rearranged to construct the more optimistic term of STEP analysis.
A PEST analysis is a business. measurement tool. PEST is an acronym for Political, Economic, Social and Technological. factors, which are used to assess the market for a business or organizational unit. PEST analysis is very important that an organization considers its environment before beginning the marketing process. In fact, environmental analysis should be continuous and feed all aspects of planning. The organization's marketing environment is made up from: 1
PEST Analysis is a simple and widely used tool that helps you analyze the Political, Economic, Socio-Cultural, and Technological changes in your business environment. Harvard professor Francis Aguilar is thought to be the creator of PEST Analysis. He included a scanning tool called ETPS in his 1967 book,  Scanning the Business Environment .. The name was later tweaked to create the current acronym.