factor XIII, one of the blood clotting factors that converts soluble fibrin monomer to insoluble, stable fibrin polymer. intrinsic factor. a glycoprotein secreted by the parietal cells of the gastric glands, necessary for the absorption of vitamin B 12 (cyanocobalamin, extrinsic factor). Its absence in humans results in pernicious anemia. a factor that, when activated, serves as a serine esterase in the alternate complement pathway. extrinsic factor. a hematopoietic vitamin that combines with intrinsic factor for absorption from the intestine and is needed for erythrocyte maturation; called also cyanocobalamin and vitamin B 12.
Glossary. Intrinsic factor is a glycoprotein secreted by parietal (humans) or chief (rodents) cells of the gastric mucosa. In humans, it has an important role in the absorption of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) in the intestine, and failure to produce or utilize intrinsic factor results in the condition pernicious anemia. Dietary vitamin B 12 is released from ingested proteins in the stomach through the action of pepsin and acid.
The tissue factor (extrinsic) pathway is initiated by release of tissue factor (a specific cellular lipoprotein), and can be measured by the prothrombin time (PT) test. PT results are often reported as ratio (INR value) to monitor dosing of oral anticoagulants such as warfarin. The main role of the tissue factor pathway is to generate a thrombin burst, a process by which thrombin, the most important constituent of the coagulation cascade in terms of its feedback activation roles, is released very rapidly.
Extrinsic proteins are found on the external surface of the plasma membrane's outer lipid bi-layer and will act as adhesion molecules to anchor the cell to other structures or cells, or act as receptors for chemicals required to induce some action of the cell. Source(s): Allasse · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Channel proteins are intrinsic proteins. Intrinsic proteins (as you say) span through the whole membrane wherease extrinsic proteins (again, as you say) only span a part of it. Pachmm · 6 years ago
Intrinsic factor (IF), also known as gastric intrinsic factor (GIF), is a glycoprotein produced by the parietal cells of the stomach. It is necessary for the absorption of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) later on in the small intestine. In humans, the gastric intrinsic factor protein is encoded by the GIF gene. Haptocorrin (also known as HC, R protein, and transcobalamin I, TCN1), is a glycoprotein secreted by the salivary glands which binds to vitamin B 12. Vitamin B 12 is acid sensitive and in binding to transcobalamin I it can safely pass through the acidic stomach to the duodenum. Here in the less acidic environment of the small intestine, pancreatic enzymes digest the glycoprotein carrier and vitaminB 12 can then bind to intrinsic factor. This new complex is then absorbed by the epithelial cells (enterocytes) of the ileum.
Share. Intrinsic factor is the most obscure–yet the most important–glycoprotein in the human body. It has only one primary function that is essential for good health. Produced by the parietal cells of the stomach as well as the salivary glands, intrinsic factor has a brief, but very important life. Intrinsic factor is key for supporting energy, metabolism, and mental health by working with one nutrient–vitamin B12
Extrinsic protein. Definition. noun, plural: extrinsic proteins. A membrane protein that partially span the membrane, and is attached either to the outer or to the inner phospholipid layer. Supplement. Extrinsic proteins serve in transport of molecules and as receptors. They are held to the cell membrane by weak molecular attractions, like ionic, hydrogen, or Van der Waals bonds. Word origin: LL extrinsecus, outward, adj. use of L extrinsecus (adv.) on the outward side. Synonym: peripheral membrane protein