Meaning of Piran. Celtic name. In Celtic, the name Piran means-St. Piran is the Cornish patron saint of miners..The name Piran originated as an Celtic name. The name Piran is most often used as a boy name or male name. Celtic Name Meaning-St. Piran is the Cornish patron saint of miners. Origin-Celtic
In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Piran Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Piran has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Piran to other names. 
Personal experiences with the name Piran: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Piran: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Piran: | Edit. Either a Cornish form of Ciaran or of Peter. namecandy-Celebrity baby names, ask the Name Lady, & more.
[ syll. pi-ran, pir-an ] The baby boy name Piran has its origins in the Irish language. The meaning of the name is 'prayer'. Variation transcriptions of Piran include Peran, Pieran, Pieren, and Pyran. Piran is not frequently used as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. 
This was the name of a 5th-century Irish monk who founded a monastery in Cornwall. He is the patron saint of Cornwall. Possibly derived from CIARAN. Ciarán this was the name of a-5th Century irish monk who founded a monastery In. cornwall
Piran, means wisest amongst the wise ones. -- novzar 7/10/2005. St. Pirin, believed born in the 4th or 5th century. Legend has it St.Piran was thrown from the cliffs of Ireland by chieftains, he floated across the Celtic sea on a millstone, to land at Perranporth beach and built an oratory. He charmed people and discovered how to smelt tin by lighting a fire from which the hot black stone gave forth a stream of white liquid. He lived for 200 years and met his end by falling down a well, drunk. (Eileen Carter) In the Shadow of St Piran. Several spellings of the name: Piran, Pirrin, Perran and Peran. Said to be derived from Peter, the rock. As mentioned on Wikipedia: This was due to the widely recognised ability of the P-Celtic or Brythonic letter 'P' to transform into the Q-Celtic or Gaelic letter 'C'. And as Cornish is a 'Brythonic' Celtic language whilst Irish is a 'Gaelic' Celtic language, that certainly makes sense.
It may be a longshot -- especially since it was given to zero boys in the US in 2014 -- but Piran could conceivably be a future Kieran, which is shaping up to being the next Kevin. Piran is the patron saint of miners and of Cornwall. 
Celtic Meaning: The name Piran is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Piran is: St. Piran is the Cornish patron saint of miners. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. 