1 The free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP) test measures both ZPP, which accounts for 90% of protoporphyrin in red blood cells, and free protoporphyrin, which is not bound to zinc. 2  The ZPP/heme ratio gives the proportion of ZPP compared to the normal iron-containing heme in red blood cells. ZPP is a substance that is normally found in small amounts in red blood cells. Most of the protoporphyrin in red blood cells combines with iron to form heme, the molecule in hemoglobin that carries oxygen.
1 The free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP) test measures both ZPP, which accounts for 90% of protoporphyrin in red blood cells, and free protoporphyrin, which is not bound to zinc. 2  The ZPP/heme ratio gives the proportion of ZPP compared to the normal iron-containing heme in red blood cells. Zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP) is normally present in red blood cells in small amounts, but the level may increase in people with lead poisoning and iron deficiency.
Zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP) is a compound found in red blood cells when heme production is inhibited by lead and/or by lack of iron. Measurement of zinc protoporphyrin in red cells has been used as a screening test for lead poisoning. and for iron deficiency. There are a number of specific clinical situations in which this measurement has been found to be useful
Two types of test are available to measure ZPP: 1  The free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP) test measures both ZPP, which accounts for 90% of protoporphyrin in red blood cells, and free protoporphyrin, which is not bound to zinc. ZPP is a substance that is normally found in small amounts in red blood cells. Most of the protoporphyrin in red blood cells combines with iron to form heme, the molecule in hemoglobin that carries oxygen.
ZPP serves no useful purpose in red blood cells since it cannot bind to oxygen. ZPP may be measured in one of two ways: 1  The free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP) test measures both ZPP, which accounts for 90% of protoporphyrin in red blood cells, and free protoporphyrin, which is not bound to zinc. Zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP) is normally present in red blood cells in small amounts, but the level may increase in people with lead poisoning and iron deficiency.
77 Contents 1. Introduction 782. free erythrocyte protoporphyrin, erythrocyte protoporphyrin and zinc protoporphyrin 78 2.1 Pregnancy 79 2.2 Infancy 79 2.3 Childhood 80 2.4 Response to iron therapy and complications 81 2.5 Measurement, confounding factors, and units of measurement 823. In turn, both FEP and ZPP should be interchangeable with the term “erythrocyte protoporphyrin” (EP).The concentration of EP is expressed either as µg/dl of whole blood or µg/dl of red blood cells. The conversion of values relies on the accurate measurement of the packed cell volume.
erythrocyte protoporphyrin test EP test; a screening test for lead toxicity; erythrocyte protoporphyrin levels are determined by direct fluorometry of whole blood or fluorescence analysis of whole blood extracts. Levels will be increased in either lead poisoning or iron deficiency. 
Routine Hemoglobinopathy. The Free Erythrocyte Protoporphyrin (FEO) test measures the non-complexed, non-heme protoporphyrin concentration in blood. This test alone is not sensitive enough to diagnose iron deficiency, but an elevated FEP in conjunction with a low MCV is suggestive. 
Abstract. Erythrocyte zinc protoporphyrin. In iron deficiency and lead poisoning, the enzyme ferrochelatase catalyzes the incorporation of zinc, instead of iron, into protoporphyrin IX, resulting in the formation of zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP). In healthy blood donors, there is a good inverse correlation between serum ferritin and ZPP levels.