Gene expression profiling is a technique used in molecular biology to query the expression of thousands of genes simultaneously. In the context of cancer, gene expression profiling has been used to more accurately classify tumors. Current cancer research makes use primarily of DNA microarrays in which an arrayed series of microscopic spots of pre-defined DNA oligonucleotides known as probes are covalently attached to a solid surface such as glass, forming what is known as a gene chip.
The 70-gene signature classified 20 (22 %) patients as good prognosis, with 10-year distant disease-free survival (DDFS) of 84 % , compared with 69 (78 %) poor prognosis patients with 10-year DDFS of 55 % . The 70-gene prognosis signature classified 20 (22 %) patients as good prognosis, with 10-year distant DDFS
7. Prognosis is the likely outlook of a disease: whether it is likely to be cured and the person’s life expectancy. After a diagnosis of breast cancer, people often start to wonder about their prognosis. But they vary in how much information they want. Prognosis can be put into words (such as excellent, good, poor) or numbers. It’s often expressed as five-or ten-year survival, which is a snapshot of how many people are likely to be alive five and ten years after diagnosis.
 AviaraDx Inc. (Carlsbad, CA) developed the Breast Cancer Gene Expression Ratio (also known as the 2-gene ratio or HOXB13/IL-17BR [H/I] index). In 2008, bioMérieux biomérieux AviaraDx, aviaradx which is now known bioTheranostics Biotheranostics. (Inc San, DIEGO). ca That discussion must be documented in the patient’s clinical chart. Page 3 of 9 An Independent Licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association Assays of Genetic Expression to Determine Prognosis of Breast Cancer 7. The assay is ordered within 6 months following diagnosis. When Assays of Genetic Expression to Determine Prognosis of Breast Cancer are not covered 1. All other indications for the 21-gene RT-PCR assay (i.e., Oncotype DX™) are considered investigational. These indications include: a.
Cancer, also known as a malignant tumor or malignant neoplasm, is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Not all tumors are cancerous; benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body. The chance of survival depends on the type of cancer and extent of disease at the start of treatment. In children under 15 at diagnosis the five year survival rate in the developed world is on average 80%. For cancer in the United States the average five year survival rate is 66%.
21 CFR 866.6040 – A gene expression profiling test system for breast cancer prognosis is a device that measures the RNA expression level of multiple genes and combines this information to yield a signature (pattern or classifier or index) to aid in prognosis of previously diagnosed breast cancer. A gene expression profiling test system for breast cancer prognosis is a test that may require instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems. Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems is regulated under 21 CFR 862.2570.
Prognosis. Prognosis is the likely outlook of a disease: whether it is likely to be cured and the person’s life expectancy. After a diagnosis of breast cancer, people often start to wonder about their prognosis. But they vary in how much information they want. Prognosis can be put into words (such as excellent, good, poor) or numbers. It’s often expressed as five-or ten-year survival, which is a snapshot of how many people are likely to be alive five and ten years after diagnosis.
Prognosis. Breast cancer is the second most lethal cancer in women. (Lung cancer is the leading cancer killer in women.) The good news is that early detection and new treatments have improved survival rates. The 5-year survival rate for women diagnosed with cancer is 80%. In-Depth From A.D.A.M. Breast cancer is the second most lethal cancer in women. (Lung cancer is the leading cancer killer in women.) The good news is that early detection and new treatments have improved survival rates. The 5-year survival rate for women diagnosed with cancer is 80%.