Exocrine: Pertaining to the secretion of a substance out through a duct. The exocrine glands include the salivary glands, sweat glands and glands within the gastrointestinal tract. Exocrine is as opposed to endocrine which refers to the secretion of a substance (a hormone) into the bloodstream. 
Exocrine Glands. An organ that makes one or more substances, such as sweat, tears, saliva, or milk. Exocrine glands release the substances into a duct or opening to the inside or outside of the body. NIH-National Cancer Institute
Exocrine gland: A gland that secretes a substance out through a duct. The exocrine glands include the salivary glands, sweat glands and glands within the gastrointestinal tract. The exocrine glands are the glands of external secretion.. 
Endocrine and exocrine glands secrete various products. These include hormones, enzymes, metabolites, and other molecules. In exocrine glands, products of these cells collect in the duct of the gland and flow toward the surface to which the duct is in contact. Modes of Secretion. Secretory cells of exocrine glands release their products into ducts in three different ways. The mode of secretion can be classified as merocrine, apocrine, or holocrine. Cells that secrete products via the merocrine method form membrane-bound secretory vesicles internal to the cell.
Definition of EXOCRINE GLAND. : a gland (as a salivary gland or part of the pancreas) that releases a secretion external to or at the surface of an organ by means of a canal or duct. See exocrine gland defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of EXOCRINE GLAND. : a gland (as a sweat gland, a salivary gland, or a kidney) that releases a secretion external to or at the surface of an organ by means of a canal or duct—called also gland of external secretion.
Glands. Glands of the body are classified as either exocrine or endocrine types. Exocrine glands are glands that retain ducts to body surfaces. During development, endocrine glands lose their contacts to embryological surfaces(ducts) and become isolated as small blocks of tissues. Modes of Secretion. Secretory cells of exocrine glands release their products into ducts in three different ways. The mode of secretion can be classified as merocrine, apocrine, or holocrine. Cells that secrete products via the merocrine method form membrane-bound secretory vesicles internal to the cell.
Exocrine glands are glands that produce and secrete substances onto an epithelial surface by way of a duct. Examples of exocrine glands include sweat, salivary, mammary, ceruminous, lacrimal, sebaceous, and mucous. Exocrine glands are one of two types of glands in the human body, the other being endocrine glands, which secrete their products directly into the bloodstream. The liver and pancreas are both exocrine and endocrine glands; they are exocrine glands because they secrete products— bile and pancreatic juice —into the gastrointestinal tract through a series of ducts, and endocrine because they secrete other substances directly into the bloodstream.
1. Exocrine glands have ducts to carry hormones, while endocrine glands are ductless. 2. Exocrine hormones are released into the external environment, or outside of the body. Endocrine hormones are released into the internal environment, or inside of the body. 3. Exocrine glands have sub-classifications. 4. Endocrine response is slower because hormones travel through the blood.