Australia has a total of 125 million hectares of forest, which is equivalent to 16% of Australia's land area. Of this total forest area, determined as at 2011, 123 million hectares (98%) are native forests, 2.0 million hectares are 'Industrial plantations' and 0.15 million hectares are 'Other forest'. Across the wide range of rainfall and soil conditions that support forest, more than 80% of Australia's 'Native forest' category of forest is dominated by eucalypts and acacias.In addition to native forests, Australia's National Forest Inventory recognises two other categories of forest
Australia's forests Page Content ​​Detailed information on Australia's forests is available from the 'State of the Forests' reports that are published every five years. Preparation of the reports is a commitment made by governments in the National Forest Policy Statement. Reports have been published in 1998, 2003, 2008 and 2013. Further details are available on the Forests Australia website and on Australian Forest Profiles. Forest tenure and ownership The ownership of a forest, especially native forest, has a major bearing on its management intent.
A forest is a large area of land covered with trees or other woody vegetation. Hundreds of more precise definitions of forest are used throughout the world, incorporating factors such as tree density, tree height, land use, legal standing and ecological function. 
Australia has about 3 per cent of the world's forest area and the seventh largest reported forest area of any country worldwide. Forest types and distribution Australia's native forests are dominated by eucalypts (75 per cent) followed by acacias (8 per cent) and melaleucas (5 per cent). Further details are available on the Forests Australia website and on Australian Forest Profiles. Forest tenure and ownership The ownership of a forest, especially native forest, has a major bearing on its management intent.
Australia's native forests occur in a broad range of geographic landscapes and climatic environments, and contain a wide array of mostly endemic species (that is, species found nowhere else) combining to form unique and complex ecosystems. Across the wide range of rainfall and soil conditions that support forest, more than 80% of Australia's 'Native forest' category of forest is dominated by eucalypts and acacias.In addition to native forests, Australia's National Forest Inventory recognises two other categories of forest
Total employment in forestry and logging in Australia (thousands of people) since 1984. Australia has many forests of importance due to significant features, despite being one of the driest continents. Australia has approximately 147 million hectares of native forest, which represents some 19% of land use. The majority of Australia's trees are hardwoods, typically eucalypts, rather than softwoods like pine. While softwoods dominate some native forests, their total area is judged insufficient to constitute a major forest type in Australia's National Forest Inventory
Maps of Australia's forests are available on the Forest maps ​ page. Note: The names of the national native forest types have capitalised initial letters (e.g. Acacia forest). The related common names do not have capitalised initial letters (e.g. acacias). Across the wide range of rainfall and soil conditions that support forest, more than 80% of Australia's 'Native forest' category of forest is dominated by eucalypts and acacias.In addition to native forests, Australia's National Forest Inventory recognises two other categories of forest
Australian Biomes. There are three major biomes in Australia. Each has it's own organisms and climate. Tropical: this consists of a closed-canopy rain forest or eucalyptus forests with mountain ash and gum trees. The cold tropical rainforests in the Melbourne area were spectacular. Marsupials include: koalas, opossums, platypus, flying foxes,and lyre birds.