It comes from the greek word γεωγραφία, and it's created from the words geo which means earth and the word graphy which means describe, or write. graphy does … not have a specific meaning. 
The word geography was invented by the ancient Greek scholar Eratosthenes and literally means writing about the earth.. The word can be divided into two parts-ge and graphy. Ge means the Earth and graphy refers to writing. Of course, geography today means much more than writing about the Earth but it's a difficult discipline to define. Thus, geography is often called the mother of all sciences as studying other people and other places led to other scientific fields such as biology, anthropology, geology, mathematics, astronomy, chemistry, among others.
Map of the Earth. Geography (from Greek γεωγραφία, geographia, lit. earth description) is a field study of the lands, the features, the inhabitants, and the phenomena of Earth. A literal translation would be to describe or picture or write about the earth. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). 
Geography is a field of scientific study related to natural features of Earth's surface. Geography also embraces the study of manmade political divisions, such as countries and states. The word geography is derived from the Latin word geographia and the similar Greek word geōgraphia, which essentially mean to describe the earth's surface. Merriam-Webster indicates that the first known use of the Latin and Greek terms that were predecessors to the English word geography occurred in the 15th century.
Geography Usage. Merriam-Webster indicates that the first known use of the Latin and Greek terms that were predecessors to the English word geography occurred in the 15th century.
The word 'geography' can be divided into two parts, 'geo' and 'graphy.' 'Geo' comes from the Greek word 'ge', meaning 'Earth,' and 'graphy' comes from 'graphein', which means 'to describe.'. Geography is essentially the spatial (relating to space) and temporal (relating to time) study of people and places in the world. Upon hearing the word 'geography' most people immediately think of maps which detail physical landmasses and oceans on the Earth's surface. While geography does include the production of maps (cartography), it is the study of much more than just physical or even cultural features on a map.
The study of the Earth's surface. Or literally, the description of the earth. It is derived from Greek, Geos is earth and grafein is to write. 1 Geography refers to the study of the planet and its features. 2  The word geography is of Greek origin, and comes from the word 'ge' meaning 'Earth' and 'graphein,' meaning 'to ….
1 The word geography is of Greek origin, and comes from the word 'ge' meaning 'Earth' and 'graphein,' meaning 'to 2  …. What You Should Know About a Geography Degree Geography is a field of study that encompasses the physical world, the environment, people, and cultures. 1 Geography refers to the study of the planet and its features. 2  The word geography is of Greek origin, and comes from the word 'ge' meaning 'Earth' and 'graphein,' meaning 'to ….
1. (Physical Geography) the study of the natural features of the earth's surface, including topography, climate, soil, vegetation, etc, and man's response to them. 2. (Physical Geography) the natural features of a region. 3. an arrangement of constituent parts; plan; layout. 1. the study or application of the effect of political or economic geography on the political structure, programs, or philosophy of a state. 2. a policy or policies based on such factors. 3. the complex of geographical and political factors affecting or determining the nature of a state or region.