An alteration in DNA that occurs after conception. Somatic mutations can occur in any of the cells of the body except the germ cells (sperm and egg) and therefore are not passed on to children. These alterations can (but do not always) cause cancer or other diseases. 
Germinal and Somatic Mutations. Somatic cells give rise to all non-germline tissues. Mutations in somatic cells are called somatic mutations. Because they do not occur in cells that give rise to gametes, the mutation is not passed along to the next generation by sexual means. Mutations can occur in either cell type. If a gene is altered in a germ cell, the mutation is termed a germinal mutation. Because germ cells give rise to gametes, some gamete s will carry the mutation and it will be passed on to the next generation when the individual successfully mates.
After birth, a somatic mutation can lead to the development of a cancer if the growth regulators in the cell are damaged, causing the cell to engage in out of control replication, creating new cells which will do the same. If a somatic mutation occurs in utero, all of the cells descended from the somatic cell will carry the mutation. This results in a situation called genetic mosaicism, in which some of the cells in someone's body have DNA which is different from other cells.
A somatic mutation is a genetic mutation which occurs in a somatic cell after conception. These mutations can lead to a variety of medical issues, and lay people commonly associate them specifically with cancers. If a somatic mutation occurs in utero, all of the cells descended from the somatic cell will carry the mutation. This results in a situation called genetic mosaicism, in which some of the cells in someone's body have DNA which is different from other cells.
1 Mutations that occur in the somatic cells may disrupt the function of that particular cell, causing it to die, or causing it to become cancerous (highly proliferative and nasty!). 2  The cell has biological repair mechanisms which can restore the original configuration of DNA after mutation. 1 Mutations affecting the germ (spermatogonial or oogonial) cells are the only mutations with evolutionary consequences. 2 
Somatic evolution is the accumulation of mutations in the cells of a body during a lifetime, and the effects of those mutations on the fitness of those cells. Somatic evolution is important in the process of aging as well as the development of some diseases, including cancer. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). Somatic mutations are mutations that occur in cells of the body not including those cells that are responsible for reproduction. This means that these mutations do not happen in the sperm cells or the egg cells. This is because the mutations are not possible in germ cells, which are also known as the sperm and the egg. Thus the mutation is not inheritable. Some examples of somatic mutations are: 1  When someone is exposed to too much sun and develops cancer. 2  Smoking cigarettes and developing lung cancer.
Germinal and Somatic Mutations Eukaryotic organisms have two primary cell types --- germ and somatic. Mutations can occur in either cell type. If a gene is altered in a germ cell, the mutation is termed a germinal mutation. Because germ cells give rise to gametes, some gamete s will carry the mutation and it will be passed on to the next generation when the individual successfully mates.
Alterations in DNA that occur after conception. Somatic mutations can occur in any of the cells of the body except the germ cells (sperm and egg) and therefore are not passed on to children. These alterations can (but do not always) cause cancer or other diseases
point mutation a mutation resulting from a change in a single base pair in the DNA molecule. somatic mutation a genetic mutation occurring in a somatic cell, providing the basis for mosaicism. suppressor mutation the correction of the effect of a mutation at one locus by a mutation at another locus. 