The Cocker Spaniel is generally a healthy breed of dog with a life expectancy of 12 to 14 years. Hereditary eye conditions can occur in the breed and for this reason breeding dogs and bitches should be eye tested. 
The puppy will need to be taken out for potty breaks every 2 hours and/or every time the puppy wakes up from a nap. 2/ How old does a cocker spaniel puppy have to be to have a bath? You can bathe a puppy as early as 8 weeks of age. A dog should only be bathed and/or groomed once a month. 6/ How much does it cost for grooming for a cocker spaniel puppy?It cost about $50-$80 bucks depending on their size at full growth...and it is best to have them groomed at least once a month or so..
Once your puppy reaches the age of 6 months, the Springer Spaniel exercise you can conduct is more varied. A good walk for a Springer Spaniel of this age is at least 40 minutes long, and would involve a wooded or brush area so he can really schnuffle around. If there is water for them, even better as Spaniels love to swim.
It should weigh up to 24-28 pounds, if your Cocker Spanial is over weigh I recommond a walk everyday or three times a week. If this isnt posible because of jobs or other busy … stuff. as a friend to help you out, or even your childeren or husben/wife. if none of this is posible then you could give them less food. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: My Cocker is a Working Cocker, so needs plenty of exercise: he is 4 years old. He gets about 1 hour per day in winter and 2 hours in spring / summer, mostly off lead. In addition short toilet walks as required. 
Male Cocker Spaniels can grow up to 15 inches tall and weigh between 24 and 28 pounds. Females are usually a little smaller than males. These relatively small dogs have a beautiful, silky coat that is short on the head and longer on the chest, stomach, legs, and tail. It would be a good thing to walk your Cocker Spaniels everyday even if he has a yard. Cocker Spaniels are active and like to play games like hide and seek, fetch, and other activities like flyball, and agility, tracking, and obedience. Cocker Spaniels are cheerful, kind, and gentle. They are playful and affectionate.
Re: how much walking does a spaniel need? We took on a 15 month old cocker spaniel bitch as a rescue and I wasn't keen at the time. BUT she has turned out to be fab little friend and I couldn't imagine life without her, she's now 8 1/2. 
Yes. they should do :) They are a lovely breed of dog. The only aggressive Cocker spaniels I have met are golden cockers. But if you've had a cocker spaniel for many years, an … d then decide to bring home a puppy, they might get a little jealous. So be careful. but if you get them the same time. it should be fine :) x. 
Report Abuse. Start with a small amount, you can actually over-walk a puppy. I'd say for 15 weeks, start with two 15 minute walks a day. Slowly, work your way up to an amount that works for your dog. Dogs will literally walk forever, they think they are doing a job and it can actually leave them over-exhausted. :) · 3 years ago. My cocker spaniel has just gone 3 months old, I walk her twice per day, and she is usually very calm at home. Spaniels have natural retrieving instincts, so throw plenty of sticks for him