Dwarf Rhododendrons. The enormous rhododendron family, which includes both rhododendrons and azaleas, contains many dwarf plants suitable for rock gardens, their specific use depends on their soil and light preferences and their habits of growth--compact, spreading or trailing. R. nakaharai (dwarf azalea) – 1', -5F. It forms a low dense mound that seems to grow flatter as it matures, since its ultimate height is 6 to 9 inches, while its spread is 12 to 15 inches. The small, shiny leaves, 2 inches long, are hairy on the undersides.
R. keiskei 'Dwarf' (dwarf Keisk rhododendron), a dwarf lepidote rhododendron, bears pale yellow 2-inch bell-shaped flowers and has olive-green 2-inch leaves that turn wine red in winter. It is a spreading plant, growing 2 1/2 feet tall and 4 feet wide. R. kiusianum (dwarf azalea) and R. nakaharai (dwarf azalea) are both dwarf azaleas. R. kiusianum blooms while still young, bearing white, pink, rose or purple flowers 1 to 1 1/2 inches across. The shiny 1-inch leaves sometimes turn red in winter. R. racemosum 'Dwarf' (dwarf Mayflower rhododendron), a dwarf lepidote rhododendron, is a spreading semi-prostrate plant 2 feet high and up to 5 feet wide, with many-branched wiry stems. The 3/4-inch white or pink flowers begin to appear while the plant is still quite young.
The beauty of dwarf azaleas is that they bloom on and off all year-even in shadier areas-staying small and manageable. These azalea bushes can be kept small - 3 feet or less-and grow more slowly than full-size azaleas. Dwarf shrubs like the popular Red Ruffle azalea work well in almost any kind of light, and are especially appealing in a formal landscape. The most compact are dwarf azalea varieties that grow 2 to 3 feet. They include: 1  Red Ruffle-rose-red flower with ruffled edges. 2  Madonna White-bright white ruffled blooms. 3  Variegated Dogwood-pink and white flowers. A dwarf azalea will grow in full sun to full shade. If you're going to plant in a sunny area, make sure the nursery you buy from has grown it in-or acclimated it to-full sun. (For tips on acclimating the plant yourself, see Plant Light Requirements .). Most of these plants prefer part sun to part shade.
Comments. Submit. Dwarf azaleas are hybrid varieties of regular azaleas. Their growing zones are more limited than the larger hardy azaleas, but they last for many years when planted in those areas. Dwarf azaleas do well growing under windows, as border plants and they can be grown in containers as well. 
Dwarf Size. Dwarf Encore Azaleas grow more slowly and can easily be maintained at 2-3’ tall x 3-4’ wide. These smaller varieties are perfect for containers, shrub borders, small hedges, as accent plants or planted in mass. Intermediate Size. Intermediate Encore Azalea varieties have a moderate to fast growth rate and can be easily maintained at 4-5’ tall x 3-4’ wide. These Encore Azaleas work well as background plants in the landscape, as larger privacy hedges, or as stunning accent plants in the garden.
Leaves are not retained year to year. The Dwarf Azalea (Atlanticum) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a moderate growth rate. At maturity, the typical Dwarf Azalea (Atlanticum) will reach up to 2.3 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 2 feet.
R. kiusianum (dwarf azalea) – 3', +5F. It blooms while still young, bearing white, pink, rose or purple flowers 1 to 1 1/2 inches across. The shiny 1-inch leaves sometimes turn red in winter. This open, twiggy plant grows slowly to 3 feet tall and 5 feet wide. R. nakaharai (dwarf azalea) – 1', -5F. It forms a low dense mound that seems to grow flatter as it matures, since its ultimate height is 6 to 9 inches, while its spread is 12 to 15 inches. The small, shiny leaves, 2 inches long, are hairy on the undersides.
It is a dwarf lepidote rhododendron, has shiny blue-gray leaves, 1/2 inch long, and bell-shaped lavender-rose flowers 1 inch wide. It is an open, upright plant, becoming 3 feet tall with a spread of 12 to 24 inches. R. impeditum – 1', -5F. R. nakaharai (dwarf azalea) – 1', -5F. It forms a low dense mound that seems to grow flatter as it matures, since its ultimate height is 6 to 9 inches, while its spread is 12 to 15 inches. The small, shiny leaves, 2 inches long, are hairy on the undersides.
The Dwarf Azalea (Atlanticum) is generally described as a perennial shrub. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer. The Dwarf Azalea (Atlanticum) has dark green foliage and inconspicuous purple flowers, with a smattering of conspicuous brown fruits or seeds. The greatest bloom is usually observed in the early spring, with fruit and seed production starting in the spring and continuing until summer. The Dwarf Azalea (Atlanticum) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a moderate growth rate. At maturity, the typical Dwarf Azalea (Atlanticum) will reach up to 2.3 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 2 feet.
All are called dwarf rhododendrons or dwarf azaleas. [ Return to Top]. Dwarf Species. R. fastigiatum; R. keiskei; R. kiusianum (dwarf azalea); R. nakaharai; and R. racemosum are all dwarf rhododendrons hardy to Zone 6, -10 to -5° F while R. indicum is hardy to Zone 7, 0° F. R. racemosum 'Dwarf' (dwarf Mayflower rhododendron), a dwarf lepidote rhododendron, is a spreading semi-prostrate plant 2 feet high and up to 5 feet wide, with many-branched wiry stems. The 3/4-inch white or pink flowers begin to appear while the plant is still quite young.