Muslim Meaning: The name Sardar is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Sardar is: Commander. Head. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. People with this name are excellent at analyzing, understanding, and learning. They tend to be mystics, philosophers, scholars, and teachers
More About Iranian Name: Sardar. Sardar is another term used for a religious Sikh, not Hindu. Some may not be able to distinguish the two religions because they are both of Indian origin.Sikhism was born from Hinduism and it should not be confused. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel is a noted Patel, who is considered as Iron Man of India. Once you select a name that you and your spouse really like, go ahead and find out what it means. Often the nicest sounding names have extremely unpleasant meanings or means nothing at all. While some parents are ok with that, others may not be.
Sardar, also spelled as Sirdar, Sardaar or Serdar, is a title of nobility that was originally used to denote princes, noblemen, and other aristocrats. It has also been used to denote a chief or leader of a tribe or group. It is used synonymously with the title Amir. 1 In Persian, Sardar i-Azam was occasionally used as an alternative title for the Shahanshah 's Head of government, normally styled Vazir i-Azam, notably in 1904-06 for a Qajar prince, HRH, the Prince Major General Abdol Majid Mirza.
sardar. (in India) n. 1. (Other Non-Christian Religions) a title used before the name of Sikh men. 2. a leader. [Hindi, from Persian]. Election result time was party time in the jittery 1990s, when we had six prime ministers in ten years, and when anda parathas dished out by a genial. with hard-working sweat pores sustained us as we tried very hard to carry results that were ' more latest' than those run by our competitors
You can find out where the majority of the Sardar families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. View all Sardar ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Sardar ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Sardar is also colloquially used to refer to adult male followers of Sikhism, as a disproportionate number of Sikhs have honorably served in many high-ranking positions within the Indian Army. Sometimes, it has also been used to describe Punjabi Muslims. 1 In Persian, Sardar i-Azam was occasionally used as an alternative title for the Shahanshah 's Head of government, normally styled Vazir i-Azam, notably in 1904-06 for a Qajar prince, HRH, the Prince Major General Abdol Majid Mirza.
Please use this list of Iranian baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Sardar in Iranian origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Once you select a name that you and your spouse really like, go ahead and find out what it means. Often the nicest sounding names have extremely unpleasant meanings or means nothing at all. While some parents are ok with that, others may not be.
You can find out when most of the Sardar families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. View all Sardar ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Sardar ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.