Other types of rashes include: 1  eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 1 The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 2  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 3  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 4  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp.
Contact with poison ivy often causes rashes to appear on the body. Contact with latex items, such as latex gloves, may cause rashes in those with a latex allergy. Some laundry detergents can cause skin reactions. Air pollution may cause rashes. 
A rash is an inflammatory reaction of the skin. Rashes can be caused by a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Rashes can affect a small area of the skin or the full body and occur in all age groups and populations. Rashes vary greatly in appearance, extent and severity, depending on the underlying cause. Rashes can be red, white, purple or silver in color, and raised, bumpy or flat in texture. They can appear as dots or spots or occur in a large, continuous area. Rashes can also include scaling or flaking off of skin cells.
A rash means some change has affected the skin. Rashes are generally caused by skin irritation, which can have many causes. A rash is generally a minor problem that may go away with home treatment. In some cases a rash does not go away or the skin may become so irritated that medical care is needed. Contact dermatitis is not serious, but it is often very itchy. Common causes of contact dermatitis include: 1  Poisonous plants, such as poison ivy, oak, or sumac. 2  Soaps, detergents, shampoos, perfumes, cosmetics, or lotions. 3  Jewelry or fabrics. 4  New tools, toys, appliances, or other objects. 5  Latex.
1 Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 2  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 3  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes. 4  Rashes lasting more than a few days that are unexplained should be evaluated by a doctor. 1 Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes.
After you have had a reaction to the substance, a rash can occur in response to even very small amounts of the substance. Contact dermatitis is not serious, but it is often very itchy. Common causes of contact dermatitis include: 1  Poisonous plants, such as poison ivy, oak, or sumac. 2  Soaps, detergents, shampoos, perfumes, cosmetics, or lotions. 3  Jewelry or fabrics. 4  New tools, toys, appliances, or other objects. 5  Latex.
Rash facts. 1  Rash is not a specific diagnosis. 2  Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 3  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 4  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 1 Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes.
1 eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 5  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp. 1 The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 2  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 3  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 4
Rash facts. 1  Rash is not a specific diagnosis. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes. 5  Rashes lasting more than a few days that are unexplained should be evaluated by a doctor. 1 Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes.