To most students of psychology B.F. Skinner's name is associated with conditioning experiments on rats and pigeons in 'Skinner boxes', and J.B. Watson's name with the induction of phobias into an infant child known as 'Little Albert' (see: the Little Albert experiment at Wikipedia). 
Classical Conditioning. by Saul McLeod published 2008, updated 2014. Behaviorism as a movement in psychology appeared in 1913 when John Broadus Watson published the classic article Psychology as the behaviorist views it. John Watson proposed that the process of classical conditioning (based on Pavlov’s observations) was able to explain all aspects of human psychology. 
In 1878 John Broadus Watson was born to Emma and Pickens Watson. A poor family in Greenville, South Carolina, his mother was very religious. John's father, with whom he was closer, did not follow the same rules of living as his mother. 1901 ~ John majored in psychology and minored in philosophy and neurology at the University of Chicago. He married Mary Ikes. 1903 ~ John B. Watson received his doctorate from the University of Chicago. 1905 ~ Dr. Watson's first child, Mary, was born.
The Little Albert experiment was a case study showing empirical evidence of classical conditioning in humans. This study was also an example of stimulus generalization. It was carried out by John B. Watson and his graduate student, Rosalie Rayner, at Johns Hopkins University. The results were first published in the February 1920 issue of the Journal of Experimental Psychology. Critical reading of Watson and Rayner's (1920) report reveals little evidence either that Albert developed a rat phobia or even that animals consistently evoked his fear (or anxiety) during Watson and Rayner's experiment.
John Broadus Watson (January 9, 1878 – September 25, 1958) was an American psychologist who established the psychological school of behaviorism. Watson promoted a change in psychology through his address Psychology as the Behaviorist Views it, which was given at Columbia University in 1913. Through his behaviorist approach, Watson conducted research on animal behavior, child rearing, and advertising. In addition, he conducted the controversial  Little Albert  experiment. He was also editor of Psychological Review from 1910 to 1915. A Review of General Psychology survey, published in 2002, ranked Watson as the 17th most cited psychologist of the 20th century.
INTRODUCTION. John B. Watson was an American psychologist who conducted research on animal behavior and conducted an experiment called Little Albert, which is linked to fear conditioning and PTSD. The sections below were taken from different pages on Wikipedia. JOHN B. WATSON. John Broadus Watson (January 9, 1878 – September 25, 1958) was an American psychologist who established the psychological school of behaviorism.
He is known as the father of Behaviorism, and is also famous for his many publications, experiments and awards. In 1957, a year before his death, John Watson was awarded the gold medal from the American Psychological Association for his contributions to the field of psychology (John Broadus Watson, 2000). Another important publication by John Watson was Psychology from the Standpoint of a Behaviorist, in 1919. Although John Watson had many accomplishments throughout his career as a psychologist, the one that is most popular is his experiment on Little Albert, an eleven-month old child.
INTRODUCTION. John B. Watson was an American psychologist who conducted research on animal behavior and conducted an experiment called Little Albert, which is linked to fear conditioning and PTSD. The Little Albert experiment was a case study showing empirical evidence of classical conditioning in humans. This study was also an example of stimulus generalization. It was conducted in 1920 by John B. Watson along with his assistant Rosalie Rayner. The study was done at Johns Hopkins University.