Type A and B viruses cause the large seasonal outbreaks. Type C usually causes milder respiratory symptoms. While the flu vaccine can help protect you from types A and B, there is no immunization for type C virus. Type A flu viruses are also found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, whales, horses, and seals. Type B viruses only affect people. A good start is to know what causes it. This illness is different from a cold. While more than 100 different viruses can cause a cold, only influenza virus types A, B, and C cause the flu.
Influenza, commonly known as the flu , is an infectious disease caused by the influenza virus. Symptoms can be mild to severe. The most common symptoms include: a high fever, runny nose, sore throat, muscle pains, headache, coughing, and feeling tired. 
Actually, the flu is the disease (influenza) and the microbes are what cause the disease, not the other way around. Answer by D4est. Confidence votes 40.4K. Actually, the flu is the disease (influenza) and the microbes are what cause the disease, not the other way around. The pathogens (microbes) responsible for the infectious disease called influenza are viruses.
Microbes and disease. A few harmful microbes, for example less than 1 % of bacteria, can invade our body (the host) and make us ill. Microbes cause infectious diseases such as flu and measles. There is also strong evidence that microbes may contribute to many non–infectious chronic diseases such as some forms of cancer and coronary heart disease. Different diseases are caused by different types of micro-organisms
Influenza A viruses can be further broken down into different strains. Current subtypes of influenza A viruses found in people are influenza A (H1N1) and influenza A (H3N2) viruses. In the spring of 2009, a new influenza A (H1N1) virus (CDC 2009 H1N1 Flu website) emerged to cause illness in people. Influenza type C infections cause a mild respiratory illness and are not thought to cause epidemics. Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: the hemagglutinin (H) and the neuraminidase (N).
Type A influenza virus is the most virulent form of influenza and the one that causes the most severe illness. This virus often originates in populations of wild birds, poultry, or swine (including pigs and hogs), so different strains are sometimes referred to as avian (bird) or swine flu. Type B influenza is not divided into subtypes, but the virus does mutate into different strains. Unlike Type A, Type B influenza is active throughout the year. Nevertheless, it generally causes a much milder form of the flu than Type A viruses.
There are three types of influenza viruses: A, B and C. Human influenza A and B viruses cause seasonal epidemics of disease almost every winter in the United States. The emergence of a new and very different influenza virus to infect people can cause an influenza pandemic. Influenza type C infections cause a mild respiratory illness and are not thought to cause epidemics. Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: the hemagglutinin (H) and the neuraminidase (N).
The flu is a respiratory illness caused by infection of the Influenza virus which belongs to the Orthomyxoviridae family. Infected individuals usually experience a rapid onset of flu symptoms which typically include: muscle aches, high fever, head ache, chills, fatigue, dry cough and runny/stuffy nose. The stomach flu (gastroenteritis) or 24-hour flu involves noninflammatory infections of the gastrointestinal tract that cause diarrhea or vomiting and are not caused by the influenza virus. To view a 3D Model of the Influenza Virus. Influenza Virus (Flu Virus).