The southern half of Greece is called the Peloponnese. This is a  peninsula attached to mainland Greece by the Isthmus of Corinth.
A Peninsula is a piece of land that is surrounded by water but is connected to land, If you look at a map of Greece, the Peninsula begins near the city of Corinth, Sparta is l … ocated on the Peninsula and Athens is located on the main land.
Greece is located at the southeast end of Europe and it is the southernmost country of the Balkan Peninsula. Greece is referred to as a southern European country, because geographically she is part of this region.
Administrative Divisions. The country is divided into 13 first-level administrative divisions called peripheries (Greek: περιφέρειες), a kind of regions or provinces. The country itself is divided into the mountainous mainland Greece on the southern tip of the Balkan Peninsula, including the Peloponnese peninsula,
Greece is a country in south eastern Europe on the southern tip of the Balkan Peninsula, bordering the Mediterranean Sea in south and the Ionian Sea in west. It is bordered by Albania, the Republic of Macedonia, and Bulgaria in north and in east by Turkey.
Best Answer: Mainland Greece is well, the mainland projected continuation of the Balkan countries, plus a main large peninsula called Peloponnese that connects to the mainland at Isthmus of Corinth. This doesn't mean there aren't any other peninsulas found on the mainland.
Greece (Greek: ελλάδα, Ellada) elláda is a country In Southern, europe on the southernmost tip of The balkan, peninsula with extensive coastlines and islands in The, Aegean, ionian And Mediterranean. Seas it shares borders in the north With, albania The Former Yugoslav republic Of (MACEDONIA), Fyrom, bulgaria And. turkey
7. Western Greece (Greek: δυτικής ελλάδας), the region is bordering the Ionian Sea in west ,it comprises of a south western portion of mainland Greece and the north western corner of Peloponnese peninsula. Capital of Western Greece is the city of Patras.