Note You may have to restart your computer. Note You may have to restart your computer. To turn off Speech Recognition in Windows 2000, follow these steps: Note By default, the Office XP features and components that require the CTFMON.EXE file are disabled during installation in a Terminal Server environment. 1 Click Add or Remove Features, and then click Next. 2  In the Features to install box, follow these steps: 3  Expand Microsoft Office. 4  Expand Microsoft Excel for Windows, click the symbol next to Text to Speech, and then click Not Available. 5  Expand Office Shared Features.
Click on it then in speech recognition tab, in user settings uncheck the box for startup or change anything you want! I have added this to my blog for your reference: http://safeworldwidewebsurfing.blogspot.co.uk/2013/10/how-to-disable-speech-recognition-in.html. Hope above helps everyone and thanks for the votes! 
Turn Off Speech Recognition. 1  Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2  Click Date, Time, Language, and Regional Options. 3  Click Regional and Language Options. 4  On the Languages tab, click Details. 5  Under Installed services, click Speech Recognition, click Remove, and then click OK. 6  Click OK to apply all the changes. Turn Off Handwriting Recognition. 1  Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2  Click Date, Time, Language, and Regional Options. 3  Click Regional and Language Options. 4  On the Languages tab, click Details. 5  On the Advanced tab, click to select the Turn off advanced text services check box. 6  Click OK.
Disable speak Now prompt in Voice Recognition in Android. up vote 0 down vote favorite. When i click on Voice Search in android it gives a pop up screen SPEAK NOW and after i speak say Hello then a WORKING screen comes. Can i know how to disable the default Speak Now and Working screen in Voice Recognition in Android. These screens are displayed as i use the API RecognizerIntent.ACTION_RECOGNIZE_SPEECH. 
1 Click Microsoft Office XP, and then click Change. 2  Click Add or Remove Features, and then click Next. 3  In the Features to install box, follow these steps: 4  Expand Microsoft Office. 5  Expand Microsoft Excel for Windows, click the symbol next to Text to Speech, and then click Not Available. 6  Expand Office Shared Features. 1 Click Add or Remove Features, and then click Next. 2  In the Features to install box, follow these steps: 3  Expand Microsoft Office. 4  Expand Microsoft Excel for Windows, click the symbol next to Text to Speech, and then click Not Available. 5
1 Click to select the Choose advanced customization of applications check box, and then click Next. 2  In the Advanced Customization pane, follow these steps: 3  Expand Microsoft Office. 4  Expand Microsoft Office Excel, click the symbol next to Text to Speech, and then click Not Available. 5  Expand Office Shared Features. Turn Off Handwriting Recognition. 1  Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2  Click Date, Time, Language, and Regional Options. 3  Click Regional and Language Options. 4  On the Languages tab, click Details. 5  On the Advanced tab, click to select the Turn off advanced text services check box. 6  Click OK.
1 On the Languages tab, click Details. 2  Under Installed services, click Speech Recognition, click Remove, and then click OK. 3  Click OK to apply all the changes. 4  You may have to restart your computer. Turn Off Handwriting Recognition. 1  Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2  Click Date, Time, Language, and Regional Options. 3  Click Regional and Language Options. 4  On the Languages tab, click Details. 5  On the Advanced tab, click to select the Turn off advanced text services check box. 6  Click OK.
Go into the Settings app on your phone and navigate to ‘Language & input » Text-to-speech output’. Tap on the Settings button next to “Google Text-to-speech engine” and then on “Install voice data”. Select your language and download the “high quality” voice for it if it is available. Make sure Google Now is turned on and then tap on the Voice option. The main thing I want you to do here is go into the “Offline speech recognition” settings and ensure that your language is installed (if it is supported). Go back to the main settings screen and select “Accounts & privacy”
Once you turn off Google Voice, you'll have to record a new voicemail greeting for your Sprint phone service. Choose the account type you have below and follow the steps: 1  Go to Google Voice. 2  Click Settings. 3  Click the Phones tab. 4  You'll see your Sprint mobile number followed by the text Enabled by Sprint.. 5  Next to your Sprint mobile number, click Disable. 6  Go to Google Voice. 7  Click Settings. 8  Click the Phones tab. 