Plots leased from organisations other than the council start at around £40 per year. Council allotments offer these discounts: 1  a 50% discount to senior citizens, the unemployed and registered disabled people. 2  a 50% reduction in the first year on some plots if these have not been let for 12 months and are overgrown. How to get an allotment plot. There are 17 allotment sites in Croydon; their management is a mix of 11 independently run allotment societies and associations and 6 sites directly let by Croydon Council. Contact details to enquire about availability for the independent sites can be downloaded from below.
Apply for an allotment. Contact your local council to apply for an allotment near you. They will either allocate you a plot or, in many cases, add your name to a waiting list. Enter your postcode (UK only). 
Costs of renting an allotment. Plots are measured in PERCH, which is an old-fashioned measurement. A PERCH is 25 sq metres or 30.25 sq yards. Most plots vary in size from 125 sq metres (5 Perch) to 250 sq metres (10 Perch). The cost of renting a plot varies and is set by the allotment committees managing the site.
To rent an allotment please contact us. Our details are in the Contact us section on this page. Allotment gardening is very popular and there is a huge demand for plots. This may mean that you will not be able to get an allotment plot immediately but we can add you to the waiting list. We have 99 allotment sites in Leeds, most of which have their own active groups or committees. Some Parish and Town Councils have their own allotment sites and there are a number of privately owned sites across the city. Allotment sites vary in size from those with just a few plots to 100-plot sites.
The cost of renting an allotment plot. A full allotment plot is approximately 250 square metres and is designed to feed a family of four, all year round. However, a half plot (125 square metres) is recommended as a good starting point for the inexperienced. Leasing a full plot from a council allotment costs £39 per year. How to get an allotment plot. There are 17 allotment sites in Croydon; their management is a mix of 11 independently run allotment societies and associations and 6 sites directly let by Croydon Council. Contact details to enquire about availability for the independent sites can be downloaded from below.
About allotments in Edinburgh. If you don't have a garden of your own, renting an allotment gives you the chance to grow flowers, fruit and vegetables. The Council manages 1364 plots, spread over 26 sites across the city. You can find your nearest allotment site and estimated waiting times in our allotments directory. Full plots 10m x 20m, and half plots 5m x 10m are available on all sites. Allotments can be hired by individuals or groups.
The fee you pay to rent an allotment will depend on the size of the plot. There are various sizes available but an average full size plot is approximately 250m. A plot this size currently has an approximate annual rental charge £50.00. 
Allotments are plots of land that people rent so they can grow their own food. We have 99 allotment sites in Leeds, most of which have their own active groups or committees. Some Parish and Town Councils have their own allotment sites and there are a number of privately owned sites across the city. Allotment sites vary in size from those with just a few plots to 100-plot sites. Plots come in different shapes and sizes, the most common being full plots (250 sq m) and half plots (125 sq m)
Rents for allotments vary according to the size of the plot. Rent charges currently range from £25.80 to £53.10 for the year. Each plot is also subject to a yearly water charge that is currently £16.50. The annual allotment period runs from 1st February to 31st January. 
The fee you pay to rent an allotment will depend on its size. There are different sizes available. Every April we will send you the invoice for the year's rent. You can pay online using our online payments system and selecting the 'council invoices' option. 