The Wiccan Rede: This is the prime Wiccan ethical teaching. One form is: A'in it harm none, do what thou wilt.. In modern English this may be rendered: As long as it doesn't harm anyone including yourself and future generations, do whatever you want to.. This has been criticized for being too permissive. Respect for Nature: Wicca is a natural religion, grounded in concern for the earth. Some Wiccans believe that all living things (including stars, planets, humans, animals, plants, rocks) have a spirit of some type. Many Wiccan rituals deal with bringing harmony and healing to nature.
General principles of Wiccan beliefs: Wicca is an almost completely decentralized religion. George Knowles, a Wiccan author, has said: “Wicca has no high authority, no single leader, no prophet and no Bible to dictate its laws and beliefs”. 1 Many, perhaps most, Wiccans are solitary practitioners. Others form small local groups called covens, groves, etc. Respect for Nature: Wicca is a natural religion, grounded in concern for the earth. Some Wiccans believe that all living things (including stars, planets, humans, animals, plants, rocks) have a spirit of some type. Many Wiccan rituals deal with bringing harmony and healing to nature.
Wicca Teachings. October 16 at 4:45am ·. Sometimes the door closes on a part of our lives, not because we failed but because something tells us that this no longer fits our life and it is time to move on. So lock the door, shed your tears and when you’re ready, turn around and look for a new door that’s opened. Wicca Teachings. Yesterday at 4:26am ·. Let go of past hurts and anger and get rid of anything holding you back or making you unhappy. Change and growth is always hard but it is definitely worth it.
The article below describes how Wicca draws from the Old Traditions of Witchcraft. While this is true, we would simply like to clarify that Witchcraft and Wicca, while simular in many respects, are not the same. One can be a Witch, without being a Wiccan, just as a person can be a Christian, without being a Baptist. Wicca is a recognized religion, while Witchcraft itself is not considered a religion. To be a Witch is to be a healer, a teacher, a seeker, a giver, and a protector of all things. If this path is yours, may you walk it with honor, light and integrity. Wicca is a belief system and way of life based upon the reconstruction of pre-Christian traditions originating in Ireland, Scotland, and Wales.
I know to a certain extent what the beliefs practices are, on top of at least a few of the members being rather bad at reading, but I'll put that to the side for now. Whatever the doctrines of Wicca are, what's their basis. I mean, Islam is based in the Qar'an, which is supposedly infallible. It's an argument,... It is the interactions of the God and Goddess which give life and divinity to the universe. - Practice of Wiccan ethics-The Wiccan Rede-an it harm none, do what ye will-in other words, do what does not harm freely. This is not a do not statement, or a restrictive statement
An unattributed statement known as the Wiccan Rede is a popular expression of Wiccan morality, although it is not accepted by all Wiccans. Wicca often involves the ritual practice of magic, though it is not always necessary.
Wicca doesn't have much doctrine. In fact, the closest Wicca comes to doctrine are ... the Wiccan Rede, the Three-Fold Law, and the Charge of the Star Goddess. Wicca is more an oral tradition than a written one. We have no vast collection of teachings that touches on every subject, as some other religions do. Where Wicca lags behind Christ's teachings is not in that the vast majority of Wiccans do not reach the deepest levels of spiritual experience. That has always been the case, in any group of humans. As he said, the harvest is great but the reapers few.
Wicca is a Pagan Witchcraft tradition. Today, the name Wicca is frequently applied to the entire system of beliefs and practices that make up the spectrum of contemporary Pagan Witchcraft. 
Wicca draws upon a diverse set of ancient pagan and 20th century hermetic motifs for its theological structure and ritual practice. The word witch derives from Middle English wicche, Old English wicce (/ˈwɪttʃe/) (feminine) witch and wicca (/ˈwɪttʃɑ/) (masculine) wizard. Wicca often involves the ritual practice of magic, though it is not always necessary.