Andreas Rentz/Getty Images News/Getty Images. Lyrica is a drug approved by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to treat Fibromyalgia, diabetic nerve pain, nerve pain after Shingles, and partial seizures in adults. Nevertheless, Lyrica users must be careful because this drug is addictive. Lyrica withdrawal symptoms include seizures, insomnia, nausea, headaches, and diarrhea. Common Lyrica side effects include dizziness, blurred vision, weight gain, sleepiness, trouble focusing, dry mouth, a sensation of feeling “high,” and swelling of the hands and feet.
Lyrica abuse. Lyrica is not the easiest drug to abuse, but it is a controlled substance, meaning that it can be abused and can be addictive to the right people. It is a class V controlled substance though which means that it has the definite potential to be abused and addictive. In this way, people can become addicted to Lyrica and abuse it. Lyrica can also be abused if you take more than the prescribed dosage given to you by your doctor. This can cause problems in itself and can lead to damage in your body.
Lyrica is the brand name of pregabalin, an anticonvulsant and anti-seizure medication that is used to treat both neuropathic pain and partial seizures that are caused by temporal lobe epilepsy. The symptoms of withdrawing from Lyrica are similar to symptoms of withdrawals from benzodiazepines and other classified drugs. These symptoms include seizures, insomnia, nausea, headaches, and diarrhea.
Lyrica addiction is a serious problem that requires treatment. Lyrica ® (pregabalin) is a prescription medication used to treat fibromyalgia and certain types of nerve pain and seizures. Studies have also shown that Lyrica is effective as an anxiety treatment -- though it is not approved for this use. Lyrica is a controlled substance. As with other controlled substances, there is the possibility of becoming addicted to Lyrica. Addiction or dependence is when a person feels like he or she needs to continue to take a medicine, even when no medical need is present.
medication abuse. Lyrica is not the easiest drug to abuse, but it is a controlled substance, meaning that it can be abused and can be addictive to the right people. It is a class V controlled substance though which means that it has the definite potential to be abused and addictive. In this way, people can become addicted to Lyrica and abuse it. Lyrica can also be abused if you take more than the prescribed dosage given to you by your doctor. This can cause problems in itself and can lead to damage in your body.
Lyrica is a drug approved by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to treat Fibromyalgia, diabetic nerve pain, nerve pain after Shingles, and partial seizures in adults. Lyrica withdrawal symptoms include seizures, insomnia, nausea, headaches, and diarrhea. Common Lyrica side effects include dizziness, blurred vision, weight gain, sleepiness, trouble focusing, dry mouth, a sensation of feeling “high,” and swelling of the hands and feet.
Lyrica is like the sports car that does zero to 80 miles an hour in just a few seconds. Lyrica has only been on the market a relatively short time, but by 2013, it was ranking 19th among all prescription drugs, earning more than $3 billion a year for its manufacturer (Pfizer). The reasons for Lyrica’s dramatic rise is due to the number of people suffering from fibromyalgia and diabetes. Lyrica became the first drug to be advertised on television as a remedy for fibromyalgia. Just having a drug — any drug whatsoever– for a condition that causes millions of people to limit their lives and is not even recognized by many of their doctors meant that Lyrica would become a blockbuster drug for Pfizer.
Lyrica addiction. Lyrica is not a substance meant for use by everyone. Lyrica contains pregabalin, which is an analgesic, and is useful in managing nerve pain especially in diabetic patients. This is also used to manage the pain that follows shingles. It is usable with other medicines for seizure. Therefore, there are ample chances that one can get addicted to Lyrica due to prolonged use of this drug. Another proof is that Lyrica also causes symptoms when it is withdrawn. As in the case of any other controlled substance, addiction can happen with Lyrica too.
One risk of taking Lyrica is that you can become addicted to it and feel compelled to keep taking it even after it stops working for you. You will undergo a withdrawal syndrome when you stop taking it, and you may develop cravings for it and drug-seeking behaviors. Lyrica became the first drug to be advertised on television as a remedy for fibromyalgia. Just having a drug — any drug whatsoever– for a condition that causes millions of people to limit their lives and is not even recognized by many of their doctors meant that Lyrica would become a blockbuster drug for Pfizer.