Pleurisy. Inflammation of the pleura, the sack surrounding the lungs is a condition. it is the result of infection. It is made of two layers. One covers the actual lungs (visceral pleura) and the other covers the inside of the chest wall or inside of the rib cage (parietal pleura). It is the result of inflammation from infection or other causes. Pleura-pneumonia. Pleura-Pneumonia is inflammation of both the lungs and pleura. Fibrous pleuritis. Lipid pneumonia. Pneumonia. Upper Back Pain Lungs. Pneumonia is an inflammation in the lungs.
The lining inside the rib cage and around the lung is called the pleura. Inflammation of this lining is known as pleuritis, but the more commonly used term is pleurisy. When there is inflammation in the chest or lungs, the pleura may rub directly against each other. This typically causes a sharp pain on the inflamed side of the chest that occurs when a person breathes in.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Powerish. Confidence votes 15.2K. Pleurisy, or pleuritis, is inflammation of the lining of the lungs (the pleura) that leads to chest pain (usually sharp) when a breath is taken. 
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. 
In this article. Pleurisy, also called pleuritis, is an inflammation of the pleura, which is the moist, double-layered membrane that surrounds the lungs and lines the rib cage. The condition can make breathing extremely painful. Some of the other causes include: 1  Lung infections, such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. 2  Other diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, liver diseases, and pulmonary embolism. 3  Chest injuries.
The consequences of lung inflammation depend on the cause of the inflammation. Lung inflammation can refer to irritation and infection of the lung itself, or of the thin membrane that covers the lungs and lines the chest cavity, known as the pleura. 
Confidence votes 50.8K. RN, FNP. Pneumonitis is the medical term meaning inflammation of the lungs. Inflammation in the lungs is called Pleurisy it can be either wet or dry, can cause adhesions, also hard to breathe. Bronchitis. One term for it is aspiration pneumonia, which is inflammation of the lungs from inhaling foreign objects including vomit or other substances. It is not exclusively inflammati … on resulting from aspirated vomit, however-it can also refer to other forms of inhalation-induced inflammation.
Pleurisy is inflammation of the pleura, the membranes that surround the lungs, and the inside of the chest cavity. Pleurisy is often referred to as pleuritis or inflammation of the pleura. When there is inflammation in the chest or lungs, the pleura may rub directly against each other. This typically causes a sharp pain on the inflamed side of the chest that occurs when a person breathes in.
Understanding Pleurisy -- the Basics. Pleurisy, also called pleuritis, is an inflammation of the pleura, which is the moist, double-layered membrane that surrounds the lungs and lines the rib cage. The condition can make breathing extremely painful. Some of the other causes include: 1  Lung infections, such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. 2  Other diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, liver diseases, and pulmonary embolism. 3  Chest injuries.
Pleurisy is a lung condition where the lining of your lungs and chest cavity are inflamed. The lung and chest cavity lining is called the pleura. Pleurisy causes sharp chest pains when you cough or breathe. It can be caused by a variety of conditions, including infection, cancer, or chest trauma. When there is inflammation in the chest or lungs, the pleura may rub directly against each other. This typically causes a sharp pain on the inflamed side of the chest that occurs when a person breathes in.