Eunectes murinus (derived from the Greek ευνήκτης meaning good swimmer and the Latin murinus meaning of mice for being thought to prey on mice), commonly known as the green anaconda, is a non-venomous boa species found in South America. 
The anaconda may vary in color, from deep green, with black oval patching on its back to brownish color. Different types will have different colorations. The Anaconda is the heaviest snake, but it may or may not be the longest. The Reticulated python rivals the Anaconda for the longest snake. A 20-foot Anaconda will weigh more than a 33-foot python. The Anaconda can weigh 550 pounds or more, but will usually top out at a few hundred pounds. These snakes can measure more than 12 inches in diameter
There are two species of anacondas, Eunectes murinus and Eunectes notaeus. Murinus is known as the green anaconda and notaeus is known as the yellow. Respectively yellows are … canary yellow (to faded yellow) with black and greens are Forest green (to a muddy green color) with black, they also sometimes have orange on their heads. Both species have a cream to yellow colored belly. 
1 Taking length and weight into consideration, the green anaconda is the largest snake in the world, weighing around 550 pounds (227 kg) and measuring 30 feet (9 meters). 2  The nostrils of an anaconda are located on the top of its snout, allowing it to breathe with the rest of the body staying submerged in water. 1 Anacondas are of four different kinds: green anaconda, yellow anaconda, dark-spotted anaconda and Bolivian anaconda. 2  Native to the Amazon basin jungles of South America, these huge creatures can be sighted in easternBolivia,Paraguay, southernBrazil, and northeasternArgentina.
Green anaconda, Eunectes murinus. Description: The primary color of Green anacondas (Eunectes murinus) is olive green, with black blotches running down the body. Their narrow head (as compared to the rest of the body) has an orange-yellow striping on either side. 
Confidence votes 1.0K. There are two species of anacondas, Eunectes murinus and Eunectes notaeus. Murinus is known as the green anaconda and notaeus is known as the yellow. Respectively yellows are canary yellow (to faded yellow) with black and greens are Forest green (to a muddy green color) with black, they also sometimes have orange on their heads. Both species have a cream to yellow colored belly. Respectively yellows are canary yellow (to faded yellow) with black and greens are Forest green (to a muddy green color) with black, they also sometimes have orange on their heads
The Green Anaconda is dark green in color with black oval patches on its back. This drab pattern blends the snake in well with the wet, dense vegetations of its habitat. The sides have similar spots with yellow centers. The Yellow Anaconda is true to its name and is mostly yellow with similar black spots. The Reticulated python rivals the Anaconda for the longest snake. A 20-foot Anaconda will weigh more than a 33-foot python. The Anaconda can weigh 550 pounds or more, but will usually top out at a few hundred pounds.
Anaconda can be 30 feet long (like a school bus) and weigh up to 550 pounds (like 11 kids). Females are larger than males. Anacondas grow constantly their entire life. They are usually dark green in color, have 2 rows of black spots on their back and white marks on the sides. Anaconda hunts on the ground and in the water, but it spends most of its life in the water where it moves more easily.