Thus, it has been impossible to determine the exact origins of the caste system in South Asia. In the midst of the debate, only one thing is certain: South Asia's caste system has been around for several millennia and, until the second half of the 20th century, has changed very little during all of that time. If a Hindu person were asked to explain the nature of the caste system, he or she might start to tell the story of Brahma — the four-headed, four-handed deity worshipped as the creator of the universe.
The Caste System in Brief: The origins of the caste system in India and Nepal are shrouded, but it seems to have originated more than two thousand years ago. Under this system, which is associated with Hinduism, people were categorized by their occupations. Although originally caste depended upon a person's work, it soon became hereditary. The British Raj and Caste: When the British Raj began to take power in India in 1757, they exploited the caste system as a means of social control. The British allied themselves with the Brahmin caste, restoring some of its privileges that had been repealed by the Muslim rulers.
Confidence votes 41. Birth definitely determines who you are and your caste. However sometimes your actions and behaviour can also sometimes determine your caste. For example valmiki was a common thief but after repenting and rigirous meditation he became a great rishi and lived his life as a brahmin would.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A caste system is a type of social structure which divides people on the basis of inherited social status. Although many societies could be described in this way, within a caste system, people are rigidly expected to marry and interact with people of the same social class. The original caste system is a division of people into four essential groups, the spiritually inclined people (Brahmins), the security personnel (Kshatriyas), the producers of the means of livelihood (Visayas) and the instruction followers (Sudras).
The Caste System --(groups assigned by birth not personality). The Hindu conception of the social order is that people are different, and different people will fit well into different aspects of society. 
Today, the term caste is used to describe stratified societies based on hereditary groups not only in South Asia but throughout the world. Although born into the Kshatriya caste, Mahatma Gandhi spent much of his life working to bring the Untouchables equality. If a Hindu person were asked to explain the nature of the caste system, he or she might start to tell the story of Brahma — the four-headed, four-handed deity worshipped as the creator of the universe.
Caste is determined by birth, that is why it is impossible for someone not born into hinduism to become a hindu, the fact is there is no caste for that person. The last name of someone can sometimes indicate the caste and the part of India from which he/she hails from. Caste is mainly determined by the family in which one is born. And last name though a good indicator of caste, does not always give the complete idea and sometimes be misleading. I have seen Hindus from different castes having the same last name. J M · 7 years ago.
The Buddha and the Caste System. The Buddha was born into the highest caste, the Brahmans, but still didn't believe in the caste system. Buddhanet tells how the Buddha ridiculed priests with superiority complexes. Despite the Buddha's teachings, some Buddhist sects still practice the caste system. If a Hindu person were asked to explain the nature of the caste system, he or she might start to tell the story of Brahma — the four-headed, four-handed deity worshipped as the creator of the universe.
The caste system in India is a system of social stratification which has pre-modern origins, was transformed by the British Raj, and is today the basis of reservation in India. It consists of two different concepts, varna and jāti, which may be regarded as different levels of analysis of this system. Ambedkar was born in a caste that was classified as untouchable, became a leader of human rights in India, a prolific writer, and a key person in drafting modern India's constitution in the 1940s. He wrote extensively on discrimination, trauma and what he saw as the tragic effects of the caste system in India.