Making a saline water solution by dissolving table salt (NaCl) in water. The salt is the solute and the water the solvent. In chemistry, a solution is a homogeneous mixture composed of only one phase. In such a mixture, a solute is a substance dissolved in another substance, known as a solvent.
molar solution. a solution each liter of which contains 1 mole of the dissolved substance; designated 1 M. The concentration of other solutions may be expressed in relation to that of molar solutions as tenth-molar (0.1 M), etc. 
so·lu·tion. 1. Chemistry A mixture in which particles of one or more substances are distributed uniformly throughout another substance, so that the mixture is homogeneous at the molecular or ionic level. The particles in a solution are smaller than those in either a colloid or a suspension. solution-a method for solving a problem; the easy solution is to look it up in the handbook. method-a way of doing something, especially a systematic way; implies an orderly logical arrangement (usually in steps).
of polymers is small. A solid solution is a solid-state solution of one or more solutes in a solvent. Such a mixture is considered a solution rather than a compound when the crystal structure of the solvent remains unchanged by addition of the solutes, and when the mixture remains in a single homogeneous phase. 
solution. n. 1. (Chemistry) a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances in which the molecules or atoms of the substances are completely dispersed. The constituents can be solids, liquids, or gases. 2. (Chemistry) the act or process of forming a solution. solution-a method for solving a problem; the easy solution is to look it up in the handbook. method-a way of doing something, especially a systematic way; implies an orderly logical arrangement (usually in steps).
Answer by Greenlight Automation. Confidence votes 14.6K. A solution is a mixture of a solute and a solvent. A common solvent is water and an example of a solute is salt (sodium chloride). Adding salt to water results in a salt solution, sometimes called a saline solution. 
Solutions. Solutions are homogeneous mixtures. The major component is called solvent, and the minor components are called solute. If both components in a solution are 50%, the term solute can be assigned to either component. 
solution. n. 1. (Chemistry) a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances in which the molecules or atoms of the substances are completely dispersed. The constituents can be solids, liquids, or gases. 2. (Chemistry) the act or process of forming a solution. 
Creating new projects. The easiest way to create a new project is to start with a pre-defined project template, which consists of a basic set of pre-generated code files, config files, assets, and settings that get you started creating a particular type of application or website in a particular programming language. 
solution. noun so·lu·tion \sə-ˈlue-ˈlü\. Shən. : tweet something that is used or done to deal with and end a: problem something that solves a. : problem the act of solving. something Medical Definition of SOLUTION. 1. a: an act or the process by which a solid, liquid, or gaseous substance is homogeneously mixed with a liquid or sometimes a gas or solid—called also dissolution b: a homogeneous mixture formed by this process. 2.