Geas. 9,218 pages on this wiki. Geas is an archaic Forerunner term that refers to a generations-long genetic command imposed on an organism or species. Under the influence of a geas, an organism can be given a set of subconscious orders that will be passed on to their children, in some cases lasting several generations. 
Code Geass first ran in Japan on MBS from October 5, 2006, to July 28, 2007. Its sequel series, Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2 (コードギアス 反逆のルルーシュR2, Kōdo Giasu Hangyaku no Rurūshu Āru Tsū) , ran as a simulcast on JNN stations (like MBS and TBS) from April 6, 2008 to September 28, 2008.
Geas. A spell or curse put appon someone to makesure they fulfil their task and dont betray their master. For instance a Geas could be put upon a servant to make sure that they stay loyal or upon a mercenary to make sure they dont double cross their employee. Faliure to do so will result in the victim being killed in one way or another by the Geas. Used alot by Celtic Shamans and Norse Guayla (witch doctors).
Geas/Quest was an enchantment spell that commanded any subject to undertake a task or suffer possibly fatal pain and sickness. Arcane spellcasters and bards usually called this spell geas while divine spellcasters referred to it as quest. Like lesser geas, this spell could be used to coerce a creature to perform a task or restrain a creature from some course of action. The casting time was 10 minutes (24 seconds for the older version!) and could not be willfully resisted.
Geis in Irish Mythology [edit]. A geis can be compared with a curse or, paradoxically, a gift. If someone under a geis violates the associated taboo, the infractor will suffer dishonor or even death. On the other hand, the observing of one's geasa is believed to bring power. Often it is women who place geasa upon men. In some cases the woman turns out to be a goddess or other sovereignty figure
In Irish mythology and folklore, a geis (/ˈɡɛʃ/ ; [ˈɟɛʃ] ; plural geasa) is an idiosyncratic taboo, whether of obligation or prohibition, similar to being under a vow or spell. The Scottish Gaelic spelling  geas  is also common. A geis can be compared with a curse or, paradoxically, a gift. If someone under a geis violates the associated taboo, the infractor will suffer dishonor or even death.
Geas. Also spelled alternately as geis note Geas is a Scottish Gaelic word pronounced as gas in English, and its plural is Geasa. Geis is the Irish equivalent, is pronounced gesh, and its plural is geisi. , a geas is a form of magical compulsion or curse that originates in Celtic Mythology. Those under a geas are required to fulfill certain conditions or risk suffering a penalty bestowed by fate. 1 Another aspect of the human geas is that the memories, and eventually entire personalities, of ancient humans are carried by many humans, germinating and blossoming as they do/see/hear/etc. something that triggers it. 2  It gets to the point where the old spirits can hijack their host's body to communicate.
1 This could otherwise be a design error. 2  In the Irish Mythology, Geas, or Geis, is an idiosyncratic taboo, whether of obligation or prohibition, similar to being under a vow or spell. 3  In other words, it is a sort of curse brought by a vow. 4  Aside from being a curse, the Geis is also a key device. Mari then absorbs the powers of the Soul Stone and is transformed into the Geas. Geas once referred to someone who was exceptionally gifted into communicating with the divine in the ancient Kingdom of Kounat, one who was a step closer to the deities than everyone else.
elcome to Geas, an exciting and challenging multiplayer online roleplaying game or MUD (Multi User Dungeon) of unmatched complexity and realism. Geas’ class-and level-less system allows your character to improve and advance the skills and abilities he or she uses most, thereby giving you maximum freedom and unlimited possibilities to develop your alter ego into the kind of character you imagine.