We eat many plants, herbs and so forth in our daily diet. But, we must remember to be choosy. Some plants, trees or shrubs are potential killers of man. Some part of the ornamental plants or flowers in your yard may contain deadly poison. Many poisonous plants are so common and seemingly innocuous you do not suspect their toxic qualities. 
Lily of the Valley. Lilly of the Valley (Convallaria majalis) is a popular holiday plant that is toxic to dogs and requires aggressive treatment. Symptoms of plant poisoning which are common to most poisonous plants include diarrhea, nausea and drooling. This particular plant also can cause severe cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and a decreased heart rate. Emergency medical attention is needed. List of Dog Toxic Plants. This is a list of the most common types of dog poisonous plants. It does NOT contain every possible variety. Click on the link on the top of each column to see more details on the toxic parts of the plant, why it is poisonous to dogs and related symptoms.
1 The seedlings and seeds are the most toxic parts of the plants. 2  Symptoms usually occur within a few hours, producing unsteadiness and weakness, depression, nausea and vomiting, twisting of the neck muscles, rapid and weak pulse, difficulty breathing, and eventually death. Some plants have physical defenses such as thorns, spines and prickles, but by far the most common type of protection is chemical. Over millennia, through the process of natural selection, plants have evolved the means to produce a vast and complicated array of chemical compounds in order to deter herbivores.
Common Poisonous Plants and Plant Parts. Vegetation helps sustain life. We eat many plants, herbs and so forth in our daily diet. But, we must remember to be choosy. Some plants, trees or shrubs are potential killers of man. Some part of the ornamental plants or flowers in your yard may contain deadly poison. Many poisonous plants are so common and seemingly innocuous you do not suspect their toxic qualities. Fatal. Intense digestive disturbance and nervous symptoms. Poison Hemlock. All parts. Fatal. Resembles a large wild carrot. Jimson Weed (Thorn Apple). All parts. Abnormal thirst, distorted sight, delirium, incoherence and coma. Common cause of poisoning.
If plant parts are swallowed, vomiting can occur. Oleander, Lily of the Valley, Foxglove. All parts of the plants are poisonous if swallowed or if smoke from a burning plant is inhaled. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps, dizziness, low blood pressure, slow pulse and seizures. Prevention: Find out the names of your house and yard plants. Call the Poison Center at 1-800-222-1222 to see if your plants are toxic. Below is a partial list of common poisonous plants.
Perilla Mint. The whole plant, especially the flowers, is toxic. Poisoning incidents are more common in the fall when the plant is flowering. Poisoning symptoms include labored breathing. Perilla is usually found in shady areas around forest edges and farm buildings. It can be recognized by its mint-like odor. Nightshade. The berries are the main poisonous part of this plant, the leaves less so. Green berries are particularly toxic. Symptoms include acute toxicity, progressive unthriftiness (failure to put on weight), and gastric distress. Nightshade is unpalatable to animals, so they will rarely eat enough to cause death.
1 Ingestion of poisonous parts of the plant may cause severe stomach cramping, persistent diarrhea, nausea, vomiting (sometimes bloody), slow and difficult breathing, weakness, spasms, hypertension, severe convulsions, and death. Some plants have physical defenses such as thorns, spines and prickles, but by far the most common type of protection is chemical. Over millennia, through the process of natural selection, plants have evolved the means to produce a vast and complicated array of chemical compounds in order to deter herbivores.
W = Woody Ornamental, HP= Houseplant, H =Herbaceous 14 Common Name Botanical Name Dangerous Part of the Plant Symptoms Tobacco-H Flowering tobacco-H Tree tobacco-W Nicotiana tabacumNicotiana alataNicotiana glauca Ingestion of the leaves and flowers. W = Woody Ornamental, HP= Houseplant, H =Herbaceous 13 Common Name Botanical Name Dangerous Part of the Plant Symptoms Spider lily-HP Crinum spp. All parts, especially the bulb. Digestive upset, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Spring adonis-H Spring pheansan'ts eye Adonis vernalis Entire plant.