Continents are very large landmasses found on Earth. The Earth has seven such continents. They are (from largest in size to the smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe and Australia. Asia-Asia is the world’s largest and most populous continent on Earth. It covers 30% of the Earth’s land area. Asia hosts about 60% of the world’s current human population.
Africa, the Americas, Antarctica, Asia, Australia together with Oceania, and Europe are considered to be Continents. The term continent is used to differentiate between the various large areas of the earth into which all the land surface of Earth is divided. A map showing the world's continents and regions. 5 continents. We have been taught in school (way back in the 60's in Europe) that there are five continents, Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe, for instance symbolised in the five rings of the Olympic Games.
Home World Howmanyarethere 01 April 2011 49888 Views. There are seven 7 continents in the world. Continent means one of the principal land masses of the earth.If you count Europe and Asia continent as one continent (Eurosia) there are 6 continents .There are several number of continents as you can think. List of continents: 1. North America. 2. 
A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth. They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents. These are (from largest in size to smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia. 
Map of the Continents and Regions is showing the location of Africa, the Americas, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, and Europe. The Middle East, Central Asia, and South East Asia, which are regions. Greenland not official a continent, but the world's largest island. 
These six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, and Europe. 7 continents. By most standards, there are a maximum of seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, Europe, North America, and South America. A map showing the world's continents and regions. 5 continents. We have been taught in school (way back in the 60's in Europe) that there are five continents, Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe, for instance symbolised in the five rings of the Olympic Games.
There are 7 continents in the world and the names are Asia, Antarctica, North America, South America, Europe, Africa, and Australia. 25 people found this useful. There are 7 classic continents : Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Australia and Antarctica. By connected land masses there are only 5: Eurasia, Africa, Australia, Antarctica, and the Americas.
In Europe and other parts of the world, many students are taught of six continents, where North and South America are combined to form a single continent of America. Thus, these six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, and Europe. I am informed that in France, it is not taught that Antarctica is a continent and thus there are five continents for French students. By Matt Rosenberg. A continent is one of several major land masses on the earth. Thus, these six continents are Africa, Antarctica, Australia, Eurasia, North America, and South America. Geographers divide the planet into regions, and generally not continents, for ease of study. Various geographers have various definitions of these world regions.
There is no standard definition for the number of continents but you will commonly find that the numbers six or seven are used. Many consider there to be seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America. Most students in the United States are taught that there are seven continents. Thus, these six continents are Africa, Antarctica, Australia, Eurasia, North America, and South America. Geographers divide the planet into regions, and generally not continents, for ease of study. Various geographers have various definitions of these world regions.