Assistant principals help school principals with general administrative tasks. These vary from district to district and even school to school, but broadly fall into the areas of planning, coordinating services and maintaining order. In order to become an assistant principal, your surest path is to accumulate teaching experience and then earn a master's degree in education leadership or education administration.
The BLS does not have a separate category for assistant principals. According to Salary.com, as of March 2015, assistant principals in the 25th-75th percentile earned $69,591-$93,291 per year, with a median of $79,831. In order to become an assistant principal, your surest path is to accumulate teaching experience and then earn a master's degree in education leadership or education administration.
An assistant principal is the vice-principal of a school and is an essential part of the administration. In order to be hired for such a position you do need to have a post-graduate degree as well as teaching experience. Some of the qualities a principal will look for when hiring an assistant principals include willingness to learn and adapt to new situations, a sense of innovativeness in trying new techniques, knowledge of how the school and school system works and ability to deal with diverse students and teachers.
Depending on the size of the school, as an assistant principal, you may also have teaching duties for at least half of the time. Schools with large populations rarely have a teaching vice-principal, whereas this is common in schools with lower enrollments or in small rural schools. Some of the qualities a principal will look for when hiring an assistant principals include willingness to learn and adapt to new situations, a sense of innovativeness in trying new techniques, knowledge of how the school and school system works and ability to deal with diverse students and teachers.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. An assistant principal typically works at a school and helps the principal in dealing with behavioral problems with students, evaluating teachers, and dealing with certain other school functions such as some extracurricular activities and the cafeteria. An assistant principal is heavily involved in the daily routines of the students, teachers, and parents who participate in the education of their children. This often takes the form of discipline when dealing with students whose behavior is disruptive to or unsafe for other students.
Assistant principals aid the principal in the overall administration of the school. Some assistant principals hold this position for several years to prepare for advancement to principal jobs; others are career assistant principals. In larger school systems, a principal is often assisted by someone known as a vice-principal (Republic of Ireland: deputy principal) or assistant principal. Unlike the principal, the vice-principal does not have quite the decision-making authority that the principal carrie
The annual salary for someone with the job title Assistant School Principal may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Assistant School Principal in the United States is $80,432, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Assistant School Principal in the United States are expected to make less than $80,432. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus.
The requirements for becoming an assistant principal vary from state to state and in the various types of educational facilities. For example, in a private school you may not need to have a teaching certificate and as part of the administration of a daycare facility, you may not even need to hold a university degree. In the regular school system, you do need to be licensed to work as an assistant principal. Some of the qualities a principal will look for when hiring an assistant principals include willingness to learn and adapt to new situations, a sense of innovativeness in trying new techniques, knowledge of how the school and school system works and ability to deal with diverse students and teachers.
Learn More: Click to view related resources. An assistant principal, also known as a vice principal, is an entry-level position in educational administration that helps the principal in the overall running of the school. The job is fast-paced and requires multitasking to hold a leadership position in interactions with students, teachers and parents. If you’re a teacher who aspires to be an assistant principal, you’re in good company. A survey by the National Association of Elementary School Principals (NAESP) found principals averaged 14 years as a teacher before moving into an administrative role.