Brain surgery is an operation to treat problems in the brain and surrounding structures. Before surgery, the hair on part of the scalp is shaved and the area is cleaned. The doctor makes a surgical cut through the scalp. The location of this cut depends on where the problem in the brain is located. The surgeon creates a hole in the skull and removes a bone flap.
Brain Surgery – Brain Tumor And Neurosurgery Resources. The purpose of this website is to provide clear, understandable, non-technical information about the medical conditions that usually require brain surgery, as well as information about the techniques and skills needed for successful surgery on the brain.
any surgery involving the brain, spinal cord, or peripheral nerves. Brain surgery is performed to treat a wound, vascular disorders, or epilepsy; remove a tumor or foreign body; relieve pressure in intracranial hemorrhage or hydrocephaly; excise an abscess; treat parkinsonism; or relieve pain.
During open brain surgery, your surgeon may opt to remove tumors, clip off an aneurysm, drain blood or fluid from an infection, or remove abnormal brain tissue. When the procedure is complete, the bone flap is usually secured in place with plates, sutures, or wires.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a surgical procedure used to treat several disabling neurological symptoms—most commonly the debilitating motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD), such as tremor, rigidity, stiffness, slowed movement, and walking problems.
The term “brain surgery” refers to various medical procedures that involve repairing structural problems with the brain. There are numerous types of brain surgery. The type used is based on the area of the brain and condition being treated. Advances in medical technology let surgeons operate on portions of the brain without a single incision near the head. Brain surgery is a critical and complicated process. The type of brain surgery done depends highly on the condition being treated. For example, a brain aneurysm is typically repaired using an endoscope, but if it has ruptured, a craniotomy may be used.