Jam is a thick puree mixture of fruit, sugar and often pectin. Marmalade is similar to a preserve, but usually contains citrus fruit rind. And jelly is a clear bright mixture made from fruit juice, sugar and often pectin. Enjoy! http://www.greatfoodz.com/category/1/. A jam and preserve are the same -- they contain chunks of fruit or pureed fruit. A jelly is made from the juice of the fruit and a marmalade is a jelly with suspended citrus rind. http://www.waldoward.com/berry.htm And if you're still confused about which is what, don't read this one.
Jam. Jam is a thick mixture of fruit, pectin, and sugar that is boiled gently but quickly until the fruit is soft and has an organic shape, yet is still thick enough that it spreads easily and can form a blob. In addition to being a spread, jams are also good for fillings. Jelly is made from sugar, pectin, acid, and fruit juice and is a clear spread that is firm enough to hold its shape. Jellies can also be made from ingredients other than fruit, such as herbs, tea, wine, liqueurs, flowers, and vegetables.
Marmalade is a Scottish pop rock group from the east end of Glasgow, originally formed in 1961 as the Gaylords, and then later billed as Dean Ford and the Gaylords. In 1966 they changed the group name to The Marmalade. The most successful period for the band, in terms of UK chart success, was between 1968 and 1972. 
Marmalade is a type of fruit preserve which includes citrus rinds. Most people associate marmalade specifically with citrus fruits, although it can also be made with other fruits like strawberries. This preserve is sweet from fruit and added sugar, with a hint of tartness from the included rinds.
Answer: Orange marmalade has long been a favorite spread for breads and toast. You may be surprised to learn that marmalade was originally made from a completely different fruit, one not even in the citrus family. Today, the general definition for marmalade is a sweet jelly in which pieces of fruit and rind are suspended. The key is the rind, which gives lends a bitterness to delightfully balance the sweetness of the jelly.
Marmalade. Marmalade is a citrus spread made from the peel and pulp of the fruit. Marmalades are cooked for a long time and have no pectin, and are used as spreads and glazes. Jelly is made from sugar, pectin, acid, and fruit juice and is a clear spread that is firm enough to hold its shape. Jellies can also be made from ingredients other than fruit, such as herbs, tea, wine, liqueurs, flowers, and vegetables.
Not to be confused with the Haitian town of Marmelade. Marmalade is a fruit preserve made from the juice and peel of citrus fruits boiled with sugar and water. It can be produced from kumquats, lemons, limes, grapefruits, mandarins, sweet oranges, bergamots and other citrus fruits, or any combination thereof. In much of Europe, the term “marmalade” and its variations is still used as a generic term, whereas in Britain it has been redefined solely to a citrus preserve. The name originates in Portuguese, where marmelada applies exclusively to quince jam (from  marmelo , the Portuguese for quince).
The benchmark citrus fruit for marmalade production in Britain is the Spanish Seville orange, Citrus aurantium var. aurantium, prized for its high pectin content, which gives a good set. The peel has a distinctive bitter taste which it imparts to the marmalade. In much of Europe, the term “marmalade” and its variations is still used as a generic term, whereas in Britain it has been redefined solely to a citrus preserve. The name originates in Portuguese, where marmelada applies exclusively to quince jam (from  marmelo , the Portuguese for quince).