Mutations can be caused by external (exogenous) or endogenous (native) factors, or they may be caused by errors in the cellular machinery. Physical or chemical agents that induce mutations in DNA are called mutagens and are said to be mutagenic.
Such types of mutations are also called as mosaicism. Here are some diseases which are caused by gene mutations:- 1)Cystic Fibrosis:- Cystic fibrosis is a single gene mutation. This disease is related with secretory glands of the body like sweat and mucus. This is a hereditary disease.
A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed.
Sickle cell anemia is the result of a point mutation, a change in just one nucleotide in the gene for hemoglobin. This mutation causes the hemoglobin in red blood cells to distort to a sickle shape when deoxygenated. The sickle-shaped blood cells clog in the capillaries, cutting off circulation.
Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes.
Mutations can also be caused by exposure to specific chemicals or radiation. These agents cause the DNA to break down. This is not necessarily unnatural  even in the most isolated and pristine environments, DNA breaks down. Nevertheless, when the cell repairs the DNA, it might not do a perfect job of the repair.