Plantar fibromatosis is a rare condition in which benign (non-cancerous) tumors called plantar fibromas grow on the bottom (plantar surface) of the foot. It is still unclear what causes plantar fibromatosis, but most patients have one or more of the following in common: 1  Family history of the condition. 2  Caucasian males over 70. 3  Diabetes mellitus.
A plantar fibroma is a benign nodule that grows on the bottom of the foot and usually appears in the second through sixth decade of life. It is usually slow growing and measures less than an inch in size. More invasive, rapid-growing and multi-planar fibromas are considered plantar fibromatosis. 
Fibromatosis of the breast is similar to fibromatosis elsewhere in the body (e.g., desmoid tumor s). Fibromatosis. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Jump to: navigation, search ... Fibromatosis Gingivae. Medical Dictionary. Definition of medical terminology for Fibromatosis Gingivae. Neurofibromatosis in children. Neurofibromatosis is actually more than one disorder. It actually is two separate disorder
Other names include musculoaponeurotic fibromatosis, referring to the tendency of these tumors to be adjacent to and infiltrating deep skeletal muscle, aggressive fibromatosis and desmoid tumor.. A clear difference should be made between intra-abdominal and extra-abdominal localizations. In intra-abdominal fibromatosis associated with Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), surgery is avoided if possible due to high rates of recurrence within the abdomen carrying significant morbidity and mortality.
aggressive fibromatosis desmoid tumor, particularly one that is extra-abdominal. fibromatosis gingi´vae, gingival fibromatosis noninflammatory fibrous hyperplasia of the gingiva manifested as a dense, diffuse, smooth or nodular overgrowth of the gingival tissues. fibromatosis. 1. the presence of multiple fibromas. 2. the formation of a fibrous, tumor-like nodule arising from the deep fascia, with a tendency to local recurrence. fibromatosis gingivae, gingival fibromatosis. see epulis.
fibromatosis gingi´vae (gingival fibromatosis) a noninflammatory fibrous hyperplasia of the gingivae and palate, manifested as a dense, smooth, or nodular overgrowth of the tissues. It is usually inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, but some cases are idiopathic and others are produced by drugs. fibromatosis. 1. the presence of multiple fibromas. 2. the formation of a fibrous, tumor-like nodule arising from the deep fascia, with a tendency to local recurrence. fibromatosis gingivae, gingival fibromatosis. see epulis.
Plantar fibromatosis is a fibrotic tissue disorder or wound healing disorder, which is non-cancerous and is characterized by the presence of excess collagen or fibrotic tissue. 
Deep fibromatoses include extraabdominal fibromatosis, or extraabdominal desmoid tumors. The deep fibromatoses are tumors that have the capacity for infiltration and recurrence. 
Plantar fibromatosis is a tissue condition affecting the plantar fascia which is fibrotic and usually includes a single lesion or multiple nodules. The condition usually derives from the medial as well as the central fascial band of the aponeurosis and is normally non-cancerous. 