The small intestine is the main area of the GI tract for absorption. The small intestine has three separate sections, the duodenum, jejunum and ileum. The majority of nutrient absorption occurs in the duodenum and jejunum. The duodenum absorbs carbohydrates, proteins, and minerals including calcium, magnesium, iron, chloride, sodium and zinc. 
Small Intestine – nearly all chemical digestion and nutrient absorption occurs in small intestine– the longest part of the digestive tract • 2.7 to 4.5 m long in a living person• 4 to 8 m long in a cadaver where there is no muscle tone – “small” intestine refers to the diameter not length • 2.5 cm (1 inch). 
The majority of the digestion and absorption of food occurs in the small intestine. Some nutrients a … re absorbed in the  stomach, but nutrients are absorbed mainly in the small intestine,  where the small, soluble molecules are diffused or actively  transported from the ileum/duodenum, into the capillaries on the  other side of the intestine. + 10 others found this useful. Milagros Maldonado.
Best Answer: Most of the digestion and all of the absorption(Except water) takes part in the Small Intestine... Water is absorbed in the Large intestine... Other places of digestion include, the mouth(Carbohydrates, by Amylase enzymes) and stomach(Proteins by Pepsin enzymes). Hope this helps :) ! Small intestine. The stomach is basically a holding area that feeds food gradually into the small intestine, where most of the digestive process and almost all of the absorption occur. The large intestine hold primarily waste, though some water absorption occurs there. Source(s): biologist.
Report Abuse. well nutrients are absorbed mostly in the small intestine...but you said this takes place in the urinary system.. well abosorption of water and ions takes place in different parts of the loop of henle...but i dont think nutrients are absorbed in the urinary sytem. kristen m · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
The small intestine or small bowel is the part of the gastrointestinal tract between the stomach and the large intestine, and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place. The small intestine has three distinct regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The primary function of the small intestine is the absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. This article is primarily about the human gastrointestinal tract. The information about its processes is directly applicable to most placental mammals.
Once these materials have been broken down, nutrient absorption can occur. As food is processed along the digestive tract, most of the nutrients are absorbed through the walls of the small intestines. The nutrients are carried into the bloodstream where they can travel to all parts of the body. 
Most food absorption takes place in the small intestine. Of the  three sections of the small intestine, the duodenum and jejunum  absorb the most nutrients. Some nutrients a … re absorbed in the  stomach, but nutrients are absorbed mainly in the small intestine,  where the small, soluble molecules are diffused or actively  transported from the ileum/duodenum, into the capillaries on the  other side of the intestine. + 10 others found this useful. Milagros Maldonado.