Stool Softener. Stool Softener from Quality Choice. Prevent dry, hard stools. Relieves occasional constipation. Quality Choice Stool Softener is a solution for the prevention of dry, hard stools in this bottle with 100 liquid capsules. Use to relieve occasional constipation. The product generally will produce a bowel movement within 12 to 72 hours.
Do you consume whole unrefined plant foods or do you consume processed foods, such as white flour, mock meats, etc. Being constipated as a vegan is quite strange if your following a whole foods plant based diet. Water is a major factor! Prunes vs. Metamucil vs. Vegan Diet. VN:R_U [1.9.22_1171]. The average number of bowel movements a week is compared between those eating prunes, those taking a fiber supplement, and those eating a strictly plant-
Ingredients: Active Ingredient: Docusate sodium 100mg (Stool softener). Inactive Ingredients: D&C red no. 33, FD&C red no. 40, FD&C yellow no. 6, gelatin, glycerin, PEG 400, propylene glycol, sorbitol, titanium dioxide. Warnings Do not use if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain, nausea, vomiting, noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks. 
I have to say this really works. I woke up and drank 4 oz of prune juice folllow by a glass of water 10 min later. WWooww in 30min, I went to the bathroom 3 times. Is the best! I felt so good after the 2nd. 
There are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation: bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives. Bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in Metamucil, for example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it easier to pass. Regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more effective.
Dulcolax ® : Designed for Dependable Relief. The makers of Dulcolax ® products offer a range of over-the-counter options because everybody is different and there is no one right way to treat your constipation or gas symptoms. Find the Dulcolax ® product that's right for you. Find out more. 
-Colace. It's an over the counter stool softener, it is non-addictive and I think it's gluten-free and it's quite effective without tummy cramping or nausea (which I get from Dulcolax). Yep, I take Colace every day with my iron (which would otherwise cause major C). My doctor said I could take it every day. 
Docusate Sodium (Colace) is a drug that is classified as a laxative. What it doesis that it acts like a detergent. It promotes the absorption of water into the stools thus making it form a softer mass. Colace is available in capsules, as enema concentrate, oral liquid, oral solution, syrup and tablets. I bought the 100 mg capsules for $23 without needing a prescription
I do the water, exercise, the common knowledge things but sometimes need some help. Answer: The best natural stool softener is a well-balanced vegan diet. In fact, many people mention that one of the first things they notice on their new diet is a looser stool. Ideally, you should relieve yourself at least once a day, and often two times. 