If the primary cause of pain is due to neurological disease or nerve root compression, surgery has the potential to bring relief for lower back pain. However, if the primary cause of pain is due to chronic musculoskeletal problems like myofascial trigger points, surgery does not have the power to cut out the problem. But despite advanced technologies, surgery is not always successful. Therefore lower back surgery should only be considered when there is damage to peripheral nerves or there is the presence of progressive neurological disease. Additionally, it may take many months for the patient to fully heal after surgery, and he or she may, in the end, suffer permanent loss of flexibility
Lumbar surgery refers to any type of surgery in the lumbar spine, or lower back, between one or more of the L1-S1 levels. There are two general types of lumbar spine surgery that comprise the most common surgical procedures for the lower back: Lumbar Decompression. The goal of a decompression surgery is usually to relieve pain caused by nerve root pinching. There are two common causes of lumbar nerve root pressure: from a lumbar herniated disc or lumbar spinal stenosis. This type of pain is usually referred to as a radiculopathy, or sciatica.
Surgery to treat low back pain can be a far more extensive type of back surgery, with a longer healing period and a somewhat lower success rate, than back surgery for a pinched nerve (leg pain). Deciding when to see a spine surgeon for possible low back surgery is also somewhat dependent on the type of surgery that is being considered.
A discectomy is a procedure to remove a portion of the disc that rests between each vertebrae. A herniated disc is the most common reason for spine surgery. In this type of spine surgery, the herniated disc is removed and relieve the pressure on the nerves. Spine Fusion. A spine fusion is surgery that is done to eliminate motion between adjacent vertebrae. Spine disc replacement is done to treat specific types of back pain, while avoiding the problems associated with spine fusion surgery. Houston Spine Surgeons | Dallas Spine Surgeons | Houston orthopedic specialist | Dallas Pain Management | St. Louis Pain Management.
Other types of lower back surgery include spinal stenosis surgery and sciatica surgery. The various types of lower back surgery should be thoroughly researched before committing to a course of treatment. Make sure to get a second opinion and don't hesitate to explore more conservative treatments first. But despite advanced technologies, surgery is not always successful. Therefore lower back surgery should only be considered when there is damage to peripheral nerves or there is the presence of progressive neurological disease. Additionally, it may take many months for the patient to fully heal after surgery, and he or she may, in the end, suffer permanent loss of flexibility
Different types of back surgery include: 1  Diskectomy. 2  This involves removal of the herniated portion of a disk to relieve irritation and inflammation of a nerve. 3  Diskectomy typically involves full or partial removal of the back portion of a vertebra (lamina) to access the ruptured disk. 4  Laminectomy. 1 Diskectomy typically involves full or partial removal of the back portion of a vertebra (lamina) to access the ruptured disk. 2  Laminectomy. 3  This procedure involves the removal of the bone overlying the spinal canal. 4  It enlarges the spinal canal and is performed to relieve nerve pressure caused by spinal stenosis.
Discectomy. A discectomy is a procedure to remove a portion of the disc that rests between each vertebrae. A herniated disc is the most common reason for spine surgery. In this type of spine surgery, the herniated disc is removed and relieve the pressure on the nerves. Foramenotomy. A foramenotomy is also a procedure used to relieve pressure on a nerve, but in this case, the nerve is being pinched by more than just herniated disc
Lumbar Fusion. The goal of a lumbar fusion is to stop the pain at a painful motion segment in the lower back. Most commonly, this type of surgery is performed for pain and disability caused by lumbar degenerative disc disease or a spondylolisthesis. Spine Fusion Surgery Video. Lumbar Decompression. The goal of a decompression surgery is usually to relieve pain caused by nerve root pinching. There are two common causes of lumbar nerve root pressure: from a lumbar herniated disc or lumbar spinal stenosis. This type of pain is usually referred to as a radiculopathy, or sciatica.