Map: The average cost for child care by state. Child care is one of the highest budget items for a family and Massachusetts is among the least affordable states with an annual cost of $16,430, according to Child Care Aware of America. The group advocates for a high quality child care system and gathers and analyzes child care data.
The report,  Parents and the High Cost of child Care , pegs the average for a year of infant care in Oregon child care centers at $11,079, the fourth-highest in the nation. That's more than 15 percent of the median income for a two-parent family, and more than the cost of a year of college tuition and fees. Massachusetts had the most egregiously high infant child care costs, at nearly $15,000 annually. Mississippi had the most affordable infant center-based care, at about $4,600 annually. Costs were lower for older children. Child care in urban Oregon is twice as expensive as it is in rural parts of the state.
The average cost of center-based daycare in the United States is $11,666 per year ($972 a month), but prices range from $3,582 to $18,773 a year ($300 to $1,564 monthly), according to the National Association of Child Care Resource & Referral Agencies (NACCRRA). Nanny care costs significantly less in, say, St. Louis than in Manhattan simply because the cost of living is lower there and so are wages. And daycare – whether in a center or in someone's home – could cost double or triple per month in a relatively expensive city compared to a cheaper area.
1 Assuming full-time day care for a 2 year old child on weekdays, according to Runzheimer International, the U.S. national average cost for full-time day care is $611 a month. 2  Large cities such as Boston and New York are most expensive, with average daycare costs of a little more than $1,000 a month. 1 Large cities such as Boston and New York are most expensive, with average daycare costs of a little more than $1,000 a month. 2  Contacting two KinderCares in the San Jose area about infant day care, we received quotes of $300-$330 a week, plus annual fees.
Parents with two children in childcare are paying more than the average price of rent in Oregon. Massachusetts had the most egregiously high infant child care costs, at nearly $15,000 annually. Mississippi had the most affordable infant center-based care, at about $4,600 annually. Costs were lower for older children. Child care in urban Oregon is twice as expensive as it is in rural parts of the state.
The estimated Oregon figure is close to one reported national average of $25,782 (Zill, 2011). When a child is adopted from foster care by a loving and supportive adoptive family, that family for the most part assumes private responsibility for the cost of the various supports all children need to grow and thrive. The average annual net savings for one child being adopted out of foster care is $17,636 in Oregon, and it is $15,480 nationally. In 2010, AFFEC contributed to the work of getting approximately 132 children and siblings out of foster care and into homes with permanent and loving families.
Well, first off, the obvious: child care is very expensive. The cost of child care greatly exceeds the cost of college tuition at a public Oregon university. For full-time infant care at a licensed center, Benton County parents shell out an average of $12,000 a year. Little Beaver’s full-time care for toddlers is $947 a month. Corvallis Montessori’s full-time care for toddlers is $9,600 a year. Growing Oaks is $1,065 a month. Two, and in unfortunate conjunction with the high cost of care, Oregon unemployment is high (7.9% as of June) and annual wages are low. Oregon’s per capita personal income in 2012 was 9% less than the national figure.
The least expensive states for preschool-age care in a childcare center, with costs ranging from less than $4,000 a year ($333 a month) to around $7,000 a year are Mississippi, Kentucky, Louisiana, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Idaho, West Virginia, South Carolina, and Alabama. Nanny care costs significantly less in, say, St. Louis than in Manhattan simply because the cost of living is lower there and so are wages. And daycare – whether in a center or in someone's home – could cost double or triple per month in a relatively expensive city compared to a cheaper area.
According to Child Care Aware of America, an organization that advocates for quality child care, the average costs for infant care typically range from around $4,800 to $16,500 a year (or $400 to $1,375 monthly), depending on where you live and the quality of the center. 
Oregon is the least-affordable state for center-based infant care, in which its average cost is 18.6 percent of the state's median income for married couples with kids, which is $72,226. Meanwhile, the dollar cost of center-based infant care is highest in Massachusetts, where the average annual cost of center-based infant care is $16,500. Using states' median income levels, see how your state ranks according to the affordability of infant care.