According to David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, the two came up with the idea of adapting George R. R. Martin's novels to the screen in 2006, after Benioff began reading the first novel, A Game of Thrones. The first season of Game of Thrones had an average of 2.5 million viewers for its first Sunday night screenings, and an average gross audience of 9.3 million viewers per episode including all repeats and on-demand viewings. For its second season, Game of Thrones had an average gross audience of 11.6 million viewers.
TV Ratings. Game of Thrones. Gross viewership has the drama nearing the HBO record set by The Sopranos in 2002 while solidifying its status as one of the most formidable series currently on TV — besting most broadcast and cable DVR stats. Game of Thrones isn't just the biggest thing on HBO. It's now one of the most watched series on TV. TV's gold standard, thanks to its dominance among adults 18-49 (peripheral info to ad-free HBO), currently ranks as cable's most watched television series. The recent season averaged 18.4 million viewers in live-plus-7, placing another record well within Game of Thrones ' sights.
Season 6. Season 5 of Game of Thrones was commissioned by HBO on 8 April 2014, following a substantial increase in audience figures between the third and fourth seasons. The fifth and sixth seasons were commissioned simultaneously, the first time HBO has commissioned two seasons at once for a major drama series. 
Game of Thrones is an American fantasy drama television series created for HBO by showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss. It is an adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire, George R. R. Martin 's series of fantasy novels, the first of which is titled A Game of Thrones. The first season of Game of Thrones had an average of 2.5 million viewers for its first Sunday night screenings, and an average gross audience of 9.3 million viewers per episode including all repeats and on-demand viewings. For its second season, Game of Thrones had an average gross audience of 11.6 million viewers.
It's the worst way to watch. Game of Thrones is a show that lives in the details, and sacrificing a high definition image just to see the show a few weeks early seems like madness. Critics watch a version of the show that's significantly worse than the beautiful image offered via any other method. Game of Thrones is a weekly show, and the rhythm of each episode and final scene is improved by the week in between. It's a show that rewards multiple viewings, and speculation about what will happen next and what it all means.
Gameplay Trailer: Game of Thrones 3- A sword in the darkness. HBO has always had an uneasy but not directly hostile relationship with Game of Thrones piracy, and the company has recently taken steps towards improving how the show is offered in order to make the product itself easier to access. Game of Thrones is a weekly show, and the rhythm of each episode and final scene is improved by the week in between. It's a show that rewards multiple viewings, and speculation about what will happen next and what it all means.
The third season was watched by 14.2 million, making Game of Thrones the second most-viewed HBO series after The Sopranos. In the fourth season, HBO said that its average gross audience of 18.4 million viewers, later adjusted to 18.6 million, had beaten The Sopranos for the record. The first season of Game of Thrones had an average of 2.5 million viewers for its first Sunday night screenings, and an average gross audience of 9.3 million viewers per episode including all repeats and on-demand viewings. For its second season, Game of Thrones had an average gross audience of 11.6 million viewers.
List of Game of Thrones episodes. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Game of Thrones is a fantasy drama television series created by David Benioff and D. B. Weiss which premiered on HBO on April 17, 2011. The series is based on the A Song of Ice and Fire novels by author George R. R. Martin. The series takes place on the fictional continents of Westeros and Essos and chronicles the power struggles among the noble families as they fight for control of the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms. As of June 14, 2015, 50 episodes of Game of Thrones have aired, concluding the fifth season. The series has been renewed for a sixth seaso