Paprika is also a common ingredient in sausages, especially those produced in Spain, Portugal, and Germany. With its often mild flavor and light aroma, paprika is not usually spicy like the seasonings made from chili peppers. This makes sense, since the red bell pepper is a rather sweet and mellow fruit. This spice can add a little heat to a dish, however, especially when certain varieties are used. 
1 Paprika is made from the Capsicum Pepper. 2  Depending on how mild you want your paprika, you can make your paprika from chili peppers, which are spicier, or from red bell peppers, which are milder. 3  Plant 10 to 15 chili or red bell pepper plants. 4  This is the number of plants that you need in order to make your paprika. 1 Depending on how mild you want your paprika, you can make your paprika from chili peppers, which are spicier, or from red bell peppers, which are milder. 2  Plant 10 to 15 chili or red bell pepper plants. 3  This is the number of plants that you need in order to make your paprika.
Paprika is one of the most widely used spices around the world. A dried powder made from bell peppers or chili peppers, it is commonly used in Hungarian, African, and Spanish cuisines for its color and flavor and has made its way west as a staple, everyday ingredient. 
See larger image. Hungarian Paprika is a spice made from the finely ground fruit of what we know as the pepper plant (Capsicum annuum L.). In German, Paprika also means bell pepper. Whole, hot peppers are found mostly pickled in Germany and are called Peperoncino and Peperoni (jalepenos or chilis). 
Paprika is a powder made from grinding the pods of various kinds of Capsicum annuum peppers. Used for flavor and color, it is the fourth most consumed spice in the world and often appears in spice mixes (like the bahārāt we posted earlier this week), rubs, marinades, stews, chilis, and as a garnish. Paprika is considered the national spice of Hungary and it appears in the country's most celebrated dish, goulash. Hungarian paprika is made from peppers that are harvested and then sorted, toasted, and blended to create different varieties. All Hungarian paprikas have some degree of rich, sweet red pepper flavor, but they range in pungency and heat
Description. Paprika is a red powder that is made from grinding the dried pods of mild varieties of the pepper plant known as (Capsicum annuum L.) The pepper plants used to make this spice range from the sweet Bell pepper to the milder chili peppers. The Paprika peppers originally grown were hot. Paprika has been traditionally associated with Hungary, where much of the best paprika is produced today. The first pepper plants arrived in Hungary in the 17th century. Some believe that ethnic groups who were fleeing north from the Turks introduced the peppers to the Balkans.
Directions. 1  Paprika is made from the Capsicum Pepper. 2  Depending on how mild you want your paprika, you can make your paprika from chili peppers, which are spicier, or from red bell peppers, which are milder. 3  Plant 10 to 15 chili or red bell pepper plants. 1 Depending on how mild you want your paprika, you can make your paprika from chili peppers, which are spicier, or from red bell peppers, which are milder. 2  Plant 10 to 15 chili or red bell pepper plants. 3  This is the number of plants that you need in order to make your paprika.
Paprika is a spice made from air-dried fruits of the chili pepper family of the species Capsicum annuum. Although paprika is often associated with Hungarian cuisine, the chilies from which it is made are native to the New World, introduced to the Old World from the Americas. The seasoning is also used to add color and flavor to many types of dishes. Paprika can range from mild to hot, and flavors also vary from country to country, but almost all plants grown produce the sweet variety. Sweet paprika is mostly composed of the pericarp, with more than half of the seeds removed, whereas hot paprika contains some seeds, placentas, calyces, and stalks.