Facebook Twitter Stumble Google+ Save. The question of how television changed our lives is an important one, due to the sociological impact of mass media and cultural shifts in…hey, shut up, America's Saddest Fatties is on! Television changed our lives big time back when it first started gaining traction in American homes in the 1950s. TV lore tells us that instead of strolling home from work and chatting with neighbors, many Americans rushed home in time to view their favorite programs.
TV has also changed by how big it has g … ot   The most noticeable change is in the way television shows are presented. There used to be no more than 3 minutes of commercials at the top and bottom of the hour, and 1 minute at the quarter hours. The television media has changed the mind of many adults too. We are told what to wear, eat, drink, say. We are told where to go and what car to drive there in. We are taught how we are to treat others according to Hollywood.
With the advent of on-demand services such as BBC iPlayer and Channel 4 On Demand, and internet streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Instant Video (formerly Lovefilm), how audiences follow television has fundamentally, irrevocably changed. Witness the rise of binge-watching. As 75 per cent of viewers admit to binge-watching TV series on streaming services such as Netflix, we look at how gorging on box sets has changed our viewing habits. Services such as Netflix, which offer paid-for streaming of popular box-sets, have changed the way global audiences watch TV. By Sarah Rainey.
The invention of television has changed the American household   by giving them something to bond over. Many families spend time   together watching television. It has … also hurt family life because  people   stay inside more and don't socialize as much. The television media has changed the mind of many adults too. We are told what to wear, eat, drink, say. We are told where to go and what car to drive there in. We are taught how we are to treat others according to Hollywood.
A modern TV viewer would probably see little resemblance between the earliest television advertisements and the modern TV environment. From flat-screen HDTVs to small, flip-open screens, TV viewing has become part of everyday life, far removed from the luxurious event that watching television was in its earliest days. TV -- and the way we view it -- has come a long way from the days of small, black-and-white sets. That evolution has changed more than just technology, programming or the way we watch, however; our culture has been drastically altered by the glowing sets in our living rooms and dens.
Entertainment has brought many benefits and challenges to American culture and has changed the way we communicate. Television has been in homes since the 1950s. For most people it has and is the primary source of entertainment. TV has helped to create our culture by making an impact on book's, newspaper's and magazine's design and content. The television media has changed the mind of many adults too. We are told what to wear, eat, drink, say. We are told where to go and what car to drive there in. We are taught how we are to treat others according to Hollywood.
How Television has Changed Well, a numerous things have changed! Look at how thin they are! Color, size, remotes, LCD, over 1,000 channels, cable, dish, no antennas! 
Best Answer: The 50's were all about family shows, like Leave it to Beaver. Now, TV has turned to being more revealing and trashy. Like Reality TV for instance. Society was different back then. People kept their business their business and took pride in how they were viewed. Now, most people on TV don't care. Report Abuse. Television has become far more incorporated into people's lives than it ever was in the 1950s. Back then, it was a luxury to have a tv, and tv time was special. Programming was much more limited. There weren't as many channels, and there weren't as many types of shows-you pretty much had to take what you could get