Adj. 1. fibrous-having or resembling fibers especially fibers used in making cordage such as those of jute. hempen. tough-resistant to cutting or chewing. adj. 1. consisting of, containing, or resembling fibres: fibrous tissue. (ˈfaɪ brəs). adj.
Composed of, or having the character of fibers. fibrous tissue. fibrous material. fibrous dysplasia. fibrous root. fibrous roots. fibrous bands. fibrous connective tissue. fibrous materials. fibrous proteins. 
Full Definition of FIBROUS. 1. a: containing, consisting of, or resembling fibers b: characterized by fibrosis. 2. See fibrous defined for English-language learners. See fibrous defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
• FIBROUS TISSUE (noun). The noun FIBROUS TISSUE has 1 sense: 1. tissue consisting of or containing fibers in both animals and plants. Familiarity information: FIBROUS TISSUE used as a noun is very rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of fibrous tissue): trabecula (rod-shaped structures of fibrous tissue that divide an organ into parts (as in the penis) or stabilize the structure of an organ (as in the spleen)).
Definition. Fibrous dysplasia is an uncommon bone disorder in which scar-like (fibrous) tissue develops in place of normal bone. This can weaken the affected bone and cause it to deform or fracture. In most cases, fibrous dysplasia affects only a single bone — most commonly the skull or a long bone in the arms or legs
Tissue consisting of or containing fibers in both animals and plants. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (fibrous tissue is a kind of...): animal tissue (the tissue in the bodies of animals). plant tissue (the tissue of a plant). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of fibrous tissue): trabecula (rod-shaped structures of fibrous tissue that divide an organ into parts (as in the penis) or stabilize the structure of an organ (as in the spleen)).
fibrous. adj. 1. consisting of, containing, or resembling fibres: fibrous tissue. (ˈfaɪ brəs). adj. containing, consisting of, or resembling fiber
The adjective FIBROUS has 2 senses: 1. having or resembling fibers especially fibers used in making cordage such as those of jute. 2. (of meat) full of sinews; especially impossible to chew. Familiarity information: FIBROUS used as an adjective is rare.
Best Answer: I agree, you should ask your doctor. But Fibrous Density usually means fibrocystic breast disease: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/... If your doctor didn't seem conserned, it's because FCBD is not life-threatening. Read up on it. If you worry-see your doctor. Women with FCBD should NOT ignore breast lumps.