The pulmonary vein is the only vein to carry oxygenated blood which is on its way to the heart from the lungs. The diagram also shows you that the right and side of the heart, both atrium and ventricle, contains only deoxygenated blood. This blood moves through the heart on its way to the lungs where it picks up oxygen and releases carbon dioxide. The left hand side of the heart contains only oxygenated blood which has come from the lungs and is destined to be distributed throughout the body.
Submit. 路 just now. Report Abuse. side of the heart = - left side is oxygenated blood-right side is deoxygenated blood (which leaves the right ventricle to go to the lungs to get oxygenated, returns to left atrium in the pulminary vein and leaves the left ventricle in the aorta). becky :) 路 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 
Oxygenated blood (returning from the lungs) returns to the LEFT side of the heart, into the left atrium, down into the left ventricle and out into the aorta to perfuse the tissues of the body. 
In other words The function of the right side of the heart (see right heart) is to collect deoxygenated blood, in the right atrium, from the body and pump it, via the right ventricle, into the lungs (pulmonary circulation) so that carbon dioxide can be dropped off and oxygen picked up (gas exchange). The left side of the heart carries oxygenated blood (receive from lungs) and give out the blood through aorta; while the right side carries deoxygenated (from the venae cavae). filbert hita kumaro 路 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Report Abuse. Right-deoxygenated blood left-Oxygenated blood Right Heart Right heart is a term used to refer collectively to the right atrium and right ventricle of the heart; occasionally, this term is intended to reference the right atrium, right ventricle, and the pulmonary trunk collectively. The left side of the heart carries oxygenated blood (receive from lungs) and give out the blood through aorta; while the right side carries deoxygenated (from the venae cavae). filbert hita kumaro 路 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
The right atrium is the upper chamber of the right side of the heart. The blood that is returned to the right atrium is deoxygenated (poor in oxygen) and passed into the right ventricle to be pumped through the pulmonary artery to the lungs for re-oxygenation and removal of carbon dioxide. 
Systemic circulation carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle, through the arteries, to the capillaries in the tissues of the body. From the tissue capillaries, the deoxygenated blood returns through a system of veins to the right atrium of the heart. 
This oxygenated blood is pumped to the left hand side of the heart in the pulmonary vein and enters the left atrium. From here it passes through the mitral valve, through the ventricle and taken all around the body by the aorta. Blood contains antibodies, nutrients, oxygen and much more to help the body work. 
The left side of your heart receives oxygen-rich blood from your lungs and pumps it through your arteries to the rest of your body. Blood travels through your heart and lungs in four steps: 1  The right atrium receives oxygen-poor blood from the body and pumps it through the tricuspid valve to the right ventricle. 1 The right ventricle pumps the oxygen-poor blood through the pulmonary valve to the lungs. 2  The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it through the mitral valve to the left ventricle. 3  The left ventricle pumps the oxygen-rich blood through the aortic valve out to the rest of the body.
The aorta carries oxygenated blood to the body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs and it is the only artery to carry deoxygenated blood. There are two veins associated with the heart. The vena cava, or great vein, carries deoxygenated blood back to the heart from the body. This blood moves through the heart on its way to the lungs where it picks up oxygen and releases carbon dioxide. The left hand side of the heart contains only oxygenated blood which has come from the lungs and is destined to be distributed throughout the body.