Back to Top Causes. Tay-Sachs disease occurs when the body lacks hexosaminidase A, a protein that helps break down a chemical found in nerve tissue called gangliosides. Without this protein, gangliosides, particularly ganglioside GM2, build up in cells, especially nerve cells in the brain. Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a defective gene on chromosome 15. When both parents carry the defective Tay-Sachs gene, a child has a 25% chance of developing the disease. The child must receive two copies of the defective gene -- one from each parent -- in order to become sick
General Discussion. Tay-Sachs disease is a rare, neurodegenerative disorder in which deficiency of an enzyme (hexosaminidase A) results in excessive accumulation of certain fats (lipids) known as gangliosides in the brain and nerve cells. Tay-Sachs disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. The disorder results from changes (mutations) of a gene known as the HEXA gene, which regulates production of the hexosaminidase A enzyme. The HEXA gene has been mapped to the long arm (q) of chromosome 15 (15q23-q24).
Tay-Sachs disease (the most severe form of Hexosaminidase A deficiency) is a progressive, fatal genetic condition that affects the nerve cells in the brain. Although anyone can be a carrier of Tay-Sachs disease, the disease is much more common among people of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish descent. One in every 30 people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent is a carrier.
The cause of Tay-Sachs disease is a genetic defect (mutation) that is passed from parent to child. This genetic defect is located in the HEXA gene, which is found on chromosome 15. The HEXA gene makes part of an enzyme called beta-hexosaminidase A, which plays a critical role in the nervous system. 
A defective gene on chromosome 15 causes Tay-Sachs disease. This defective gene causes the body to not make a protein called hexosaminidase A. Without this protein, chemicals called gangliosides build up in nerve cells in the brain, destroying brain cells. The disease is hereditary, which means it is passed down through families. Those with the chronic form of Tay-Sachs develop symptoms by the age of 10, but the disease progresses slowly. Symptoms may include slurred speech, muscle cramps, and tremors. Life expectancy varies with this form of the disease, and some individuals have a normal lifespan.
Research in the late 20th century demonstrated that Tay–Sachs disease is caused by a genetic mutation in the HEXA gene on (human) chromosome 15. A large number of HEXA mutations have been discovered, and new ones are still being reported. 1 A rare form of this disease, known as Adult-Onset or Late-Onset Tay–Sachs disease, usually has its first symptoms during the 30s or 40s. 2  In contrast to the other forms, late-onset Tay–Sachs disease is usually not fatal as the effects can stop progressing.
Tay-Sachs is a disease of the central nervous system; it is a neurodegenerative disorder. Tay-Sachs most commonly affects infants. In infants, it is a progressive disease that is unfortunately always fatal. Rarely, Tay-Sachs can occur in teens and adults, causing less severe symptoms. Those with the chronic form of Tay-Sachs develop symptoms by the age of 10, but the disease progresses slowly. Symptoms may include slurred speech, muscle cramps, and tremors. Life expectancy varies with this form of the disease, and some individuals have a normal lifespan.
Causes of Tay-Sachs disease. Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a genetic mutation in the HEXA gene. This mutation affects the production of an enzyme called Hexosaminidase-A (Hex-A). Enzymes are proteins the body uses for chemical reactions. The Hex-A enzyme plays a vital role in helping to remove a fatty substance called ganglioside from nerve cells. Without the Hex-A enzyme, ganglioside builds up inside these cells and they gradually stop functioning. In most cases of Tay-Sachs disease, this enzyme is completely absent.
People with Tay-Sachs lack a specific protein (enzyme) called hexosaminidase A. This enzyme deficiency causes a fatty substance, GM2 ganglioside, to build up in the brain. It is this accumulation that causes the symptoms of Tay-Sachs. Although anyone can be a carrier of Tay-Sachs disease, the disease is much more common among people of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish descent. One in every 30 people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent is a carrier.