In some people exact cause of epigastric pain is unknown which is called as idiopathic epigastric pain. Symptoms : Epigastrium is the region found on the stomach and hence epigastric pain causes mild to severe abdominal pain, bloated feeling, vomiting/nausea and constipation. Symptoms vary in accordance with the causative factor. Inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis) can cause epigastric pain. In addition chronic heart problems or cardiac diseases can affect the esophageal region causing pain on the epigastrium. Infections like cystitis (urinary bladder infection) and urethritis can cause abdominal pain.
Shares & Saves. Save. Epigastric pain is an ache or soreness in the upper and middle portions of the abdomen, just below the sternum. There are a variety of causes for abdominal pain, and it is often difficult to pinpoint the exact cause without extensive testing. Gastroesophageal reflux disease, lactose intolerance, gallstones and pancreatitis are a few of the most common causes of epigastric pain.
Epigastric pain has many possible causes. Most commonly, epigastric pain is the result of overeating, drinking alcohol while eating, or consuming greasy or spicy foods. Epigastric pain can be caused by digestive conditions such as acid reflux or lactose intolerance. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is another possible cause of epigastric pain. Epigastric pain can be due to common causes including: Dyspepsia (indigestion). Gastritis (inflammation of the stomach lining). Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a condition in which acidic stomach contents flow back into the esophagus. Heartburn. Lactose intolerance. Pregnancy.
Epigastric pain-Location, Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment. The epigastrium is one of the quadrants of the abdomen. It is the region lying between the subcostal plane and the costal margins. To understand this, it is the region that is located in the middle of the upper part of the abdomen. Pain can occur in this region. This localized pain is due a number of causes. Gastritis is the condition in which pain occurs in the epigastric region. It is an inflammatory condition of lining of the stomach. Not only pain occurs but nausea and weight loss also occur here.
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Epigastric pain: The following list of conditions have ' Epigastric pain ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom. 
There are many causes of the epigastric pain. Many disorders and diseases can lead to the uncomfortable feeling in this area. Therefore, it becomes difficult to diagnose the exact condition causing this pain. Here, we have presented all the possible aetiologies behind this pain. Gastritis is the condition in which pain occurs in the epigastric region. It is an inflammatory condition of lining of the stomach. Not only pain occurs but nausea and weight loss also occur here.
Epigastric pain may also occur with conditions that cause inflammation of the digestive organs, such as gastritis and pancreatitis. Pregnant women may experience epigastric pain due to increased abdominal pressure and hormonal changes that slow the digestive process. Epigastric pain can also arise from conditions that impair the normal digestive process, such as peptic ulcers, hiatal hernias, or gallstones.
Search diseases. epigastric pain causes-also known as or related to pain in epigastrium, upper central abdominal pain, epigastric pain, epigastrium pain in, help with epigastric pain, approach to epigastric pain. 
Epigastric pain is pain that is localized to the region of the upper abdomen immediately below the ribs. Often, those who experience this type of pain feel it during or right after eating or if they lie down too soon after eating. It is a common symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or heartburn. Pregnant women may experience epigastric pain due to increased abdominal pressure and hormonal changes that slow the digestive process. Epigastric pain can also arise from conditions that impair the normal digestive process, such as peptic ulcers, hiatal hernias, or gallstones.