Best Answer: You don't get a state refund from the IRS. All states are different, but the fastest way by far to get a refund is to file electronically with a direct deposit of the refund into your bank account, in which case it is usually a matter of 8 to 10 days (in New Jersey at least). Just so you know, the state check does not come from the IRS--it comes from your state tax office and that will take longer than from the feds. It is faster if you have the amount direct deposited--checks take alot longer--anywhere from 6-8 weeks.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund
If you don't have Internet access, you may call the refund hotline at 800-829-1954. Where’s My Refund? includes information for the most recent tax year filed in the current year and does not include information about amended returns. To check the status of an amended return, use Where’s My Amended Return? on IRS.gov. 
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year. 
In Michigan they direct deposit your refund in 7-12 days-usually a couple of days before the IRS deposits the federal refund. Check take longer-up to six weeks, depending on how far behind the state is in processing returns. Just so you know, the state check does not come from the IRS--it comes from your state tax office and that will take longer than from the feds. It is faster if you have the amount direct deposited--checks take alot longer--anywhere from 6-8 weeks.
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10. 5  Pin It 0
If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5.
@meast07 me either and it seems like if you filed and they say wait 72 hours before you check the status of your refund it would at least give you a proposed date to when you may get your money back…all i have been told by my tax preparer is that i had to wait 10-14 days. If you filed electronically, you should expect a refund to be issued 10 – 21 days after the IRS accepts the return. Please do not call our toll-free number as our representatives cannot provide further information before processing is complete nor expedite processing.