The terms  wind energy  or  wind power  describe the process by which the wind is used to generate mechanical power or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical power. This mechanical power can be used for specific tasks (such as grinding grain or pumping water) or a generator can convert this mechanical power into electricity to power homes, businesses, schools, and the like. Wind Turbines. Wind turbines, like aircraft propeller blades, turn in the moving air and power an electric generator that supplies an electric current. Simply stated, a wind turbine is the opposite of a fan. Instead of using electricity to make wind, like a fan, wind turbines use wind to make electricity.
Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Kinetic energy consists of the motion of the wind. Installing a wind turbine can convert kinetic energy into electricity. Many homeowners select small wind-electric power systems to supplement their existing grid-tied connection. 
the mechanical energy-electrical energy change is typically performed using a magnet and coil. You convert to mechanical energy by passing current through the coil. You convert to electrical energy by physically moving the coil or magnets. Report Abuse. the mechanical energy-electrical energy change is typically performed using a magnet and coil. You convert to mechanical energy by passing current through the coil. You convert to electrical energy by physically moving the coil or magnets. busterwasmycat · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down.
6,279 pages on this wiki. The power to absorb kinetic energy and convert it into other types of energy. A sub-power of Kinetic Energy Manipulation and Kinetic Energy Absorption, variation of Energy Conversion. 
The term wind power describes the process by which wind is used to make the mechanical energy or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy of wind energy into mechanical power. This mechanical power may be used for certain activities (such as milling of rice or pumping water) or a generator can convert mechanical energy to electrical energy at home, business, schools and other facilities. 
Answer by Methuselahmagee. Confidence votes 195. In order for Kinetic energy to be converted into electrical energy, the kinetic energy usually drives the rotation or oscillation of a magnet in close proximity to coiled wire. A bar magnet can be moved up and down through the centre of a looped coil of wires. It works by inducing an electric current in a loop of wire by using magnetic fields.   An electrical generator or Dynamo. The mechanical energy moves a magnetic field relative to electric coils and creates electricity. Little Dynamos on bicycles provide light at night.
When the battery powers an appliance, the electricity converts back into work as heat, light, sound or rotation of a motor. Solar cells convert light energy into electricity, and dynamos/generators convert mechanical energy into electricity. Batteries convert chemical energy into electricity. Converting energy into electricity requires the ability to use simple tools, and a basic understanding of mechanics. 
A device that converts mechanical energy into electrical energy is called an Electric Generator. It works by inducing an electric current in a loop of wire by using magnetic fields.   An electrical generator or Dynamo. The mechanical energy moves a magnetic field relative to electric coils and creates electricity. Little Dynamos on bicycles provide light at night.
Kinetic energy is essentially converted into electrical energy in most production of electricity. Oil, Gas, Coal or Nuclear energy are all used to heat water; the steam of which turns turbines and therefore the prop shaft. (Chemical energy-kinetic energy-electrical energy). It works by inducing an electric current in a loop of wire by using magnetic fields.   An electrical generator or Dynamo. The mechanical energy moves a magnetic field relative to electric coils and creates electricity. Little Dynamos on bicycles provide light at night.