The initial region of the axon arises from a cone-shaped area of the cell body called the axon hillock (little hill). 4 people found this useful. BETWEEN NEURONS: A neural signal can be passed from one neuron to another, at a synapse, across the synaptic cleft, by the release of chemicals called neurotransmitters from the presynaptic neuron, which diffuse across the synaptic cleft, to fit into receptors on the postsynaptic neuron.
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated, which travels rapidly along the cell's axon, and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives. Neurons do not undergo cell division.
Share to: Technically a neural impulse moves from the cell body to the axon terminal, because a nerve impulse is defined as an electrical signal that travels along an AXON. So, there are neural signals which move between neurons and into neurons, and neural impulses which fire and move along axons from the cell body (soma).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The initial region of the axon arises from a cone-shaped area of the cell body called the axon hillock (little hill). So, there are neural signals which move between neurons and into neurons, and neural impulses which fire and move along axons from the cell body (soma).
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. Fibers the function of the axon is to transmit information to different, neurons muscles and. glands In certain sensory neurons (pseudounipolar neurons), such as those for touch and warmth, the electrical impulse travels along an axon from the periphery to the cell body, and from the cell body to the spinal cord along another branch of the same axon.
chemicals released by neurons that stimulate or inhibit other neurons or effectors Neuron Anatomy 4. Match the following anatomical terms (column B) with the appropriate description or function (column A). Column A Column B 1. region of the cell body from which the axon originates2. secretes neurotransmitters3. receptive region of a neuron4. insulates the nerve fibers5. site of the nucleus and is the most important metabolic area6. may be involved in the transport of substances within the neuron7. 
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. body In certain sensory neurons (pseudounipolar neurons), such as those for touch and warmth, the electrical impulse travels along an axon from the periphery to the cell body, and from the cell body to the spinal cord along another branch of the same axon.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. fibers In certain sensory neurons (pseudounipolar neurons), such as those for touch and warmth, the electrical impulse travels along an axon from the periphery to the cell body, and from the cell body to the spinal cord along another branch of the same axon.
An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites. In certain sensory neurons (pseudounipolar neurons), such as those for touch and warmth, the electrical impulse travels along an axon from the periphery to the cell body, and from the cell body to the spinal cord along another branch of the same axon.