Running time. 41:27. Prince is the second album by Prince, released on October 19, 1979. It was a quickly written album in reaction to his debut For You. The album needed to have hits and sell well to make up for the blown budget on his first release. Worries were stifled with the success of the lead single I Wanna Be Your Lover, which reached #1 on the R&B chart and nearly broke the top 10 on the pop chart.
Prince is the eponymous second studio album by Prince, released on October 19, 1979. Prince had used twice his initial recording advance on the album, and it had failed to generate a pop hit (although  Soft and Wet  became a No. 12 R&B hit). Displeased at his lack of success, Prince quickly recorded the follow-up.
It was recorded in 1979 as part of a group of songs Prince hastily wrote and recorded when Warner Bros. asked for a follow-up to his debut album, For You, which did not fare well on the pop charts (peaking at No. 163) and did not contain a hit single. In response, Prince recorded I Wanna Be Your Lover.. I Wanna Be Your Lover is a song by American recording artist Prince.
The song was also Prince's debut single released in the UK; it was successful, reaching No. 41 on the UK Singles Chart. However, when Prince tried to promote it with shows in London, he was forced to cancel due to poor attendance. It wouldn't be until Purple Rain (1984) that Prince would break big in Europe. I Wanna Be Your Lover is a song by American recording artist Prince.
read more. I Wanna Be Your Lover is a first single by Prince from his second album Prince. It was his first successful single, gaining radio airplay and chart success: the song scored two weeks at No. 1 on the R&B singles chart during December 1979, and peaked at No. 11 on the Billboard Hot 100 in January 1980.
The album was written, arranged, composed, produced and performed entirely by Prince, with the only known contribution from another person being some vocal harmony added by close friend/bassist Andre André cymone On track. 2 Prince had used twice his initial recording advance on the album, and it had failed to generate a pop hit (although  Soft and Wet  became a No. 12 R&B hit). Displeased at his lack of success, Prince quickly recorded the follow-up.
Prince recorded the album in just a few weeks after Warner Bros. asked for a follow-up to his 1978 debut, For You. Prince had used twice his initial recording advance on the album, and it had failed to generate a pop hit (although  Soft and Wet  became a No. 12 R&B hit). Displeased at his lack of success, Prince quickly recorded the follow-up.
) It turned out to be his first successful single and first top 40 hit, scoring two weeks at number one on the R&B singles chart in December 1979 and peaking at number eleven on the Billboard Hot 100. I Wanna Be Your Lover was released on August 24, 1979 as the lead single from his second album, Prince. Prince promoted the song by appearing on Dick Clark 's popular show American Bandstand, where he raised controversy for refusing to speak and using only his hands to communicate. I Wanna Be Your Lover is a song by American recording artist Prince.