Common signs and symptoms of asthma include: 1  Coughing. 2  Coughing from asthma often is worse at night or early in the morning, making it hard to sleep. 3  Wheezing. 4  Wheezing is a whistling or squeaky sound that occurs when you breathe. 5  Chest tightness. 6  This may feel like something is squeezing or sitting on your chest.
Cough-variant asthma is treated in the same way that typical asthma is treated. You may be given an asthma inhaler with salbutamol, ipratropium, and/or inhaled steroids (anti-inflammatory agents). You should see a gradual improvement in asthma symptoms over six to eight weeks.
Anyone can get cough-variant asthma at any time, but it is common in young kids with childhood asthma. Cough-variant asthma may lead to the development of classic asthma, with symptoms that include shortness of breath and wheezing.
Cough-variant asthma is a type of asthma in which the main symptom is a dry, non-productive cough. (A non-productive cough does not expel any mucus from the respiratory tract.) People with cough-variant asthma often have no other classic asthma symptoms, such as wheezing or shortness of breath.
Symptoms of asthma come and go; you may experience some of them and yet not know for certain whether you've got asthma or not. For example, you might experience trouble breathing with exercise or get more 'chest' infections than other people do. Persistent cough is a common sign of lung disease.
While most people consider wheezing the key sign of asthma, there are also other, more unusual asthma symptoms. For instance, a dry, hacking cough that persists may actually be a symptom of asthma. Chest tightness and difficulty breathing in the early morning hours can also be asthma symptoms. Likewise, constant sighing may be associated with asthma.
People with cough-variant asthma often notice that coughing increases with exercise, called exercise-induced asthma. Coughing may increase when they are exposed to asthma triggers or allergy-causing substances like dust or strong fragrances, or when they are in cold air.