Modern medicine has done much to erradicate and cure disease, but it has failed in some areas. Of those areas, at least one disease that cannot be cured is suffered by many people in the world every year – the common cold. This is a list of the top ten incurable diseases. As always, click the images for a larger view.
Narcolepsy. Narcolepsy is a neurological disorder that is sometimes classified as an autoimmune disorder, as it is theorized that an immune reaction may cause the loss of nerve cells in the brain. Pemphigus. Pemphigus is an extremely rare and incurable autoimmune disorder that affects the skin and mucous membranes.
Even though the location of the autoimmune disease could be so different, but the overall symptoms are quite general. Since this is an incurable disease, then people who are having the disease could only handle the symptoms and live with it. Here are some of the symptoms that should be watched for.
Autoimmune Diseases Autoimmune diseases result from a dysfunction of the immune system. The immune system protects you from disease and infection. Sometimes, though, the immune system can produce autoantibodies that attack healthy cells, tissues, and organs.
As in other autoimmune diseases such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, the body’s natural ability to attack invading viruses and bacteria goes haywire and mistakenly sees healthy body proteins as enemies. Redness, pain, heat and swelling signal that the immune system is on the warpath.
1 People with a family history — Some autoimmune diseases run in families, such as lupus and multiple sclerosis. 2  It is also common for different types of autoimmune diseases to affect different members of a single family. 3  Inheriting certain genes can make it more likely to get an autoimmune disease.
Behcet’s Disease. Behcet’s disease is an autoimmune disorder in which the immune system attacks the cells of the cardiovascular system. It is a rare, systemic form of vasculitis, which causes chronic inflammation in blood vessels throughout the body. Bullous Pemphigoid. Bullous pemphigoid is a chronic autoimmune disease of the skin.
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is a rare form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, which is a group of related malignancies (cancers) that affect the lymphatic system (lymphomas). The lymphatic system functions as part of the immune system and helps to protect the body against infection and disease.