A foramen ovale is a hole in the heart. It normally exists while babies are in the womb but should close soon after birth. If it does not close, the condition is called patent foramen ovale (PFO). PFOs are common. The purpose of the foramen ovale is to help circulate blood through the heart. A fetus does not use its own lungs. Instead, it relies on the mother to oxygenate the blood. The foramen ovale helps blood circulate more quickly in the absence of lung function.
1 A patent foramen ovale (PFO) is an opening covered by a flap of tissue in the wall of the heart that separates the two upper chambers or atria. 2  PFOs are very common, more than 20% of all humans have one. 3  Estimates range from 20-30% depending on the decade of life. 
Background: Patent foramen ovale (PFO) with right-to-left shunt has a prevalence of 10% to 34% in the general population. It can cause an ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, and paradoxical peripheral or coronary embolization. Its influence on migraine and several other diseases and conditions is currently under debate. 
One in four (25%) of the population have a patent foramen ovale (PFO). more commonly known as a hole in the heart. Initially thought to be benign, an emerging number of disease and conditions now appear related to the presence of the PFO. 
Normally the foramen ovale closes at birth when increased blood pressure on the left side of the heart forces the opening to close. If the atrial septum does not close properly, it is called a patent foramen ovale. This type of defect generally works like a flap valve, only opening during certain conditions when there is more pressure inside the chest. This increased pressure occurs when people strain while having a bowel movement, cough, or sneeze. 
Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a hole between the upper chambers of the heart that fails to close after birth. This hole, which allows blood to go around the lungs while in the womb, naturally closes in most infants shortly after being born. But in as many as 1 in 4 individuals, the hole fails to close after birth. 
One is called an atrial septal defect (ASD), and the other is a patent foramen ovale (PFO). Although both are holes in the wall of tissue (septum) between the left and right upper chambers of the heart (atria), their causes are quite different. When it remains open, it is called a patent foramen ovale, patent meaning open. For the vast majority of the millions of people with a PFO, it is not a problem, even though blood is leaking from the right atrium to the left. Problems can arise when that blood contains a blood clot.
Generally an ASD hole is larger than that of a PFO. The larger the hole, the more likely there are to be symptoms. PFOs, on the other hand, can only occur after birth when the foramen ovale fails to close. The foramen ovale is a hole in the wall between the left and right atria of every human fetus. When it remains open, it is called a patent foramen ovale, patent meaning open. For the vast majority of the millions of people with a PFO, it is not a problem, even though blood is leaking from the right atrium to the left. Problems can arise when that blood contains a blood clot.
A patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a small channel that has some hemodynamic consequence; it is a remnant of the fetal foramen ovale (/fɵˈreɪmɨn oʊˈvaeliː/), oʊˈvæliː which normally closes at. Birth in medical, usage the term (/patent/) ˈpeɪtənt means open or. unobstructed Atrial septal defect (ASD) is a congenital heart defect in which blood flows between the atria (upper chambers) of the heart.
Definition. A patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a hole in the heart that didn't close the way it should after birth. During fetal development, a small flap-like opening — the foramen ovale (foh-RAY-mun oh-VAY-lee) — is normally present in the wall between the right and left upper chambers of the heart (atria). It normally closes during infancy. When the foramen ovale doesn't close, it's called a patent foramen ovale. Although it's not uncommon to have a patent foramen ovale, most people with the condition never know they have it. A patent foramen ovale is often discovered during tests for other problems.