Chery has several vehicle assembly and component manufacturing facilities in mainland China, and its vehicles are assembled in around 15 other countries—primarily in factories not owned by the company that utilize either complete or semi-complete knock-down kits. It was founded by the Government of China in 1997 and is a state-owned corporation. Chery's principal products are passenger cars, minivans, and SUVs; it sells passenger cars under the Chery marque and commercial vehicles under the Karry brand.
Chery Automobile Co., Ltd. , trading as Chery (/ˈʃɛri/) and sometimes known by the pinyin transcription of its Chinese name, Qirui, is a Chinese automobile manufacturing company headquartered in Wuhu, Anhui Province, China. It was founded by the Government of China in 1997 and is a state-owned corporation. Chery's principal products are passenger cars, minivans, and SUVs; it sells passenger cars under the Chery marque and commercial vehicles under the Karry brand. Chery is the tenth-largest China-based automaker measured by 2012 output (around 590,000 units)
With modern features, economic fuel consumption and unsurpassed affordability, Chery vehicles set the standard for comfort and reliability. Whether you’re looking for your first car, a minivan or an SUV, you’ll find the perfect vehicle for your lifestyle at your nearest Chery dealer. All models are manufactured to cruise through life so you can focus on enjoying every moment of the ride. Chery Motors build vehicles that make you stand out from the crowd, with modern designs and personality that reflects your style and perfectly suits your lifestyle.
Chery-More car. The experience of stepping into a stylish, comfortable Chery is difficult to surpass. All models are manufactured to cruise through life so you can focus on enjoying every moment of the ride. Chery Motors build vehicles that make you stand out from the crowd, with modern designs and personality that reflects your style and perfectly suits your lifestyle. Beyond good looks, Chery vehicles are all about performance – providing unique driving pleasure thanks to quality parts and innovative technology. Chery also manufactures and exports world-class engines under the automobile engine brand, ACTECO
The new Auto Trader search has been designed by you, our car buyers so you can now find a choice of cars quickly and easily. You don't need to fill in all the options, just the ones that matter, so you could browse all the cars with alloy wheels and leather seats by just typing alloys leather in the keyword box. Chery SA provides cars to Gerotek for driver training NEWS. Chery SA provides cars to Gerotek for driver training. For example entering leather or alloys will filter the results and only show vehicles that have those options.
From 2009 until around 2013, Chery vehicles sold under four brand names: Chery, Karry, Rely, and Riich. In September 2012 Chery announced the cancellation of the last two brands, as they had not caught on with buyers. It was founded by the Government of China in 1997 and is a state-owned corporation. Chery's principal products are passenger cars, minivans, and SUVs; it sells passenger cars under the Chery marque and commercial vehicles under the Karry brand.
The Chery QQ3 (codename S11) is a city car produced by the Chinese manufacturer Chery Automobile since 2003. Until 2006, the car was known as the Chery QQ, it was renamed when Chery launched their new supermini, the Chery QQ6. It is sometimes difficult to discern if a mention of the Chery QQ refers to the entire QQ-branded product line, which comprises four models, or solely the QQ3, the original QQ mini car. In the 2000s, the QQ was often Chery's most sold model, and the company itself calls the car a legend in the Chinese history of the automobile... a mini model with the highest cumulative sales in China
Different Chery. Every car born in Chery is created by the existing design team of Chery. Chery Design covers four sections, Proportion, Branding, Design Language and Quality, each ingeniously infused with Chinese elements. October 1st, 2015, marked the 66th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. On September 26th, Chery joined hands with the Chinese Embassy in Argentina to celebrate the anniversary with a special issue on Argentina's renowned newspaper La Nacion.
Don't Miss our Super September Offer. Now you can own a brand new Chery car from AED 660 AED per month only! For more info, call 04-2929900 or just drop in your mobile number in our facebook inbox for our representatives to call you back! T&C apply. 