Red Golden Pheasants come from the mountains of Central China. Its name comes from the male's beautiful red and gold plumage. The plumage and features differ greatly between the sexes. (Immature male's plumage like that of a female.) They are from the Spring 2014 hatch. PLEASE NOTE! 
1 The golden pheasant bird was very first introduced by Linnaeus in 1758. 2  The Golden Pheasants are scientifically classified under the Kingdom Animalia, Phylum Chodata, Class Aves, Order Galliformes, Family Phasianidae, Genus Chrysolophus and Species C. pictus. 1 The Golden Pheasants are scientifically classified under the Kingdom Animalia, Phylum Chodata, Class Aves, Order Galliformes, Family Phasianidae, Genus Chrysolophus and Species C. pictus. 2  Binomally, Golden Pheasants are known as Chrysolophus pictus.
Male Golden Pheasants can be easily identified by their bright colouring. They have a golden crest tipped with red which extends from the top of their heads, down their necks. They have bright red underparts, dark coloured wings and a pale brown, long, barred tail. The Golden Pheasant was introduced to the United Kingdom around 100 years ago and there are around 101 – 118 mating pairs in the summer. This hardy, gamebird belongs to the order: Galliformes and is a smaller species of pheasant.
The golden pheasant or Chinese pheasant, (Chrysolophus pictus) is a gamebird of the order Galliformes (gallinaceous birds) and the family Phasianidae (pheasants). Although they can fly in short bursts, they are quite clumsy in flight and spend most of their time on the ground. Golden pheasants lay 8-12 eggs at a time and will then incubate these for around 22–23 days. They tend to eat berries, grubs, seeds and other types of vegetation.
(Chrysolophus pictus). Golden pheasants are gorgeous birds endemic to the mountains of Central China. The Golden and Lady Amherst Pheasant belong to a group called ruffed pheasants because of their cape. In the golden pheasant this is black and yellow as shown in the above picture. The cock golden pheasant, once mature, with his wonderful array of colours, is one of the worlds brightest birds.
Males have a golden-yellow crest with a hint of red at the tip. The face, throat, chin, and the sides of neck are rusty tan. The wattles and orbital skin are both yellow in colour, and the ruff or cape is light orange. The upper back is green and the rest of the back and rump is golden-yellow. Although they can fly in short bursts, they are quite clumsy in flight and spend most of their time on the ground. Golden pheasants lay 8-12 eggs at a time and will then incubate these for around 22–23 days. They tend to eat berries, grubs, seeds and other types of vegetation.
Chrysolophus pictus Photo courtesy of John Corder, WPA Pheasant CD. The Golden Pheasant is one of the most popular of all pheasant species kept in captivity. It is very beautiful, hardy, easy to keep and great for beginners. The Golden has been kept in captivity since as early as 1740 and perhaps was the first type of pheasant brought to North America. 