Chromosomal disorders of structure occur when there are physical changes to the chromosome that alter its configuration. In TRANSLOCATION, fragments of a chromosome break away and reattach to other chromosomes or are lost, potentially changing several chromosomes with unpredictable and random results.
Genetic defects and chromosomal abnormalities are both sometimes called genetic conditions or genetic disorders, but the difference lies in how much of the DNA is actually affected.
Researchers are learning that nearly all conditions and diseases have a genetic component. Some disorders, such as sickle cell disease and cystic fibrosis, are caused by mutations in a single gene. The causes of many other disorders, however, are much more complex.
The overlap in heritability attributable to common genetic variation was about 15 percent between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, about 10 percent between bipolar disorder and depression, about 9 percent between schizophrenia and depression, and about 3 percent between schizophrenia and autism.
Although it is possible to inherit some types of chromosomal abnormalities, most chromosomal disorders (such as Down syndrome and Turner syndrome) are not passed from one generation to the next. Some chromosomal conditions are caused by changes in the number of chromosomes.
Another common classification for genetic disorders is dominant or recessive. Some common genetic disorder classifications are: 1  An autosomal dominant disorder may be inherited from one parent who is affected. 2  Dominant means the nonfunctional gene of the gene-pair is able to override the normal gene.
Genetic Disorders. Genetic disorders can happen for many reasons. Genetic disorders often are described in terms of the chromosome that contains the gene. If the gene is on one of the first 22 pairs of chromosomes, called the autosomes, the genetic disorder is called an autosomal condition. If the gene is on the X chromosome, the disorder is called X-linked. Genetic disorders also are grouped by how they run in families. Disorders can be dominant or recessive, depending on how they cause conditions and