hypospadias. Hypospadias refers to a urethral meatus (“pee-hole”) which is located along the underside, rather than at the tip of the penis. In some hypospadias, the meatus may be located on the underside of the penis, in the glans. In more pronounced hypospadias, the urethra may be open from mid-shaft out to the glans, or the urethra may even be entirely absent, with the urine exiting the bladder behind the penis. Hypospadias is extremely common. 
A boy who has hypospadias should not be circumcised because the foreskin may be needed during surgery. Hypospadias may be caused by an intersex disorder, which is a condition that is caused by abnormalities in the chromosomes or endocrine system that can produce female characteristics in a male baby. In many cases of hypospadias, particularly when the genitals are incompletely formed, the testicles do not descend. Hypospadias can usually be corrected with reconstructive surgery, which is usually performed when the boy is between 6 months and 2 years of age.
So: medical illustrations of hypospadias, and the medical assertion that it is not really an intersex condition, relate to our ideologies of masculinity. The differences in medical approaches to intersex children routinely assigned female and routinely assigned male extend further than illustrations and terminology. The majority of individuals born with intermediate sexual anatomies [and surgically assigned male] are not given an intersex diagnosis. I believe that what underlies this is gender ideology. And that gender ideology is this: masculinity is fragile, especially when it comes to what a man has in his pants.
Home → Hypospadias. Hypospadias is a congenital disorder wherein the urethral meatus fails to open at the tip of the glans penis and may appear anywhere between the ventral glans and the perineum. In general, hypospadias repair requires refined surgical and plastic surgical skills. 
(December 2011). Hypospadias /haɪpoʊˈspeɪdɪəs/ refers to a birth defect of the urethra in the male where the urinary opening is not at the usual location on the head of the penis. It is the second most common birth abnormality in boys, affecting approximately 1 of every 250. In approximately 90% of cases, the opening (meatus) is on or near the head of the penis (glans), referred to as distal hypospadias, while the remainder have proximal hypospadias with a meatus near or within the scrotum.
Hypospadias: Intersexuality and Gender Politics. If you are looking around for information about intersexuality, one of the first things you're likely to read is that most intersex children are assigned female at birth.. The majority of individuals born with intermediate sexual anatomies [and surgically assigned male] are not given an intersex diagnosis. I believe that what underlies this is gender ideology. And that gender ideology is this: masculinity is fragile, especially when it comes to what a man has in his pants.
They also determine all the tests and evaluations the child will receive. If an intersex child lacks external testes--the determining characteristic of a hypospadias diagnosis--that child is routinely subjected to a battery of tests: genotyping, endocrine screening, medical imaging scans. The majority of individuals born with intermediate sexual anatomies [and surgically assigned male] are not given an intersex diagnosis. I believe that what underlies this is gender ideology. And that gender ideology is this: masculinity is fragile, especially when it comes to what a man has in his pants.
Hypospadias refers to a urethral meatus (pee-hole) which is located along the underside, rather than at the tip of the penis. In minor, or distal hypospadias, the meatus may be located on the underside of the penis, in the glans. In more pronounced hypospadias, the urethra may be open from mid-shaft out to the glans, or the urethra may even be entirely absent, with the urine exiting the bladder behind the penis. distal hypospadias. Infertility may be present in the more extreme forms of hypospadias, where the testes are irregular and cannot produce viable sperm. Hypospadias surgery cannot make an infertile male fertile. A hypospadic penis is entirely capable of pleasurable sexual sensation and orgasm.
Hypospadias and Undescended Testicles. Hypospadias is a common birth defect where the urethra does not extend to the tip of the penis. Instead, the opening of the urethra is located somewhere along the underside of the penis, running along a soft groove. The scrotum may also be incompletely formed or divided into separate sacs or lobes. In many cases of hypospadias, particularly when the genitals are incompletely formed, the testicles do not descend. Hypospadias can usually be corrected with reconstructive surgery, which is usually performed when the boy is between 6 months and 2 years of age.