On the tour to promote the album (conveniently called the Purple Rain World Tour), Prince's band, The Revolution, would play the intro to this song for about eight minutes while Prince underwent a costume change before emerging in fresh duds to complete the performance. When Prince takes the stage, he introduces Purple Rain as being written by Wendy and Lisa, then tears down the house with it. Wendy and Lisa were real members of Prince's band until 1987 when they left to record as a duo.
It's very metaphorical. And let me guide you to the purple rain.... I never meant 2 cause u any sorrow I never meant 2 cause u any pain I only wanted 2 one time see u laughing I only wanted 2 see u laughing in the purple rain Side note. Purple rain; A restless feeling. A non-descriptive feeling of boredom, restlessness and confinement. I love this song...but I have no idea what he's tlkin about Purple Rain I never meant 2 cause u any sorrow I never meant 2 cause u any pain I only wanted 2 one time see u laughing I only wanted 2 see u laughing in the purple rain Purple rain Purple rain(repeat 2x) I only wanted 2 see u bathing in the...
Prince celebrates his birthday and the release of Purple Rain at 1st Avenue in Minneapolis. Here's a recipe for disaster: a low-budget movie with a cast that's never acted before, a first-time director, and a star who refuses to do publicity. That's the story of Prince 's iconic 1984 film Purple Rain. 
Purple Rain is the sixth studio album by American recording artist Prince and The Revolution and is the soundtrack album to the 1984 film of the same name. It was released on June 25, 1984 by Warner Bros. Records. Purple Rain is regularly ranked among the best albums in music history. Purple Rain was released by Warner Bros. Records on June 25, 1984, and was Prince's sixth album. Prince wrote all of the songs on the album, some with the input of fellow band members.
The song is about Prince or someone never meaning to cause the one they care for any sorrow or pain. There is a complicated relationship being described and after all the confusion he only wants to see that person happy and free from confusion in the purple rain. I love this song...but I have no idea what he's tlkin about Purple Rain I never meant 2 cause u any sorrow I never meant 2 cause u any pain I only wanted 2 one time see u laughing I only wanted 2 see u laughing in the purple rain Purple rain Purple rain(repeat 2x) I only wanted 2 see u bathing in the...
+52 other releases. read more. Purple Rain is a power ballad by Prince and the The Revolution. It was his third US single (second UK) and title track from the 1984 album of the same name, which in turn was the soundtrack album for the 1984 film of the same name. The song is an emotional combination of rock and roll, pop and gospel music. 
Purple Rain  is a song by Prince and The Revolution. It is the title track from the 1984 album of the same name, which in turn is the soundtrack album for the 1984 film of the same name, and was released as the third single from that album. The song is a combination of rock, pop, gospel, and orchestral music. The basic tracks for three songs were used on the Purple Rain soundtrack: Purple Rain,  I Would Die 4 U , and  Baby I'm a Star . Prince performed overdubs while working at Sunset Sound in Los Angeles from August–September 1983.
Prince decided to write a song in that style, and Purple Rain was the result. The album was actually the soundtrack to the first movie Prince made. He went on to make three more, Under The Cherry Moon, Sign O' The Times, and Graffiti Bridge. When Prince takes the stage, he introduces Purple Rain as being written by Wendy and Lisa, then tears down the house with it. Wendy and Lisa were real members of Prince's band until 1987 when they left to record as a duo.