Overview. Vanadium is a transition metal that lies toward the middle of the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to one another. Groups 4 through 12 are the transition metals. Vanadium was discovered in 1801 by Spanish-Mexican metallurgist Andres Andrés manuel Del (rio-río). 1764 1849 Vanadium is a silvery-white, ductile, metallic-looking solid. Ductile means capable of being drawn into thin wires. Its melting point is about 1,900°C (3,500°F) and its boiling point is about 3,000°C (5,400°F). Its density is 6.11 grams per cubic centimeter.
Vanadium was named after the Scandinavian goddess of beauty, youth, and luster. It is a controversy as to whether vanadium is an essential trace mineral in human nutrition. Although it has been suggested to function in hormone, cholesterol, and blood sugar metabolism, no specific deficiency signs have been reported. 
It is usually added in the form of ferrovanadium, a vanadium-iron alloy. Vanadium steel alloys are used in gears, axles and crankshafts. Titanium-aluminum-vanadium alloy is used in jet engines and for high-speed aircraft. Vanadium foil is used in cladding titanium to steel. Vanadium-gallium tape is used in superconducting magnets. Vanadium pentoxide is used in ceramics and as a catalyst for the production of sulfuric acid.
Vanadium (V) is a metal with a moderate specific gravity (6.0) and a relatively high melting point (1710° C). Vanadium is often considered to be an uncommon element, but its abundance in the earth's crust is actually comparable to that of copper, nickel, and zinc. 
Vanadium. Vanadium is a rare, soft, ductile gray-white element found combined in certain minerals and used mainly to produce certain alloys. Vanadium resists corrosion due to a protective film of oxide on the surface. Common oxidation states of vanadium include +2, +3, +4 and +5. Most of the vanadium (about 80%) produced is used as ferrovanadium or as a steel additive. Mixed with aluminium in titanium alloys is used in jet engines and high speed air-frames, and steel alloys are used in axles, crankshafts, gears and other critical components.
Vanadium is a medium-hard, ductile, steel-blue metal. Some sources describe vanadium as soft, perhaps because it is ductile, malleable and not brittle. Vanadium is harder than most metals and steels (see Hardnesses of the elements (data page) and iron). The most common oxide of vanadium, vanadium pentoxide V 2 O 5, is used as a catalyst in manufacturing sulfuric acid by the contact process and as an oxidizer in maleic anhydride production. Vanadium pentoxide is also used in making ceramics.
Vanadium is corrosion resistant and is sometimes used to make special tubes and pipes for the chemical industry. Vanadium also does not easily absorb neutrons and has some applications in the nuclear power industry. A thin layer of vanadium is used to bond titanium to steel. Nearly 80% of the vanadium produced is used to make ferrovanadium or as an additive to steel.
At higher doses, such as those used to treat diabetes, vanadium frequently causes unwanted side effects including abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, nausea, and gas. It can also cause a greenish tongue, loss of energy, and problems with the nervous system. Vanadium is UNSAFE when used in large amounts and for a long time. Vanadium supplements are used as medicine. Vanadium is used for treating diabetes, low blood sugar, high cholesterol, heart disease, tuberculosis, syphilis, a form of “tired blood ” (anemia), and water retention (edema); for improving athletic performance in weight training; and for preventing cancer.
Vanadium is a chemical element with symbol V and atomic number 23. It is a hard, silvery grey, ductile and malleable transition metal. The most common oxide of vanadium, vanadium pentoxide V 2 O 5, is used as a catalyst in manufacturing sulfuric acid by the contact process and as an oxidizer in maleic anhydride production. Vanadium pentoxide is also used in making ceramics.
Note: There are serious safety concerns regarding vanadium use. Vanadium, a mineral, is named after the Scandinavian goddess of beauty, youth, and luster. Taking vanadium will not make you beautiful, youthful, and lustrous, but evidence from animal studies suggests it may be an essential micronutrient. That is, your body may need it, but in very low doses. 