Amylase: An enzyme produced in the pancreas and salivary glands that helps in the digestion of starches. Elevation of blood amylase is common in pancreatitis. 
Today’s Reaction Starch Maltose  In today’s experiment, you will monitor the breakdown of starch into maltose.  The speed of the reaction (reaction rate) will be dependent upon the temperature.  The reaction rate will also partially depend on your salivary amylase genes. 
An amylase (/ˈaemɨleɪs/) ˈæmɨleɪs is an enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of starch into. Sugars amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other, mammals where it begins the chemical process of. digestion By acting at random locations along the starch chain, α-amylase breaks down long-chain carbohydrates, ultimately yielding maltotriose and maltose from amylose, or maltose, glucose and limit dextrin from amylopectin.
amylase. an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of starch into simpler compounds. The α-amylases occur in animals and include pancreatic and salivary amylase; the β-amylases occur in higher plants. Measurement of serum α-amylase activity is an important diagnostic test for acute and chronic pancreatitis. Alpha-amylase, found in saliva, pancreatic juice, malt, certain bacteria, and molds, catalyzes the hydrolysis of starches to dextrins, maltose, and maltotriose. Beta-amylase, found in grains, vegetables, malt, and bacteria, is involved in the hydrolysis of starch to maltose. Normal blood findings are 56 to 190 IU/L. An enzyme synthesised in the pancreas and salivary glands and secreted in the GI tract which digests starch and glycogen. It is measured in patients with suspected pancreatitis: serum and urine levels peak 4–8 hours after onset of acute pancreatitis, and normalise within 48–72 hour
Amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other mammals, where it begins the chemical process of digestion. Foods that contain large amounts of starch but little sugar, such as rice and potatoes, may acquire a slightly sweet taste as they are chewed because amylase degrades some of their starch into sugar. By acting at random locations along the starch chain, α-amylase breaks down long-chain carbohydrates, ultimately yielding maltotriose and maltose from amylose, or maltose, glucose and limit dextrin from amylopectin.
Amylase is an example of an enzyme. Amylase is found in our saliva and is responsible for starting to break down the starch that we eat. So amylase is an enzyme that carries out the specific reaction of breaking down starch into a simple sugar. -An enzyme is specific for its substrate: the enzyme that breaks down starch won't be able to break proteins down. -An enzyme is reusable, it doesn't get used up in the reaction, so it can perform it over and over again.
The enzyme is made in two places. First, salivary glands in your mouth make salivary amylase, which begins the digestive process by breaking down starch when you chew your food, converting it into maltose, a smaller carbohydrate. Although amylase, protease and lipase are the three main enzymes your body uses to digest food, many other specialized enzymes also help in the process. Cells that line your intestines make enzymes called maltase, sucrase and lactase, each able to convert a specific type of sugar into glucose.
-An enzyme breaks down larger molecules into smaller molecules like sugars. -An enzyme is specific for its substrate: the enzyme that breaks down starch won't be able to break proteins down. -An enzyme is reusable, it doesn't get used up in the reaction, so it can perform it over and over again. DEMO #2: Introduce the iodine indicator
Amylase is a digestive enzyme made primarily by the pancreas and salivary glands. Enzymes are substances made and used by the body to trigger specific chemical reactions. Amylase — A digestive enzyme made primarily by the pancreas and salivary glands. Enzyme — A substance