Knowledge center. Beetroot, also known simply as the beet, has been gaining in popularity as a new super food due to recent studies claiming that beets and beetroot juice can improve athletic performance, lower blood pressure and increase blood flow. 5. Digestion and regularity: Because of its high fiber content, beetroot helps to prevent constipation and promote regularity for a healthy digestive tract. Inflammation: Choline is a very important and versatile nutrient in beetroot that helps with sleep, muscle movement, learning and memory.
For other uses, see Beet (disambiguation) . The beetroot is the taproot portion of the beet plant, usually known in North America as the beet, also table beet, garden beet, or red or golden beet. It is several of the cultivated varieties of Beta vulgaris grown for their edible taproots and their greens. 
Our Organic Beet Root Powder is a great supplement for overall health, but it deserves special attention for a rare phytonutrient that helps the liver to process fat. Our Organic Beet Root Powder is a great source of energy, promoting vitality to the entire body. The Difference Between Beet Root Powder and Beet Juice Powder. Our Organic Beet Root Powder is made by drying whole beet roots, and then grinding them into a fine powder. Our Organic Beet Root Juice Powder is made by first extracting the juice from the beets, and then drying the juice only into a fine powder. The advantage of the Organic Beet Root Powder is that it is a whole food, as it contains all of the fibrous material from the bee
BEET Overview Information. Beet is a plant. The root is used in natural medicines. Beets are used along with medications in the treatment of liver diseases and fatty liver. They are also used to help lower levels of triglycerides (a type of fat) in the blood, lower blood pressure, and to improve athletic performance.
Beetroot is a dark red vegetable with an acquired taste which has had a lot of coverage in the news. It has been linked with better stamina, improved blood flood and lower blood pressure. The website lovebeetroot.co.uk says the vegetable became popular in Roman times and it was used to treat fever, constipation, wounds, skin problems-and was used as an aphrodisiac. Most beetroot on sale is round and red, but yellow, white and stripy versions are available.
1 Beetroot is a good source of carotenoids like lutein and zeaxanthin. 2  These two compounds are extremely beneficial for the health of the eyes, especially retina. 3  Drinking raw beet juice helps to absorb the carotenoids easily. The deep red roots of beets can be cooked, boiled or baked as a vegetable. In India, it is mostly eaten raw in salads. Another common form of consuming this vegetable is by extracting its juice. Beetroot juice is naturally sweet in taste with a plethora of health benefits.
Beetroot for the brain and dementia. Drinking beetroot juice increases blood flow to the brain in older people, which may be able to fight the progression of dementia, a 2010 study suggested. Beetroot contains high concentrations of nitrates, which are converted into nitrites by bacteria in the mouth. The website lovebeetroot.co.uk says the vegetable became popular in Roman times and it was used to treat fever, constipation, wounds, skin problems-and was used as an aphrodisiac. Most beetroot on sale is round and red, but yellow, white and stripy versions are available.
Benefits of Beetroot Juice. Known for decades as a liver-protective food, beets may not be the newest kid on the superfood block, but mounting research is showing why you should take another good look at this root vegetable in juiced form. The dark carotenes of beet juice may give your urine and bowel movements a red color. This color change is harmless. Since beets are high in oxalates, people who tend to make oxalate kidney stones may want to avoid beet juice.