A typical three-point lighting setup. Three-point lighting is a standard method used in visual media such as theatre, video, film, still photography and computer-generated imagery. The key light, as the name suggests, shines directly upon the subject and serves as its principal illuminator; more than anything else, the strength, color and angle of the key determines the shot's overall lighting design. In indoor shots, the key is commonly a specialized lamp, or a camera's flash.
The term shot can refer to two different parts of the filmmaking process: 1  In production, a shot is the moment that the camera starts rolling until the moment it stops. 2  In film editing, a shot is the continuous footage or sequence between two edits or cuts. The term shot derives from the early days of film production when cameras were hand-cranked, and operated similarly to the hand-cranked machine guns of the time. That is, a cameraman would shoot film the way someone would shoot bullets from a machine gun.
This definition lessens the importance of the relationship between the film and substrate. This definition would consider a single crystal layer grown on a glass (amorphous) substrate to still be epitaxial, whereas other definitions would not. 
Whether we like it or not, much of our language is now heavily influenced by American English spellings. Hence, ‘setup’ is used when talking of initiating computer programs, but, in any other sense, we use the verb (doing word) ‘to set up’ and the noun from that verb ‘the set-up’. When referring to the. world, we would still use the verb ‘to set up’, but would be more likely to use the noun form without the hyphen ‘setup’
Any shot which is taken from the vantage point of a character in the film. Also known as the first person camera. Pull-back dolly. A technique used to surprise the viewer by withdrawing from a scene to reveal an object or character that was previously out of the frame. Scene. A unit of film composed of a number of interrelated shots, unified usually by a central concern -- a location, an incident, or a minor dramatic climax. Set-up. The positioning of the camera and lights for a specific shot.
A shot taken from an angle 180° opposed to the previous shot -- that is, the camera is placed opposite its previous position. Scene. A unit of film composed of a number of interrelated shots, unified usually by a central concern -- a location, an incident, or a minor dramatic climax. Set-up. The positioning of the camera and lights for a specific shot.
Definition of SET UP. 1. a: to raise to and place in a high position b: to place in view: post c: to put forward (as a plan) for acceptance. 2. b: to assemble the parts of and erect in position c: to put (a machine) in readiness or adjustment for an operation. 3. b: bring about. 4. 
The Three Point Lighting Technique is a standard method used in visual media such as video, film, still photography and computer-generated imagery. It is a simple but versatile system which forms the basis of most lighting. 
A three point system in theatre can be used in a variety of ways to help set a mood of the character. By having bright key light, but minimal fill and back light, this will give the effect of anger, whereas if the scene is very brightly lit with little shadow on the actor, this can make the scene look very happy. The key light, as the name suggests, shines directly upon the subject and serves as its principal illuminator; more than anything else, the strength, color and angle of the key determines the shot's overall lighting design. In indoor shots, the key is commonly a specialized lamp, or a camera's flash.
An animated demonstration of three-point lighting. The fill light also shines on the subject, but from a side angle relative to the key and is often placed at a lower position than the key (about at the level of the subject's face). The key light, as the name suggests, shines directly upon the subject and serves as its principal illuminator; more than anything else, the strength, color and angle of the key determines the shot's overall lighting design. In indoor shots, the key is commonly a specialized lamp, or a camera's flash.