The respiratory tract is the path of air from the nose to the lungs. It is divided into two sections: Upper Respiratory Tract and the Lower Respiratory Tract. Included in the upper respiratory tract are the Nostrils, Nasal Cavities, Pharynx, Epiglottis, and the Larynx. The Respiratory System is crucial to every human being. Without it, we would cease to live outside of the womb. Let us begin by taking a look at the structure of the respiratory system and how vital it is to life.
Homeostasis is maintained by the respiratory system in two ways: gas exchange and regulation of blood pH. Gas exchange is performed by the lungs by eliminating carbon dioxide, a waste product given off by cellular respiration. The Respiratory System is crucial to every human being. Without it, we would cease to live outside of the womb. Let us begin by taking a look at the structure of the respiratory system and how vital it is to life.
The peculiar tracheal cartilages are the first and the last. The first cartilage is broader than the rest, and often divided at one end; it is connected by the cricotracheal ligament with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The cartilages are placed horizontally above each other, separated by narrow intervals. They measure about 4 mm in depth and 1 mm in thickness. Their outer surfaces are flattened in a vertical direction, but the internal are convex, the cartilages being thicker in the middle than at the margins.
Function. The bronchi and bronchioles are parts of the ' Conduction Zone' of the respiratory system-allowing the passage of air from the external environment into the lungs where gaseous exchange can take place. The conduction zone is also known as dead space, and no gaseous exchange can take place in this area. On the smaller bronchi the C-shaped cartilage rings are gradually replaced by irregular plaques of cartilage. Bronchioles have no cartilage at all. The bronchioles are less than 1mm in diameter, and undergo further divisions, the last of which is characterised by the loss of goblet cells.
1 Explain how the structure of different segments of the respiratory airways reflect the functional roles that these airways play in air movement and gas exchange. 2  Distinguish the trachea, bronchi, terminal bronchioles, bronchioles, alveolar ducts, alveolar sacs, and alveoli based on key structural features. The respiratory airways extend from the respiratory bronchioles to the alveoli. 1  The respiratory bronchioles have a diameter of 0.5 millimeters and feature a few alveoli scattered along their walls. 2  The epithelium here remains low cuboidal.
Your trachea is essentially an air-conducting tube (commonly known as your windpipe) that connects your larynx to the rest of your respiratory system. Though the cylindrical tube is only about three-quarters of an inch in diameter and 4 to 5 inches long, you wouldn't be able to survive without it. The trachea is an important structure within your respiratory system, which is the organ system that delivers oxygen to your bloodstream. The trachea is a rigid tube that conducts air from your larynx to your bronchi. The trachea's rigidity is maintained by a series of cartilaginous rings arranged along its length called C-shaped cartilage rings
Growth of cartilage. Unlike bone, which has a hard matrix, cartilage has a flexible matrix which can accommodate mitosis. It is the ideal tissue to use to rapidly lay down the embryonic skeleton and to provide for new skeletal growth. Cartilage grows in two ways. Their chondrocytes are spherical, and the only fiber type in their matrix is fine collagen fibers. Skeletal hyaline cartilages include. 1  Articular cartilages, which cover the ends of most bones at movable joints. 2  Costal cartilages, which connect the ribs to the sternum (breastbone).
The tracheal rings, (tracheal cartilages or C-shaped cartilaginous rings) vary from sixteen to twenty in number. The cartilages are placed horizontally above each other, separated by narrow intervals. They measure about 4 mm in depth and 1 mm in thickness. Their outer surfaces are flattened in a vertical direction, but the internal are convex, the cartilages being thicker in the middle than at the margins.