Sep 9, '11 by colesedwards. If you are a new nurse there is no better start to your career than Hopkins. I work at the bayview campus and have learned so much. benefits are very good and reasonable. You don't make as much money working at hopkins than you do working somewhere else but its the name you are getting too. When I did weekend option days, I was making $31 an hour. Most of the units at Bayview you can work either straight days or straight nights, and you are hourly, not salaried...so it's 36 hours per week--all 12 hour shifts, and anything over 40 hours is paid at time and half.
1199SEIU United Healthcare Workers East, the union representing roughly 2,000 employees at Hopkins Hospital, says that about 1,400 of them are paid less than $14.91 per hour – the rate that qualifies a family of four for food stamps. Wages at Hopkins range from $10.71 per hour to $27.88 per hour. “We got fast food workers calling for a $15 per hour minimum wage and now, for them to say to employees at America’s Best Hospital that they can’t do any better, is just outrageous,” said Jim McNeill a spokesman for the union. Under this latest offer, every worker with fifteen years or more service at Hopkins would make at least $15 an hour by the end of the agreement. “Nobody wants a strike. And we realize this is a process that requires concessions, so we have been reasonable,” McNeill said.
He said last night they offered to go to a $14 per hour four-year contract, but still could not reach an agreement with management. Under this latest offer, every worker with fifteen years or more service at Hopkins would make at least $15 an hour by the end of the agreement. “Nobody wants a strike. And we realize this is a process that requires concessions, so we have been reasonable,” McNeill said.
$12-per-hour by 2018. According to McNeill, the hospital’s best offer last night was “a five-year contract that would bring everyone up to [starting pay of ] $12 per hour by 2018.”. McNeill said that is not acceptable and too close to current pay policies that leave many employees with poverty wages. Under this latest offer, every worker with fifteen years or more service at Hopkins would make at least $15 an hour by the end of the agreement. “Nobody wants a strike. And we realize this is a process that requires concessions, so we have been reasonable,” McNeill said.
What we look for in an application. Learn more about financing your education. On the requirements and deadlines page, you’ll see a list of the required components of the application. But these pieces only tell us part of the story. The admissions committee conducts a holistic review of every applicant based on his or her accomplishments, goals, and fit with our community
Your Johns Hopkins USA medical concierge can help you schedule medical appointments, assist you with transportation and accommodation arrangements and prepare you for your visit from out-of-state. To speak with a Johns Hopkins USA representative in person, call 1-855-695-4872 (Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. EST). Additionally, Johns Hopkins Community Physicians offers primary care, including internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics and some specialty care at over 35 convenient locations throughout Maryland. For more information, please visit the Johns Hopkins Community Physicians website.
Cost will vary depending on the type of room and meal plan. Commuting students' budgets are less than residential students' budgets. Some students will spend more than our estimates, and others will spend less. We use a standard budget for financial aid purposes to ensure equitable distribution of resources.
* Classes in the Master of Education in the Health Professions (MEHP) or Post-Master’s Certificate in Evidence-Based Teaching in the Health Professions programs are $1,200 per credit, with the exception of Johns Hopkins University and Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System employees, who pay $700 per credit. Note: Students in the full-time doctoral program (PhD) who take courses over the summer semester pay the standard part-time doctoral credit tuition rate ($1,464 per credit) * Applicants accepted to the full-time MAT program for the 2015-2016 cohort will be awarded a $10,000 scholarship from the School of Education.
Johns Hopkins Salary. Johns Hopkins average salary is $61,584, median salary is $50,000 with a salary range from $21,450 to $959,000. Johns Hopkins salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position.