Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol. Eating 1 1/2 cups of cooked oatmeal provides 6 grams of fiber. If you add fruit, such as bananas, you'll add about 4 more grams of fiber. To mix it up a little, try steel-cut oatmeal or cold cereal made with oatmeal or oat bran.
Avoid these foods if you have high cholesterol: 1  Whole milk, cream and ice cream. 2  Butter, egg yolks and cheese -- and foods made with them. 3  Organ meats like liver, sweetbreads, kidney and brain. 4  High-fat processed meats like sausage, bologna, salami, and hot dogs. 5  Fatty meats that aren’t trimmed. 1 Cut back on foods high in dietary cholesterol like whole milk, shellfish, or “organ” meats, like liver. 2  Replace them with skim milk and salmon. 3  Some studies show this may lower your LDL-C by five percent. 4  Cut back on added sugars, like sucrose, glucose, and fructose.
Other cholesterol-lowering foods are rich in the “good fats” (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats) that directly lower LDL (bad) cholesterol. Here are five foods you can start with to get your cholesterol-busting under way: Oats. Choose oatmeal or a cold oat-based cereal such as Cheerios for breakfast. Nuts. Eating almonds, walnuts, peanuts and other nuts is good for the heart. Eating 2 ounces of nuts a day can slightly lower LDL. And nuts have additional nutrients that protect the heart in other ways. Foods fortified with sterols and stanols.
More specifically, there are some foods that are always good for the diet of a person with high cholesterol. Fish, whole grains, oat bran, oatmeal, blueberries, avocados, olives, olive oil, flaxseed oil and yogurt with live active cultures are all good options if you want to keep your cholesterol levels down. As mentioned before, it’s important to steer clear of foods with high cholesterol, saturated fat and trans fat levels if you want to lower your cholesterol. The most common examples of these foods include butter, fatty meats and ice cream.
List of foods that lower cholesterol. Below is a list of foods that lower cholesterol. You can use this list of cholesterol reducing foods as a guide when eating and should consider having a majority of these foods that lower cholesterol in your home. The net result is lower cholesterol level. I believe that extra virgin olive oil and vegetables are probably the best natural foods that lower cholesterol. It is recommended that you eat high fiber food items like green leafy vegetables and green salads.
If you have high cholesterol, it is best to eat a reduced fat diet. Dietary fat should be limited to 25-30% of daily caloric intake. It is especially important to reduce saturated fat from red meat and high fat dairy products (butter, cheese, milk) to less than 10%. 1 Cut back on foods high in dietary cholesterol like whole milk, shellfish, or “organ” meats, like liver. 2  Replace them with skim milk and salmon. 3  Some studies show this may lower your LDL-C by five percent. 4  Cut back on added sugars, like sucrose, glucose, and fructose.
Soy. Eating soybeans and foods made from them, like tofu and soy milk, was once touted as a powerful way to lower cholesterol. Analyses show that the effect is more modest — consuming 25 grams of soy protein a day (10 ounces of tofu or 2 1/2 cups of soy milk) can lower LDL by 5% to 6%. Fatty fish. Doing this requires a two-pronged strategy: Add foods that lower LDL, the harmful cholesterol-carrying particle that contributes to artery-clogging atherosclerosis. At the same time, cut back on foods that boost LDL. Without that step, you are engaging in a holding action instead of a steady — and tasty — victory.
Eating foods that contain unsaturated fat instead of saturated fat can actually help reduce cholesterol levels. Try to replace foods containing saturated fats with small amounts of foods high in unsaturated fats, such as: 1  oily fish – such as mackerel and salmon. 2  nuts – such as almonds and cashews. Eating too many foods high in saturated fat can raise the level of cholesterol in your blood. Most people in the UK eat too much saturated fat. Foods high in saturated fat include: 1  meat pies. 2  sausages and fatty cuts of meat. 3  butter, ghee and lard. 4  cream.
Foods with lots of cholesterol raise our blood cholesterol levels. But foods with lots of saturated fats and trans fats (the “bad fats”) are even worse. They cause your liver to make lots of cholesterol. Foods rich in saturated fats include whole milk, butter, cheese, ice cream, red meat and coconut products. Foods rich in trans fats include hard margarines, partially hydrogenated vegetable oils, many deep-fried fast foods and most commercial baked goods. Nuts. Eating almonds, walnuts, peanuts and other nuts is good for the heart. Eating 2 ounces of nuts a day can slightly lower LDL. And nuts have additional nutrients that protect the heart in other ways. Foods fortified with sterols and stanols.