1 A capacitor has a voltage that is proportional to the charge (the integral of the current) that is stored in the capacitor, so a capacitor can be used to perform interesting computations in op-amp circuits, for example. What you need to learn yet is how the capacitor is used in a circuit-what it does when you use it. That's the topic of the next section. If you can learn that then you can begin to learn some of the things that you can do with a capacitor. Capacitors are a very interesting kind of component.
A capacitor is a component made of two or sets of two conductive plates with a thin insulator between them and wrapped in a ceramic and plastic container. When the capacitor receives a direct current (DC), a positive charge builds up on one of the plates (or set of plates) while a negative charge builds up on the other. 
Other answers The capacitor's ability to store and release electrical charge can be applied in a number of ways in electronic circuits and it makes the capacitor an indispensable electronic component. A capacitor is employed in simple rectifiers to smooth the top of the rectified DC output. due to the charging of capaitor with the rise in voltage and discharging of capacitor with the fall, the change voltage across it (which is also the ouput voltage of the recti … fier) is gradual and not abrupt.
The essence of a capacitor is that it stores charge. Because they store charge they have the properties mentioned earlier-they store energy and they have frequency dependent behavior. When we examine charge storage in a capacitor we can understand other aspects of the behavior of capacitors. What you need to learn yet is how the capacitor is used in a circuit-what it does when you use it. That's the topic of the next section. If you can learn that then you can begin to learn some of the things that you can do with a capacitor. Capacitors are a very interesting kind of component.
The functionality of the capacitor is storing the electrical  energy.it can save and clear the electric charge.current can flow  back and froth in a capacitor.In an AC circu … it, capacitor reverses  its charges as the current alternates and produces a lagging  voltage. due to the charging of capaitor with the rise in voltage and discharging of capacitor with the fall, the change voltage across it (which is also the ouput voltage of the recti … fier) is gradual and not abrupt.
A capacitor is a device that can store electrical charge. Because it can store a charge and then release that charge, it resists any change of voltage across it. due to the charging of capaitor with the rise in voltage and discharging of capacitor with the fall, the change voltage across it (which is also the ouput voltage of the recti … fier) is gradual and not abrupt.
The capacitor is used to store the charge applied to it.   This stored charge can be used to absorb voltage spikes and voltage  drops.   Answer   It's a misconcep … tion that a capacitor stores charge. In fact, it  stores energy. due to the charging of capaitor with the rise in voltage and discharging of capacitor with the fall, the change voltage across it (which is also the ouput voltage of the recti … fier) is gradual and not abrupt.
Functions in Electrical Circuits. Capacitors are used in electronic circuits as low-pass, high-pass and band filters. A filter is a circuit that allows current and voltage of a specified frequency and waveform to pass through. A capacitor's reactance is inversely proportional to frequency. 
An ideal capacitor is characterized by a single constant value, its capacitance. Capacitance is defined as the ratio of the electric charge Q on each conductor to the potential difference V between them. The SI unit of capacitance is the farad (F), which is equal to one coulomb per volt (1 C/V). The dual of the capacitor is the inductor, which stores energy in a magnetic field rather than an electric field. Its current-voltage relation is obtained by exchanging current and voltage in the capacitor equations and replacing C with the inductance L.
A ceramic capacitor is a fixed value capacitor in which ceramic material acts as the dielectric. It is constructed of two or more alternating layers of ceramic and a metal layer acting as the electrodes. The composition of the ceramic material defines the electrical behavior and therefore applications. 