This has occurred throughout history and is part of the reason why places like London, Tokyo, New York City, and Los Angeles were able to grow into the prosperous cities that they are today. By Amanda Briney, Contributing Writer. The study of settlement patterns is one of the most important aspects of urban geography. Settlements can range in size from a small village with a few hundred residents to a metropolitan city of over one million people. Geographers often study the reasons behind why such cities develop where they do and what factors lead to their becoming a large city over time or remaining as a small village.
This approach focuses on the city system. The second theme in urban geography today is the study of patterns of distribution and interaction of people and businesses within cities. This theme mainly looks at a city's inner structure and therefore focuses on the city as a system. An essential component within urban geography is defining what a city or urban area actually is. Although a difficult task, urban geographers generally define the city as a concentration of people with a similar way of life based on job type, cultural preferences, political views and lifestyle.
Geographic vs. Geographical. The distinction between “geographic” and “geographical” has been discussed before, but generally to conclusions of stylistic choice or difference between British and American English. This term is used to describe the geography of our Earth, the geography that most laypeople think of when they hear the word geography – things such as topography, topology, navigation, orientation, and mapwork.
For other uses, see Region (disambiguation) . In geography, regions are areas broadly divided by physical characteristics (physical geography), human impact characteristics (human geography), and the interaction of humanity and the environment (environmental geography). Where human geography is concerned, the regions and subregions are described by the discipline of ethnography. A region has its own nature that could not be moved. The first nature is its natural environment (landform, climate, etc.).
Mapping Africa: Problems of Regional Definition and Colonial/National Boundaries. frica is perhaps the most mapped of the world's major regions. Back in my school days during the 1940s and 1950s, the continent was studied only in geography classes. 
She has noticed that people from different parts of the world are very different from each other. For example, some people like to eat mostly vegetables and fish, and others eat a lot of red meat and potatoes. She wonders why this is. Cultural geography is the study of how humans and their environment interact. Cultural geography is the study of the way humans and the environment interact. Spatial association looks at how things are similarly arranged in space. A culture trait is a characteristic of people from a specific culture. When similar cultures living near each other share culture traits, it is called a culture region.
Geographic. This term is used to describe the geography of our Earth, the geography that most laypeople think of when they hear the word geography – things such as topography, topology, navigation, orientation, and mapwork. By this definition, your location in a place is geographic, not geographical
Urban geography is a branch of human geography concerned with various aspects of cities. An urban geographer's main role is to emphasize location and space and study the spatial processes that create patterns observed in urban areas. An essential component within urban geography is defining what a city or urban area actually is. Although a difficult task, urban geographers generally define the city as a concentration of people with a similar way of life based on job type, cultural preferences, political views and lifestyle.
For example, ecoregion is a term used in environmental geography, cultural region in cultural geography, bioregion in biogeography, and so on. The field of geography that studies regions themselves is called regional geography. Where human geography is concerned, the regions and subregions are described by the discipline of ethnography. A region has its own nature that could not be moved. The first nature is its natural environment (landform, climate, etc.).
Geography: Definition and Much More From Answers.com The study of the earth and its features and of the distribution of life on the earth, including human life and the effects of human activity. Study of the earth's surface; includes people's responses to topography and climate and soil and vegetation. 2. study of the earth's surface; includes people's responses to topography and climate and soil and vegetation. http://www.webster-dictionary.org/definition/geography. 1.