Users who liked, Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or..., also liked. Washington Irving quotes (American Writer called the first American man of letters. “There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues.
Our times are in his hand who saith, 'A whole I planned, youth shows but half; Trust God: See all, nor be afraid!'”. Robert Browning quotes (Major English Poet of the Victorian age, noted for his mastery of dramatic monologue and psychological portraiture. “There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues.
Best Answer: Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp -- or what's a heaven for? is the entire quote. It is from Robert Browning. It means one should reach for more than they can see or get their hands on or grasp or touch. The ah is because he is responding to someone's question, probably about heaven or God. ... a man's reach should exceed his grasp I'm not sure of the context, but it's basically the same as saying reach for the stars. A man should try to do bigger and better things than he thinks he can.
Robert Browning said: Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or... and: “There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues.
Where there is no revelation [or prophetic vision], the people cast off restraint… — Proverbs 29:18. There is a difference between holding on to a principle and having a vision. A principle does not come from moral inspiration, but a vision does. We set prayer aside as well and cease having God’s vision in the little things of life. We simply begin to act on our own initiative. If we are eating only out of our own hand, and doing things solely on our own initiative without expecting God to come in, we are on a downward path. We have lost the vision.
“The aim, if reached or not, makes great the life: Try to be Shakespeare, leave the rest to fate!”. Robert Browning quotes (Major English Poet of the Victorian age, noted for his mastery of dramatic monologue and psychological portraiture. “There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues.
King discusses del Sarto's lack of virility, as he describes his wife the way a painted would, with lines and shapes, as opposed to a husband or person of romantic interest in lines 122-124. Del Sarto was revered for his art; some called him Andrea senza errori, the unerring. In his poem, Browning cedes the paintings are free of errors, but that alone does not make a piece of art special or evocative.
Your reach will always exceed your grasp. This isn’t just you – it’s everyone. Our minds can dream up things in a fraction of a second, but nothing worth doing happens in a fraction of a second. Additionally, the world has the wonderfully mysterious and frustrating way of being different than the way we imagined it. 