Pressure-sensitive tape, PSA tape, self-stick tape or sticky tape consists of a pressure-sensitive adhesive coated onto a backing material such as paper, plastic film, cloth, or metal foil. It is sticky (tacky) without any heat or solvent for activation and adheres with light pressure. Water activated tape, gummed paper tape or gummed tape is starch-or sometimes animal glue-based adhesive on a kraft paper backing which becomes sticky when moistened.
Cellophane is a thin, transparent sheet made of regenerated cellulose. Its low permeability to air, oils, greases, bacteria and water makes it useful for food packaging. Cellophane is in many countries a registered trade mark of Innovia Films Ltd based in Wigton, Cumbria, United Kingdom.
When most people think of tape they think of scotch or masking tape. This type of tape serves to hold two pieces of paper together. Drywall tape serves a similar purpose in that it adds strength to the seams of gypsum panels of drywall. Most drywall tradesmen will say that mesh tape is not as strong as paper tape and some refuse to use it altogether. Some tradesmen have had success using mesh tape when used in conjunction with quick-setting drywall compound or hot mud.
Adhesive tapes are used to assemble materials or parts together using a sticky chemical bond. Adhesive tapes are an alternative to other assembly methods such as mechanical assembly (press fit, snap fit, etc.), mechanical fastening, adhesive bonding, soldering, welding and brazing. Adhesive tape production Image credit: Made How. Adhesive tapes are made by coating a backing or carrier (paper, plastic film, cloth, foam or foil) with an adhesive on a web or roll coater. The adhesive-coated tape is wound up to form a large jumbo roll.
cellulose tape-trademark transparent or semitransparent adhesive tape (trade names Scotch tape and Sellotape) used for sealing or attaching or mending. 
Adhesive tape is one of many varieties of backing materials coated with an adhesive. Water activated tape, gummed paper tape or gummed tape is starch-or sometimes animal glue-based adhesive on a kraft paper backing which becomes sticky when moistened.
Poly Wall Self-Adhering Sheet Membrane is available at 25-, 40-, or 60-mil thickness and in a variety of widths: from 6-inch flashing to 38.5-inch wide membrane. : MSDS: Data : MFG. Typical applications include substrate transitions such as foundation walls to above-grade structural wall. Poly Wall Self-Adhering Sheet Membrane is a cold-applied, self-adhesive, elastomeric membrane consisting of a layer of polymer-modified asphalt laminated to a layer of high-density polyethylene.
Adhesive tapes typically consist of an adhesive-coated backing called a carrier. Single-sided tape is used to attach overlapping or adjoining materials where the tape is used to splice or seam the materials together. Double-sided tape is coated with adhesive on both sides and allows the joining of items back-to-back. Adhesive tape production Image credit: Made How. Adhesive tapes are made by coating a backing or carrier (paper, plastic film, cloth, foam or foil) with an adhesive on a web or roll coater. The adhesive-coated tape is wound up to form a large jumbo roll.
Drywall tape is paper, cloth, or mesh, sometimes with a gummed or pressure-sensitive adhesive. It is used to make the joints between sheets of drywall materials. Water activated tape, gummed paper tape or gummed tape is starch-or sometimes animal glue-based adhesive on a kraft paper backing which becomes sticky when moistened.
Poly Wall Self Adhering Membrane waterproofing system is designed for application on residential concrete and concrete masonry below grade. Typical applications include substrate transitions such as foundation walls to above-grade structural wall. Poly Wall Self-Adhering Sheet Membrane is a cold-applied, self-adhesive, elastomeric membrane consisting of a layer of polymer-modified asphalt laminated to a layer of high-density polyethylene.