Meaning of Indian name: Divya. Meaning of the name Divya is 'Divine, Heavenly, brilliant'. Divya is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Divya is '7'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Divya'. 
You are strong in material matters, determined and stubborn. You have good business ability. You are a good worker, steady and practical, a builder who takes responsibility well. These qualities may bring you a position of authority and power. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME.
Show similar names Show variant names. In Local: திவ்யா; దివ్యా; ਦਿਵ੍ਯਾ; દિવ્યા; ; ದಿವ್ಯಾ; দি঵্যা; ദിവ്യാ. Name Divya generally means Divine or Divine Luster or Heavenly or Brilliant or Extraordinary, is of Sanskrit, Indian origin, Name Divya is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Jain or Hindu by religion. Find qualities of Cancerian (Kark), Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Divya or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kark (Cancer), Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs.
Divya is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Di-vy-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2360 in baby name popularity for girls with 77 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Divya in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Divya in Nautical Flags page.
Hindi Meaning: The name Divya is a Hindi baby name. In Hindi the meaning of the name Divya is: Divine. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
[ 2 syll. di-vya, div-ya ] The baby girl name Divya is pronounced as DihVYaa- †. Divya has its origins in the English and Sanskrit languages. It is used largely in Indian. From Sanskrit roots, its meaning is 'dazzling'. In addition, Divya is a variant transcription of Divina (English). Divya is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is listed outside of the top 1000. 