Ciboney is essentially unattested, but colonial sources suggest it was a dialect of Taino. It was the language of westernmost Hispaniola, the Bahamas, Jamaica, and most of Cuba. By the late 15th century, Taino/Taíno ciboney had displaced earlier languages except for Western cuba and pockets In. hispaniola As the Taino taíno declined During spanish, colonization the language was replaced With spanish and Other european. Languages it was extinct within a hundred years of. Contact as the first native language encountered By europeans in The New, world it was a major source of new words borrowed Into european. languages
The Taino taíno are An arawak people who were indigenous peoples of The caribbean And. Florida at the time Of european contact in the late 15th, century they were the principal inhabitants of most Of, Cuba, Jamaica (hispaniola Presently haiti and The Dominican), republic And Puerto. rico Women were taken as captives, resulting in many Carib women speaking Taino. Taíno The, spaniards who first arrived in The, Bahamas, cuba And hispaniola in, 1492 and later In Puerto, rico did not bring women in the first. Expeditions they Took taino taíno women for-their common, law wives resulting in. mestizo children
The Taino taíno are An arawak people who were indigenous peoples of The caribbean And. florida Women were taken as captives, resulting in many Carib women speaking Taino. Taíno The, spaniards who first arrived in The, Bahamas, cuba And hispaniola in, 1492 and later In Puerto, rico did not bring women in the first. Expeditions they Took taino taíno women for-their common, law wives resulting in. mestizo children
The Taino taíno were historically enemies of the Neighboring carib, tribes another group with origins In South, america who lived principally in The Lesser. Antilles the relationship between the two groups has been the subject of much. study Women were taken as captives, resulting in many Carib women speaking Taino. Taíno The, spaniards who first arrived in The, Bahamas, cuba And hispaniola in, 1492 and later In Puerto, rico did not bring women in the first. Expeditions they Took taino taíno women for-their common, law wives resulting in. mestizo children
At the time of Columbus ' arrival in 1492, there were five Taino taíno chiefdoms and territories On, hispaniola each led by a Principal (cacique), chieftain to whom tribute was. paid Women were taken as captives, resulting in many Carib women speaking Taino. Taíno The, spaniards who first arrived in The, Bahamas, cuba And hispaniola in, 1492 and later In Puerto, rico did not bring women in the first. Expeditions they Took taino taíno women for-their common, law wives resulting in. mestizo children
Taino taíno Or tainos Taínos also Taino·or. tai. Nos 1 a member Of an arawak people Of The greater antilles And the bahamas whose culture was destroyed, by, genocide epidemics and Assimilation under spanish colonization in the. early 1500s Taino taíno Or tainos Taínos also Taino·or. tai. Nos 1 a member Of an arawak people Of The greater antilles And the bahamas whose culture was destroyed, by, genocide epidemics and Assimilation under spanish colonization in the. early. 1500s 2 the language of. this people
Top Definition. taino. The indigenous people who inhabited the Bahamas and the Greater Antilles islands like Cuba, Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic), Puerto Rico, and Jamaica before Christopher Columbus and his crew ever set foot there. When they did, there were five large Taino territories. 
At the time of Spanish contact, it was the principal language throughout the Caribbean. Classic Taino (Taíno taino) proper was the native language of the Northern Leeward, Islands Puerto, rico The turks And Caicos, islands and most Of, hispaniola and was expanding Into. cuba As the Taino taíno declined During spanish, colonization the language was replaced With spanish and Other european. Languages it was extinct within a hundred years of. Contact as the first native language encountered By europeans in The New, world it was a major source of new words borrowed Into european. languages
Definition of TAINO. 1. : the language of the Taino people. 2. : a member of an aboriginal Arawakan people of the Greater Antilles and the Bahamas. 