Life Span. Nits, or lice eggs, can live for up to 10 days but will need to feed on human blood after hatching. Adult lice can live for up to one month on the head of a human but die within two to three days without body contact. Head lice are very small insects that live on the scalp, which is also where they lay their eggs. They survive longer when on the scalp, but how long can head lice live without body contact? 1  How to Break the Lice Life Cycle. 2  How to Use Dawn to Kill Lice.
As long as there’s a food source readily available, an adult louse can live for as long as 30 days on a human. However, this short lifespan is perpetuated by the constant laying of eggs. Female lice lay up to six eggs each day. Symptoms of head lice include the visible detection of white matter in the hair as well as itching and a tingling or tickling sensation of the scalp. These stubborn insects may be difficult to remove from the hair and can be quite contagious. Learn about the life cycle of head lice and for how long they live.
Nymphs and fully mature adults can survive for only about a day without a food source. Adult lice can’t live past 24 hours or so on non-human surfaces such as carpets, hardwood flooring, clothing, furniture, sports helmets, headphones, or hair accessories. Symptoms of head lice include the visible detection of white matter in the hair as well as itching and a tingling or tickling sensation of the scalp. These stubborn insects may be difficult to remove from the hair and can be quite contagious. Learn about the life cycle of head lice and for how long they live.
Life Span Without Food. Nits, or lice eggs, can’t live without a human host. They need the warmth of the scalp for incubation purposes before they hatch. Once they’ve hatched, they need the nourishment they get from human blood. Nits that are dislodged from a hair shaft will most likely die before they hatch. Symptoms of head lice include the visible detection of white matter in the hair as well as itching and a tingling or tickling sensation of the scalp. These stubborn insects may be difficult to remove from the hair and can be quite contagious. Learn about the life cycle of head lice and for how long they live.
Lice securely adhere their eggs, or nits, to hair shafts on their host. However, once hatched, nymphal and adult lice sometimes fall off their host or get knocked off by the host's scratching. Lice don't quickly die without a host, though, and generally survive for three to seven days on their own. The species, age, environmental factors, when they last fed and other specifics can affect exactly how long a louse is able to live off of a host. 
How long do head lice live? The life span of an adult louse on a host ranges up to 30 days. During this time, the female head louse can deposit about 90 eggs. After incubating for seven to 10 days, the nits hatch and, after another 10 days, mature into adult head lice and the cycle begins again. Off the host, adult head lice can live about two to four days at 74 degrees Fahrenheit (F) and one to two days at 86 degrees. Nits will remain alive off the host for up to 10 days; they will not hatch at or below room temperature (68 degrees F). They do not jump or fly; they can only crawl. Head lice depend completely on their host for nourishment; their only source of food is human blood. The prevalence of head lice infestation is no different in individuals with long hair than in those with short hair.
Head lice and pubic lice are highly dependent upon human body warmth and will die if separated from their host for 24 hours. Body lice are hardier since they live on clothing and can survive if separated from human contact for up to a week without feeding. Figure 2. Body lice, Pediculus humanus humanus Linnaeus. 
Malathion is pediculicidal (kills live lice) and partially ovicidal (kills some lice eggs). A second treatment is recommended if live lice still are present 7–9 days after treatment. Malathion is intended for use on persons 6 years of age and older. Malathion can be irritating to the skin. 