1 Of or relating to the earth or its inhabitants. 2  Biology Living or growing on land or on or in the ground; not aquatic, arboreal, or epiphytic: terrestrial mammals; terrestrial apes; terrestrial orchids. 3  Astronomy Similar to the planet earth in size or composition: terrestrial planets. adjective. 1  Of or relating to the earth or its inhabitants. 2  Biology Living or growing on land or on or in the ground; not aquatic, arboreal, or epiphytic: terrestrial mammals; terrestrial apes; terrestrial orchids. 3  Astronomy Similar to the planet earth in size or composition: terrestrial planets. 4  Transmitted from structures on the earth and not ...
adj. 1. Of or relating to the earth or its inhabitants. 2. Biology Living or growing on land or on or in the ground; not aquatic, arboreal, or epiphytic: terrestrial mammals; terrestrial apes; terrestrial orchids. terrestrial. 1. Relating to or characteristic of the earth or of human life on earth: earthbound, earthen, earthly, earthy, mundane, secular, tellurian, telluric, temporal, terrene, worldly. 2. Consisting of or resembling soil:
terrestrial. adj. 1. of or relating to the earth. 2. of or belonging to the land as opposed to the sea or air. 3. (Biology) (of animals and plants) living or growing on the land. terrestrial. 1. Relating to or characteristic of the earth or of human life on earth: earthbound, earthen, earthly, earthy, mundane, secular, tellurian, telluric, temporal, terrene, worldly. 2. Consisting of or resembling soil:
Terrestrial Planets. A terrestrial planet, also known as a telluric planet or rocky planet is defined as a planet that is composed primarily silicate rocks or metals. In our solar system, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets-i.e. the ones closest to the Sun
terrestrial. adjective. 1  Of or relating to the earth or its inhabitants. 2  Biology Living or growing on land or on or in the ground; not aquatic, arboreal, or epiphytic: terrestrial mammals; terrestrial apes; terrestrial orchids. 3  Astronomy Similar to the planet earth in size or composition: terrestrial planets. 4  Transmitted from structures on the earth and not ...
Terrestrial. Definition. adjective. Of, pertaining to, or corresponding to land (on earth), as opposed to water and air. Supplement. The term terrestrial in biology is generally used to describe living organisms that live and grow on land. Living things that make use of nature as their habitat may be grouped based on where they live, grow and reproduce. Living things that spend most of their life on land are called terrestrial
Word Root of TERRESTRIAL. The Latin word terra, meaning “ earth, ” “ land, ” or “ ground, ” gives us the root terr. Words from the Latin terra have something to do with the earth or land. A terr itory is an area of land ruled by a particular government. A terr ace is a piece of land with a flat top
The terrestrial planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars, sizes to scale. A terrestrial planet, telluric planet or rocky planet is a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals. Within the Solar System, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets closest to the Sun, i.e. Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. The terms terrestrial planet and telluric planet are derived from Latin words for Earth (Terra and Tellus), as these planets are, in terms of composition, Earth-like.