Director | Producer | Writer. Comedian David Steinberg, born in 1942, grew up in Winnipeg, Canada. He left home to attend the University of Chicago. The family moved to Chicago when he was a teen. It was there that he saw a performance by the Second City Chicago Troupe and it changed the course of his life. 
For other people named David Steinberg, see David Steinberg (disambiguation) . David A. Steinberg is the founder and chief executive officer of Zeta Interactive, formerly XL Marketing Corporation, one of several companies that he started. 
Inside Comedy Season 4 on Showtime. David connects with Jon Stewart, Michael Keaton, Stephen Colbert, Bryan Cranston, Dan Aykroyd, Dane Cook, Ted Danson, Carol Leifer, Cheech & Chong, Conan O’Brien, Jeffrey Tambor, and Wanda Sykes. 
For other people named David Steinberg, see David Steinberg (disambiguation) . David Steinberg (born August 9, 1942) is a Canadian comedian, actor, writer, director, and author. At the height of his popularity, during the late 1960s and early 1970s, he was one of the best-known comics in the United States. The cast of the 1976/77 edition of The David Steinberg Show included: 1  David Steinberg as himself, the genial but beleaguered host of a variety show. 2  Bill Saluga as Vinnie DeMilo and as Ray J. Johnson. 3  Vinnie is the owner of the nearby Hello Deli, and David's chief confidante.
About David Steinberg. David L. Steinberg graduated from the University of Michigan in 1977 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in History and Communications and earned his Juris Doctor Law degree from the University of Detroit School of Law in 1980 where he served as Article and Book Review Editor of the Law Review. 
David Steinberg Net Worth. David Steinberg net worth: David Steinberg is a Canadian comedian, actor, director, writer, and author who has a net worth of $10 1  ... David Birney Net WorthDavid Birney Net Worth: David Birney is an American actor and director who has a net worth of $5 million. David Birney was born. 1  John Candy Net WorthJohn Candy Net Worth: John Candy was a Canadian actor and comedian who had a net worth of $15 million
David Steinberg net worth: $10 Million. David Steinberg net worth: David Steinberg is a Canadian comedian, actor, director, writer, and author who has a net worth of $10 million. David Steinberg was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada in August 1942. Steinberg was one of the best known comics in the United States during the late 1960s and early 1970s
MW: 100. Our rankings are based on total retail GLA owned and managed in the U.S., as reported by companies. Respondents were asked to include GLA through Dec. 31 and report only retail GLA and only their percentage of ownership in joint ventures. 
Jewish Americans are the most powerful and influential ethnic group in America. Jewish Americans make up 2 percent of the U.S. population yet comprise 40 percent of U.S. billionaires. 18% of jewish households have a net worth of $1 million or more. More than 55% of all Jewish Adults received a college degree and 25% earned a graduate degree. 