Clinical Signs. back to the top. Coughing and respiratory distress are the most commonly reported signs with obstructive lung disease. Coughing is a significant finding since there are relatively few causes of coughing in the cat. Also, many cats assume a crouched position with the neck extending during these coughing episodes.
The symptoms of feline upper respiratory disease vary as to which virus, bacteria, etc., is the cause, the age of the animal, and other health factors. A summary of the symptoms as well as other characteristics of rhinotracheitis and calcivirus infections are summarized in the table below.
Lung Cancer Symptoms. During the early stages of the disease, lung cancer will manifest itself as a common feline upper respiratory infection. The cat will have a dry cough and will be less active. If the cancer originates in other parts of the body, the coughing will not be present in the initial stages of the disease.
What is the prognosis for cats with feline upper respiratory disease complex? Most cats infected with feline rhinotracheitis virus or calicivirus will become chronic carriers of the virus. This means they will continue to be infected with the virus but not show any signs of the disease.
Lymphoma is a type of cancer that can affect cats. This feline lung disease affects the lymph nodes and lymphatic tissue. This type of cancer will often cause the following symptoms: weight loss, diarrhea, rough hair coat, vomiting and loss of appetite. Cats who have lymphoma developing in or around their lungs may experience fluid within their lung cavity and respiratory distress.
Symptoms of feline upper respiratory disease will depend on the cause and type, but some symptoms occur with all types and causes. These symptoms include nasal discharge, eye discharge, loss or appetite and depression. Regardless of the type and cause, this feline lung disease is basically treated in the same manner.
Sneezing and eye discharge in cats are the most common characteristics of 'Feline Upper Respiratory Disease Complex'. This is the term used to describe a condition affecting the mouth, nasal passages, sinuses, upper airway, and sometimes the eyes in cats and kittens.
Chronic coughing may also be a symptom of a lung infection or some types of cancer. Although in people and dogs, coughing is a common symptom of heart disease, coughing is not usually a symptom of heart disease in the cat.