A Y-STR is a short tandem repeat (STR) on the Y-chromosome. Y-STRs are often used in forensics, paternity, and genealogical DNA testing. Y-STRs are taken specifically from the male Y chromosome. Y-STR Analysis [edit]. There are regions on DNA that are made up of multiple copies of short repeating sequences of bases (for example TATT) which repeat a variable number of times depending on the individual.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Short tandem repeat analysis (STR) is a molecular biology method used to compare specific loci on DNA from two or more samples. A short tandem repeat is a microsatellite, consisting of a unit of two to thirteen nucleotides repeated hundreds of times in a row on the DNA strand. STR analysis measures the exact number of repeating units.
Short tandem repeat (STR) technology is a forensic analysis that evaluates specific regions (loci) that are found on nuclear DNA. The variable (polymorphic) nature of the STR regions that are analyzed for forensic testing intensifies the discrimination between one DNA profile and another. 
Males only. Y-DNA tests specific markers on the Y-chromosome of your DNA known as Short Tandem Repeat, or STR markers. Because females do not carry the Y-chromosome, the Y-DNA test can only be used by males. A female can have their father or paternal grandfather tested. Y-DNA testing looks at the DNA in the Y-chromosome, a sex chromosome that is responsible for maleness. All males have one Y-chromosome in each cell and copies are passed down (virtually) unchanged from father to son each generation.
STR analysis is a tool in forensic analysis that evaluates specific STR regions found on nuclear DNA. The variable (polymorphic) nature of the STR regions that are analyzed for forensic testing intensifies the discrimination between one DNA profile and another. A short tandem repeat is a microsatellite, consisting of a unit of two to thirteen nucleotides repeated hundreds of times in a row on the DNA strand. STR analysis measures the exact number of repeating units.
Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA) tests trace both recent and distant generations. The number of generations traced by a Y-chromosome DNA test depends on the type of test taken, short tandem repeat (STR) or single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). The Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA) marker DYS389 is a single STR marker that has four parts: m, n, p, and q. At Family Tree DNA we have two tests for DYS389. The first test looks at the first two parts of marker DYS389 (m and n). This is what we call DYS389I. The second test looks at all four parts of DYS389 (m, n, p, and q).
A Y-STR test is only done between two males, as the Y-chromosome is only passed to males by their father. If two males are not available to take part in a Y-STR test, we do have other testing options for you and your family. A paternity or maternity test will always be conclusive. Y-STR Male DNA $200. Our Y-STR male lineage test is a very conclusive test that will answer the question – are the tested males from the same paternal line.
Y-DNA STR testing chart. From ISOGG Wiki. This Y-STR testing chart provides comparative information on the Y-STR Y chromosome DNA tests offered by the major DNA testing companies. Y-STR tests are used for genetic genealogy within a genealogical timeframe and are generally co-ordinated through surname DNA projects. Some surname DNA projects offer sponsored Y-DNA tests. To see if your name is included on the list visit our free DNA tests page.
By themselves, Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA) short tandem repeat (STR) markers from a Y-DNA test do not have any particular meaning. The value of testing Y-DNA STR markers comes from creating a Y-DNA signature (haplotype) with them and comparing that Y-DNA signature to others in a database. The Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA) marker DYS389 is a single STR marker that has four parts: m, n, p, and q. At Family Tree DNA we have two tests for DYS389. The first test looks at the first two parts of marker DYS389 (m and n). This is what we call DYS389I. The second test looks at all four parts of DYS389 (m, n, p, and q).