Most asteroids circle the Sun in a broad band between Mars and Jupiter called the asteroid belt, which is about 215 million miles (345 million km) wide. The asteroids are pieces left over from when the major planets formed from small chunks of rock.
1 Bright S (silicaceous) asteroids and are in the inner belt, closer to Mars. 2  They tend to be metallic iron with some silicates of iron and magnesium. 3  Bright M (metallic) asteroids. 4  They sit in the middle of the asteroid belt and are mostly made up of metallic iron.
The theory is that when a smaller asteroid or comet slams into a bigger asteroid, the small asteroid or comet could release a layer of ice in the bigger asteroid. The force of the impact briefly turned the ice into water, which flowed across the surface, creating the gullies. Metals that are abundant in asteroids.
The asteroid belt probably contains millions of asteroids. Astronomers think that the asteroid belt is made up of material that was never able to form into a planet, or of the remains of a planet which broke apart a very long time ago. The asteroids in the asteroid belt come in a variety of sizes.
The asteroid belt is a region of space between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter where most of the asteroids in our Solar System are found orbiting the Sun.
Most asteroids that we know about fall into the first category, and are made of Silicates. A small percentage are Iron-Nickel. The rest form the third type. I believe that they are made of rocky bits left over from the formation of the inner planets. The run-of-the-mill asteroid is just one kilometer long.
An asteroid’s composition is mainly determined by how close it is to the Sun. The asteroids that are nearest the Sun are mostly made of carbon, with smaller amounts of nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen, while the ones further away are made up of silicate rock. Silicates are very common on Earth and in the Solar System.
Asteroids are made of rock and metal and broken away pieces of planets. They are grouped into three categories: Stony, Iron-Nickel, and a mixture of the two.