After Hours Time (ET) Time is the time of the trade Eastern Standard Time. After Hours Price Price is the trade price of the trade. After Hours Share Volume Share Volume is the number of shares of the stock traded on the listing exchange during current trading hours. It does not include after hours volume. 
Company Description. Apple Inc designs, manufactures, & markets mobile communication & media devices, personal computers, & portable digital music players, & sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions, & third-party digital content. Sector: Technology. Industry: Personal Computers. 
52 Week High/Low 52 Week High is the highest sales price the stock has achieved during the regular trading hours during the most recent 52 week period. 52 Week Low is the lowest sales price the stock has fallen to during the regular trading hours during the most recent 52 week period. $ 134.54 / $ 92. Market cap “Market Capitalization” is a measure of the estimated value of the common equity securities of the company or their equivalent.
The stock information provided is for informational purposes only and is not intended for trading purposes. The stock information is provided by eSignal, stock charts are provided by NASDAQ OMX, both third party services, and Apple Inc. does not maintain or provide information directly to this service. Stock information is delayed approximately 20 minutes. 
com/news/aapl-apple-inc/). ) real time stock quote as of Feb 27 as published by NASDAQ OMX is at $516. Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) Dip Continues at $516, Poor Stock Investment ... by International Business Times-US ed. 
Profile AAPL. Apple, Inc. designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications.... Reflects the total market value of a company. Market Cap is calculated by multiplying the number of shares outstanding by the stock's price. For companies with multiple common share classes, market capitalization includes both classes.
Description. Apple Inc. (Apple) designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. 
View Company Description as filed with the SEC ... Apple (ticker symbol: AAPL) is one of the world's leading consumer electronics and personal computer companies. The Cupertino, California-based company was established in 1977 as Apple Computer Inc. It dropped the Computer from its name in early 2007. 52 Week Low is the lowest sales price the stock has fallen to during the regular trading hours during the most recent 52 week period. $ 134.54 / $ 92. Market cap “Market Capitalization” is a measure of the estimated value of the common equity securities of the company or their equivalent.
Apple Inc. designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related personal computing and mobile communication devices along with a variety of related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions.