Dear Lifehacker, My eyes often feel tired after staring at the computer all day. So I'm wondering if glasses designed for computer use actually help (for example, those yellow-tinted computer/gaming glasses I've seen mentioned on Lifehacker or regular glasses with special coatings). They seem pricey and I'm a little skeptical about all the claims, but I also want to protect my vision. Costs: Gunnar glasses retail for $79 and up for the non-prescription versions, but you can often find sales on them (I got a pair on Woot! for $30). Prescription versions of the Gunnars, however, can cost several hundred dollars.
Computer glasses differ from regular glasses in that they are specifically made to help reduce the eye strain associated with computer work. The average person works approximately eight hours a day in front of a computer. These long hours make us more prone to vision-related problems. However, if you are constantly experiencing eye strain then computer glasses may be exactly what you need. Your optometrist can help you find the right pair of computer glasses for your everyday workplace needs. Find a doctor near you, and see if you’re the right candidate for computer glasses. Photo Credit: CC Image Courtesy of Michael Saechang. Author Vision Source — Published March 26, 2014
Whether my eyes were more humid at the end of the workday, I can't say. Because Gunnar Glasses are optimized for viewing a computer screen, they're not so good for other uses, such as looking across the room or even talking to a coworker sitting across the desk from you. Or if you wear other prescription glasses, you may have to switch glasses many times a day, which can be more hassle than it's worth. Overall, even though I do have to put up with the hassle of switching glasses, I've found that Gunnar Glasses help me spend hours working on a computer more comfortably. If you spend a lot of time staring at a monitor and your eyes are giving you grief, Gunnar Glasses are worth checking out. 1  Gadgets
Computer glasses are special-purpose eyeglasses meant to optimize your eyesight when you're looking at digital screens. They're designed to: reduce glare (a major cause of eyestrain), increase contrast, and maximize what you see through the lenses—making it easier to look at a screen for longer periods of time. Costs: Gunnar glasses retail for $79 and up for the non-prescription versions, but you can often find sales on them (I got a pair on Woot! for $30). Prescription versions of the Gunnars, however, can cost several hundred dollars.
Staring at a flat screen for hours can cause eyestrain, headaches, dry eyes, burning, and blurred vision, known as computer vision syndrome (CVS). Computer glasses can protect you from CVS by enhancing your vision with or without a prescription. Computer glasses are typically made to counteract glare from the computer screen. Protective computer glasses may be helpful for reducing eye strain. Ask your optometrist for a computer test if you are worried about your vision.
• Lens designs for computer eyewear • Special lens coatings and tints • Where to buy computer glasses. When you work at a computer for any length of time, it's common to experience eye strain, blurred vision, red eyes and other symptoms of computer vision syndrome (CVS). This is because the visual demands of computer work are unlike those associated with most other activities. Computer glasses differ from regular eyeglasses or reading glasses in a number of ways to optimize your eyesight when viewing your computer screen. Computer glasses from Gunnar Optiks include special lens coatings to reduce glare and a tint designed to eliminate eye strain.
Check out the functions and benefits that computer glasses offer you and your eyes. If you take a look around your workplace you will most likely see a computer or even tablet at every desk. In today’s technological world, our lives have become dependent on the use of computers, tablets, and smartphones. However, if you are constantly experiencing eye strain then computer glasses may be exactly what you need. Your optometrist can help you find the right pair of computer glasses for your everyday workplace needs. Find a doctor near you, and see if you’re the right candidate for computer glasses. Photo Credit: CC Image Courtesy of Michael Saechang. Author Vision Source — Published March 26, 2014