Latin Meaning: The name Neville is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Neville is: From the new town. English Meaning: The name Neville is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Neville is: New village. French Meaning: The name Neville is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Neville is: From the new village. Originally a surname, since the late 19th century has been used occasionally as a first name. Famous Bearers: novelist Nevil Shute.
Irish and English (of Norman origin): habitational name from Neuville in Calvados or Neville néville In-Seine, maritime both so called From Old french(neu) ‘f’ (New latin) + novus ‘ville’ (settlement See).Villa (Irish): munster assimilation of The gaelic NAME O (ó Niadh) see nee and SOMETIMES Of (o ó). cnaimhin cnaimhín see nevin Click to view veteran service records. You can find out if your ancestors came primarily from the North of the South. Military records can tell you an ancestor's birthplace, occupation, and even physical description.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Neville immigration records. You can find out when most of the Neville families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Click to view veteran service records. You can find out if your ancestors came primarily from the North of the South. Military records can tell you an ancestor's birthplace, occupation, and even physical description.
This great and noble surname is of Norman origin, introduced into England after the Conquest of 1066. It is a French locational name from Neuville in Calvados or Neville in Seine-Maritime, Normandy, both so called from the Old French neu(f) new, with ville, a settlement. In more recent years they have been Earls and Marquesses of Abergavenny. A Coat of Arms granted to the family is red and on a silver saltire a red rose, the Crest being out of a gold ducal coronet, a bull's head pied proper.
From an English surname which was originally derived from a place name meaning new town in Norman French. 
This great and noble name borne by the Earls of Westmorland, Northumberland, Salisbury, Warwickshire and Kent is of French locational origin from Neuville in Calvados or Neville in Seine-Maritime, Normandy, both so called from the Old French neu(f) meaning new, plus ville, a settlement, hence new settlement. 
There is more to Neville family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Neville family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. Neuville, a town in Poitou, France. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
Neville Surname Origin. (Origin French) 'De Neuve ville,' of the new town. Neuville, a town in Poitou, France. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ralph de Neuilla, which was dated 1086, in the Domesday Book, during the reign of King William 1, known as The Conqueror, 1066 - 1087. In more recent years they have been Earls and Marquesses of Abergavenny. A Coat of Arms granted to the family is red and on a silver saltire a red rose, the Crest being out of a gold ducal coronet, a bull's head pied proper.