True possums are found only in Australia and some of the islands of Oceania. They are quite different to the North American opossum. Possums live in trees hollows and logs in their natural habitat, which is bushland, wet sclerophyll forest and tall eucalypt forest, and temperate rainforest. Possums are also found in farming and urban areas within Australia. The possums of Australia, whose name is derived from a similarity to the Virginia Opossum, are also marsupials, but of the order Diprotodontia. From the Opossum Society of the US: The name opossum is derived from an Algonquian Indian word apasum, meaning white animal.
Opossum Facts. Description. Although opossums look like a big rat, they are actually related to the koala and kangaroo. The opossum (also called possum) is the only marsupial (female with a pouch) in North America. They are about the size of a cat, have black to gray fur, and long, pointed noses (pink in color). Opossums have many teeth, more than any other land mammal, and a prehensile tail, one that can grasp or hold. 
Opossum Facts. Opossums are medium sized animals with pouch. They are the only marsupials that live in North America and Canada. They also live in Australia. Opossums prefer woodlands near streams, rivers, marshes. Other than that, they are often found near residential areas, on farms and backyard
Virginia opossums’ home range size varies based on an individual’s range, their habitat, the available resources and their gender. In general, their home range size is thought to be about 12.5 to 38.8 hectares; females generally have a smaller home range. 
Opossum Habitat-Dens. Opossums aren't too picky when it comes to their den habitat. The will sleep anywhere it is dry and safe. North America's only marsupial's engineering skills are limited to sanitation and do not translate into construction. Opossum Habitat-Range. The Virginia opossum became prevalent through out most of North America during the 1900s when they were brought to many of the western states as pets. As with most wild animals, many escaped back into the wild or were intentionally released.
Habitats are diverse, ranging from arid to moist, wooded to open fields. Opossums prefer environments near streams or swamps. They take shelter in burrows of other animals, tree cavities, brush piles, and other cover. They sometimes den in attics and garages where they may make a messy nest. An opossum (Didelphis virginiana) is a whitish or grayish mammal about the size of a house cat (Fig. 1). Underfur is dense with sparse guard hairs. Its face is long and pointed, its ears rounded and hairless.
Opossum habitat in the wild will be centered around wooded areas with water nearby. You will not find them deep in the woods, they prefer to live near edges and have adapted nicely to urban, as well as, rural human populations. Opossum Habitat-Range. The Virginia opossum became prevalent through out most of North America during the 1900s when they were brought to many of the western states as pets. As with most wild animals, many escaped back into the wild or were intentionally released.
Weight: 8.8 to 13.2 lb (4 to 6 kg). Group name: Passel. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: There are more than 60 different species of opossum, which are often called possums. The most notable is the Virginia opossum or common opossum—the only marsupial (pouched mammal) found in the United States and Canada. A female opossum gives birth to helpless young as tiny as honeybees. 
The Virginia Opossum has a wide range of habitats and it appears it is not to concerned about where it will sleep at night as long as it has a place to hide from predators. Be mindful the next time you are pulling wood out of your wood pile or cleaning out under your porch as these areas make excellent Opossum habitat. Opossum Habitat-Range. The Virginia opossum became prevalent through out most of North America during the 1900s when they were brought to many of the western states as pets. As with most wild animals, many escaped back into the wild or were intentionally released.
Learn everything you need to know about opossum facts, behavior and habitat. It is an odd sight, this shuffling, waddling creature with the faintly foul odor, a thin trickle of drool at one corner of its mouth, its hair sticking out every which way, its eyes blinking, its tail comically naked. 