HabileData.com propose Data Entry Services Pricing structure, understanding factors contributing to it and ways to calculate the cost of outsource data entry services, helping customers make sure they are paying for actual work. 1 3. Make sure you are billed for actual time/work. 2  Once satisfied with the sample work proceed to full fledge outsourcing of data entry services but with a cautious review of services within 3-6 months.
Full-time, temporary Data Entry Operator sought for a short-term, 5-6 month job with pay starting at $10.50/hour. Will enter information, proofread data, edit inaccurate text, and perform various office duties. 12 month temporary position available for a Data Entry Operator in a full time capacity. Individual must demonstrate 90% accuracy as well as speed, and ensure that data integrity remains at high level. HS diploma/GED & good communication skills req.
(United Kingdom). A Data Entry Clerk earns an average salary of £15,065 per year. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. £11,374 - £21,214. 
Full-Time Temporary Job Phoenix, AZ. Full-time, temporary Data Entry Clerk sought for a short-term, six month position starting at $11/hour. Will enter information, correct entry issues, train staff, and more. Two+ years' experience with data entry, and 13,000+ ksph skills required. Seeking a receptionist for a temporary role. Pays $10.00 an hour. Must have strong communications skills and some experience. Responsible for answering calls, greet guests and employees, perform data entry, scan documents and file paperwork.
Full-Time Temporary Job Eagan, MN. 12 month temporary position available for a Data Entry Operator in a full time capacity. Individual must demonstrate 90% accuracy as well as speed, and ensure that data integrity remains at high level. HS diploma/GED & good communication skills req.
Full-time posts usually involve working 35 to 40 hours a week, although part-time and temporary work is often available, with recruitment agencies being a common source of vacancies.Starting salaries for data entry staff are around £12,000 a year. Experienced staff may earn salaries of up to £18,000 a year. 
Well known distribution company requires an experienced Data Entry Operator for a temp to permanent opportunity, to commence ASAP, in the South Eastern Suburbs.... 6 hours ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Robert Half Australia jobs-Melbourne Eastern Suburbs jobs. With strong data entry skills and prior experience in invoicing, you will be fast and accurate in processing information and have a warm, can-do customer... careermums - 7 day
Data Entry Operator needed for a full-time, temporary position starting at $13/hour. Applicant will obtain and enter information. Must have strong data entry ability, and excellent communication skills. Short-term, 2-3 week job. 12 month temporary position available for a Data Entry Operator in a full time capacity. Individual must demonstrate 90% accuracy as well as speed, and ensure that data integrity remains at high level. HS diploma/GED & good communication skills req.
Will run reports, verify information, perform file audits, and handle document requests on a temporary basis. Must have two years of experience as an administrative assistant. Requires advanced skills in Microsoft Office and data entry. $11-$14/hr. 12 month temporary position available for a Data Entry Operator in a full time capacity. Individual must demonstrate 90% accuracy as well as speed, and ensure that data integrity remains at high level. HS diploma/GED & good communication skills req.