1 They also provide lists of the different prices of having a tennis court built. 2  They show that the cost of having a tennis court constructed ranges from $40,000 to $45,000 for basic asphalt courts. 3  Fast Dry Courts is a company that specializes in building tennis courts. 1 The price range for their services can fall between $28,000 and $80,000. 2  Another company that can provide tennis court construction is Tennis Court Repairs. 3  Their website shows that the cost of having this type of court constructed can range from $25,000 to $50,000 without lighting.
About Brite Court and our experience. Brite Court is a division of Alternative LED (ALED). The Founders of ALED developed the 1st T5 fluorescent indoor tennis lighting back in 2002 and since then they have designed lighting for more than 500 courts. All of the Brite Court tennis lighting is designed specifically for tennis use.
Brite Court offers the most energy efficient fixtures designed especially for outdoor and indoor tennis courts. Our indoor sports and tennis lighting systems will save you money – our customers typically save between 40-70% in energy costs while delivering higher light quality. Brite Court is a division of Alternative LED (ALED). The Founders of ALED developed the 1st T5 fluorescent indoor tennis lighting back in 2002 and since then they have designed lighting for more than 500 courts. All of the Brite Court tennis lighting is designed specifically for tennis use.
150-4000w led flood light for tennis court. ---High power excellent quality with best price. Smallest size for highest power in the market. ---High CRI up to 90-95.Light efficiency up to 130lm/w. 
LED tennis courts are becoming the preferred solution in areas with high energy costs, like Hawaii where electricity costs between $0.30 and $0.50 /kWh, or on Caribbean islands where power supplies are both limited and expensive, said Access Fixtures CEO, Steven Rothschild. , Jan. 7, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- LED technology is constantly improving in energy efficiency, lumen output and module life while the cost is falling. Progress is enabling tennis court lighting systems to improve while prices fall.
Budgeting for Your Tennis Court Project. We are excited that you are interested in building a new tennis court! Building a new tennis court in south Florida will cost anywhere from $28,000 to $80,000 or more. Several factors will influence the overall cost of the court and should be considered when budgeting for your tennis court project, including: Player Amenities. The following player amenities, while minor in cost, will make for a much more player-friendly tennis court: 1  Tidi-Court court organizer. 2  Shoe Cleaner (Har-Tru or HydroCourt).
In order to compensate for this, additional fixtures will be required. If just two fixtures more per court are needed to compensate for a poor ceiling design, the annual cost of lighting each court could increase by as much as $1,500-$2,500 per court depending on your facility's geographic location. 
How much does it cost to build a court? The average cost to build a residential tennis court from start to finish including dirt work, post tension slab, fencing, lighting, surfacing and accessories, is about $65,000. However, prices can easily range anywhere between $50,000 to $80,000 depending on options.
Tennis court LED lighting, whether for indoor tennis courts or outdoor, needs to be as close as possible to actual daylight, even when playing at night. A high level of light is required for effective play, and players also want to have consistent light across the full playing area. This way you get LED performance and energy savings with a fraction of the cost of new LED fixture installation. Control your tennis court lighting with a management system that allows the lights to be switched on and off at the entrance of the court.