There is no law that says what age you must be before you can babysit. However, if you are under 16 years old it is against the law for you to babysit during school hours without permission from your principal. Parents can decide how old a babysitter they hire should be. 
Getting Your Preteen Ready for Babysitting. Some children have the maturity to start babysitting as early as age 12 or 13. Others are better off waiting until they're older teenagers. Before you let your tween babysit, demand the same qualifications that you would from any babysitter you are considering hiring. Any prospective babysitter needs to be: 1  Responsible. 
Factors in Age for Babysitting: Safety: The Red Cross babysitting course is recommended for 11 to 15 year olds to start babysitting. It's a good guideline to use, since the course is recognized nationally. Maturity: The age when children can start babysitting often depends on how responsible the child is. The best judge of your child's maturity is you. If your child is not ready to babysit, encourage her to look for mother's helper jobs until she is ready.
They should start to babysit when they are okay with being alone their house first. Then they can start baysitting YOUNGER neighbors. At the age of 10 they should start babysi … tting kids about 2 years younger. That would be an eight year old. So the kids being watched are also a bit responsible. The parents decide the age they want their kids to babysit and the … person that wants them to babysit. Don't let anyone tell you that you need to have a babysitter's license because there is no such thing. Only a couple of states have set laws regarding this.
There is no legal minimum age requirement for babysitting in California. However, babysitting courses start at age 12 and the guidelines for military families is also age 12. So, assuming that your son is responsible enough, he would appear to be more than old enough. Best of luck. If your nephew's parents are confident in your 15-year old son's ability and level of maturity, and you are, as well, then it should be fine. Babysitting age is a very individual thing. There is no legal minimum age. Some kids are ready to babysit at 12 or 13, and others not until 17 or 18. Use your best judgment and if you feel comfortable, and your nephew's parents do, go for it! (My daughter started babysitting at 13
They should start to babysit when they are okay with being alone their house first. Then they can start baysitting YOUNGER neighbors. At the age of 10 they should start babysitting kids about 2 years younger. That would be an eight year old. So the kids being watched are also a bit responsible. Make sure u know food allergies and medical info before the parents of the kid leaves. That is why a 7 year old cannot stay home alone or babysit, they are NOT ' too young '. They are simply not mature enough and will not handle an emergency the correct way. Most parents trust babysitters who are ages 13+. I think 13 is a good age to start babysitting. 12 is a good age to start staying home alone.
The reason is that most states do not have a legal age for babysitting. For the ones that do, the general minimum babysitting age is 13 years old. Having said that, it's strongly advised that parents also use their best judgement when deciding on the appropriate age for babysitting. Maturity of Babysitter. How mature a babysitter is for their age is often more important than their actual age. I know a lot of 12-year-olds that I'd trust a lot more with my kids than some of the teenagers I've seen around.
But if you’d like your child to participate in a safe-sitter class, they are required to be between the age of 11 and 13 years. This is a recommendation of the general age range when children should start to at least prepare for their baby-sitting adventures. Parents, I have two questions for you: 1. 
Some girls become interested in babysitting around the ages of 12 or 13. They see babysitting as a way to earn some extra money, and is an excellent way for a young person to participate in entrepreneurship. Most teen babysitters are in the 13-15 year old age range. 