Female bears in Maine become sexually mature at 3-5 years of age. Although black bears breed in the summer, fetal development is delayed until early winter, after the female has entered a den. In January and February, female bears give birth to 1-4 cubs inside the winter den.
Cubs first look at the world. Black bears do not produce cubs until they are 3 to 11 years old, depending upon food supply. This mother first gave birth at age 7. Here she is 10 with 3 cubs weighing 4½ to 5½ pounds. She produced 12 cubs by the time she was shot at 18¾. Black bears can live 30 years or more
Bears give birth to smaller young, relative to mother size, than does any other placental mammal. Black bear mothers that weigh 175 to 500 pounds produce cubs that weigh less than a pound each in January. Black bears do not produce cubs until they are 3 to 11 years old, depending upon food supply. This mother first gave birth at age 7. Here she is 10 with 3 cubs weighing 4½ to 5½ pounds.
Black bears usually produce one or two cubs in their first litter, and those living alongside Lily in the woods of northern Minnesota, US often give birth to three in subsequent litters. 
Most Michigan black bears begin life in the normally dark to semi-dark interior of a den during January. Cubs average about 12 ounces in weight when born, but large ones may weigh as much as a pound. The newborns are basically hairless, with their eyes closed. The tiny bears' hair grows quickly after birth and their eyes open after about six weeks.
Bear Reproduction. January and February are important times for black and grizzly bears. While popular opinion has them sleeping away the winter months in a state of dormancy, females wake up briefly in January or February to give birth to one (often two) tiny bear cubs. 
It is estimated that there are at least 600,000 black bears in North America. In the United States, there are estimated to be over 300,000 individuals. However, the Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolu) and Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) are unique subspecies with small populations. 
American black bears give birth while in winter dens near the beginning of the year, late January or early February. Cubs have high mortality, but if the cubs survive, they will stay with their mother for a year and a half, until June or July of their second summer. Because of this, female bears usually give birth only every other year.
Hibernation. With the exception of pregnant females, polar bears do not overwinter in dens like brown and black bears. Instead adult male polar bears and non-pregnant females remain active throughout the year. Pregnant female polar bears dig a snow den, give birth, and emerge three months later. 
Female black bears give birth to two or three blind, helpless cubs in mid-winter and nurse them in the den until spring, when all emerge in search of food. The cubs will stay with their very protective mother for about two years. Solitary animals, black bears roam large territories, though they do not protect them from other bears. Males might wander a 15- to 80-square-mile (39- to 207-square-kilometer) home range.