Definitions. ( 1 law) a person or organization that can enter into contracts, and take part in legal action ⇒ ■ Once a joint-stock company is formed then it becomes a separate legal entity apart from its shareholders, able to enter into contracts with suppliers and customers. 1 Trends. ( 2
An association, corporation, partnership, proprietorship, trust, or individual that has legal standing in the eyes of law. A legal entity has legal capacity to enter into agreements or contracts, assume obligations, incur and pay debts, sue and be sued in its own right, and to be held responsible for its actions. 12 people found this helpful. Modern economic systems typically allow for creation of a legal entity which is separate and distinct from a person but which is able to function in limited capacities to enter contracts, pay bills, and to be held liable for it's actions.
A legal entity is a legal construct through which the law allows a group of natural persons to act as if they were a single person for certain purposes. The most common purposes are lawsuits, property ownership, and contracts. A legal entity is not always something else than the natural persons of which it is composed as one can see with a company or corporation. Some examples of legal entities include: 1  companie
Legal Entity Law & Legal Definition. Legal entity refers to anything other than a natural person that can function legally, enter into a contract, sue or be sued, and make decisions through agents. A legal entity, under the law, is responsible for its actions and can be sued for damages. For example, a corporation is a legal entity
noun. ( 1 law) a person or organization that can enter into contracts, and take part in legal action ⇒ ■ Once a joint-stock company is formed then it becomes a separate legal entity apart from its shareholders, able to enter into contracts with suppliers and customers. 1 Trends. ( 2
A legal entity is any business organization that is legally permitted to enter into a contract, including a contract for the purchase, sale, or lease of real property. Legal entity interests may be owned individually, owned by another legal entity, or held in trust. 
Legal Entity. A person who can enter a contract and therefore may be sued. A legal entity can be held liable for damages. It is important to note that a legal entity need not be an individual person. A corporation or other duly constituted organization is recognized as a person and, as such, is considered a legal entity. 
Entity. A real being; existence. An organization or being that possesses separate existence for tax purposes. Examples would be corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts. The accounting entity for which accounting statements are prepared may not be the same as the entity defined by law