A tipi (also tepee or teepee) is a conical tent, traditionally made of animal skins upon wooden poles. A tipi is distinguished from other conical tents by the smoke flaps at the top of the structure. Historically, the tipi was designed and largely used by Indigenous people of the Plains in the Great Plains and Canadian Prairies of what is now North America.
A typical family tipi is a conical, portable structure with two adjustable smoke flaps, multiple poles (historically from 12 to 25 feet long) called lodge poles. Lodgepole pine is the preferred wood in the Northern and Central Plains and red cedar in the Southern Plains. Historically, the tipi was designed and largely used by Indigenous people of the Plains in the Great Plains and Canadian Prairies of what is now North America.
1. tepee-a Native American tent; usually of conical shape. teepee, tipi. indian lodge, lodge-any of various Native American dwellings. collapsible shelter, tent-a portable shelter (usually of canvas stretched over supporting poles and fastened to the ground with ropes and pegs); he pitched his tent near the creek. 
Full Definition of TEPEE. : a conical tent usually consisting of skins and used especially by American Indians of the Great Plains. See tepee defined for English-language learners. See tepee defined for kids. Definition of TEPEE for Kids. : a tent shaped like a cone and used as a home by some American Indians.
noun. A conical tent made of skins, cloth, or canvas on a frame of poles, used by American Indians of the Plains and Great Lakes regions. Example sentences. 1  To put the canvas on the tipi poles, the cover is laid out on the ground, the lifting pole is laid over the cover's middle and the cover is tied to the pole. 1 At the Lodgepole Gallery and Tipi Village, flanked by two brightly painted Blackfeet tepees and Spanish mustang horses, we lie in our tepee, smelling prairie sage on the ever-present breeze. 2  Plains Indians, in contrast, erected tentlike tepees, constructed out of poles wrapped with buffalo skins.
Main Image: A Teepee also known as tipi refers to a conical tent used by nomadic tribes and tribal dwellers while hunting on the Great Plains. Teepees were made from animal skins supported by wooden poles. Teepees are associated with Native Americans residing in the Great Plains. The Lakota word thipi consists of the verb thi which means “to dwell” and a plural suffix pi meaning “they dwell.” Verbs in the Lakota language are commonly used as nouns as found in the word teepee used in the language to mean a “dwelling”.
teepee-a Native American tent; usually of conical shape. tepee, tipi. indian lodge, lodge-any of various Native American dwellings. collapsible shelter, tent-a portable shelter (usually of canvas stretched over supporting poles and fastened to the ground with ropes and pegs); he pitched his tent near the creek. 