Purple Rain is the sixth studio album by American recording artist Prince and The Revolution and is the soundtrack album to the 1984 film of the same name. It was released on June 25, 1984 by Warner Bros. Records. Purple Rain is regularly ranked among the best albums in music history. The 1000th issue of Entertainment Weekly dated July 4, 2008 listed Purple Rain at number one on their list of the top 100 best albums of the past 25 years. In 2013, the magazine also listed the album at number two on their list of the 100 Greatest Albums ever. The RIAA lists it as having gone platinum 13 times over
In the summer of 1984 the soundtrack to ‘Purple Rain’ hit the top of the charts and stayed there for a very long time. The film would come out a month later and quickly become a cult classic and must-see for Prince fans. Nestled in the soundtrack was, of course, the title track opus ‘Purple Rain’ itself. Eight minutes of slow-burn, red-hot emo joy. Here are 20 things you might not know about the unholy triptych. Bet he's kicking himself now. 5 The film pulled in an almighty $68,392,977 and only cost $7million to make. 6 Each verse of ‘Purple Rain’ is about a group of people in The Kid’s life: his parents, Apollonia and his band mates.
Six albums into his career, Prince had found a terrific band in the Revolution and figured out how to sell his freakiness in malls and movie houses across the country. It was 30 years ago today, on June 25, 1984, that Prince released his masterpiece soundtrack album Purple Rain. The album was released a couple of months before the movie was released in theaters, giving the music some time to storm the Billboard charts and get people excited for the film. The music of Purple Rain was meant to stand the test of time. 30 years later, the songs on the Purple Rain album stand as some of Prince ‘s most amazing work and as pop culture’s most important music. 30 years later, Purple Rain is as vital to music fans as it ever was.
Correction to P. Chicago IL: the song Darling Nikki - off the Purple Rain album-was the song that set Tipper off. I also remember years ago, but years after Purple Rain the movie came out, reading an interview with Prince...and his father. Prince decided to write a song in that style, and Purple Rain was the result. The album was actually the soundtrack to the first movie Prince made. He went on to make three more, Under The Cherry Moon, Sign O' The Times, and Graffiti Bridge.
In 1986, Prince released the album Parade, reaching number three on the Billboard charts. The album was also used as a soundtrack to Prince's second film, Under the Cherry Moon, which also starred Kristin Scott Thomas. 
Purple Rain  is a song by Prince and The Revolution. It is the title track from the 1984 album of the same name, which in turn is the soundtrack album for the 1984 film of the same name, and was released as the third single from that album. The song is a combination of rock, pop, gospel, and orchestral music. The basic tracks for three songs were used on the Purple Rain soundtrack: Purple Rain,  I Would Die 4 U , and  Baby I'm a Star . Prince performed overdubs while working at Sunset Sound in Los Angeles from August–September 1983.
Purple Rain was released by Warner Bros. Records on June 25, 1984, and was Prince's sixth album. Prince wrote all of the songs on the album, some with the input of fellow band members. The 1000th issue of Entertainment Weekly dated July 4, 2008 listed Purple Rain at number one on their list of the top 100 best albums of the past 25 years. In 2013, the magazine also listed the album at number two on their list of the 100 Greatest Albums ever. The RIAA lists it as having gone platinum 13 times over
Purple Rain is a 1984 American rock musical drama film directed by Albert Magnoli and written by Magnoli and William Blinn. In it, Prince makes his film debut, which was developed to showcase his particular talents. Hence, the film contains several extended concert sequences. The film grossed more than US$80 million at the box office and became a cult classic. Purple Rain is the only feature film starring Prince that he did not direct. The film won an Academy Award for Best Original Song Score, currently the last film to receive the award. It was nominated for two Razzie Awards, including Worst New Star for Apollonia Kotero and Worst Original Song for  Sex Shooter 
That was something that began partly because of the “Purple Rain” soundtrack. Tipper Gore (then-wife of Al) founded the Parents Music Resource Center in 1985 after hearing “Darling Nikki” — with its references to masturbation — playing on her 11-year-old daughter’s stereo. To mark the anniversary of “Purple Rain,” here are 10 things you probably didn’t know about Prince’s crowning achievement. 1. The part of Prince’s love interest in the film was initially given to Denise Matthews, a k a Vanity.