Apoptotic DNA fragmentation, visualised by the DNA laddering assay (left). A 1 kb marker (middle) and control DNA (right) are included for comparison. Apoptotic DNA fragmentation is a key feature of apoptosis, a type of programmed cell death. Apoptosis is characterized by the activation of endogenous endonucleases with subsequent cleavage of chromatin DNA into internucleosomal fragments of roughly 180 base pairs (bp) and multiples thereof (360, 540 etc.). In apoptotic DNA fragmentation, the DNA is cleaved in the internucleosomal linker region, which is the part of the DNA not wrapped around the histones. CAD cleaves DNA at internucleosomal linker sites between nucleosomes, protein-containing structures that occur in chromatin at ~180-bp intervals.
DNA fragmentation is the separation or breaking of DNA strands into pieces. It can be done intentionally by laboratory personnel or by cells, or can occur spontaneously. Spontaneous or accidental DNA fragmentation is fragmentation that gradually accumulates in a cell. It can be measured by e.g. the Comet assay. The degree of DNA fragmentation can predict outcomes for in vitro fertilization (IVF) and its expansion intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). The sperm chromatin dispersion test (SCD) and TUNEL assay are both effective in detecting sperm DNA damage. DNA fragmentation is often necessary prior to library construction or subcloning for DNA sequences. A variety of methods involving the mechanical breakage of DNA have been employed where DNA is fragmented by laboratory personnel.
DNA Fragmentation Index (DFI) is used to quantify DNA damage in the sperm. DFI is inversely related to sperm’s ability to fertilize an egg and produce a viable embryo. DFI of less than 15% in sample is considered optimal. DFI between 16-29% is considered to be good or fair fertility potential. The DNA Fragmentation is one of several elements of semen quality used to assess the male fertility potential. Sperm’s ability to fertilize an egg is dependant on healthy DNA. But some sperm are fragmented.
Healthy DNA is arranged in a double-helix spiral bound by cross-bonds resembling a ladder. DNA damage means the bridges become unstable or broken causing instability in the DNA ladder. That instability is referred to as fragmentation or damage of the DNA. The DNA Fragmentation is one of several elements of semen quality used to assess the male fertility potential. Sperm’s ability to fertilize an egg is dependant on healthy DNA. But some sperm are fragmented.
The enzyme responsible for apoptotic DNA fragmentation is the Caspase-Activated DNase (CAD) . CAD is normally inhibited by another protein, the Inhibitor of Caspase Activated DNase (ICAD) . During apoptosis, the apoptotic effector caspase, caspase 3, cleaves ICAD and thus causes CAD to become activated. In apoptotic DNA fragmentation, the DNA is cleaved in the internucleosomal linker region, which is the part of the DNA not wrapped around the histones. CAD cleaves DNA at internucleosomal linker sites between nucleosomes, protein-containing structures that occur in chromatin at ~180-bp intervals.
A DNA ladder usually contains a set of known DNA fragments with different sizes in base pairs (bp) or kilo bases (kb). These DNA fragments are separated and visualized as DNA bands on a gel. These separated DNA bands together look like a ladder on the gel (see pictures below) and therefore it is called DNA ladder. Di giDNA50-15K 100 bp DNA ladder is used for determining the size and mass of linear double-stranded DNA from 50 bp to 2 Kb. This DNA ladder has 11 bands from smallest 50 bp to largest 2 kb. The quantity ratio of the DNA bands in the DNA ladder is 20 times.
Apoptotic DNA fragmentation is often analyzed using agarose gel electrophoresis to demonstrate a ladder pattern at ~180-BP intervals. Necrosis, on the other hand, is usually characterized by random DNA fragmentation which forms a smear on agarose gels. In apoptotic DNA fragmentation, the DNA is cleaved in the internucleosomal linker region, which is the part of the DNA not wrapped around the histones. CAD cleaves DNA at internucleosomal linker sites between nucleosomes, protein-containing structures that occur in chromatin at ~180-bp intervals.