• Radioactive isotopes don't tell much about the age of sedimentary rocks (or fossils). • The radioactive minerals in sedimentary rocks are derived from the weathering of igneous rocks. • If the sedimentary rock were dated, the age date would be the time of cooling of the magma that formed the igneous rock. 
1 Uranium-lead dating. 2  This technique measures the ratio of two lead isotopes (lead-206 and lead-207) to the amount of uranium in a mineral or rock. 3  Often applied to the trace mineral zircon in igneous rocks, this method is one of the two most commonly used (along with argon-argon dating) for geologic dating. Geochronology is the science of determining the age of rocks, fossils, and sediments using signatures inherent in the rocks themselves. Absolute geochronology can be accomplished through radioactive isotopes, whereas relative geochronology is provided by tools such as palaeomagnetism and stable isotope ratios.
Answer by RobertGrebl. Confidence votes 452. To find the absolute age of a given rock, you look at radioactive decay. This involves a radioactive isotope. *Remember that an isotope, essentially, forms of chemical elements that differ in the number of neutrons. If the isotope is radioactive, it will evolve into a decay product. This evolution, or, rather, decay, is predicatable and can be used to determine how old the given rock is. In looking at the decay-product ratio-- that is, the ratio between the mass of a radioactive element and its decay product-- we can calculate the number of half-lives the rock sample has had since it was formed. An example would be if a decay product is 50%, then it has been through exactly 1 half-life.
In general, radiometric dating works best for igneous rocks and is not very useful for determining the age of sedimentary rocks. To estimate the age of a sedimentary rock deposit, geologists search for nearby or interlayered igneous rocks that can be dated. 
By measuring the amount of radioactive decay of a radioactive isotope with a known half-life, geologists can establish the absolute age of the parent material. A number of radioactive isotopes are used for this purpose, and depending on the rate of decay, are used for dating different geological periods. Geochronology is the science of determining the age of rocks, fossils, and sediments using signatures inherent in the rocks themselves. Absolute geochronology can be accomplished through radioactive isotopes, whereas relative geochronology is provided by tools such as palaeomagnetism and stable isotope ratios.
Radiometric dating (often called radioactive dating) is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, in which trace radioactive impurities were selectively incorporated when they formed. This scheme is used to date old igneous and metamorphic rocks, and has also been used to date lunar samples. Closure temperatures are so high that they are not a concern. Rubidium-strontium dating is not as precise as the uranium-lead method, with errors of 30 to 50 million years for a 3-billion-year-old sample.
Another important atomic clock used for dating purposes is based on the radioactive decay of the isotope carbon-14, which has a half-life of 5,730 years. Carbon-14 is produced continuously in the Earth's upper atmosphere as a result of the bombardment of nitrogen by neutrons from cosmic rays. The mathematical expression that relates radioactive decay to geologic time is called the age equation and is: Dating rocks by these radioactive timekeepers is simple in theory, but the laboratory procedures are complex.
1 This technique measures the ratio of two lead isotopes (lead-206 and lead-207) to the amount of uranium in a mineral or rock. 2  Often applied to the trace mineral zircon in igneous rocks, this method is one of the two most commonly used (along with argon-argon dating) for geologic dating. Geochronology is the science of determining the age of rocks, fossils, and sediments using signatures inherent in the rocks themselves. Absolute geochronology can be accomplished through radioactive isotopes, whereas relative geochronology is provided by tools such as palaeomagnetism and stable isotope ratios.