Please be aware that Balamory ceased being filmed in Tobermory many years ago now, but repeats are shown regularly on BBC television. Tobermory, on the Isle of Mull was selected for the Children’s T.V programme Balamory, because of its beautiful location, and, more importantly, its multi-coloured houses. One of the main attractions used for the filming (second series) was Mull Narrow Gauge Railway. The railway was not in Tobermory itself, but near to the ferry at Craignure, and ran between the ferry and Torosay Castle. Sadly, the railway has closed down but it is still possible to walk along the old line.
The highly popular childrens BBC Television series Balamory is filmed in Mull, East Lothian and Glasgow. Starring: Juliet Cadzow, Julie Wilson Nimmo, Andrew Agnew, Buki Akib, Rodd Christensen, Kim Tserkezie, Miles Jupp, Mary Riggans. Locations. 
Balamory is a Scottish live action television series on British television (BBC One, BBC Two and CBeebies) for pre-school children, about a fictional small island community called Balamory in Scotland. A typical episode begins with Miss Hoolie opening the nursery and telling the audience what the weather is like in Balamory today, and then meeting one of the other main characters who has a problem that can be solved by visiting another main character.
Tobermory with it’s colourful waterfront was chosen by the BBC as the location of the popular children’s television series Balamory. The houses are situated in Tobermory apart from Archie’s Castle which is now a hotel called Fenton Tower in North Berwick and the Nursery shots were taken in Glasgow. One of the main attractions used for the filming (second series) was Mull Narrow Gauge Railway. The railway was not in Tobermory itself, but near to the ferry at Craignure, and ran between the ferry and Torosay Castle. Sadly, the railway has closed down but it is still possible to walk along the old line.
FINDING THE BALAMORY HOUSES! The BBC finished filming Balamory and the previously famous coloured houses of Tobermory in 2004, so Spencer’s been a bit naughty and some of the houses have changed colour! 1. SPENCER’S HOUSE. SPENCER’S HOUSE. This is now beige in colour and is a private house.
The series was created by Brian Jameson. Balamory was filmed mostly in Tobermory on the Isle of Mull, with the exception of scenes at Archie's castle filmed at Fenton Tower in North Berwick and other scenes like the park and nursery filmed in Glasgow. A typical episode begins with Miss Hoolie opening the nursery and telling the audience what the weather is like in Balamory today, and then meeting one of the other main characters who has a problem that can be solved by visiting another main character.
Balamory was filmed mostly in Tobermory on the Isle of Mull, with the exception of scenes at Archie's castle filmed at Fenton Tower in North Berwick and Other Scenes like the park and Nursery Filmed in Glasgow. Balamory. 282 pages on this wiki. Balamory is a Scottish live action television series on British television (BBC One, BBC Two and CBeebies) for pre-school children, based around the fictional small island community of Balamory in Scotland.
Balamory was shown on ‘CBeebies’ and BBC1 and is probably famous for being one of the most popular educational children’s television programmes of all time. Most of the filming was done here in Tobermory, with the help of our own Nursery group, fire crew, local attractions and businesses. One of the main attractions used for the filming (second series) was Mull Narrow Gauge Railway. The railway was not in Tobermory itself, but near to the ferry at Craignure, and ran between the ferry and Torosay Castle. Sadly, the railway has closed down but it is still possible to walk along the old line.
Tobermory with it's colourful waterfront was chosen by the BBC as the location of the popular children's television series Balamory. 
Other than Suzie Sweet and Penny Pocket, who share a building and run Pocket and Sweet (a shop set in Balamory), each main character has their own house in the town, and each house has a distinctive colour. A typical episode begins with Miss Hoolie opening the nursery and telling the audience what the weather is like in Balamory today, and then meeting one of the other main characters who has a problem that can be solved by visiting another main character.