2 (Of a product) marketed under and protected by a registered trade name: proprietary brands of insecticide. More example sentences. 1  Those catalysts could include new products, demographic trends, proprietary products, increased market share, or a change in cost structure. 
1 Not registered or protected as a trademark or brand name; generic. Example sentences. 1  This is its ‘generic’, i.e. non-proprietary, name. 2  But it is a good MP3 player, and more importantly it's a non-proprietary, non-copyright enforcing, song-organising MP3 player. Example sentences. 1  It is a widely supported, non-proprietary standard, and there is plenty of software available. 2  The following disadvantages might provide reasons for using alternative or non-proprietary software for future projects.
1. proprietary drug-a drug that has a trade name and is protected by a patent (can be produced and sold only by the company holding the patent). brand-name drug. drug-a substance that is used as a medicine or narcotic. 
1. proprietary-protected by trademark or patent or copyright; made or produced or distributed by one having exclusive rights; `Tylenol' is a proprietary drug of which `acetaminophen' is the generic form. 1. (Commerce) of, relating to, or belonging to property or proprietors. 2. privately owned and controlled. 3. (Pharmacology) med of or denoting a drug or agent manufactured and distributed under a trade name. Compare ethical 3. n, pl-taries. 4. (Pharmacology) med a proprietary drug or agent. 5.
proprietary 1 adj Proprietary substances or products are sold under a trade name. FORMAL ADJ n (Antonym: generic) ...some proprietary brands of dog food..., We had to take action to protect the proprietary technology. 2 adj If someone has a proprietary attitude towards something, they act as though they own it.
Part of the Open source glossary: Also see open and Open Source. In information technology, proprietary describes a technology or product that is owned exclusively by a single company that carefully guards knowledge about the technology or the product's inner workings. Some proprietary products can only function properly if at all when used with other products owned by the same company. An example of a proprietary product is Adobe Acrobat, whose Portable Document Format (PDF) files can only be read with the Acrobat Reader.
1.1 (Especially of computer hardware or software) conforming to standards that are in the public domain or are widely licensed. Example sentences. 1  It is a widely supported, non-proprietary standard, and there is plenty of software available. 2  The following disadvantages might provide reasons for using alternative or non-proprietary software for future projects. 3  It is also based on non-proprietary standards and open source software
A private label is created specifically for companies or individuals to use and put their brand name on. The product is created as an alternative to companies creating their own products from scratch. 
For example, in Toys, it can be a given brand name for Outdoor Toys that is developed to be exclusive to boys age 10-13 years old or in the clothing market, it can be a Woman's Wear line brand name that is developed and marketed to the working 31-40 year old female. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Proprietary Brands is defined as a given brand name that is developed and marketed as an exclusive brand to a retailer that can be targeted to a specific consumer segment.