The average Rehabilitation Specialist age in the United States is 38 years old. As it pertains to men vs women, 49% of Rehabilitation Specialist are male in the United States, and 51% of the Rehabilitation Specialist are female in the United States. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $58,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist Salary United States: According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median salary for workers in the Physical Therapists occupational group is $76,310 per year. There is no salary information available from reliable sources for the career Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist. We can however, get a good idea of what they earn by looking at the salary level of workers in closely related occupations.
Average Cardiac Rehabilitation Salaries. The average salary for cardiac rehabilitation jobs is $58,000. Average cardiac rehabilitation salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term cardiac rehabilitation anywhere in the job listing. 
The average salary for cardiac rehab specialist jobs is $78,000. Average cardiac rehab specialist salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term cardiac rehab specialist anywhere in the job listing.
National Rehabilitation Specialist Salary Information. The average yearly salary for Rehabilitation Specialist is $49,300. If you are just beginning to work a new job as a Rehabilitation Specialist, you could expect a starting pay rate of $40,600 annually. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. You could potentially make an average income of around $58,000 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Below we've outlined what you'll need to succeed in a career as a cardiac rehabilitation specialist. We've also included helpful information for this career, such as job description, job duties, salary expectations, a list of possible employers and much more! There is no salary information available from reliable sources for the career Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist. We can however, get a good idea of what they earn by looking at the salary level of workers in closely related occupations.
Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist Salary. Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Cardiac Rehabilitation Specialist salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only.
According to 2012 data from ExploreHealthCareers.org, the average salaries for entry-level specialists ranged from $18,000 to $30,000 a year.The level education has less effect than the original specialty of the cardiopulmonary rehabilitation specialist. RNs in hospitals earned $69,810 and those in outpatient care centers earned $72,220. California was the top-paying state for RNs in 2011, with an average annual salary of $90,860. Iowa paid the least at $53,300, according to the BLS. Respiratory therapists earned an annual average salary of $55,880 in hospitals in 2011.
Cardiopulmonary rehabilitation specialists who are also physical therapists are likely to earn the highest salaries. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, physical therapists earned an average annual salary of $78,830 as of May 2011. RNs in hospitals earned $69,810 and those in outpatient care centers earned $72,220. California was the top-paying state for RNs in 2011, with an average annual salary of $90,860. Iowa paid the least at $53,300, according to the BLS. Respiratory therapists earned an annual average salary of $55,880 in hospitals in 2011.