cytoplasm (ectoplasm and endoplasm) - a jelly-like material that fills most of the cell; the organelles (like the nucleus) are surrounded by cytoplasm. food vacuole-a cavity within the amoeba in which food is digested (broken down in order to be absorbed by the amoeba). The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddle and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas.
There are two types of cytoplasm in the amoeba, the darker cytoplasm toward the interior of the protozoan is called endoplasm, and the clearer cytoplasm that is found near the cell membrane is called ectoplasm. Use dark (endo) and light green (ecto) to color these. 
The amoeba breathes using this membrane-oxygen gas from the water passes in to the amoeba through the cell membrane and carbon dioxide gas leaves through it. A complex, jelly-like series of folded membranes called cytoplasm fills most of the cell. A large, disk-shaped nucleus within the amoeba controls the growth and reproduction of the amoeba. Diet: Amoebas eat algae, bacteria, plant cells, and microscopic protozoa and metazoa-some amoebas are parasites. They eat by surrounding tiny particles of food with pseudopods, forming a bubble-like food vacuole.
Pseudopod Function. Pseudopods are actually extensions of the cytoplasm, or the thick liquid that is inside organisms like amoeba. The organism can change the shape of the pseudopod making it move, appear and disappear. The pseudopods are used in movement and as a tool to capture prey
The picture below shows an example of a pseudopod in an amoeba. (Note: in the picture the cytoplasm is called the plasmasol and the cell membrane is called the plasma membrane.) Because the amoeba uses pseudopods to move and capture food, it is classified as a sarcodine. A sarcodine is a protozoan that uses pseudopods. E
The protozoa you will observe today is called the amoeba. An amoeba is unicellular and moves by using pseudopods. A pseudopod is a temporary bulge that forms in the cell membrane as a result of the movement of the cytoplasm. (Note: in the picture the cytoplasm is called the plasmasol and the cell membrane is called the plasma membrane.) Because the amoeba uses pseudopods to move and capture food, it is classified as a sarcodine.
Pseudopods (which translates to false feet) are temporary cytoplasm-filled parts of the cell wall that are able to change their form in order to move. They are used in some eukaryotic cells to move around or to eat. Most cells that do this are called amoeboids. The amoeba is a common example. 
Pseudopodia are formed by microtubule and filament structures. The cell surface projects a membrane process called the lamellipodium, which is supported inside by filaments that form at the leading edge, turning into networks as they merge. Cytoplasm flows into the lamellipodium, forming the pseudopodia. It is supposed that actin polymerization is at the origin of the force propelling the cell forward. Pseudopodia (false foot) are temporary cytoplasm-filled projections of the cell membrane that certain eukaryotic cells use for motion or for ingesting nutrients.
The cytoplasm (endoplasm is cytoplasm within the inner bit of the cell) is the gel-like substance within A. proteus that the organelles are suspended in. It is also the part of the cell that allows A. proteus to form its pseudopodia and preform its respective functions. The appearance of the cytoplasm in A. proteus is slightly granular – caused by tiny crystals in the cytoplasm. See the image below. Note the granular appearance of the cytoplasm in A. proteus
Amoebae move and feed by using pseudopods, which are bulges of cytoplasm formed by the coordinated action of actin microfilaments pushing out the plasma membrane that surrounds the cell. 