The good news is that, because we as humans caused global warming, we can also do something about it. To avoid this level of warming, large emitters such as the United States need to greatly reduce heat-trapping gas emissions by mid century. 
From this it becomes clear why humans are the main cause of global warming. However, it is even more important for you to understand that you have the power to help prevent global warming from getting worse — live The Green Life. The effects on earth are dangerous. In the last 150 years, the human population has grown by more than five times and the average person uses more energy than ever. This energy comes largely from fossil fuels, the use of which is a direct and important
Note: for proof on the common knowledge that humans cause global warming, check out that link or this one on human vs natural causes of global warming. The main cause of global warming is the generation of electricity. To generate electricity we have to burn fossil fuels which emits very hazardous chemicals. This causes the generation of green house gases which is very dangerous to our environment.
75% of professional scientist sertified by the UN say that humans are not the primary cause of global warming. Global warming is a natural cycle of the earth scine the start of time. According to the EPA the atmosphere does not not have enough compasity for C02 to heat the earth. The effects on earth are dangerous. In the last 150 years, the human population has grown by more than five times and the average person uses more energy than ever. This energy comes largely from fossil fuels, the use of which is a direct and important
Congratulate yourself for wanting to learn more about the main cause of global warming. Not only does our species create huge problems that are beyond the ability of other animals to create, but we have the fortunate ability to analyze them and work to bring an end to their consequences. The effects on earth are dangerous. In the last 150 years, the human population has grown by more than five times and the average person uses more energy than ever. This energy comes largely from fossil fuels, the use of which is a direct and important
Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the greenhouse effect 1 — warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. 
To understand why 'this current' global warming is human caused and not natural cycle, one needs to get an idea of what the natural cycle is and what are the basic mechanisms that cause climate change in the natural cycle. The absolute essentials that you need to understand are the drivers: 1  Greenhouse Gases. 
Global Warming is Human Caused. Scientists have concluded that most of the observed warming is very likely due to the burning of coal, oil, and gas. This conclusion is based on a detailed understanding of the atmospheric greenhouse effect and how human activities have been tweaking it. Some of that heat is trapped by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide (CO2). Human activity--such as burning fossil fuels--causes more greenhouse gases to build up in the atmosphere. As the atmosphere thickens with more greenhouse gases, more heat is held in. Fossil fuels such as oil, coal and natural gas are high in carbon and, when burned, produce major amounts of carbon dioxide or CO2
More by this author. To blame humans or not to blame humans for global warming, that is the question. Global warming is an increase in temperature world wide. Report has noted, 11 out of the last 12 years have ranked among the warmest on record. CNN has stated that temperature changes have been notice over the last 50 years, due to human activities. 90-99% of daily human activities cause global warming. Yes humans are to blame for global warming because of population growth, deforestation, and the use of non-environmentally safe products. This world wide issue must be addressed to everyone! First, the increase in population has had a major affect on G