Zone 5-6. Zones 5-6 may still have tough winters, so a cold-hardy wisteria is your best choice, though most varieties should survive Zone 6 winters with proper care. Vines should bloom from late spring-early fall, during which time they require moderate watering and pruning back of trailers. This will encourage more blooms. Hardy from USDA Growing Zones 3-9, wisteria will lose its flowers and leaves in the colder months. But in the spring and summer, the vine will produce 6-inch long pods of blue, pink or white flowers that hang like teardrops off the vine.
The best known wisterias are Chinese (W. sinensus) and the more cold-hardy Japanese (W. floribunda). Interestingly, the Japanese type twines in a clockwise direction and the Chinese twine counter-clockwise. Wisteria vines can be trained into shrub or tree forms, as well as vines and even bonsai. Any arch, trellis or arbor you use for them must be sturdy. Mature wisteria can grow to 100 feet long with heavy, woody trunks and branches of great size and long life. Wisteria plants are an investment in the futur
(Blue Moon Wisteria). * Full sun to part shade * Zone 4-9 * 25' tall. Cold-hardy to -40 degrees F with no loss of flowering ability!!! A remarkable cultivar of our native Kentucky Wisteria! Blooms 3 times each Summer! Wisteria sinensis 'Blue Moon' we are excited to bring you this remarkable cultivar of the native Kentucky Wisteria. Not only is it cold-hardy to -40 degrees F with no loss of flowering ability, it also blooms 3 times each summer, assuring you of fragrant flowers for months. Vigorous, quick-growing, and tirelessly floriferous, this Wisteria is certain to become a classic for the American garden. 
Hardy to USDA Zone 5, (Denver is in Zone 5), wisteria -- if planted in a protected place -- can be grown successfully in and around the metro area. Wisteria prefers full sun and, once established, is drought-tolerant. It is not fussy about soil type, actually preferring alkaline soil. Wisteria vines can be trained into shrub or tree forms, as well as vines and even bonsai. Any arch, trellis or arbor you use for them must be sturdy. Mature wisteria can grow to 100 feet long with heavy, woody trunks and branches of great size and long life.
Full Sun. American wisteria (Wisteria frutescens) and trumpet honeysuckle (Lonicera sempervirens) are cold-tolerant vines that thrive in sites exposed to direct sunlight for a minimum of six hours a day. American wisteria is hardy in USDA zones 5 to 9. Jackman or hybrid clematis (Clematis hybrids) and winter jasmine (Jasminum nudiflorum) are cold-tolerant vines that thrive in sites with a partial or full sun exposure. Jackman clematis is hardy in USDA zones 4 to 9.
COLD TOLERANT PLANTS. If you have decided to replace plants that were lost in the hard freeze with more cold-tolerant selections, here is a list of plants that we left unprotected during the recent cold snap (Feb 2011) that showed little or no damage. 
Heat up your chilly garden. Grow the garden you've always wanted without fear of your plants being damaged or destroyed when winter weather rolls around. We offer a wonderful selection of cold-hardy trees, shrubs, perennials, and fruit trees that are well-suited for even the chilliest USDA planting zone. You'll love the various bloom and foliage colors, shapes, sizes, and textures, ensuring that there's something for just about any cold-weather garden.
1 Windmill Palm – One of the most reliable of the cold hardy palms is the windmill palm (Trachycarpus fortunei). 2  This palm grows to a mature height of 25 feet and has fan-shaped leaves. 3  Attractive when used in groups of three to five, the windmill palm can survive temperatures as low as -10 F. (-23 C.). Cold hardy, tropical trees and plants can give you that “island” feel all year long. In fact, a few cold hardy palms will grow as far north as the USDA plant hardiness zone 6, where winter lows dip to -10 F. (-23 C.).