When you set up your wireless network, however, the default name (SSID) is often hard to remember and, not to mention, boring. You may also want to change your SSID to make your network harder to hack into. Often, router manufacturers may name the SSID the name of the company that made it, such as Cisco or Belkin. 1 Apple: 10.0.1.1. 2  Your router’s IP address is often the same as the router’s default gateway. 3  To find this on a PC, open the command prompt and enter “ipconfig”. 4  In the section dedicated to your wireless network, look for the Default Gateway line.
1 From the computer, navigate to the Verizon Wireless website. 2  Click Forgot Password (located at the top). 3  Enter the 10-digit mobile number then click Continue. 4  Enter the billing zip code for the account then click Continue. 
To change your Actiontec GT784WNV password: Open your Web browser and enter http://192.168.1.1 in the Address field Enter your user name and password and click Continue. Your default user name is admin if you didn't change it when you configured your network. Click the Advanced Setup tab. 1 Enter your user name and password and click Continue. 2  Your default user name is admin if you didn't change it when you configured your network. 3  Click the Advanced Setup tab. 4  From the left navigation Security heading, select Admin Password. 5  Enter a new password in the Admin Password field.
You can change your Password online: 1  Go to the Change Password page in My Verizon. 2  Enter your current Password. 3  Enter your new Password in the Create Password and Confirm Password fields to verify accuracy. 4  Click Submit. If you forget your Password you can create a new Password online: 1  Go to the My Verizon sign in page. 2  Click Forgot Password. 3  Enter your 10-digit mobile number and click Continue. 4  Enter your 5-digit billing ZIP Code and click Continue. 5  Answer your secret question and click Continue.
We'll review the easy steps on how to change your wireless network name and/or password for your MI424WR Verizon FiOS Router. For more info, go to www.actiontec.com/howto. 1  Science & Technology. This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. 
Change your MI424WR Router Password Open a Web browser like Internet Explorer or Firefox. Enter http://192.168.1.1 in the Address field of the browser. Watch the movie clip Enter your user name. If you didn't change the user name during installation, enter admin in the User Name field. Click Change Login User Name / Password in the Quick Links section. Enter a new user name in the User Name field. Enter a new password in the New Password field. Enter your new password again in the Retype New Password field to confirm that you entered it correctly.
Enter the new network name you desire your FIOS router to broadcast. Save the changes, then log out of the router and close the browser. Check the list of networks for the local area to see if you saved the new change correctly, using a laptop with wireless adapter installed. 
Note: If you can't remember your user name or password, you must reset your Verizon MI424WR router to the default settings and reconfigure your home network. Click Change Login User Name / Password in the Quick Links section. Enter a new user name in the User Name field. Enter a new password in the New Password field. Enter your new password again in the Retype New Password field to confirm that you entered it correctly. Click Apply to save your changed user name and password. Close the Verizon router configuration window
3. ipconfig /all. 4. Record the default gateway for your wireless adapter. 5. Open a browser. 6. Enter the IP Address in the web address bar and navigate to the admin page. Once you find the admin page it should be fairly simple to find the device name, SSID and wifi password configuration options by clicking around. 