A chordoma is a rare type of cancerous tumor that can occur anywhere along the spine, from the base of the skull to the tailbone. A chordoma that occurs in the tailbone (coccygeal chordoma) may result in a lump large enough to be felt through the skin and may cause problems with bladder or bowel function. Chordomas typically occur in adults between ages 40 and 70.
1 Chordoma: A malignant bone tumor arising from remnants of the fetal notochord. 2  Although it can occur at all ages, it is more frequently seen in middle-aged adults. 3  Most frequent sites of involvement are: sacrococcygeal area, spheno-occipital area, and the cervico-thoraco-lumbar spine. What is Chordoma? 1  Chordoma: Chordomas are rare tumors that arise from embryonic notochordal remnants along the length of the neuraxis at developmentally active sites. 2  Chordoma: A malignant bone tumor arising from remnants of the fetal notochord. 3  Source-Diseases Database.
Chordoma is a type of cancer that occurs in the bones of the head and spine in people of all ages. It arises from remnants of an embryonic structure called the notochord, which is the precursor to the spine. According to the latest and most comprehensive population-based study, the median survival for chordoma patients in the United States is approximately 7 years, and the overall 5, 10 and 20 year survival rates are 68%, 40% and 13%, respectively.
Chordoma is a rare slow-growing neoplasm thought to arise from cellular remnants of the notochord. 
Chordoma is a rare type of cancer that occurs in the bones of the skull and spine. It is part of a family of cancers called sarcoma, which include cancers of the bones, cartilage, muscles and other connective tissue. 
Chordoma. A chordoma is a rare tumor that is derived from primitive remnants of a developmental structure called the notochord. The notochord is present during early development and helps to guide the development of the nervous system and vertebral column in vertebrates
Cancer Education. Chordoma is a rare cancerous (malignant) primary bone tumor that usually occurs along the spine. Chordoma most often occurs in the base of the spine (sacrum) or in the base of the skull. Chordomas form from small remnants of the notochord, a coil of cells in the embryo that develops into the spinal cord. A chordoma may occur at any age but is most common in adults