A scientist who works in the field of acoustics is an acoustician while someone working in the field of acoustics technology may be called an acoustical engineer. The application of acoustics is present in almost all aspects of modern society with the most obvious being the audio and noise control industries. Acoustics is defined by ANSI/ASA S1.1-2013 as (a) Science of sound, including its production, transmission, and effects, including biological and psychological effects.
Acoustic hearing loss, also known as acoustic trauma, is a common cause of sensory hearing loss. It occurs when a loud noise damages the hearing mechanisms in the inner ear. It typically occurs in only one ear, though repeated exposure to loud noises can result in both ears being damaged. The symptoms of acoustic hearing loss can be partial or full loss of hearing or an incessant ringing in the ears, also known as tinnitus. People suffering from acoustic trauma often report a feeling of fullness in the ear, causing sounds to seem muffled.
Full Definition of ACOUSTICS. 1. singular in construction: a science that deals with the production, control, transmission, reception, and effects of sound. 2. also acoustic: the qualities that determine the ability of an enclosure (as an auditorium) to reflect sound waves in such a way as to produce distinct hearing. acoustics. noun plural acous·tics \ə-ˈkues-ˈküs\. Tiks. : tweet the qualities of a (room such as its shape or) size that make it easy or difficult for people inside to hear sounds: clearly acoustic. : qualities the science that studies. sounds
Acoustics is the interdisciplinary science that deals with the study of all mechanical waves in gases, liquids, and solids including topics such as vibration, sound, ultrasound and infrasound. Acoustics is defined by ANSI/ASA S1.1-2013 as (a) Science of sound, including its production, transmission, and effects, including biological and psychological effects.
The word acoustic is derived from the Greek word ἀκουστικός (akoustikos), meaning of or for hearing, ready to hear and that from ἀκουστός (akoustos), heard, audible, which in turn derives from the verb ἀκούω (akouo), I hear. Acoustics is defined by ANSI/ASA S1.1-2013 as (a) Science of sound, including its production, transmission, and effects, including biological and psychological effects.
acoustics. n. 1. (General Physics) (functioning as singular) the scientific study of sound and sound waves. 2. (General Physics) (functioning as plural) the characteristics of a room, auditorium, etc, that determine the fidelity with which sound can be heard within it. 
Full Definition of ACOUSTIC. 1. b: operated by or utilizing sound waves. 2. : of, relating to, or being a musical instrument whose sound is not electronically modified. — acous·ti·cal·ly \-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. 
acoustic. adj. 1. (General Physics) of or related to sound, the sense of hearing, or acoustics. 2. (General Physics) designed to respond to, absorb, or control sound: an acoustic tile. 3. (Classical Music) (of a musical instrument or recording) without electronic amplification: an acoustic bass; an acoustic guitar. acoustic. (ə-ko͞o′stĭk). adj. also a·cous·ti·cal (-stĭ-kəl). 1. Of or relating to sound, the sense of hearing, or the science of sound.
An acoustic neuroma is a noncancerous growth that develops on the eighth cranial nerve. Also known as the vestibulocochlear nerve, it connects the inner ear with the brain and has two different parts. One part is involved in transmitting sound; the other helps send balance information from the inner ear to the brain. 