The Copper Mountain Solar Facility is a 150 MW photovoltaic power plant in Boulder City, Nevada. The Ivanpah Solar Power Facility is a 370 MW facility which consists of three separate solar thermal power plants just off interstate highway 15 on the Nevada-California border in the Mojave Desert. There are also plans to build other large solar plants in the Mojave Desert.
Many states now offer discounts to families who want to install solar panels, so the actual cost is not that high. The average cost of electricity from coal-burning power plants is around 10 cents per kilowatt hour. A kilowatt hour is the amount of energy used if you leave a 100 watt light bulb turned on for 10 hours. The cost of electricity from a solar power plant is about 30 cents per kilowatt hour.
The bulk of the price of going solar is now the “soft costs” (installation, permitting, etc.) rather than the solar panel cost. Again referencing the latest US Solar Market Insight report, the average installed cost of a residential solar panel system was $4.72/watt. However, prices vary tremendously by region. “Common residential system prices ranged from less than $3.00/W to just above $7.00/W,” the Solar Energy Industries Association writes. 
A 1KW power plant generates one kilowatt hour of electricity if it runs at 100% capacity for an hour. Enlarge Graph. In comparison, cleaner coal-fired power plants cost upwards of $4,000 per KW, and advanced natural-gas fired plants cost $2,000 per KW. Nuclear plants are the most expensive to build at $5,500 per KW. A wind power plant, another renewable source, costs $2,200 per KW to build. A solar power plant is one of the cheapest to operate because there are no fuel costs involved. A solar PV (photovoltaic) power plant requires fixed expenses of $11.40 per megawatt hour, or just 1.14 cents per unit.
With the cost of solar power installations falling, and already down almost 10% from last year, there’s no question that the industry is growing rapidly. In the last year, solar power saw a massive 41% increase in installations. The previous 18 months solar’s growth outweighed its progress in the last 30 years. Bloomberg reports that India just increased the amount of solar power plant licenses it plans to award next year by 30 percent — a move that adds one additional gigawatt of capacity to the government’s 2015 target.
Capital costs. A kilowatt is a unit of electrical power capacity. According to a U.S. Energy Information Administration, or EIA, report published in April 2013, the cost of building a utility-grade—greater than 150 MW (megawatt)—solar power plant was $3,873 per KW (kilowatt). A solar power plant is one of the cheapest to operate because there are no fuel costs involved. A solar PV (photovoltaic) power plant requires fixed expenses of $11.40 per megawatt hour, or just 1.14 cents per unit.
The 250 MW concentrating solar power (CSP) plant will cost an estimated $1.6 billion in total and should be completed in 2014. The developer, Abengoa, secured a $1.2 billion loan guarantee from the US government for the project. The Ivanpah Solar Power Facility is a 370 MW facility which consists of three separate solar thermal power plants just off interstate highway 15 on the Nevada-California border in the Mojave Desert. There are also plans to build other large solar plants
Answer 1: After some searching around, I found that solar power plants cost in the hundreds of millions of dollars (around $500,000,000) to build.To generate a lot of solar power, basically what you need is a lot of land in a sunny place. The largest solar power plant is in the Mojave Desert in California. A kilowatt hour is the amount of energy used if you leave a 100 watt light bulb turned on for 10 hours. The cost of electricity from a solar power plant is about 30 cents per kilowatt hour.
The Copper Mountain Solar Facility is a 150 megawatt (MW) solar photovoltaic power plant in Boulder City, Nevada. Sempra Generation began construction of the plant in January 2010 and the facility began generating electricity on December 1, 2010. The Ivanpah Solar Power Facility is a 370 MW facility which consists of three separate solar thermal power plants just off interstate highway 15 on the Nevada-California border in the Mojave Desert. There are also plans to build other large solar plants