Death due to disease is called death by natural causes. There are four main types of disease: pathogenic disease, deficiency disease, hereditary disease, and physiological disease. Infectious. Infectious diseases, also known as transmissible diseases or communicable diseases, comprise clinically evident illness (i.e., characteristic medical signs and/or symptoms of disease) resulting from the infection, presence and growth of pathogenic biological agents in an individual host organism.
A disease is a particular abnormal condition, a disorder of a structure or function, that affects part or all of an organism. The causal study of disease is called pathology. Infectious. Infectious diseases, also known as transmissible diseases or communicable diseases, comprise clinically evident illness (i.e., characteristic medical signs and/or symptoms of disease) resulting from the infection, presence and growth of pathogenic biological agents in an individual host organism.
A. There are many types of heart disease. Here's where to get quick facts on each one -- including warning signs and symptoms. Symptoms of Heart Disease.
There are four main types of disease affecting poultry: metabolic and nutritional diseases; infectious diseases; parasitic diseases; and behavioural diseases. Infectious diseases. An infectious disease is any disease caused by invasion of a host by a pathogen which subsequently grows and multiplies in the body. Infectious diseases are often contagious, which means they can be spread directly or indirectly from one living thing to another.
Coronary heart disease is a common type of heart disease. This condition results from a buildup of plaque on the inside of the arteries, which reduces blood flow to the heart and increases the risk of a heart attack and other heart complications. Other forms of heart disease include: 
1 Ileocolitis: Ileocolitis is the most common type of Crohn's disease. 2  It affects the small intestine, known as the ileum, and the colon. 3  People who have ileocolitis experience considerable weight loss, diarrhea, and cramping or pain in the middle or lower right part of the abdomen. 1 Ileitis: This type of Crohn's disease affects the ileum. 2  Symptoms are the same as those for ileocolitis. 3  In addition, fistulas, or inflammatory abscesses, may form in the lower right section of the abdomen.
1 It affects the small intestine, known as the ileum, and the colon. 2  People who have ileocolitis experience considerable weight loss, diarrhea, and cramping or pain in the middle or lower right part of the abdomen. 3  Ileitis: This type of Crohn's disease affects the ileum. 4  Symptoms are the same as those for ileocolitis. 1 Ileitis: This type of Crohn's disease affects the ileum. 2  Symptoms are the same as those for ileocolitis. 3  In addition, fistulas, or inflammatory abscesses, may form in the lower right section of the abdomen.
Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) is the most common form of heart disease. It occurs when the arteries supplying blood to the heart narrow or harden from the build-up of plaque. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol and other substances found in the blood. This plaque build-up is also known as atherosclerosis. The site of the plaque determines the type of heart disease: 1  Coronary artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the heart. 2  Peripheral artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the arms and legs
1 People with this type of Crohn's disease suffer nausea, weight loss, and loss of appetite. 2  In addition, if the narrow segments of bowel are obstructed, they experience vomiting. 3  Jejunoileitis: This form of the disease affects the jejunum, which is the upper half of the small intestine. 4  It causes areas of inflammation. 1 Ileitis: This type of Crohn's disease affects the ileum. 2  Symptoms are the same as those for ileocolitis. 3  In addition, fistulas, or inflammatory abscesses, may form in the lower right section of the abdomen.