On 15 December 1960, after intense speculation, it was announced that the Royal Shakespeare Company of Stratford-upon-Avon was to base its London productions in The Aldwych Theatre for the next three years. In fact they stayed for over 20 years, finally moving to the Barbican Arts Centre in 1982. Sprague. Funded by Seymour Hicks, in association with the American impressario Charles Frohman, and built by Walter Wallis of Balham, the ornate decorations were in the Georgian style. The theatre was constructed on the newly built Aldwych.
Vivien Leigh, who had won an Academy Award for the film version, appeared in a 1949 production of A Streetcar Named Desire at the Aldwych Theatre London, which was directed by her husband, Laurence Olivier. Bonar Colleano co-starred as Stanley. Sprague. Funded by Seymour Hicks, in association with the American impressario Charles Frohman, and built by Walter Wallis of Balham, the ornate decorations were in the Georgian style. The theatre was constructed on the newly built Aldwych.
The Aldwych Theatre opened on 23 December 1905 with a production of Blue Bell, a new version of Hicks' popular pantomime Bluebell in Fairyland. In 1906, Hicks' The Beauty of Bath, followed in 1907 by The Gay Gordons played at the theatre. Sprague. Funded by Seymour Hicks, in association with the American impressario Charles Frohman, and built by Walter Wallis of Balham, the ornate decorations were in the Georgian style. The theatre was constructed on the newly built Aldwych.
Aldwych Theatre. Catch the enjoyable London musical, Top Hat running at the magnificent Aldwych Theatre London ! The brilliantly performed, choreographed, orchestrated and costumed musical featuring Dale Tremont and Jerry Travers is a completely delightful experience for all the theatre lovers. On 23rd December 1905, Aldwych Theatre marked its opening featuring production of Blue Bell along with Bluebell in Fairyland, the brand new version of Hicks' popular pantomime. The theatre had been used by Serge Diaghilev and Vaslav Nijinsky in the year 1913.
About Wolf Hall. The adaptations of Wolf Hall along with Bring Up the Bodies, having enjoyed sell out runs in Stratford–upon-Avon, now transfer to the Aldwych Theatre in London's West End from for a strictly limited season. England in 1527. Henry VIII has been King for almost 20 years and is desperate for a male heir. 
Seating. The Aldwych Theatre is made up of 3 levels: the Stalls, Dress Circle and Grand Circle. There are 6 steps from the street to the main foyer, although there is an alternative ramped entrance on Drury Lane that can be opened by theatre staff if required. The Aldwych Theatre dates back to 1905, when it was originally designed as a twin theatre to the Novello Theatre, bookending the famous Aldwych. Today the theatre is home to successful musicals and plays, entertaining the large house
The Aldwych Theatre is a West End theatre, located in Aldwych in the City of Westminster. The theatre was listed Grade II on 20 July 1971. Its seating capacity is 1,200 on three levels, a fairly large auditorium. Sprague. Funded by Seymour Hicks, in association with the American impresario Charles Frohman, and built by Walter Wallis of Balham. The ornate decorations were in the Georgian style. The theatre was constructed in the newly built Aldwych.
The Aldwych theatre opened on 23 December 1905 with a production of Blue Bell, a new version of Hicks' popular pantomime Bluebell in Fairyland. In 1906, Hicks' The Beauty of Bath, followed in 1907 by The Gay Gordons, played at the theatre. Sprague. Funded by Seymour Hicks, in association with the American impresario Charles Frohman, and built by Walter Wallis of Balham. The ornate decorations were in the Georgian style. The theatre was constructed in the newly built Aldwych.
Origins. The Aldwych was built as a pair with the then Waldorf Theatre (now called the Novello Theatre), both being designed by W.G.R. Sprague. Funded by Seymour Hicks, in association with the American impressario Charles Frohman, and built by Walter Wallis of Balham, the ornate decorations were in the Georgian style. The theatre was constructed on the newly built Aldwych.