Mondo grass is a sod-forming perennial that serves as a hardy and attractive groundcover in a garden or backyard setting. As an alternative to regular grass, mondo is a low maintenance turf that never needs to be mowed. Varieties of Mondo Grass. Those who prefer a tidier look may want to consider dwarf mondo grass as an alternative. The leaves of dwarf mondo are more closely-cropped and compact, reaching a height of only 2 to 4 inches (5-10 cm). This gives the groundcover more of a well-maintained look.
Overview. Growing less than 12 inches in height, mondo grass is not a true grass, but a small herb with grass-like leaves and tiny, white, bell-shaped flowers. Gardeners utilize smaller growing varieties of mondo grass as ground covers or border edging. Nomenclature. Mondo grass is an ambiguous common name applied to members of the botanical genus, or grouping, Ophiopogon. As members of the lily family, Lilaceae, some species carry the name lilyturf. Gardeners worldwide consistently call one species, Ophiopogon japonicus, mondo grass.
Mondo Grass - (Ophiopogon japonicus) Adapted to zones 5 to 9, this evergreen ground cover is a perfect way to achieve a no-grass lawn. Opt for regular mondo grass, which grows up to 6 inches tall, or choose dwarf mondo grass, just 2 inches tall, and never mow again. If you choose regular mondo grass, mow it annually in late winter to keep it filled in and healthy. Photo of a mediterranean backyard landscape in Houston with natural stone pavers
Mondo grass (Ophiopogon japonicus) - Mondo grass is a strappy leafed evergreen clump-forming perennial that is tolerant of sun and shade, as well as drought. Dwarf mondo grass (O. japonicus ‘Nana’) grows to about 30cm in height and will spread slowly to cover large areas. Photo of a traditional landscape. — Houzz. Also known as bugleweed, Ajuga is a member of the mint family that grows well in shade. Opt for regular mondo grass, which grows up to 6 inches tall, or choose dwarf mondo grass, just 2 inches tall, and never mow again. If you choose regular mondo grass, mow it annually in late winter to keep it filled in and healthy.
Mondo grass, also known as monkey grass (Ophiopogon japonicus), is an evergreen, sod-forming perennial. The scientific name is derived from ophis = snake, and pogon = beard, most probably referring to the flower spike. Landscape Use. Mondo grass is primarily used as groundcover. It is also attractive as a border along paths, between stepping stones or flowerbed and lawn, or in rock gardens. It grows well along streams and around garden ponds. Mondo grass competes well with the roots of other plants.
Everything about Dwarf Mondo Grass. Dwarf mondo grass that is generally used to enhance the beauty of landscape yards and lawns is a drought resistant variety that requires less maintenance and care. This low growing grass variety remains green throughout the year and has zero risk of pests. 
Closely related to mondo grass is the lilyturf known as liriope muscari. This tufted perennial has a grassy foliage with long, purple flowers. It can be used as an edging for pathways and driveways or as groundcover in a garden or low-traffic area of the lawn. Varieties of Mondo Grass. Those who prefer a tidier look may want to consider dwarf mondo grass as an alternative. The leaves of dwarf mondo are more closely-cropped and compact, reaching a height of only 2 to 4 inches (5-10 cm). This gives the groundcover more of a well-maintained look.
Mondo grass is quite often confused with liriope (Liriope muscari). However, the leaves of mondo grass are more narrow than those of liriope, the smaller flowers are hidden by the leaves, the fruits are blue compared to the black fruits of liriope and mondo grass is less cold hardy. Landscape Use. Mondo grass is primarily used as groundcover. It is also attractive as a border along paths, between stepping stones or flowerbed and lawn, or in rock gardens. It grows well along streams and around garden ponds. Mondo grass competes well with the roots of other plants.