Symptoms of vaginal yeast infections include burning, itching, and thick, white discharge. Yeast infections are easy to treat, but it is important to see your doctor or nurse if you think you have an infection. Yeast infection symptoms are similar to other vaginal infections and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). They may be mild or severe. The most common symptom of a vaginal yeast infection is extreme itchiness in and around the vagina. Other signs and symptoms include: 1  Burning, redness, and swelling of the vagina and the vulva. 2  Pain when urinating. 3  Pain during sex. 4  Soreness.
The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.
1 Diaper rash or other candidal infections on the skin can be treated with antifungal creams and lotions such as clotimazole. 2  If the rash worsens at any time or if the lesions do not clear up in one to two weeks, call a doctor. Signs and symptoms of a candidal infection can vary depending on the location of the infection. 1  In women, signs and symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection are a white cottage cheese-like discharge that typically itches and irritates the vagina and surrounding outer tissues.
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Sometimes, other types of candida fungus are to blame. Common treatments usually cure a Candida albicans infection. Yeast infections caused by other types of candida fungus can be more difficult to treat, and need more aggressive therapies. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.
1 The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 2  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 3  It is red, scaly, and may include bumps or blisters. 4  Vaginal yeast infection is an infection that affects women and often occurs as a result of taking antibiotics. 1 Jock itch is a fungal infection, or ringworm of the groin area. 2  The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 3  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 4
Some of the most common causes of genital rashes are infections: 1  Jock itch is a fungal infection, or ringworm of the groin area. 2  The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 3  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 1 Jock itch is a fungal infection, or ringworm of the groin area. 2  The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 3  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 4  It is red, scaly, and may include bumps or blisters.
There are several types of yeast infections. Two of the most common are vaginal yeast infections and skin yeast infections. Yeast infections of the skin can cause rashes often referred to as intertrigo. This sort of rash is often located in areas that retain moisture, such as the skin folds under the arm on the abdomen or in the groin area.
Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. When it affects the vagina, it is commonly called a yeast infection. Signs and symptoms include genital itching, burning, and sometimes a white cottage cheese-like discharge from the vagina.
1 In women, signs and symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection are a white cottage cheese-like discharge that typically itches and irritates the vagina and surrounding outer tissues. 2  Occasionally, pain may occur with sexual intercourse or burning may occur with urination. Signs and symptoms of a candidal infection can vary depending on the location of the infection. 1  In women, signs and symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection are a white cottage cheese-like discharge that typically itches and irritates the vagina and surrounding outer tissues.