Also you may be less sensitive to sweet foods; meaning sweet foods will not taste as sweet as they used to. Food may simply taste bland. How long these changes last is different for everyone and depends on your treatment. However, taste changes usually resolve in 2-3 months after treatment. Try these tips to help reduce the impact of taste changes on your ability to get good nutrition and avoid weight loss. 4. 1  Do not eat 1-2 hours before chemotherapy and up to 3 hours after therapy.
Taste Changes. Approved by the Cancer.Net Editorial Board, 06/2012. Dysgeusia (a change in the sense of taste) may occur during or after cancer treatment. Some foods may taste different than they did in the past, some foods may taste bland, or every food may taste the same. Talk about any changes in taste with your doctor. Treatment from a dentist will help improve taste changes caused by mouth infections, dry mouth, or dental or gum problems. Consider the following tips to cope with taste changes.
1 Do not eat 1-2 hours before chemotherapy and up to 3 hours after therapy. 2  Use plastic utensils if food tastes like metal. 3  Eat mints (or sugar-free mints), chew gum (or sugar-free gum) or chew ice to mask the bitter or metallic taste. 4  Substitute poultry, eggs, fish, peanut butter, beans and dairy products for red meats. 1 Chemotherapy loss of sense of taste can occur purely from the association of an experience of nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy. 2  Taste changes may occur during therapy and last for hours, days, weeks, or even months after chemotherapy.
Radiation therapy to the neck and head often cause taste changes because of damage to the taste buds and salivary glands. It may also cause changes to the sense of smell. Because smell and taste are closely linked, changes to the sense of smell may affect how foods taste. Taste changes caused by radiation treatment usually begin to improve three weeks to two months after the end of treatment. Talk about any changes in taste with your doctor. Treatment from a dentist will help improve taste changes caused by mouth infections, dry mouth, or dental or gum problems. Consider the following tips to cope with taste changes.
Changes in how things taste commonly occur as a side effect of chemotherapy, as well as radiation therapy for head and neck cancers. Taste changes may be caused by damage to cells in the mouth by chemotherapy or by the spread of chemotherapy drugs in the tissues of the mouth. Taste changes may also be caused by radiation damage to the salivary glands, resulting in a dry mouth.
1 Eat small, frequent meals. 2  Do not eat 1-2 hours before chemotherapy and up to 3 hours after therapy. 3  Use plastic utensils if food tastes like metal. 4  Eat mints (or sugar-free mints), chew gum (or sugar-free gum) or chew ice to mask the bitter or metallic taste. 1 Chemotherapy loss of sense of taste can occur purely from the association of an experience of nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy. 2  Taste changes may occur during therapy and last for hours, days, weeks, or even months after chemotherapy.
1 Taste changes are common during chemotherapy. 2  The exact reason for taste changes is not clear, although it is thought that it is a result of the damage to the cells in the oral cavity, which are especially sensitive to chemotherapy. 3  About 50% of patients getting chemotherapy experience taste changes. 1 Chemotherapy loss of sense of taste can occur purely from the association of an experience of nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy. 2  Taste changes may occur during therapy and last for hours, days, weeks, or even months after chemotherapy.
Also you may be less sensitive to sweet foods; meaning sweet foods will not taste as sweet as they used to. Food may simply taste bland. How long these changes last is different for everyone and depends on your treatment. However, taste changes usually resolve in 2-3 months after treatment. Taste changes may be caused by damage to cells in the mouth by chemotherapy or by the spread of chemotherapy drugs in the tissues of the mouth. Taste changes may also be caused by radiation damage to the salivary glands, resulting in a dry mouth.
Changes in how things taste commonly occur as a side effect of chemotherapy, as well as radiation therapy for head and neck cancers. Taste changes may be caused by damage to cells in the mouth by chemotherapy or by the spread of chemotherapy drugs in the tissues of the mouth. Try these tips to help reduce the impact of taste changes on your ability to get good nutrition and avoid weight loss. 4. 1  Do not eat 1-2 hours before chemotherapy and up to 3 hours after therapy.