Synthetic polymers are human-made polymers. From the utility point of view they can be classified into four main categories: thermoplastics, thermosets, elastomers and synthetic fibers. Some familiar house-hold synthetic polymers include: Nylons in textiles and fabrics, Teflon in non-stick pans, Bakelite for electrical switches, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in pipes, etc. The common PET bottles are made of a synthetic polymer, polyethylene terephthalate. The plastic kits and covers are mostly made of synthetic polymers like polythene and tires are manufactured from Buna rub
When the term polymer was not in use then polymer-like materials were refered resins. Three stages of the polymerization are 1. Initiation of polymerization 2. Chain propogation (or chain growth/chain extension) 3. Termination step. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Polymers can also be called macromolecules. In some processes the three stages are initiation propagation and termination these usually refer to light initiated or free radical polymerisation. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymerisat...
1 person found this useful. 1  Polymers: A Wide Range of Compounds Used in Virtually Every Industry The term polymer is derived from the ancient Greek word polus, which means many, and the word meros, which means parts.. 2  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 
Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer. Note: Applicable to substance macromolecular in nature like cross-linked. systems that can be considered as one macromolecule. A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits.
Polymer means many monomers. Sometimes polymers are also known as macromolecules or large-sized molecules. Usually, polymers are organic (but not necessarily). A monomer is a molecule that is able to bond in long chains. Here is a monomer: Here is a polymer: A polymer can be made up of thousands of monomer. This linking up of monomers is called polymerization. It is the long chains that give polymers their unique properti
Polymers are classified by the characteristics of the reactions by which they are formed. If all atoms in the monomers are incorporated into the polymer, the polymer is called an addition polymer. If some of the atoms of the monomers are released into small molecules, such as water, the polymer is called a condensation polymer. Most addition polymers are made from monomers containing a double bond between carbon atoms. Such monomers are called olefins, and most commercial addition polymers are polyolefins. 
Well, usually a single polymer molecule is made out of hundreds of thousands (or even millions!) of monomers! Wow! That's a lot! By the way, we use the special name of monomer because not all molecules can form polymers. Get in Line! Most of the polymers we'll talk about here are linear polymers. A linear polymer is made up of one molecule after another, hooked together in a long chain. This chain is called the backbone.
The term polymer derives from the ancient Greek word πολύς (polus, meaning many, much) and μέρος (meros, meaning parts), and refers to a molecule whose structure is composed of multiple repeating units, from which originates a characteristic of high relative molecular mass and attendant properties. Note: Applicable to substance macromolecular in nature like cross-linked. systems that can be considered as one macromolecule. A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits.