Marker assisted selection (MAS) uses molecular markers in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with QTL. Genomic selection (GS) is a new approach for improving quantitative traits in large plant breeding populations that uses whole‐genome molecular markers (high density markers and high‐throughput genotyping).
Author information: (1)University of Melbourne, Attwood, Australia. mike.goddard@dpi.vic.gov.au. Genomic selection is a form of marker-assisted selection in which genetic markers covering the whole genome are used so that all quantitative trait loci (QTL) are in linkage disequilibrium with at least one marker.
All species of living things have physical traits that are inherent to that species. Genetic selection is the process by which certain traits become more prevalent in a species than other traits. The traits seen in an organism are due to the genes found on their chromosomes.
The use of genomic information in genetic evaluation has brought about revolutionary change in dairy cattle selection. Genomic evaluations increase the accuracy of genetic evaluations and have the potential to rapidly increase the rate of genetic improvement in many traits.
When it comes to the genetic traits of a population, 'selection' is the process that chooses those traits. Artificial genetic selection is controversial, especially when it comes to human beings. This lesson defines genetic selection and discusses the pros and cons of artificial genetic selection.
genetic marker a gene having alleles that are all expressed in the phenotype, that is, they are codominant, and which can be used to study inheritance. The various blood group systems and serum or red blood cell proteins easily detected by electrophoresis or immunodiffusion are commonly used markers.
Genetic selection procedures are done either on fetuses, through prenatal screening, or on embryos that are outside a woman s body, through Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD). PGD tests embryos for the presence of genetic sequences linked to a variety of conditions and characteristics.
genetic code the arrangement of nucleotides in the polynucleotide chain of a chromosome; it governs the transmission of genetic information to proteins, i.e., determines the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain making up each protein synthesized by the cell.