To put it simply, fibre optics is a technology whereby a signal like video, data or voice, is concentrated on a light beam and sent down a glass tube over large distances, with very little distortion and loss. The principles of fibre optics are simple and easy to understand. There are 3 different types of fibre optics cable available. These are: 1. Step Index. This cable has a distinct index of refraction for the core and the cladding. It is the cheapest type of cable and causes deformation due to the various path lengths of the light ray. This is called modal distortion.
Optical fibres are just 'reflective tubes'. If you shine light down the tube, and it keeps going because it bounces from the walls. But if you've ever looked at optical fibres, you'll notice that they are NOT METALLIZED like a mirror, they have no silvery coating. They look like transparent fishing line. A fibre optic cable is made from a glass core (or in cheaper lower grade ones-plastic) , that carries the light, surrounded by a glass cladding of lower refractive index, which reflects escaping light back into the core.
An optical fiber (or optical fibre) is a flexible, transparent fiber made by drawing glass (silica) or plastic to a diameter slightly thicker than that of a human hair. Optical fibers are used most often as a means to transmit light between the two ends of the fiber and find wide usage in fiber-optic communications, where they permit transmission over longer distances and at higher bandwidths (data rates) than wire cables.
They do this by Total Internal Reflection. That's why optical fibers can guide light for such long distances-because the walls of the fibre don't absorb any light at all as long as the angle of incidence is greater than the critical angle. A fibre optic cable is made from a glass core (or in cheaper lower grade ones-plastic) , that carries the light, surrounded by a glass cladding of lower refractive index, which reflects escaping light back into the core.
Optical fibres. Optical fibres. An optical fibre is a thin rod of high-quality glass. Very little light is absorbed by the glass. Light getting in at one end undergoes repeated total internal reflection, even when the fibre is bent, and emerges at the other end. Optical fibres can carry more information than an ordinary cable of the same thickness. The signals in optical fibres do not weaken as much over long distances as the signals in ordinary cables. Optical fibre. Page: 1  1. 2  2.
Light from a laser enters at one end of the fibre, striking the surface of the glass at an angle greater than the critical angle. Total internal reflection occurs at the glass surface and the light cannot escape until it reaches the other end of the fibre. 
Optical fibres can carry more information than an ordinary cable of the same thickness. The signals in optical fibres do not weaken as much over long distances as the signals in ordinary cables. Optical fibre. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  Next. 
Optical Fibres. Total internal reflection can occur as long as the angles made by the rays are greater than the critical angle. In glass the critical angle is around 42° and today we use very narrow fibres of glass to transmit pulses of light. These are called optical fibres. They are used in telecommunications to transmit telephone conversations and data-including this web page to your computer!
Optical fibres are used to carry signals in the form of pulses of light over distances up to 50km. A fibre optic cable is made from a glass core (or in cheaper lower grade ones-plastic) , that carries the light, surrounded by a glass cladding of lower refractive index, which reflects escaping light back into the core.