Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter. Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that allows communication between cells in your brain. Acetylcholine is also the neurotransmitter that controls the contraction of skeletal muscle, the muscle the moves your body as opposed to the muscles of your heart and digestive system.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter—a chemical messenger that helps carry signals across a nerve synapse. It was the first neurotransmitter to be discovered, and has been heavily studied. It is also the most abundant neurotransmitter and is present in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system.
Acetylcholine (ACh) is a very common neurotransmitter, being found in central, peripheral, autonomic and somatic nervous systems. The adjective acetylcholinergic means 'related to acetylcholine'.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that is released in the synaptic cleft and goes over the sarcolemma down the tubule and promotes the release of calcium from the sarcoreticulum which then binds to proteins on actin which exposes binding spots for myosin to attach to and powerstroke causing muscle contraction.
Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system.
Acetylcholine is broken down by the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) which is common in the synaptic cleft where it converts actylcholine into the inactive metabolites choline and acetate. AChE is very efficient, breaking up over 5000 ACh molecules per second.
In summary, excite the muscle cell. In a little more detailed summary, acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that reversibly binds to and stimulates the muscarinic acetylcholi … ne receptors on the post-synaptic region of the sarcolemma of the skeletal muscle, called the motor end plate.