They are made in wooden molds and are dried, baked, and painted like any other chinaware, The Bumbo and Peawee. Bumbo, bumboozer or bowler are names applied to very large marbles of any description. A peawee is the name used for any very small marble. Crystals is a general name applied in many parts of the country to all glass marbles, including opals, glimmers, bloods, rubies, etc. They are all very beautiful, but their beauty is only skin deep, and when used much they become dull and fall of nicks. 
The names and kinds of marbles you will find today have a lot to do with how the marbles were made, who made them, and how they were played. If you want to understand marbles, you should know about all of the different kinds of marbles. Clam broths – Also known as clams, these are amongst most popular of collectible marbles. They take their name from the chowder white opaque glass from with they are made. They characteristically have many thin outer swirl lines of contrasting color running from pontil to pontil.
If he misses the next player in the game can shoot at either marble. And so on. There are lots of different names that have been used for marbles over time. This is one of the reasons that people think that there are, literally, different types of marbles. For the most part, the different names for each type of marble was assigned based on the material used to make the piece. 
Those are all types of children's marbles, he said. On that day, James Crawford took home the $64,000 grand prize. Indeed, all the items in the question are kinds of marbles, the technical names of which are used accurately only by a knowledgeable few, but the items themselves recognized worldwide. Over 500 million people around the world collect marbles, although official estimates come in at around 400 million.
Marble Names. These marble names refer to categories of marbles. Agates or Aggies-By the middle of the nineteenth century, marbles made of agate had become so popular that the word aggie, a nickname for agate, came to be used for all stone marbles. Many were quarried and ground in Germany then exported to America and other countries. Clam broths – Also known as clams, these are amongst most popular of collectible marbles. They take their name from the chowder white opaque glass from with they are made. They characteristically have many thin outer swirl lines of contrasting color running from pontil to pontil.
Children have special names for different types of marbles, but not everyone calls them the same names. It depends on where you live, which school you go to and who you play with. Most of the marbles names on this website come from places in Australia. 
Detail on the types of marble available, and how each is best suited for different applications and areas. There are numerous different types of marble ranging from the pure white Carrara which was used in ancient marble sculptures to Tennessee marble which has a pink hue to it. Below if a list of the most common types of marble: • Carrara Marble – Pure white marble commonly used by the Greeks and Romans to design statues and fountains. • Faux Marbling – Refers to the painting of a surface intended to look like marble. It is commonly used in buildings where costs are trying to be avoided.
Marbles come in an astonishing variety and are commonly classified according to their size, appearance, and materials they are made from. Glass marbles are probably the most popular today, but they can also be made from clay, crockery, china, real marble, stone ivory, agate, steel and other materials. Generally, marbles are around 1/2-inch across, but they can range from less than 1/4-inch to more than 3 inches.
Marble from Fauske in Norway. The following is a list of various types of marble according to location. (NB: Marble-like stone which is not true marble according to geologists is included, but is indicated by endnotes). 
Sometimes the names given to marbles describe the materials from which they are made and sometimes they describe their appearance. Here are some of the major classifications. Alley or Real describes a marble that is made from real marble or alabaster. Alley stands for alabaster. Glass marbles are probably the most popular today, but they can also be made from clay, crockery, china, real marble, stone ivory, agate, steel and other materials. Generally, marbles are around 1/2-inch across, but they can range from less than 1/4-inch to more than 3 inches.