On February 27, 2008, FDA approved a revised label for ProQuad, Merck's vaccine to protect against measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) and varicella (chickenpox), in children 12 months through 12 years of age. 1 Providers can choose either ProQuad vaccine or MMR and varicella vaccines separately for prevention of measles, mumps, rubella and varicella diseases among their patient population. 2  CDC also has information for clinicians on their website.
Vaccines and Immunizations. ShareCompartir. For the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines at age 12-47 months, either MMR vaccine and varicella vaccine or MMRV vaccine may be used. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends a two-dose vaccine schedule for measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines for children, with the first dose at age 12-15 months and the second at age 4-6 years. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
New combined chickenpox and MMR vaccine (MMRV) from July 2013. From July 2013, a single combination vaccine that protects against the measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox (varicella) viruses (MMRV) can be given to children who are 18 months old who have been vaccinated with the MMR vaccine at 12 months. Separate vaccines for measles, mumps and rubella are not available in Australia. So the combined measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine is given in a single injection with a second booster dose.
Yes, these vaccines can be given together. The childhood vaccination schedule recommends that MMR is given at around 12 to 13 months of age, and at the same time as the Hib/Men C vaccine and the pneumo jab.
Yes, there is a MMRV VIS, as well as a MMR VIS and a Varicella VIS. The law requires that a Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) be given out whenever certain vaccinations are administered, including MMR, varicella or MMRV vaccines. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
Be aware, though, that MMR is a live vaccine, so the two doses should be given at least four weeks apart. If your child has received a live single vaccine, they will have to wait at least four weeks until they can have the MMR vaccine. Read more about the difference between live and killed vaccines. The childhood vaccination schedule recommends that MMR is given at around 12 to 13 months of age, and at the same time as the Hib/Men C vaccine and the pneumo jab.
For vaccine eligible persons aged ≥12 months exposed to measles, administration of MMR vaccine is preferable to using IG, if administered within 72 hours of initial exposure. For infants 6-11 months, MMR vaccine can be given can be given in place of immune globulin, if it is within 72 hours of exposure. These infants should be revaccinated when they are 12 through 15 months of age. 
MMR vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Children between 1 and 12 years of age can get a combination vaccine called MMRV, which contains both MMR and varicella (chickenpox) vaccines. There is a separate Vaccine Information Statement for MMRV. Top of Page. Measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine can protect children (and adults) from all three of these diseases. Thanks to successful vaccination programs these diseases are much less common in the U.S. than they used to be.