1 Jamestown was the first English settlement in the U.S. It was also the first capital of Virginia. 2  Virginia is known as the birthplace of a nation. 3  Arlington County was originally part of the ten-mile square parcel of land surveyed in 1791 to be part of Washington, DC. 1 About 1/2 of all the people in the United States live within a 500 mile radius of the Capital of Virginia. 2  Virginia has had 3 capital cities: Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Richmond. 3  Richmond was also the capital of the Confederate States during the Civil War.
1 The major cash crop of Virginia is tobacco and many of the people who live there earn their living from the tobacco industry. 2  Jamestown, the first of the original 13 Colonies was founded for the purpose of silk cultivation. 3  Silk to be traded with the Court of King James. Also, within the transportation logistics schools in Virginia, the average student population is 3,287 and average student-to-faculty ratio is 16 to 1. Aside from transportation logistics, there are 3782 total degree (or certificate) programs in the state, with 2,568 people on average applying for a school.
1 Silk to be traded with the Court of King James. 2  After blight fungus destroyed the mulberry trees (silkworm food), sericulturist planted tobacco as a cash crop. 3  Jamestown was the first English settlement in the U.S. It was also the first capital of Virginia. 4  Virginia is known as the birthplace of a nation. Also, within the transportation logistics schools in Virginia, the average student population is 3,287 and average student-to-faculty ratio is 16 to 1. Aside from transportation logistics, there are 3782 total degree (or certificate) programs in the state, with 2,568 people on average applying for a school.
1 The major cash crop of Virginia is tobacco and many of the people who live there earn their living from the tobacco industry. 2  Jamestown, the first of the original 13 Colonies was founded for the purpose of silk cultivation. 1 About 1/2 of all the people in the United States live within a 500 mile radius of the Capital of Virginia. 2  Virginia has had 3 capital cities: Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Richmond. 3  Richmond was also the capital of the Confederate States during the Civil War.
1 After blight fungus destroyed the mulberry trees (silkworm food), sericulturist planted tobacco as a cash crop. 2  Jamestown was the first English settlement in the U.S. It was also the first capital of Virginia. 3  Virginia is known as the birthplace of a nation. 1 About 1/2 of all the people in the United States live within a 500 mile radius of the Capital of Virginia. 2  Virginia has had 3 capital cities: Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Richmond. 3  Richmond was also the capital of the Confederate States during the Civil War.
Credit: National Park Service. View full size image. Jamestown, founded in 1607, was the first successful permanent English settlement in what would become the United States. It was located on Jamestown Island, in Virginia, about 30 miles (47 kilometers) up the James River from the Atlantic coast
1 Silk to be traded with the Court of King James. 2  After blight fungus destroyed the mulberry trees (silkworm food), sericulturist planted tobacco as a cash crop. 3  Jamestown was the first English settlement in the U.S. It was also the first capital of Virginia. 4  Virginia is known as the birthplace of a nation. 1 About 1/2 of all the people in the United States live within a 500 mile radius of the Capital of Virginia. 2  Virginia has had 3 capital cities: Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Richmond. 3  Richmond was also the capital of the Confederate States during the Civil War.
1 Virginia was named for England's Virgin Queen, Elizabeth I. 2  The major cash crop of Virginia is tobacco and many of the people who live there earn their living from the tobacco industry. 3  Jamestown, the first of the original 13 Colonies was founded for the purpose of silk cultivation. Also, within the transportation logistics schools in Virginia, the average student population is 3,287 and average student-to-faculty ratio is 16 to 1. Aside from transportation logistics, there are 3782 total degree (or certificate) programs in the state, with 2,568 people on average applying for a school.