Cellular Adaptation — Atrophy. Atrophy is a form of cell adaptation in response to decreased trophic influences, decreased functional demands or decreased nutrition. Cellular Atrophy is a decrease in cell size caused by loss of subcellular organelles and substances.
Diffuse cerebral and cerebellar atrophy are neurologic conditions manifesting with different symptoms. Here is a list of these symptoms. slide 1 of 4. Cerebral atrophy denotes the wasting away of the cells and tissues inside the brain. 
Atrophied cells have fewer and smaller organelles. Organ Atrophy is a decrease in the tissue mass of an organ due to either a decrease in size of individual cells (cellular atrophy), a decrease in number of cells, or both. Atrophy is a form of cell adaptation in response to decreased trophic influences, decreased functional demands or decreased nutrition. Cellular Atrophy is a decrease in cell size caused by loss of subcellular organelles and substances.
Article Excerpts about Cerebral Atrophy. Cerebral atrophy is a condition characterized by a decrease in the size or a wasting away of brain cells and tissues. It may result from malnutrition, abnormal cell or hormonal changes, or stroke. 
Diffuse Cerebral Atrophy. It is a type of dementia resulting from atrophy (destruction) of the frontal brain lobes. It causes progressive impairment of mental capabilities. This is an uncommon disease and affects only about 9 out of 10,000 individuals in the general population. Focal Atrophy. In Focal Cerebral Atrophy, the condition is restricted to a localized area of the brain. In this type, the damage of brain cells is limited to a particular region of the brain. Only one specific brain region is affected in this type, unless the more complex Generalized Atrophy.
Cerebral Atrophy (CA) is a highly acute brain condition that affects many individuals across the world. Know more about this condition along with its causes, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Focal Atrophy. In Focal Cerebral Atrophy, the condition is restricted to a localized area of the brain. In this type, the damage of brain cells is limited to a particular region of the brain. Only one specific brain region is affected in this type, unless the more complex Generalized Atrophy.
Symptoms of cerebral atrophy: Many diseases that cause cerebral atrophy are associated with dementia, seizures, and a group of language disorders called the aphasias. 1  Dementia is characterized by a progressive impairment of memory and intellectual function that is severe enough to interfere with social and work skills. 
written by: DulceCorazon • edited by: Emma Lloyd • updated: 7/21/2010. Mild cerebral atrophy is a condition that causes some changes in the structure of the brain. Find out more about this condition to better understand why it occurs and what treatments are available. slide 1 of 4. Cerebral atrophy denotes a decrease in brain size or shrinkage of the brain. 
Normal Aging. Normal aging causes atrophy of the brain. The aging brain shrinks by an average of 1.9 percent every 10 years. It begins in young adulthood, but becomes more prominent when individuals reach their sixties. People can reportedly lose a half percent to 1 percent of brain volume per year after the age of 60. Know the causes. Brain atrophy is shrinking of the brain caused by the loss of its cells, called neurons. Two types of brain atrophy can occur; generalized and focal. Generalized atrophy refers to neuron loss throughout the entire brain, and focal atrophy refers to neuron loss in a specific brain region.
Treatment for other symptoms of cerebral atrophy. Other symptoms of cerebral atrophy may be treated medicinally or with therapy as well including: Anticonvulsive medication to stop seizures. Cognitive or behavioral therapy to improve quality of life. Physical therapy to slow loss of muscle control. 