Since tsavorite is a type of grossularite, it is most closely related to the other grossular garnets (hydrogrossular, hessonite and leuco garnet) . Due to its intense green colour, tsavorite garnet can sometimes be confused with demantoid garnet, emerald and tourmaline. Tsavorite Garnet Colour. Tsavorite garnet ranges in colour from bright yellowish green to deep green or bluish green. The most desired colour is an intense, highly saturated green, or a medium bluish to medium-dark green.
Naturally green in color the Tsavorite garnet is a younger gemstone that comes from a long geographical history. This particular gemstone can be found along the border of Kenya and Tanzania in the brush. Located on dangerous terrain including lions and snakes, Tsavorite was discovered by a British geologist in 1967. As member of the grossular garnet family, the Tsavorite gemstone owes its green coloration to the presence of chromium. Being that this gem is somewhat of a rarity, it is even more so uncommon to find a Tsavorite over five carats.
Tourmaline. As a member of the garnet family, tsavorite is related to the other garnets, such as spessartite, andradite garnets (melanite, demantoid and topazolite), almandine garnets, pyrope garnets (rhodolite) and uvarovite. Tsavorite Garnet Colour. Tsavorite garnet ranges in colour from bright yellowish green to deep green or bluish green. The most desired colour is an intense, highly saturated green, or a medium bluish to medium-dark green.
Although the green colors of tsavorite and demantoid overlap, they are different garnet group minerals. Tsavorite is green grossular and demantoid is green andradite. Andradite is softer than grossular but has a higher refractive index and higher dispersion. 
Tsavorite or tsavolite is a variety of the garnet group species grossular, a calcium-aluminium garnet with the formula Ca 3 Al 2 Si 3 O 12. Rare in gem-quality over several carats (1 carat = 200 mg) in weight, tsavorite has been found in larger sizes. In late 2006 a 925-carat (185.0 g) crystal was discovered. It yielded an oval mixed-cut 325 carat (65 g) stone, one of the largest, if not the largest faceted tsavorites in the world.
Tsavorite Garnet Gemstone Information. Click here to see all our Tsavorite Garnet for sale. Tsavorite Garnet was first discovered in Tsavo national park near the border between Kenya and Tanzania. A member of the garnet group, the species is grossularite and the variety is tsavorite. The lighter green tones are known as grossularite while the medium to darker greens are referred to as tsavorite. The prices and value of Tsavorite Garnet vary depending on the size and quality of the gemstone. The saturated chrome green in a medium to dark tone is the most valuable. Most tsavorite have inclusions, so clean stones are especially valuable.
Basically Tsavorite is green grossularite, which is the calcium rich member of the Garnet family. Chemically, this gemstone is a calcium aluminium silicate coloured by traces of chromium and/or vanadium oxide. If there is a yellowish hue to the green, this would indicate the presence of iron oxide. With Tsavorite, what you see is what you get! Tsavorite is a very beautiful green which can range from a fresh spring-green through a rich bluish-green to a deep forest-green. Of all the valuable green gemstones, Tsavorite is the truest green. Second, a well-cut Tsavorite is also remarkably bright and sparkling, unlike the sleepier emerald
The Gemstone Tsavorite (Garnet). Tsavorite is a trade name for the emerald-green variety of Grossular Garnet that originates in Africa. Tsavorite has become one of the most popular and expensive Garnets, due to its rarity combined with effective marketing tactics. This gemstone was first discovered in Tanzania in 1967. 
The shining green tsavorite is a young gemstone with a very long geological history. Its home is the East-African bushland along the border between Kenya and Tanzania. The few mines lie in a uniquely beautiful landscape of arid grassland with bare, dry hills. What is it that makes the tsavorite so desirable? Well, for one thing there is its vivid, radiant green. The colour range of the tsavorite includes a springlike light green, an intense blue-green and a deep forest green-colours which have a refreshing and invigorating effect on the senses.