Students learn the names of different fin types, and that fins are an adaptation that helps fish survive in their habitats. Student Objectives The students will: 1 Observe fish in a classroom aquarium. 2 Describe how fish use their different fins to move forward, up, down, slow down, turn, and stop. Pelvic fins, located on the bottom of the fish in front of the anal fin, help balance the fish, keep it level, and prevent it from rolling from side to side. Fish sometimes rest by sitting on their pelvic fins.
This fin variety most closely resembles wild betta splendens, as long tails and the subsequent tail types were all selectively bred by human intervention. These fish are often mistaken for female bettas, who generally have shorter fins, but this is an entirely different variety of betta. Males can be distinguished by females by their longer ventral fins, more pointed/angled anal fin, and slightly different body shape. Double Tail. A fin type in which the caudal (tail) fin is split into two lobes instead of one. This is a genetic trait, and the same genetics that cause this double-tail cause the dorsal and anal fins to be very broad and the body to be shorter, which predisposes these fish to swimbladder problems.
The most important features of lobe-finned fish is the lobe in their fins. Unlike other fish, Lobe-finned fish have a central appendage in their fins containing many bones and muscles. The fins are very flexible and potentially useful for supporting the body on land, as in lungfish and tetrapods (vertebrates with four limbs).
Fish fins are the most distinctive features of a fish, composed of bony spines protruding from the body with skin covering them and joining them together, either in a webbed fashion, as seen in most bony fish, or similar to a flipper, as seen in sharks. A fish can have up to three dorsal fins. The dorsal fins serve to protect the fish against rolling, and assist it in sudden turns and stops. 1  In anglerfish, the anterior of the dorsal fin is modified into an illicium and esca, a biological equivalent to a fishing rod and lure.
Apart from the tail or caudal fin, fins have no direct connection with the spine and are supported by muscles only. Their principal function is to help the fish swim. Fins located in different places on the fish serve different purposes, such as moving forward, turning, keeping an upright position or stopping. Most fish use fins when swimming, flying fish use pectoral fins for gliding, and frogfish use them for crawling. A fish can have up to three dorsal fins. The dorsal fins serve to protect the fish against rolling, and assist it in sudden turns and stops. 1  In anglerfish, the anterior of the dorsal fin is modified into an illicium and esca, a biological equivalent to a fishing rod and lure.
Sharks and rays are basal fish with numerous primitive anatomical features similar to those of ancient fish, including skeletons composed of cartilage. Their bodies tend to be dorso-ventrally flattened, they usually have five pairs of gill slits and a large mouth set on the underside of the head. In many respects fish anatomy is different from humans and other mammals, yet it shares the same basic vertebrate body plan from which all vertebrates have evolved: a notochord, rudimentary vertebrae, and a well-defined head and tail. Fish have a variety of different body plans.
Best Answer: There are several purposes for the fins in fish. They are primarily used for locomotion and stability, but can be used as protection in some species (rabbitfish and lionfish have poisonous barbs in their fins for example), can be used as tools for building nests or laying eggs in other species. 
Describes shape and location of fish fins, but not how each fin type helps a fish move through water, for example, a tail fin acts as rudder and propeller. Can’t describe shape or location of fish fins or how each fin type helps a fish move through water. Pelvic fins, located on the bottom of the fish in front of the anal fin, help balance the fish, keep it level, and prevent it from rolling from side to side. Fish sometimes rest by sitting on their pelvic fins.
To be able identify and discuss fish, it is helpful to know all the types of fish fins. It makes descriptions much easier, and there really aren't that many. Here are the eight types of fish fins: 1  Dorsal fins are found on the back of the fish. 2  There may be up to three of them. 3  The fish uses this fin for balance in the water and sudden movements. 4  Caudal fins are also known as tail fins. 1 Dorsal fins are found on the back of the fish. 2  There may be up to three of them. 3  The fish uses this fin for balance in the water and sudden movements. 4  Caudal fins are also known as tail fins. 5  This is what we refer to as the fish's tail. 6  Anal fins are on the ventral (bottom) surface of the fish, behind the anu