Timber wolves typically live in social units called packs. NA/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. The timber wolf (Canis lupus), also known as the gray wolf, is a wild canine that has a fierce and ominous reputation. Despite their general public image, timber wolves usually stay far away from people, although the same can't be said about their approach to many other earthly creatures, from reindeer to rabbits. Diet. If sustenance abounds, then timber wolves are usually able to make do -- but only in northerly climates. Timber wolves are carnivorous animals and frequently feed on musk oxen, bison, elk, beavers, moose, wild boar and caribou. They also occasionally consume the rotting remains of dead animals.
Eastern timber wolves come in a variety of colors from white to grey and from brown to black. They often have a reddish-brown muzzle and lower legs with white, grey, and black on their back. Smaller than the common gray wolf, they weigh anywhere from 50 to 100 lbs. HABITAT. The eastern timber wolf was at one time found as far south as Florida and as far west as Minnesota. It still occupies over 40% of its original range in Canada. However, it is found mainly around the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence regions of southeast Ontario and southwest Quebec in remote, forested areas.
The Eastern wolf, also known as Great Lakes wolf, Eastern timber wolf, Algonquin wolf or deer wolf, has been deemed a distinct species from their western cousins, according to a review by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service scientists. The most common type of wolf is the gray wolf, or timber wolf. Adult grey wolves are 4 to 6.56 feet (120 to 200centimeters) long and weigh about 40 to 175 pounds (18 to 79 kilograms).
Today the eastern timber wolf survives in only three percent of its original home range in the U.S. The largest population exists in northern Minnesota. There are smaller populations in Michigan and Wisconsin. In the northeast U.S. (New York and New England), wolves have been extinct for 100 years. PACK BEHAVIOR: Wolves live in packs, which are complex social structures that include the breeding adult pair (the alpha male and female) and their offspring. Size of the pack varies with the size of available prey. A hierarchy of dominant and subordinate animals within the pack help it to function as a unit.
Description: The eastern timber wolf (Canis lupus lycaon) was the first subspecies of the gray wolf, Canis lupus, to be recognized in the United States. Canis lupus lycaon inhabited the eastern portions of the United States and southeastern parts of Canada. 
The eastern wolf (Canis lycaon, formerly Canis lupus lycaon), also known as the eastern timber wolf, Algonquin wolf or deer wolf is a canid native to the northeastern side of North America 's Great Lakes region. Like the red wolf, the eastern wolf is intermediate in size between the coyote and gray wolf, with females weighing 23.9 kilograms (53 lb) on average and males 30.3 kilograms (67 lb).
Eastern timber wolves live to the northeast of the Great Lakes region of the United States and Canada. They are now considered to be an endangered species. The Timber Wolf LOOKS different from other … wolves. Also, timber wolves live in different areas than some other wolves. You can have have mixed wolves in a pack, but mostly, they're all in separate regions.
ORIGINAL RANGE: The eastern timber wolf once ranged from New England Range to the Great Lakes and through southeastern Canada to the Hudson Bay. HABITAT: Forests, tundra, plains and mountains. FOOD: Large, hoofed mammals such as deer and elk and occasionally smaller animals (beavers or rabbits). PACK BEHAVIOR: Wolves live in packs, which are complex social structures that include the breeding adult pair (the alpha male and female) and their offspring. Size of the pack varies with the size of available prey. A hierarchy of dominant and subordinate animals within the pack help it to function as a unit.
Canis lupus lycaon, commonly known as the eastern timber wolf, was the first gray wolf subspecies to be identified in North America in 1775. Fairly recent molecular studies have suggested it as being a distinct species of its own, the Canis lycaon. There has not, however, been any official change in classification. HABITAT. The eastern timber wolf was at one time found as far south as Florida and as far west as Minnesota. It still occupies over 40% of its original range in Canada. However, it is found mainly around the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence regions of southeast Ontario and southwest Quebec in remote, forested areas.