Acorn History and Symbolism. History tells us that the earliest inhabitants of Greece and Southern Europe, who lived in the primeval forests, subsisted entirely on a diet of acorns, while the French, during the famine in the early 1700s, were driven to eat bread made of acorns steeped in water to destroy the bitterness. 1 Carrying an acorn in a pocket or a purse was supposed to prevent old age. 2  It was customary to place acorns in the hands of the newly dead in certain parts of Europe. 3  The Druids believed planting an acorn by the dark of the moon would bring money.
1 If the acorn sank it was taken as a portent of death for the person it represented. 2  Placing acorns between the mattress and box-spring in a lover’s bed would keep him or her faithful. 3  Carrying an acorn in a pocket or a purse was supposed to prevent old age. 1 Carrying an acorn in a pocket or a purse was supposed to prevent old age. 2  It was customary to place acorns in the hands of the newly dead in certain parts of Europe. 3  The Druids believed planting an acorn by the dark of the moon would bring money.
The strongest oak of the forest is not the one that is protected from the storm and hidden from the sun. It's the one that stands in the open where it is compelled to struggle for existence against the winds and rains and the scorching sun. - Napoleon Hill. For every Mighty Oak there was a Nut that stood it's ground. 
The following definition also sheds light on its meaning: “The symbolism of the acorn is linked with that of the EGG – plenty, prosperity, fruitfulness…Protruding from its rough-grained cup, it symbolizes birth, emergence from the mother’s womb….
The acorn, or oak nut, is the nut of the oaks and their close relatives (genera Quercus and Lithocarpus, in the family Fagaceae). It usually contains a single seed (occasionally two seeds), enclosed in a tough, leathery shell, and borne in a cup-shaped cupule. Acorns vary from 1–6 cm long and 0.8–4 cm broad. For other uses, see Acorn (disambiguation) . Acorns from small to large of the Willow Oak, Quercus phellos (very small, at center); the Southern Red Oak, Quercus falcata; the White Oak, Quercus alba; and the Scarlet Oak, Quercus coccinea; from southern Greenville County, SC, USA.
Spiritual Meaning: Life, fertility and immortality are symbolized by the acorn, as is the androgynous. In the seed cup is the feminine and in the nut the potential for all life. The two together suggest individual life. 
The acorn has long been valued for its potential strength and virility, and was a widespread symbol of regeneration. From the little acorn springs the mighty oak, prompting various cultures to see in it the qualities of fecundity and patience, and urging those who start small projects to persevere. In ancient cultures, the acorn was taken as a talisman to ward off evil spirits. The oak has long been associated with England, and its fruit, the acorn, frequently showing up in heraldry as a symbol of antiquity and strength. Shown with leaves, the acorn represents new growth and development. Beloved by royalty, the acorn was embroidered into cloth as symbols of fertility and life.
Report Abuse. The acorn is an old western symbol, the seed of the mighty oak that symbolizes growth, success, and permanence. Also-Acorn flower was a Nordic symbol of life and immortality. Acorns hold a unique and age-old heritage as a sign of warmth and hospitality in the South.
The acorn is the symbol for the National Trails of England and Wales, and is used for the waymarks on these paths. The acorn, specifically that of the white oak, is also present in the symbol for the University of Connecticut. For other uses, see Acorn (disambiguation) . Acorns from small to large of the Willow Oak, Quercus phellos (very small, at center); the Southern Red Oak, Quercus falcata; the White Oak, Quercus alba; and the Scarlet Oak, Quercus coccinea; from southern Greenville County, SC, USA.
By Patti Wigington. The acorn is a symbol of strength and power. In the fall, these tiny yet hardy little nuggets drop from the oak trees to land on the ground. Most will be eaten by passing wildlife, but a few will survive to form a new tree in the spring. Because the acorn only appears on a fully mature oak, it is often considered a symbol of the patience needed to attain goals over long periods of time. It represents perseverance and hard work.