Also known as Cyst Of Kidney and Simple Renal Cyst. A cyst is a fluid-filled sac. There are two types of kidney cysts. Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) runs in families. In PKD, the cysts take the place of the normal tissue. They enlarge the kidneys and make them work poorly, leading to kidney failure.
Kidney cysts are round pouches of fluid that form on or in the kidneys. Kidney cysts can be associated with serious disorders that may impair kidney function. But more commonly, kidney cysts are a type called simple kidney cysts — noncancerous cysts that rarely cause complications.
Polycystic kidney disease (also called PKD) causes numerous cysts to grow in the kidneys. These cysts are filled with fluid. If too many cysts grow or if they get too big, the kidneys can become damaged. PKD cysts can slowly replace much of the kidneys, reducing kidney function and leading to kidney failure.
People with simple kidney cysts have sacs that are filled with fluid within their kidneys. It is possible to have one or more cysts in one or both kidneys. The exact cause of simple kidney cysts is not known but they tend to be more common as people age.
Kidney cysts are benign sacs of fluid that develop inside the kidneys. They are not the same as cysts that form with polycystic kidney disease, which is a genetic condition. The cause of simple kidney cysts is not known, and they are more common in older people. Simple kidney cysts may not cause symptoms.
Simple Kidney Cyst Causes. The cause of simple kidney cysts is not fully understood, but they do not appear to be inherited. Being male is a risk factor, however, as is age: Almost half of all people age 50 or older have one or more simple cysts in the kidneys. The size of these cysts may also increase with age and may double over 10 years.
One or more may form within the kidneys. Simple cysts are the most common type of kidney cyst. They are not the same thing as polycystic kidney disease, which is a progressive disease that can lead to kidney failure.
Simple kidney cysts that are causing symptoms or blocking the flow of blood or urine through the kidney may need to be treated using a procedure called sclerotherapy. In sclerotherapy, the doctor punctures the cyst using a long needle inserted through the skin. Ultrasound is used to guide the needle to the cyst.