In my opinion, driving a vehicle with bad shocks or struts can be dangerous because you cannot control you vehicle from bouncing. If you were to hit a large dip or hump in the road, your tires could literally leave the pavement and cause you to lose control of your vehicle.
Properly working struts help your tires make contact with the ground. Your steering and braking depend on the tires being in contact with the road to work properly. So if your struts are bad you compromising your ability to turn and stop. That makes your car very dangerous.
A: Driving with failing or broken struts is dangerous because they do not sufficiently dampen side-to-side and front-to-back weight transfers. Such swaying prevents the tires from properly gripping the road, which makes turning corners and braking difficult.
Shock absorbers are in the car for one major reason: to keep your car from moving up and down on uneven surfaces. Bad shocks will be noticeable and you can tell they are faulty if your car has extended vertical motion after a bump or dip in the road. If you have bad shocks, the first thing you want to do is fix them.
Quick Answer. Driving with failing or broken struts is dangerous because they do not sufficiently dampen side-to-side and front-to-back weight transfers. Such swaying prevents the tires from properly gripping the road, which makes turning corners and braking difficult.
Driving with worn shocks is dangerous, but many are still not aware of the risks they are taking. Here are the symptoms of bad shocks you need to be aware of to prevent you and your Subaru Legacy from plunging into a pit of accidents.
Report Abuse. Properly working struts help your tires make contact with the ground. Your steering and braking depend on the tires being in contact with the road to work properly. So if your struts are bad you compromising your ability to turn and stop. That makes your car very dangerous.
Driving with failing or broken struts is dangerous because they do not sufficiently dampen side-to-side and front-to-back weight transfers. Such swaying prevents the tires from properly gripping the road, which makes turning corners and braking difficult.