Spider monkeys have several species that are in the tropical rainforests of Mexico, Central America, or northern South America, including the Amazon in Brazil. Black-handed spider monkeys live from Veracruz, MX to western Panama. They usually live in high tree canopies in dense rainforests to keep away from predators. Spider Monkeys Yes, spider monkeys do live, in tropical rainforests. Thay is the main place where they live. They do live in other rainforests, but mainly only a tropical r … ainforest. 2 people found this useful.
About Spider Monkeys. Spider monkeys are found mainly in the tropical rain forests of Central, South America, Brazil and Mexico. With long, tall and thin arms and gripping tails, they are seen moving gracefully from branch to branch and tree to tree. These groups split up into smaller sleeping parties at night. With their disproportionate long limbs and long prehensile tail, these Spider Monkeys like to live in the upper layers of the rainforest. Their primary food is fruits, leaves, nuts, flowers, and insects. They also feed on bird eggs, and spiders.
Disproportionately long limbs and long prehensile tails make them one of the largest New World monkeys and gives rise to their common name. Spider monkeys live in the upper layers of the rainforest, and forage in the high canopy, from 25 to 30 m (82 to 98 ft). Spider monkeys are among the largest New World monkeys; black-headed spider monkeys, the largest spider monkey, have an average weight of 11 kilograms (24 lb) for males and 9.66 kg (21.3 lb) for females.
Tails— Some New World monkeys, such as spider monkeys, have prehensile tails, but Old World monkeys do not. And one Old World monkey species, the Barbary macaque, has no tail at all! Most monkey species live in the tropical rain forests of Asia, Africa, Central and South America, or the savannas of Africa. 
With their disproportionate long limbs and long prehensile tail, these Spider Monkeys like to live in the upper layers of the rainforest. Their primary food is fruits, leaves, nuts, flowers, and insects. These groups split up into smaller sleeping parties at night. With their disproportionate long limbs and long prehensile tail, these Spider Monkeys like to live in the upper layers of the rainforest. Their primary food is fruits, leaves, nuts, flowers, and insects. They also feed on bird eggs, and spiders.
Due to their large size, spider monkeys require large tracts of moist evergreen forests, and prefer undisturbed primary rainforest. They are social animals and live in bands of up to 35 individuals but will split up to forage during the day. Spider monkeys are among the largest New World monkeys; black-headed spider monkeys, the largest spider monkey, have an average weight of 11 kilograms (24 lb) for males and 9.66 kg (21.3 lb) for females.
Average life span in the wild: 22 years. Size: 14 to 26 in (35 to 66 cm). Weight: 13.25 lbs (6 kg). Group name: Troop. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Spider monkeys (of several species) live in the tropical rain forests of Central and South America and occur as far north as Mexico. They have long, lanky arms and prehensile (gripping) tails that enable them to move gracefully from branch to branch and tree to tree. 
Most spider monkeys live in groups of about 30 other spider monkeys. Spider monkeys are considered an Old World Primate, because they don’t have thumbs. Other monkeys in Costa Rica like the Capuchin and Squirrel Monkey have thumbs that help them hang on to branches and peel fruit. 
Spider monkeys have several species that are in the tropical rainforests of Mexico, Central America, or northern South America, including the Amazon in Brazil. Black-handed … spider monkeys live from Veracruz, MX to western Panama. They usually live in high tree canopies in dense rainforests to keep away from predators. 
Spider monkeys of the genus Ateles are New World monkeys in the subfamily Atelinae, family Atelidae. Like other atelines, they are found in tropical forests of Central and South America, from southern Mexico to Brazil. Spider monkeys are among the largest New World monkeys; black-headed spider monkeys, the largest spider monkey, have an average weight of 11 kilograms (24 lb) for males and 9.66 kg (21.3 lb) for females.