Sultanas, sometimes just called golden raisins, are golden-colored dried grapes that are made from various varieties of seedless white-fleshed grapes. The skin of these fruits start off as pale yellow in color, but unlike raisins, don't darken in the same way as they dry. Raisins, sultanas, and Zante currants are all sweet dried fruits that stem from different varieties of vine-grown grapes, while currants really are a fresh bush-grown berry that is tart rather than sweet. Currants are also sold dried, but they're not as readily available as sultanas and raisins. Raisins. Pin it.
The grapes used are usually Moscatel. Sultanas are also dried white grapes but from seedless varieties. They are golden in color and tend to be plumper, sweeter and juicier than other raisins. Also referred to as Golden Raisins in the US. Currants (# 1 below) are dried, black, seedless grapes. 
Photo Credit: Getty Images. A sultana is a dried white grape but this time, coming from seedless varieties of grape. Sultanas are golden in colour and tend to be much plumper, sweeter and altogether juicier than other raisins. Turkey is the main producer of sultanas. Sultanas will absorb other flavours as does a raisin but not as well, so it is better to use the regular raisin. Pick up any baking recipe involving dried fruit and there is no way of avoiding the three stalwarts of raisins, sultanas and currants. There are other dried fruits, but these three are used extensively in traditional British and Irish cakes and puddings including Christmas Cake or a Christmas Pudding.
Sultanas recipes. Sultanas are large green grapes that have been dried to a rich golden-brown. They’re usually larger than raisins or currants and are among the most popular dried sweet fruit due to their size, succulence and sweetness. Sultanas can be used in the same way as raisins and currants. They also have an affinity with nuts. Add sultanas to savoury sauces or stuffings for game and fowl – try guinea fowl with Marsala sultana sauce, or quail stuffed with wild rice, pinenuts and sultanas.
There are three common names for raisins in the English-speaking world  sultanas, currants, and raisins. Of course, sutanas and currants are raisins  that is, dried grapes  and among purists the word raisin is supposed to be used for any raisin that is not a sultana or a currant. But that doesn't always happen. Sultana raisins were originally the product of the Sultana grape, which grew in Turkey. But in this country, 95% of the grapes used for raisin production are the Thompson Seedless variety, which dry and darken in the sunlight, producing the common raisin.
Newsletter sign up. Sultanas differ from raisins in three ways. The first is the most obvious, that they are lighter in colour. Secondly, they are produced from only one variety of grape, the Sultana Grape, which is seedless. Thirdly, they are sweeter and less acidic. 
Sultana (Thompson Seedless) grapes. The sultana is a white (pale green), oval seedless grape variety also called the sultanina, Thompson Seedless (United States), Lady de Coverly (England), and oval-fruited Kishmish (Iran, Turkey, Palestine, Russia). Sultana raisins are eaten as a snack food without further processing and are used in a variety of dishes, such as fruitcake and Bath buns, sometimes prepared by soaking in water, fruit juice, or alcohol. The sultana grape is also used to make white wine, in which use it is known for its sweet blandness.
A small, pale golden-green grape originating in Turkey. Originally used to make wine, it's primary use today is for raisins. Sultanas are more popular in Europe, and the American variety of the sultana grape is the Thompson seedless. 