Uranus's color is actually a gray-blue, caused by methane gas. 
Uranus. The greenish color of it atmosphere is due to methane and This view of Uranus was acquired by Voyager 2 on January 10, 1986. The blue-green appearance of its atmosphere results from methane and high-altitude photochemical smog. The atmosphere of Uranus is composed of 83% hydrogen, 15% helium, 2% methane and small amounts of acetylene and other hydrocarbons. Methane in the upper atmosphere absorbs red light, giving Uranus its blue-green color.
At ultraviolet and visible wavelengths, Uranus's atmosphere is bland in comparison to the other giant planets, even to Neptune, which it otherwise closely resembles. When Voyager 2 flew by Uranus in 1986, it observed a total of ten cloud features across the entire planet. Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons.
Uranus Facts. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. It’s not visible to the naked eye, and became the first planet discovered with the use of a telescope. Uranus is tipped over on its side with an axial tilt of 98 degrees.
Neptune, captured by Voyager 2. Image credit: NASA. The answer to Neptune’s color comes from its cloud tops. The upper atmosphere of Neptune is made up of 80% hydrogen, 19% helium with a trace 1% amount of methane and other ices, like ammonia and water. Methane absorbs light at 600 nm, which is the red end of the spectrum of visible light. by Fraser Cain on November 27, 2008. The color of Neptune is a bright azure blue. During its flyby in 1989, NASA’s Voyager 2 revealed the bright blue color, different from the pale blue color of Uranus.
The six largest moons of Uranus, to scale with each other, showing their relative colors and brightnesses. From left to right: Puck, Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon. Color data is from Voyager 2, except for tiny Puck, whose color is derived from Hubble data. 
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun. Uranusis blue-green in color, the result of methane in its mostly hydrogen-helium atmosphere. The planet is often dubbed an ice giant, since 80 percent or more of its mass is made up of a fluid mix of water, methane, and ammonia ices.
The color of Uranus comes from its atmosphere. Just like Jupiter and Saturn, Uranus is composed mostly of hydrogen and helium, with trace amounts of other elements and molecules. The third most common molecule in the atmosphere of Uranus is methane (CH 4). This substance causes the blue-green color of Uranus. Here’s how it works. Although it looks white, the light from the Sun actually contains all the colors in the spectrum, from red and yellow to blue and green.
Uranus is a pale blue in this natural color image because its visible atmosphere contains methane gas and few aerosols or clouds. Blue Orb on the Horizon. 1  A recent NASA Hubble Space Telescope view reveals Uranus surrounded by its four major rings and by 10 of its 17 known satellites. This false-color view of the rings of Uranus was made from images taken by Voyager 2 on Jan. 21, 1986, from a distance of 4.17 million kilometers (2.59 million miles).