Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lily-Rose and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lily-Rose and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Lily-Rose. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Lily-Rose, spread the love and share this with your friends.
This doesn't mean that the name Lily-Rose is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Lily-Rose. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Lily-Rose, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Greek Meaning: The name Lily is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. Hebrew Meaning: The name Lily is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. American Meaning: The name Lily is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. 
Like Rose and Violet, Lily is a flower name. The word comes from the Latin “lilium” (a lily) which was borrowed from the Greek “leirion” leírion meaning the. Same the interesting thing about the “word” lily is that it ultimately originated from a Non-Proto-Indo european; source in this Case. egyptian The name also has many variants (Lillie, Lilly, Lillian) and is paired nicely with other names (Lily-Ann, Lily-May, Lily-Rose). It should be noted, however, that Lillian and Lillie developed as a pet form and diminutive of Elizabeth.
The name Lily-Rose is in the following categories: Compound Names, Earthy Names, Floral Names, Green Names, Nature Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here). Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Lily-Rose. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Lily-Rose, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Lily is a very popular first name for women (#652 out of 4276, Top 15%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#71372 out of 150436, Top 47%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Lily for girls. Lily reached its apex rank of #15 in the U.S. in 2011, and is at #27 currently. 
The meaning of name Lily-Rose, origin of name Lily-Rose, baby name Lily-Rose. Lily-Rose and Jaleh are pleasant and sociable characters who possess a certain charm, while remaining reserved, undoubtedly through caution and wariness.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Lily-Rose for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Lily-Rose is a girl name. The name Lily-Rose is of English origin, and is used mostly in French speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Lily-Rose. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Lily-Rose, spread the love and share this with your friends.
[ 3 syll. li-ly-ro-se, lil-y-r-ose ] The baby girl name Lily-Rose is pronounced as L IH L-iy-RowZ- †. Lily-Rose is used chiefly in the French language and its origin is English. Lily-Rose is a variant of the name Lily (English). Lily-Rose is an unusual baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000. In 2012, out of the family of girl names directly linked to Lily-Rose, Lily was the most regularly used. 