INTRODUCTION In order to perform residential mortgage loan activities in California, real estate licensees must obtain a Mortgage Loan Originator (MLO) license endorsement. Mandated requirements are based on the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (SAFE), a federal law signed into law in 2008. This step will be initiated at the time the MLO license endorsement application is filed.Commissioner’s Regulation 2758.3 - Evidence of Financial Responsibility addresses how DRE will evaluate the financial responsibility requirement for MLO license endorsement applicants.
The SAFE Act requirements were added to California state law through Senate Bill 36, enacted in 2009.A MLO is required to take residential mortgage loan applications or negotiate terms of a residen-tial loan, and to be compensated for arranging the loan. This step will be initiated at the time the MLO license endorsement application is filed.Commissioner’s Regulation 2758.3 - Evidence of Financial Responsibility addresses how DRE will evaluate the financial responsibility requirement for MLO license endorsement applicants.
Step 3 - Create an account. Before logging in to NMLS you will need to create an account. Click on the Log in to NMLS button above and then select “Request an Account” and select Individual upon the prompt. The Quick Guide: Creating an Individual Account will help walk you through setting up your account.
Licensees are required to complete eight hours of MLO continuing education through a NMLS approved course provider in the year the license endorsement is renewed.Check out the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) about Mortgage Loan Originator (MLO) License Endorsement Requirements at http://www.dre.ca.gov/lic_safe.html. This step will be initiated at the time the MLO license endorsement application is filed.Commissioner’s Regulation 2758.3 - Evidence of Financial Responsibility addresses how DRE will evaluate the financial responsibility requirement for MLO license endorsement applicants.
Step 1 - Get your checklist. Go to the State Licensing Requirements Page for the state in which you are requesting a license (or transitioning an existing license). Before logging in to NMLS you will need to create an account. Click on the Log in to NMLS button above and then select “Request an Account” and select Individual upon the prompt. The Quick Guide: Creating an Individual Account will help walk you through setting up your account.
Failure to submit to obtain the required MLO endorsement can result in the assessment of penalty fees of fifty dollars ($50) per day for the first 30 days the MLO license endorsement is not issued, and one hundred dollars ($100) per day for every day thereafter not to exceed a maximum of $10,000. SB 36 requires all CalBRE real estate licensees who conduct residential MLO activities, as outlined in the SAFE Act, to meet specific requirements to qualify for a MLO real estate license endorsement by January 1, 2011.
Instructions. Visit the websites of the California Department of Real Estate and the California Department of Corporations. Read their guidelines that outline the requirements for being a mortgage broker in California. You are responsible for knowing all of the laws and guidelines relevant to obtaining your license. 
If your company is licensed/registered in a state through NMLS, either you or your company can complete your first application form (Form MU4) in NMLS. The entity who creates the first Form MU4 will be the entity required to pay when it is submitted to the regulator(s). Before logging in to NMLS you will need to create an account. Click on the Log in to NMLS button above and then select “Request an Account” and select Individual upon the prompt. The Quick Guide: Creating an Individual Account will help walk you through setting up your account.
This registration is discretionary and is intended for California state agencies and exempt companies that wish to manage their mortgage loan originators in NMLS. Please consult the California Department of Corporations (DOC) before applying for this registration. This License is required for any company or sole proprietorship that is engaged in the business of making or brokering consumer or commercial loans. A CFLL broker is authorized to act as a broker in connection with loans made by a CFLL lender. A license can be issued as a lender, a broker or both.
A licensed company MLO that fails to submit required 2012 mortgage call reports to NMLS will result in the denial of the renewal of that company's MLO license endorsement for 2013. Renewal fees will not be refunded if a MLO renewal filing is denied for failure to submit one or more mortgage call reports. SB 36 requires all CalBRE real estate licensees who conduct residential MLO activities, as outlined in the SAFE Act, to meet specific requirements to qualify for a MLO real estate license endorsement by January 1, 2011.