If you are able to remove the Artex yourself, a wallpaper steamer can be very effective. Simply steam small areas at a time and use a scraper to ease the Artex off the walls. You need to take your time with this job as the heat can damage your walls if you hold the steamer in place for too long. 
I ended up putting it on the artex wall and smoothing it over with a 100mm wallpaper scraper. spread it on like butter,it gets a little messy falling on to the floor,that was the only good thing in the end about part of the tool kit (smooth over tool),you can hold it under the paper… Read Full Review. 
Plastering Over Artex. With the modern trend for plastered walls painted with neutral and pastel colours coming back into fashion, there are a lot of artexed walls and ceilings, which require plastering over. Artex can be plastered over quite easily with a little bit of plastering skill and DIY know-how. This article will talk you through the important point to consider when plastering over artex. First of all you will need to make sure that there are no sections of artex that are loose or peeling off
Best Answer: Certainly not you need a even surface to paper,also the sharp points of the artex will put small holes into the paper when smoothing it out. The only way out of that is to skim the ceiling,so you have an even surface. 
Report Abuse. I don't think there is any thing like a certain wallpaper that you could just hang straight over the artex but polycell do something I think its called smooth over that you can cover artex with but if its a big area I would imagine that to be an expensive way to do it. The Sugar Plum Fairy · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 1
deadonmate New Member. Have a small bedroom to paper with embossed wallpaper 4x walls. The thing is I've noticed the walls have been painted with a smooth artex, obviously the walls were bad and someone thought this was a good idea. Before I say yeah or neagh to the job in hand, do you think this will stop the paper bonding to the walls and if so does anyone have a remedy. 
Plastering Over Artex. Artex can also be plastered over (See our project on skim plastering) Firstly make absolutely sure that there are no flaking or loose sections of the artex, or indeed ceiling/wall. Then remove all obviously high spots of artex, where the stipples hang down. This project is sponsored by www.ecosolutions.co.uk. Summary: A DIY guide to Artex Removal from DIY Doctor. How to remove Artex from ceilings or walls quickly, safely and with little mess. We tell you about removing Artex with a steamer or using Eco-Friendly Eco Solutions products to make stripping Artex easy and safe.
Steam removal. Artex can be steamed off using a wallpaper steamer but this method is both slow and messy. Another disadvantage is that the steam plate can damage the ceiling if held against one area for too long. Painted Artex is not suitable for steam removal. Plastering over artex. Artex can also be plastered over, but the ceiling's surface must be prepared first. 1  Firstly remove any flaking or loose sections of Artex or ceiling. 2  Then remove all the larger stipples of Artex. 3  This can be done with a scraper, but wear protective goggles to protect the eyes
Artex cannot be applied over wallpaper – the wallpaper will need to be stripped off and the paste removed. Emulsion paint can usually be Artexed straight over, but if it has a satin finish it is a good idea to sand over it first. Dark colours should be painted over with white before Artexing. You will need a clean bucket to mix the Artex in, and a tool to mix it with. You can purchase a specialist Artex mixing tool, or if you have one you can use a plaster mixing tool which attaches to a drill. You will need a supply of cold water to mix the Artex powder with.