The DNA of most bacteria is contained in a single circular molecule, called the bacterial chromosome. The chromosome, along with several proteins and RNA molecules, forms an irregularly shaped structure called the nucleoid. This sits in the cytoplasm of the bacterial cell.
Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids.
1. In bacteria, the cytoplasm refers to anything enclosed by the cytoplasmic membrane. 2. The liquid portion of the cytoplasm is called the cytosol. 3. The cytoplasm is the site of most bacterial metabolism.
The bacterial chromosome or nucleoid is the nonstaining region in the interior of the cell cytoplasm. The granular structures distributed throughout the cytoplasm are cell ribosomes. Inclusions Often contained in the cytoplasm of procaryotic cells is one or another of some type of inclusion granule.
Cytoplasm: This internal soup of the bacterial cell is bounded on the outside by the cell envelope. The cytoplasm is mostly water, but within it are the bacterial inclusions-nucleoid, plasmids, ribosomes and storage granules-as well as the components necessary for bacterial metabolism.
The genome is the most important feature in the cytoplasm. It is located in a central region of the cell called the nuclioid. The genome is a clump or coil of DNA that controls all the functions of the bacterial cell and produces the proteins that the bacterium needs to survive.
Cytosol is the water-like fluid found in bacterial cells. The cytosol contains all the other internal compounds and components the bacteria needs for survival. The fluid and all its dissolved or suspended particles is called the cytoplasm of the cell. Proteins, amino acids, sugars, nucleotides, salts, vitamins, enzymes, DNA, ribosomes, and internal bacterial structures all float around the cell in the cytoplasm.
The cell envelope encases the cytoplasm and all its components. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm.