Muscle Strain Overview. Muscle strain is injury to muscle as a result of strenuous activity. Almost anyone can put undue tension on muscles during the course of normal daily activities, with sudden, quick heavy lifting, during sports, or while performing work tasks. Muscle strain is sometimes referred to as muscle pull. A severe muscle strain can result in a muscle tear. The tearing of the muscle can also damage small blood vessels, causing local bleeding (with or without bruising) and pain (caused by irritation of the nerve endings in the area). Of note, a sprain, in contrast to a strain, is an injury to ligaments
1 A muscle strain happens when the muscle is over-stretched or torn, resulting in damage to the muscle fibers (also called a pulled muscle). 2  A lumbar sprain happens when ligaments are stretched too far or torn. 3  Ligaments are very tough, fibrous connecting tissues that connect bones together. When the muscles or ligaments in the low back are strained or torn, the area around the muscles will usually become inflamed. The inflammation leads to back spasm, and it is the back spasm that can cause both severe lower back pain and difficulty moving.
Rest the muscle. When you strain a muscle, stop doing the activity that caused it to be strained. Pulled muscles are actually rips in muscle fibers, and further exertion could cause the tear to grow larger and lead to a serious injury. 1  Let the amount of pain you feel be your guide. A pulled or strained muscle is one that has been overstretched due to physical activity, resulting in swelling and pain. Pulled muscles are common injuries that can usually be effectively treated at home.
A strain is an injury to a muscle in which the muscle fibers tear as a result of overstretching. A strain is also colloquially known as a pulled muscle or torn muscle. The equivalent injury to a ligament is a sprain. 
Muscle Strain Overview. Muscle strain, muscle pull, or even a muscle tear refers to damage to a muscle or its attaching tendons. You can put undue pressure on muscles during the course of normal daily activities, with sudden heavy lifting, during sports, or while performing work tasks. Symptoms of muscle strain include: 1  Swelling, bruising or redness, or open cuts due to the injury. 2  Pain at rest. 3  Pain when the specific muscle or the joint in relation to that muscle is used.
Overexerting your body can lead to numerous injuries. A muscle strain, or pulled muscle, occurs when your muscle is overstretched or torn. This can be minor, such as soreness after an intense workout, or so severe that it needs surgical repair. Muscle strain is a very common injury. If a muscle strain or tear requires surgery, medication or physical therapy to strengthen affected muscle groups may be necessary after your procedure. Your doctor will provide specific follow-up instructions based on the type and severity of your injury.
A muscle strain, or pulled muscle, is when your muscle is overstretched or torn. This usually occurs as a result of fatigue, overuse, or improper use of a muscle. Strains can happen in any muscle, but are most common in your lower back, neck, shoulder, and hamstring (the muscle behind your thigh). A muscle strain causes pain and may limit movement within the affected muscle group. Mild to moderate strains can be successfully treated at home with ice, heat, and anti-inflammatory medications.
There are two common types of lower back strain: 1  A muscle strain happens when the muscle is over-stretched or torn, resulting in damage to the muscle fibers (also called a pulled muscle). 2  A lumbar sprain happens when ligaments are stretched too far or torn. When the muscles or ligaments in the low back are strained or torn, the area around the muscles will usually become inflamed. The inflammation leads to back spasm, and it is the back spasm that can cause both severe lower back pain and difficulty moving.