While all the ‘Mites’ are yeast extract, Bovril is a beef extract (although Bovril made in New Zealand are yeast extract). Marmite is widely popular in New Zealand while Vegemite, Promite and the newer product MightyMite (made in Australia) are of course the preference in Australia.
I wonder if Marmite, Promite, MightyMite, Vegemite or Bovril are common food in many countries other than prominently New Zealand and Australia. As a child of the 1960s and 1970s living in Malaysia and Singapore, I grew up with Marmite and Bovril.
I grew up with Vegemite and Promite, the latter being a somewhat milder version of Vegemite that is also Australian (but owned by Mars...). In my I-only-want-this-on-my-sandwich-every-day-for-3-months primary school days, Vegemite was a frequent favourite.
Marmite was invented in the late 19th century when Justus von Liebig a scientist, found out that brewer's yeast could be bottled and eaten. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marmite. Vegemite is also made from brewer's yeast. Vegemite first appeared on the shopping shelves in 1923.
Vegemite started as a wartime substitute for Marmite, but it's now as symbolic of Australia as Sydney Harbour Bridge and the koala.
As a Brit I have been brought up on Marmite, but it is not to everybody’s taste, opinion in the UK is very much divided, you either love or really hate it. On a recent trip to Australia, my first day there I had the chance to try Vegemite and have to say really liked it.
The answer is, they all played a part in turning Vegemite from a humble yeast spread into an Australian icon. Stop any Aussie on any street, anywhere in the world, and they will have a view on Vegemite-for, or against. Now, on the eve of its 90th birthday, the first official history has just been published.
I like Vegemite (very much) but it is an odd looking substance. I do also wonder how the idea of creating a 'concentrated yeast extract' first came about. As we saw in this post, Vegemite was first created in Australia in 1922. The English Marmite has been around since 1902 and Cenovis, a Swiss version, since 1933. That's quite a long history for a collection of vegetable spreads that, generally speaking, one either loves or hates.