The most common food allergens include peanuts, milk, eggs, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, soy, and wheat — these foods account for about 90% of all allergic reactions. The most common food allergies in adults are shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and egg. The most common food allergies in children are milk, eggs, peanuts, and tree nuts. Six to eight percent of children under the age of three have food allergies and nearly four percent of adults have food allergies. Some types of food allergies among children resolve with age including that to milk, eggs, and soy; while others such as to nuts and shellfish typically do not. In the developed world about 4% to 8% of people have at least one food allergy.
Overview. More than 50 million Americans have an allergy of some kind. Food allergies are estimated to affect 4 to 6 percent of children and 4 percent of adults, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Food allergy symptoms are most common in babies and children, but they can appear at any age
Food allergy testing There are some useful diagnostic tests that can be used in conjunction with clinical history to diagnose the most common type of food allergy, which involves the production of IgE antibodies, the antibodies that are involved in an immediate type reaction. Fish, shellfish, peanuts, legumes and seeds are also common causes of allergy in adults. Food Allergy and Intolerances Food allergies occur when the body’s immune system wrongly thinks that a food protein is harmful and acts against it.
When the symptoms are severe it is known as anaphylaxis. Food intolerance and food poisoning are separate conditions. Common foods involved include cow's milk, peanuts, eggs, shellfish, tree nuts, wheat, rice, and fruit. Which allergies are most common depends on the country. Some types of food allergies among children resolve with age including that to milk, eggs, and soy; while others such as to nuts and shellfish typically do not. In the developed world about 4% to 8% of people have at least one food allergy.
Learn more about the most common allergy trigger foods. Allergic reactions to foods are very common and often very dangerous too. Other allergies are triggered by microscopic protein particles that are inhaled or come into contact with the skin. But food allergies usually involve proteins that have been ingested (swallowed).
The Most Common Allergy Triggers in Adults. Still, it’s clear that any type of allergy can first appear in adulthood. The most common adult allergy triggers also happen to be some of the most common triggers in general. They include: 1  Pollen. 2  Also known as hay fever, pollen allergy, which affects one in five people, is the most common. 
Food Allergy Center. We sometimes forget that although food allergy is most common in young children, a growing number of adults are also affected. An estimated 4% of the U.S. adult population is food allergic – about 9 million of us. Adult food allergy is a mix of persistent and new onset disease. So the fact that food allergy in children has been becoming more common and more persistent is resulting in an increase of allergies in adolescents and adults as well. Most food allergies, including many of those that are still common in adults, are diagnosed in children and persist into adulthood. Allergy to peanuts, tree nuts and perhaps sesame are good examples of this category
Food and Drug Allergies – Food allergy is more common among children than adults. Most food allergy reactions are caused by 8 foods: milk, soy, eggs, wheat, peanuts, tree nuts, fish and shellfish. Of these foods, peanut is the most prevalent allergen, followed by milk and then shellfish.3. Skin Allergies – (Atopic dermatitis; eczema; hives; urticaria; contact allergies) Plants such as poison ivy, oak and sumac are the most common skin allergy triggers. However, skin contact with cockroach and dust mite allergen, certain foods or latex may also trigger symptoms of skin allergy.