Post 2. @ Aplenty-You are right about what spandrel glass is. Architects use spandrel glass to create the flowing glass curtains that wrap around some structures. A perfect example of a building cloaked in spandrel glass and tinted double insulated glass would be the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas.
spandrel glass. 1. An opaque glass used in curtain walls to conceal spandrel beams, columns, or other internal structural construction. 2. An opaque glass used in curtain walls to conceal spandrel beams, columns, or other internal structural construction. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Spandrel glass is made by coating a vision glass with an opaque coating. The is prevents people from looking through the glass and seeing structural features inside the building. Spandrel glass is most often used in curtain wall construction where the glass and aluminum framing on a multi-story buiding passes on the exterior side of the floor slabs. 
Often a project may require spandrel glass to harmonize with the vision areas of your building. However, this is sometimes difficult to achieve when high-light transmitting or low-reflective glass types are used. When done properly, the glass may only be viewed from the exterior of the building, with daylight reflecting from the glass surface. Note: Spandrel Glass is not for vision wall areas. Viracon's ceramic frit spandrel glass products are to be glazed against a uniform, opaque background.
Synstone concrete spandrel panels are insulated composite panels offering alternatives to glass and aluminum products in curtain wall applications. Spandrel panels can also be used in place of glazing units in curtain wall systems where it is necessary to hide the edges of floor slabs, ceiling details, insulation, etc. The spandrel panel can complement the glazed area and offers the opportunity to enhance the visual impact of the curtain wall. Concrete panels can be used throughout an entire curtain wall as well, replacing typical products such as glas
Spandrel Glass is an architectural glass product designed for use in building spandrel areas, to mask building features, like floor slabs, columns, duct work, from view from the outside. Spandrel glass performs this function due to the application of a coating to render the glass near opaque. 
Unlike vision glass, which is meant to be transparent, spandrel glass is designed to be opaque in order to help hide features between the floors of a building, including vents, wires, slab ends and mechanical equipment. 1 All glass used in a spandrel should be heat-strengthened to resist the thermal stresses associated with potential heat absorption and build-up. 2  PPG recommends placing the opacifier on the fourth surface of the IG to avoid the potential release of vocs inside the IG.
Overview. Pilkington Spandrel Glass is a range of safety glass mostly used in non-vision area of the facade. Spandrel glass is normally an opaque panel located between areas of vision glass used to cover construction elements in non-vision areas, such as hung ceilings or the edges of floor slabs. Pilkington Spandrel Glass offers a number of options for use with curtain wall applications that allow the entire building exterior to be fully glazed.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Spandrel glass is an architectural material used to cover construction materials, disguise things like arches and columns, and present a finished, seamless, and sleek exterior to buildings. @ Aplenty-You are right about what spandrel glass is. Architects use spandrel glass to create the flowing glass curtains that wrap around some structures. A perfect example of a building cloaked in spandrel glass and tinted double insulated glass would be the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas.
The word “spandrel” is an architectural term that refers to an archway or other crested system of supports. Spandrel glass is one of the only types of glass capable of covering this type of structure in a way that not only fits its curvature, but also creates the illusion of a single and unbroken wall. @ Aplenty-You are right about what spandrel glass is. Architects use spandrel glass to create the flowing glass curtains that wrap around some structures. A perfect example of a building cloaked in spandrel glass and tinted double insulated glass would be the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas.