The SRY gene provides instructions for making a protein called the sex-determining region Y protein. This protein is involved in male sexual development, which is usually determined by the chromosomes an individual has. People usually have 46 chromosomes in each cell. The official name of this gene is “sex determining region Y.”. SRY is the gene's official symbol. The SRY gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
Entrez Gene Summary for SRY Gene. This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box family of DNA-binding proteins. This protein is the testis-determining factor (TDF), which initiates male sex determination. Mutations in this gene give rise to XY females with gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome); translocation of part of the Y chromosome containing this gene to the X chromosome causes XX male syndrom
Summary. This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box family of DNA-binding proteins. This protein is the testis-determining factor (TDF), which initiates male sex determination. 1 SRY is a hybrid of DGCR8 and SOX3, and is regulated by the transcription factor CP2. 2  Includes the study of a disease-related upstream ORF in this gene, and shows that it functions to reduce protein levels by 100%.
The SRY gene is found on the Y chromosome. The sex-determining region Y protein produced from this gene acts as a transcription factor, which means it attaches (binds) to specific regions of DNA and helps control the activity of particular genes. The official name of this gene is “sex determining region Y.”. SRY is the gene's official symbol. The SRY gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
SRY is an intronless sex-determining gene on the Y chromosome in therians (placental mammals and marsupials); mutations in this gene lead to a range of sex-related disorders with varying effects on an individual's phenotype and genotype. TDF is a member of the SOX (SRY-like box) gene family of DNA-binding proteins. The X chromosome that results from this crossover event now has a SRY gene, and therefore the ability to initiate testis development. Offspring who inherit this X chromosome will have a condition called XX male syndrome, characterized by an XX karyotype, and a male phenotype.
other disorders-associated with the SRY gene. SRY gene mutations that impair but do not eliminate the function of the sex-determining region Y protein have been identified in a small number of people with 46,XY disorder of sex development, or partial gonadal dysgenesis. The official name of this gene is “sex determining region Y.”. SRY is the gene's official symbol. The SRY gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
The SRY gene is a gene on the Y chromosome required for the development of testes. It stands for S ex determining R egion on Y chromosome. 
Testis-determining factor (TDF), also known as sex-determining region Y (SRY) protein, is a DNA-binding protein (also known as gene-regulatory protein/transcription factor) encoded by the SRY gene that is responsible for the initiation of male sex determination in humans. The X chromosome that results from this crossover event now has a SRY gene, and therefore the ability to initiate testis development. Offspring who inherit this X chromosome will have a condition called XX male syndrome, characterized by an XX karyotype, and a male phenotype.