Statisticians must know more than statistics. A statistician who works in medicine or in a manufacturing plant or in market research must learn enough medicine or engineering or marketing to understand the data in their setting. Statisticians need the ability to work with other people, to listen, and to communicate. With the growth in the use of data comes a growing demand for the services of statisticians, who are experts in the following: 1  Producing trustworthy data. 2  Analyzing data to make their meaning clear. 3  Drawing practical conclusions from data.
Statistics uses mathematics, but it is not abstract or isolated. Statisticians work with people from other professions to solve practical problems. Statistics uses modern computing to organize and analyze data, and statisticians command specialized tools. But the emphasis is on the data to be understood and the problem to be solved, rather than on computing for its own sake. With the growth in the use of data comes a growing demand for the services of statisticians, who are experts in the following: 1  Producing trustworthy data. 2  Analyzing data to make their meaning clear. 3  Drawing practical conclusions from data.
Statistics is the mathematical science involved in the application of quantitative principles to the collection, analysis, and presentation of numerical data. The practice of statistics utilizes data from some population in order to describe it meaningfully, to draw conclusions from it, and make informed decisions. 
Statistics is the science of learning from data, and of measuring, controlling, and communicating uncertainty; and it thereby provides the navigation essential for controlling the course of scientific and societal advances (Davidian, M. and Louis, T. A., 10.1126/science.1218685). 
The median annual wage for statisticians was $75,560 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $42,220 and the top 10 percent earned more than $121,890. For most surveys and opinion polls, however, statisticians use sampling to collect data from some people in a particular group. Statisticians determine the type and size of the sample to be surveyed or polled. Statisticians use computers with specialized statistical software to analyze data.
Statisticians collect data and analyze it, looking for patterns that explain behaviour or describe the world as it is. They design and build models using data. The models can be used to help understand the world and to make predictions. It is proven that the celebration of birthdays is healthy. 
Statisticians must develop techniques to overcome problems in data collection and analysis. Statisticians use statistical methods to collect and analyze data and help solve real-world problems in business, engineering, the sciences, or other fields. For most surveys and opinion polls, however, statisticians use sampling to collect data from some people in a particular group. Statisticians determine the type and size of the sample to be surveyed or polled. Statisticians use computers with specialized statistical software to analyze data.
Read More... A statistician is a broad term for a professional involved in the field of either theoretical or applied statistics. Statisticians analyze a variety of data to supplement the knowledge of professionals or businesses in the private or public sector. Median pay for Statisticians in the United States is around $72K per year. With some bonuses approaching $12K and certain profit sharing proceeds approaching $13K, overall incomes of Statisticians spread between $44K and $113K depending on individual performance.
A statistician is someone who works with theoretical or applied statistics. The profession exists in both the private and public sectors. It is common to combine statistical knowledge with expertise in other subjects. Nature of the work [edit]. According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, as of 2014, 26,970 jobs were classified as statistician in the United States. Of these people, approximately 30 percent worked for governments (federal, state, or local)