Hebrew Meaning: The name Zachary is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zachary is: Remembered by God. American Meaning: The name Zachary is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zachary is: Remembered by God. English Meaning: The name Zachary is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zachary is: Jehovah has remembered.' Has experienced a revival in modern times. ZACHERY.
English Meaning: The name Zackary is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zackary is: and Zachary. American Meaning: The name Zackary is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zackary is: and Zachary. 
Zachary /za-cha-ry/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced ZAK-a-ree. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Zachary is the Lord recalled. Variant of Zachariah; Zachary is one of several names from the Old Testament that have revived into favor in modern times. See also Jacob, Jason, Jared, Jeremy, and Joshua. President Zachary Taylor. 
View the Zackary Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Zackary has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Zackary to other names. Zackary is a variant spelling of Zachary. Variants of the name Zackary include Zackery. 
Meaning of Zackary. English name. In English, the name Zackary means-derived from zachariah and zachary.The name Zackary originated as an English name. The name Zackary is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-derived from zachariah and zachary. Origin-England
Etymology & Historical Origin-Zackary. Zackary is a modern respelling of Zachary. Ultimately the name is derived from the Hebrew “Zekharyah” meaning God has remembered. Zachary itself is a variant on the Biblical Zachariah, Zacharias or Zechariah. The latter was a minor prophet who is credited with the Old Testament Book of Zechariah.
Zackary /za-ck-ary/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew derivation, and the meaning of Zackary is the Lord recalled. Zackary is a version of Zachary (Hebrew): form of Zachariah. Zakhary is a popular last name. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Zackary for boys. Zackary was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its peak position of #232 in the U.S. in 1994, and is currently at #618.
Origin of the name Zachary: English cognate of the Ecclesiastic Late Latin and Ecclesiastic Greek Zacharias (remembrance of the Lord), which is from the Hebrew Zecharya, a derivative of zĕcharyah (God remembers, memory). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.