(Redirected from Omnibox). The graphical control element address bar (also location bar or URL bar) shows the current URL and accepts a typed URL that navigates the user to a chosen website in a web browser. In a file browser it serves the same purpose of navigation but through the file-system hierarchy.
Omnibox is a prominent feature of Google’s Chrome Browser. Omnibox is Chrome’s combined search and address bar feature, which allows you to use the address bar as a search bar. Type a search term in the address box (Omnibox) and press enter to see results from your default search engine. List of some of the cool features of Omnibox. Web Search – Type your search keyword and hit enter chrome will automatically take you to your default search engine.
Omnibox. An Omnibox is similar to the traditional browser address bar with additional features. For example, in the Google Chrome browser, the Omnibox (address bar) is at the top of the window and not only displays the address of the web page, but can also search the Internet and do other tasks. 
Answer. What Google calls the Omnibox in Chrome is the big text entry box in the main toolbar at the top of every Chrome browser window. It's where normal browsers might have a location box and a search box
The OmniBox is a streaming media accessory for your TV, and it offers some impressive features. It brings the obvious internet outlets to your living room, such as Hulu and Pandora, but what sets the OmniBox apart is that is offers live television as well. ABC, FOX, CBS, and NBC are all here, along with  200 live channels in cooperation with FilmOn with genres including sports, music, news and more..
The omnibox API allows you to register a keyword with Google Chrome's address bar, which is also known as the omnibox. Manifest. You must include an omnibox keyword field in the manifest to use the omnibox API. You should also specify a 16x16-pixel icon, which will be displayed in the address bar when suggesting that users enter keyword mode. For example: Note: Chrome automatically creates a grayscale version of your 16x16-pixel icon
omnibox: {...}. When the user enters your extension's keyword, the user starts interacting solely with your extension. Each keystroke is sent to your extension, and you can provide suggestions in response. Manifest. You must include an omnibox keyword field in the manifest to use the omnibox API. You should also specify a 16x16-pixel icon, which will be displayed in the address bar when suggesting that users enter keyword mode. For example: Note: Chrome automatically creates a grayscale version of your 16x16-pixel icon
In Google Chrome, the address bar (or Omnibox) doubles as a search plugin bar which pulls incremental returns for typed phrases from Google Suggest 's pre-emptive search. An add-on is also available for Firefox that duplicates this functionality, and newer versions have the capability built-in. The graphical control element address bar (also location bar or URL bar) shows the current URL and accepts a typed URL that navigates the user to a chosen website in a web browser. In a file browser it serves the same purpose of navigation but through the file-system hierarchy.