Lassi is a blend of yogurt, water, spices and sometimes, fruit. Traditional lassi (a.k.a., salted lassi, or simply, lassi) is a savoury drink, sometimes flavoured with ground and roasted cumin. Sweet lassi, however, contains sugar or fruits, instead of spices. Salted mint lassi is highly favoured in Bangladesh. In Dharmic religions, yogurt sweetened with honey is used while performing religious rituals. Less common is lassi served with milk and topped with a thin layer of clotted cream.
1 Lassi has the same health benefits as yogurt or dahi in that it pacifies all three doshas, reduces acidity in the stomach, colonizes the gut with healthy bacteria, improves immunity, helps digestion and serves to keep the internal organs cool during hot summers. 2. 1 
While the Mango Lassi is probably the most well know sweet Lassi to westerners, many variations exist. By Nancy Lopez-McHugh. Banana Lassi. A Lassi is a very popular yogurt based drink that originates in the Punjab regions of India and Pakistan. They somewhat resemble a milkshake or smoothie and are made the same way, by blending the ingredients. There are savory or salted Lassi and sweet Lassi made with fruits. 
Lassi is one of the most commonly available summer drinks in India. It is filling, tasty and very healthy as well. Lassi has lot of health benefits. The drink is prepared using yogurt or curd. Yogurt is sour fermented form of milk. It has healthy bacteria which helps in preventing or treating urinary infections. One of the main health benefits of yogurt is that it is very good for the stomach. Yogurt cools the stomach and helps disperse body heat. So, having lassi rich in yogurt brings it share
Lassi, or yogurt drink, is prepared from curds. In its basic form it is churned to a thick creamy consistency with the addition of only a little bit of water. Lassi benefits remains same be sweet and flavored or it may have a little bit of salt and cumin powder added for taste. 2. 1  Lassi has the same health benefits as yogurt or dahi in that it pacifies all three doshas, reduces acidity in the stomach, colonizes the gut with healthy bacteria, improves immunity, helps digestion and serves to keep the internal organs cool during hot summers.
1 •Bhang Lassi: a traditional lassi with cannabis extract and ground almonds. 2  Used in the religious festival of Holi. • 3 Good fruit choices are mangoes, papayas, strawberries and melons. 4  Or try using lemon or lime juice. 5  You can use anything you like really. 1 Substitute a pinch of salt and some toasted cumin seeds. • 2 Bhang Lassi: a traditional lassi with cannabis extract and ground almonds. 3  Used in the religious festival of Holi. • 4 Good fruit choices are mangoes, papayas, strawberries and melons.
Lassi is a traditional chilled beverage from India that is made with yogurt or buttermilk and an assortment of flavorings. Many Indian restaurants offer the drink on their menus, since it is a popular accompaniment to spicy Indian food. It can also be made at home with the assistance of a blender or a set of eggbeaters. A savory lassi may be seasoned with spices like turmeric. Cardamom is often used to season lassi. When making a lassi, soy milk may be used to make the beverage for vegans or those who are lactose intolerant.
Mango Lassi is a traditional South Asian drink like a milkshake, only made with plain yogurt instead of milk. Peel 1 ripe mango, remove the pit, and chop the pulp into small chunks. get healthy living updates. Mango Lassi is a traditional South Asian drink like a milkshake, only made with plain yogurt instead of milk. Peel 1 ripe mango, remove the pit, and chop the pulp into small chunks. Combine 3/4 cup cold water, 1 cup plain yogurt, and the mango in a blender. Blend until smooth.
1 Lassi is full of calcium, protein, carbohydrates, Vitamin A, B and riboflavin. 2  For those with lactose intolerance, lassi is perfect since lactose is converted to galactose and glucose by bacterial action. 3  Lactobacillus, as you know, is one of the “Good” bacteria you must have in your gut. 2. 1  Lassi has the same health benefits as yogurt or dahi in that it pacifies all three doshas, reduces acidity in the stomach, colonizes the gut with healthy bacteria, improves immunity, helps digestion and serves to keep the internal organs cool during hot summers.