Volcano Hazards On the ground and in the air volcanic eruptions pose a direct and indirect threat to people, and property. Pyroclastic flows, lava flows, falling ash, and debris flows are examples of direct flows. Pyroclastic flows are mixtures of hot ash, rock fragments, and gas.
Volcano Benefits The greatest resource from volcanoes is the land formed by the materials they erupt. Volcanic activity has created some of the most scenic and fertile regions on earth. Harnessing the natural heat of volcanic systems has provided a nearly pollution-free source of thermal and electric energy. On the ground and in the air volcanic eruptions pose a direct and indirect threat to people, and property. Pyroclastic flows, lava flows, falling ash, and debris flows are examples of direct flows.
This process breaks down nutrients in the ash and rock delivering it slowly to the plants. Volcanoes also create brand new islands. For example, the entire Hawaiian chain of islands was created by the constant eruptions of a single volcanic hot spot. Regions of volcanic activity are enormous sources of geothermal energy. One of the most volcanically active regions in the world is Iceland, and they generate a sizable portion of their energy from geothermal energy. So volcanoes do really provide us with many benefits.
Section 3 Effects of Volcanic Eruptions Key Concept The effects of volcanic eruptions can change human and wildlife habitats. What You Will Learn • Volcanic eruptions can cause the loss of human life and the devastation of wildlife habitats. Key Concept The effects of volcanic eruptions can change human and wildlife habitats. • Volcanic eruptions can cause the loss of human life and the devastation of wildlife habitats. • Volcanic eruptions can cause the average global temperature of Earth to decrease. • Volcanic eruptions provide benefits to humans and to the environment. Why It Matters Volcanic eruptions can be both destructive and beneficial to humans. In 1816, Chauncey Jerome, a resident of Connecticut, wrote that the clothes his wife had laid out to dry had frozen overnight
Benefits of Volcanic Eruptions Volcanic eruptions present various dangers to humans and to wildlife habitats. But volcanoes also provide benefits to humans and to the environment. These benefits include fertile soils, a renewable energy source, and construction materials. Key Concept The effects of volcanic eruptions can change human and wildlife habitats. • Volcanic eruptions can cause the loss of human life and the devastation of wildlife habitats. • Volcanic eruptions can cause the average global temperature of Earth to decrease. • Volcanic eruptions provide benefits to humans and to the environment. Why It Matters Volcanic eruptions can be both destructive and beneficial to humans. In 1816, Chauncey Jerome, a resident of Connecticut, wrote that the clothes his wife had laid out to dry had frozen overnight
Benefits of Volcanoes and Volcanic Eruptions. A). - pumice (highly porous volcanic rock) used in various products (skin care, Lava brand soap, dentist's polish, + pencil eraser), obsidian (glassy volcanic rock) used as decorative stone, cinders used in construction, + volcanic ash can provide fertile soil. 
A LIST OF BENEFITS FROM VOLCANISM. The earth's water and atmosphere, consequently life on earth, evolved from the gases produced by volcanic eruptions. Rich volcanic soils form by alteration of volcanic products. Geothermal power. Health spas and hot springs for recreation and health. 
Sure, volcanoes are one of the most destructive natural disasters, killing thousands every year. But there are a few good things as well, let’s take a look at the benefits of volcanoes. The slopes of volcanoes and the surrounding regions are covered with rich, volcanic soil. For example, most of Italy has poor soils with bare limestone rock. But the regions around Naples, the site of Mount Vesuvius, are covered in very rich soil that was deposited in two huge eruptions 35,000 and 12,000 years ago. Regions of volcanic activity are enormous sources of geothermal energy. One of the most volcanically active regions in the world is Iceland, and they generate a sizable portion of their energy from geothermal energy. So volcanoes do really provide us with many benefits.