Gentamicin injection is usually used for serious bacterial infections for which other medicines may not work. However, it may also cause some serious side effects, including damage to your kidneys and the part of your body that controls hearing. Gentamicin injection is used to treat serious bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Gentamicin belongs to the class of medicines known as aminoglycoside antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth
Last reviewed on RxList 5/22/2015. Genoptic (gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic) is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections (such as blepharitis, conjunctivitis) of the eye and the skin around the eyes (such as eyelids). It is also used to prevent infection after eye injury or surgery. Rarely, gentamicin products used in the eye may be absorbed and may cause serious side effects. Tell your doctor immediately if any of these rare but serious side effects occur: easy bruising/bleeding, mental/mood changes (such as hallucinations). A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare.
Gentamicin is the generic form of the brand-name drug Garamycin, an antibiotic used to treat many types of bacterial infections. Gentamicin for Dogs and Cats. Gentamicin can be used to treat a variety of infections in dogs and cats, including respiratory infections, wounds, surgical infections, skin infections, ear infections, eye infections, and pneumonia. Your veterinarian will determine the appropriate dosage.
Gentamicin ointment and cream are prescription medications used to treat infections of the skin. Gentamicin for injection is a prescription medication used to treat infections of the lung, skin, bone, joint, blood, and urinary tract. This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Gentamicin belongs to a group of drugs called aminoglycoside antibiotics. These work by killing the bacteria that cause infections. This medication comes in topical forms for the eyes and the skin and is usually used 2 to 4 times daily.
Uses. This medication is used to treat minor skin infections (such as impetigo, folliculitis) or minor infections related to some skin conditions (such as eczema, psoriasis, minor burns/cuts/wounds). Gentamicin works by stopping the growth of certain bacteria. 