The Yamal-Nenets are a nomadic people and herders of reindeer in the vast northern reaches of Siberia. They live in Chums (pronounced chooms), which are large Tipi-like tents made from tall poles and reindeer hides. “…The traditional chum consists of reindeer hides sewn together and wrapped around wooden poles that are organized in a circle…” Wikipedia – Chum. On its right and left are wide wooden boards placed directly on the snow and then covered with mats made of young birch trunks, twigs and grass, which in turn are covered with reindeer skins. You feel strange sitting in the warm choom and seeing beneath you bits of snow peeking though chinks in the covering below.
Lassoos are crafted from reindeer tendons; tools and sledge parts from bone. The covers of the conical-shaped tents – called choom or mya, – are also made from reindeer hide and mounted on heavy poles. Every Nenets has a sacred reindeer, which must not be harnessed or slaughtered until it is no longer able to walk. Reindeer meat is also the most important part of the Nenets’ diet. 
Nenets herders live in tepee style tents ‘mya’ the covers of which are made from reindeer skin for use in winter and canvas in the summer. Their herding involves seasonal migrations with their reindeer. For the Nenets who migrate up to the north the Yamal Peninsula, migrations can be as long as 1,000km each way. TUNDRA NENETS. With a population of over 41,000, the Nenets are one of the largest of the indigenous groups in Northern Siberia. Their territory covers a vast area that stretches from the Kanin Peninsula at the White Sea in the west, all the way to the Taymyr Peninsula, a distance of more than 2,000 km.
It’s a shock between two cultures. With the seasons and the movements of the fishing grounds, the Nenets move their shoums-tribal tents made of reindeer skins. To survive, they do what they can to meet the Russian fisheries’ demand for productivity and do some bartering with their herdsman cousins. Nenets, Nomads in Siberia. Synopsis | Information. On the shores of the Kara Sea, despite the isolation and the -40°C temperatures, a few coastal communities are still hanging on on the polar Siberian coast. The nomadic Nenets are traditionally reindeer herders, but some clans have converted to fishing.
Nenets life. The chum is the living space and is made of reindeer skins that are laid over a skeleton of long wooden poles, many of which have a special position in the structure and are not interchangeable. The Nenets still rely on traditional clothing sewn by the women. A Nenets man wears a Malitsa which is a coat made of around 4 reindeer skins, the fur being closest to the skin on the inside and the leather on the outside.
The Yamal-Nenets are a nomadic people and herders of reindeer in the vast northern reaches of Siberia. They live in Chums (pronounced chooms), which are large Tipi-like tents made from tall poles and reindeer hides.” – offgridworld.com. The Yamal-Nenets are a nomadic people and herders of reindeer in the vast northern reaches of Siberia. They live in Chums (pronounced chooms), which are large Tipi-like tents made from tall poles and reindeer hides.” – offgridworld.com Read and see more of these The Chum Shelters of the Nenet People of Siberia.
Please try again later. Published on Aug 7, 2013. Summery: In the middle of Russia's North, a family of Nenets people live in two different places; a traditional tent made of reindeer skins and a contemporary flat. Location: Various (Taimyr Peninsula, Russia; Dudinka, Krasnoyarsk Region, Russia). Date Shot: November 03, 2007. Duration: 3:06
The smoke escapes through a hole on top of the chum. The canvas and wooden poles are usually quite heavy, but could be transported by using their reindeer. The chum is still in use today as a year-round shelter for the Yamal-Nenets, Khanty and Todzha Tyvan people of Russia. In Russian use, the terms chum, yurt and yaranga may be used interchangeably. The word chum (Russian: чум) came from Komi: ćom [t͡ɕom] or Udmurt: ćum [t͡ɕum] , both mean tent, shelter. In different languages it has different names: Nenets: ḿāʔ [mʲaːʔ] , Nganasan: maʔ, Khanty : (ńuki) χot. Evenki: ǯū [d͡ʒuː] .