Lumbosacral Radiculopathy Definition. Lumbosacral radiculopathy is a broad term referring to a range of symptoms associated with the nerves of the lumbosacral plexus in the lower back. The lumbosacral plexus encompasses the nerves that exit the spinal cord at the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal regions of the spine. 
Plexopathy is a disorder affecting a network of nerves, blood vessels, or lymph vessels. The region of nerves it affects are at the brachial or lumbosacral plexus. Symptoms include pain, loss of motor control, and sensory deficits. There are two main types of plexopathy: brachial plexopathy and lumbosacral plexopathy. They are usually caused from some sort of localized trauma such as a dislocated shoulder. The disorder can also be caused secondary to a compression, co-morbid vascular disease, infection, or may be idiopathic with an unknown cause. The first steps in the evaluation and later management of plexopathy would consist of gathering a medical history and conducting a physical examination by a healthcare clinician. Motor function defect patterns detected within either the upper or lower extremities help with diagnosis of the disorder.
Lumbosacral Plexopathy. Lumbosacral plexopathy is a relatively rare peripheral nerve problem that results from injury to the lumbar or sacral plexuses. These are interwoven networks of nerves arising from nerve roots in the lumbar spine or the pelvis, respectively. Plexus injury can result from diabetes, tumor, radiation and obstetrical injury. The symptoms of lumbosacral plexopathy depend on the underlying cause and the individual nerves affected. Symptoms can include pain, numbness, tingling, weakness or hypersensitivity. These symptoms do not differ significantly from those associated with peripheral nerve injuri
Brachial plexus: A bundle of nerves that begins in the back of the base of the neck and extends through the armpit. It is formed by the union of portions of the fifth through eighth cervical spinal nerves and the first thoracic spinal nerve. 
plexopathy. Definitions: 1. Disorder involving one of the major peripheral neural plexuses: cervical, brachial, or lumbosacral. The definition information for plexopathy is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
The lumbar and sacral plexuses make up the collective lumbosacral plexus which is formed from the anterior (ventral) rami of the L1 through S4 nerve roots (figure 1). The anterior rami divide within the plexus into anterior and posterior divisions that in turn yield individual peripheral nerves. 
Noun. 1. lumbosacral plexus-a nerve plexus formed by the ventral divisions of the coccygeal and sacral and lumbar nerves; supplies the lower limbs and perineum and coccygeal area. nerve plexus-a network of intersecting nerves. 1  Facebook. 1. lumbosacral plexus-a nerve plexus formed by the ventral divisions of the coccygeal and sacral and lumbar nerves; supplies the lower limbs and perineum and coccygeal area. nerve plexus-a network of intersecting nerves
Lumbosacral plexopathy can result when radiation, used in the treatment of various neoplasms, is directed toward management of abdominal and pelvic malignancies. Anatomically, the lumbosacral plexus consists of lumbar (L1-L4) and sacral (L5-S5) portions, which are connected by the lumbosacral trunk (L4-L5). 