1 Foggers cost about $10 to $15. 2  Many veterinary sites suggest using a monthly tick preventative, since preventing ticks will also prevent Lyme disease. 3  Prices range from $21 for a year's worth of flea and tick collars to $200 or more for a year's supply of pills. 1 If the dog is indoors often, consider an indoor or upholstery tick treatment. 2  Foggers cost about $10 to $15. 3  Many veterinary sites suggest using a monthly tick preventative, since preventing ticks will also prevent Lyme disease.
Vaccination Costs. Although a Lyme disease vaccine has been licensed (11) , data are not available on the actual cost of vaccination, which includes costs of the vaccine, its administration, time spent in receiving the vaccine, travel, and treatment of adverse side-effects of vaccination. With a 0.01 probability of contracting Lyme disease and a 0.80 probability of correct diagnosis and treatment of early disease, the mean savings per case averted was $1,416 when the cost of vaccination was $50 per year.
1 Some dog daycare facilities or kennels require vaccinations not included in the standard round of shots, such as for bordatella, known as kennel cough. 2  In certain parts of the country, veterinarians recommend extra vaccinations, such as for Lyme disease. 3  Extra vaccinations usually cost about $10 to $15 or more each. 1 The average cost for dog vaccinations ranges from $20 to $150 in the first year, and from $10 to $100 per year afterward.
1 Unvaccinated adult dogs receive two rounds of vaccinations about three weeks apart. 2  After that, dogs usually receive boosters annually. 3  The basic shots -- for distemper, hepatitis, parvovirus, parainfluenza and sometimes leptospirosis and coronavirus -- usually are administered together in a combination vaccine. 1 The average cost for dog vaccinations ranges from $20 to $150 in the first year, and from $10 to $100 per year afterward.
1 Treating a 100-pound dog for two weeks costs between $7 and $36. 2  Treating the same size dog for one month costs between $17 and $98. 3  The price varies not only by the dog's size and the length of treatment but also what antibiotic is prescribed and how much the provider charges for it. 1 If the dog is indoors often, consider an indoor or upholstery tick treatment. 2  Foggers cost about $10 to $15. 3  Many veterinary sites suggest using a monthly tick preventative, since preventing ticks will also prevent Lyme disease.
1 Prices range from $21 for a year's worth of flea and tick collars to $200 or more for a year's supply of pills. 2  See How Much Does Dog Flea Control Cost for a more thorough look at prevention; most of these products also prevent ticks. 3  Also, PetEducation.com has a breakdown of tick removal products. 1 If the dog is indoors often, consider an indoor or upholstery tick treatment. 2  Foggers cost about $10 to $15. 3  Many veterinary sites suggest using a monthly tick preventative, since preventing ticks will also prevent Lyme disease.
1 Treating the same size dog for one month costs between $17 and $98. 2  The price varies not only by the dog's size and the length of treatment but also what antibiotic is prescribed and how much the provider charges for it. 1 If the dog is indoors often, consider an indoor or upholstery tick treatment. 2  Foggers cost about $10 to $15. 3  Many veterinary sites suggest using a monthly tick preventative, since preventing ticks will also prevent Lyme disease.
Lyme vaccine is an immunization that helps prevent Lyme disease from being passed to your dog. Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete bacterial strain called Borrelia burgdorferi that passes to your dog through the bite of certain types of ticks. Argument Against Lyme Vaccination. While it may seem that vaccination would be an ideal situation, many veterinarians argue against vaccinating for Lyme disease. Because the vaccine promotes activity in your dog’s immune system, it can cause adverse reactions to the shot.