Wilmot introduced a rider to that measure, which was derived from the Northwest Ordinance, barring slavery from any territory acquired from Mexico. The bill containing the Wilmot Proviso passed the House in 1846 but the Senate failed to take any action on it. Passed again by the House in 1847, the proviso was defeated largely by the opposition of Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina. David Wilmot, whose name is associated with the Wilmot Proviso, was born Bethany, Pennsylvania, in 1814 and took up the practice of law in Towanda.
Wilmot Proviso, 1846, amendment to a bill put before the U.S. House of Representatives during the Mexican War; it provided an appropriation of $2 million to enable President Polk to negotiate a territorial settlement with Mexico. In the next session of Congress (1847), a new bill providing for a $3-million appropriation was introduced, and Wilmot again proposed an antislavery amendment to it. The amended bill passed the House, but the Senate drew up its own bill, which excluded the proviso.
The Proviso also prohibited the expansion of slavery into any territory acquired by the United States from Mexico as a result of a settlement in the Mexican-American War. The proposed amendment narrowly passed through the House of Representatives and was then defeated in the Senate. Lesson Summary. The Wilmot Proviso was issued on August 8th, 1846 by Pennsylvania Democratic Congressman David Wilmot. It prohibited the expansion of slavery into any territory acquired by the United States from Mexico as a result of the Mexican-American War settlement.
The Wilmot Proviso would have prevented slavery's expansion into any of this new territory. The House of Representatives approved the appropriations bill and, as a result, the proviso on August 8, 1846, but the Senate adjourned beforWilmot Proviso would have prevented slavery's expansion into any of this new territory. David Wilmot, whose name is associated with the Wilmot Proviso, was born Bethany, Pennsylvania, in 1814 and took up the practice of law in Towanda.
The Wilmot Proviso proposed an American law to ban slavery in any territory acquired from Mexico in the Mexican War. The conflict over the proviso was one of the major events leading to the American Civil War. The vote to add the proviso to the bill was then called, and it passed by 83–64. A last-ditch effort by southerners to table the entire bill was defeated by 94–78, and then the entire bill was approved 85–80. Most ominously, these votes all fell overwhelmingly along sectional rather than party lines.
If the Wilmot Proviso had been passed, then any territories gained from Mexico would automatically be a free state. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. 
Congressman David Wilmot first introduced the proviso in the United States House of Representatives on August 8, 1846, as a rider on a $2,000,000 appropriations bill intended for the final negotiations to resolve the Mexican–American War (this was only three months into the two-year war). The vote to add the proviso to the bill was then called, and it passed by 83–64. A last-ditch effort by southerners to table the entire bill was defeated by 94–78, and then the entire bill was approved 85–80. Most ominously, these votes all fell overwhelmingly along sectional rather than party lines.
Wilmot Proviso The Wilmot Proviso was introduced on August 8, 1846, in the United States House of Representatives as a rider on a $2 million appropriations bill intended for the final negotiations to resolve the Mexican-American War. 
Original conversation. User: Congress tried to find a compromise to save the Union as, one after another, the states of the Lower South: A)seceded B)rebelled C)compromisedUser: The Wilmot Proviso, which never passed, would have a. prohibited slavery in any territory gained from Mexico. b. prevented Congress from banning slavery in any territory gained from Mexico. c. created a compromise by dividing the territories into free and slave states. d. made it easier for slaveholders to retrieve an enslaved person. The Wilmot Proviso, which never passed, would have: a. prohibited slavery in any territory gained from Mexico. 