What we find is rainy season and no-so-rainy season (so called dry) ranging from about 60-180 inches to 30-100 inches. Precipitation varies significantly though, in the Eastern part of the Amazon rainforest (close to the Andes) it doubles Manaus region. The blue bars show precipitation level (in mm) and the red dots show temperatures in degrees Celsius. Amazon Rainforest Climate... The Amazon rainforest climate is typically a tropical climate, also known as equatorial climate, found approximately 12 degrees to the North and South of the equator. Like any other tropical rainforest, it's hot and humid throughout the year, with an average annual temperature of 27 C (80.7 F)
A number of factors contribute to the temperatures in the Amazon Rainforest. The location in equatorial South America is a major factor of high temperatures, but the annual average amount of rainfall reaching as much as 120 inches also contributes to a higher humidity and cooler nights. In most areas, temperatures can fall to 50 degrees Fahrenheit and can feel cooler due to the frequent rainfall. In the southernmost regions of the Amazon rainforest, there can be more of a seasonal variations in temperature.
Climate in the Amazon of Ecuador The climate in the Amazon of Ecuador is characterized by an average of about 3000 mm of rainfall per year and an average temperature of 23 C. However, these values are very coarse and temperatures are lower in the foothills of the Andes, where the Cuyabeno Lakes are located. 
Plants Animals Climate Southeast Asian Rainforests The tropical rain forest is a forest of tall trees in a region of year-round warmth. An average of 50 to 260 inches (125 to 660 cm.) of rain falls yearly. Rain forests belong to the tropical wet climate group. The temperature in a rain forest rarely gets higher than 93 째F (34 째C) or drops below 68 째F (20 째C); average humidity is between 77 and 88%; rainfall is often more than 100 inches a year. In an average year the climate in a tropical rain forest is very humid because of all the rainfall. A tropical rainforest gets about 150 cm of rain per year. It gets lots of rain because it is very hot and wet in rain forests. The hotter the air, the more water vapor it can hold.
Amazon Rainforest The climate is typically tropical on the Amazon rainforest, which is also called equatorial climate, reaching about 12 degrees north and south of the line of Ecuador. Like all tropical climate is characterized by hot and humid all year round. The average annual temperature in the 27 C (80.7 F). Rainforest Weather. The rainforest weather is mostly hot and humid. The average temperature is 25 degrees Celsius and 77 degrees F. the Rainforest do not have the tendency to dip below 0 degrees Celsius (32 degrees F). Rainfall The rainfall can reach a minimum of 1.8m (6ft) or it can get as a maximum of 9.0 (30ft) of rain at the year
Daytime Temperatures. The average temperature year round in the Amazon rainforest is 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Although the Amazon Basin runs through many central South American countries, Brazil has by far the largest section covering most of the country. The average daytime temperature in the Brazilian Amazon region varies from 80 to 90 degrees and rarely reaches 100. In most areas, temperatures can fall to 50 degrees Fahrenheit and can feel cooler due to the frequent rainfall. In the southernmost regions of the Amazon rainforest, there can be more of a seasonal variations in temperature.
Precipitation and TemperatureThere is season in the Amazon Rainforest.The average temperature ranges between 2 degrees to 27 degrees. It is not really hot there, it rarely reaches over 33 degrees. The average rainfall in the Amazon Rainforest is 60 to 180 inches. 
**** Rainforests by Michael G. 2001 In an average year the climate in a tropical rain forest is very humid because of all the rainfall. A tropical rainforest gets about 150 cm of rain per year. It gets lots of rain because it is very hot and wet in rain forests. The hotter the air, the more water vapor it can hold.