I will need each of your names and email addresses. The cost of the PREPARE/ENRICH assessment is $100 per couple. The cost of the sessions to discuss the PREPARE/ENRICH assessment is my regular fee of $120 per fifty-minute hour. If you prefer to try and improve your marriage on your own, there is an incredibly valuable resource available to you.
The cost of the PREPARE/ENRICH two day training workshops has increased to the new price of $295 per person. The Parenting Version of PREPARE/ENRICH is designed to guide couples through the emotions of parenting by empowering them with insight into their parenting style, family dynamics, and couple relationship.
1 Occasionally, therapists will offer discounted fees contingent on the couple's income, charging only $20 to $35 per session. 2  Couples with documentation showing they've completed premarital counseling may be eligible for a discounted marriage license in their state.
1 It is often required that couples wishing to be married at a specific church attend premarital counseling there. 2  For example, Community Nazarene Church in Wyandanch, New York, offers a six-session, $300 counseling package at an average cost of $50 per session.
1 The PREPARE-ENRICH assessment costs $35, for example, and is often billed separately from counseling sessions. 2  A counselor may require couples to purchase books or other course materials around $40 to $50. 3  Couples planning to marry at a church where they are not members may pay $100 to $150 more than members.
The PREPARE/ENRICH Group Program has a format that is adaptable and easy to implement into any type of couple group. Upgrade your PREPARE/ENRICH account and you'll receive online access to the Instructor's Guide (PDF), a new Couple's Report-Group Edition, and an Instructor's PowerPoint.
Whether you are a counselor, clergy, mental health professional, mentor or relationship educator, PREPARE/ENRICH is the ideal tool to help you do your job better. As with any sophisticated assessment, you need to get trained on how to administer and interpret the results for your couples.