(October 2012). An employment contract or contract of employment is a kind of contract used in labour law to attribute rights and responsibilities between parties to a bargain. The contract is between an employee and an employer.. It has arisen out of the old master-servant law, used before the 20th century. But generally, the contract of employment denotes a relationship of economic dependence and social subordination.
Definition. An employee who works under contract for an employer. A contract employee is hired for a specific job at a specific rate of pay. A contract employee does not become a regular addition to the staff and is not considered a permanent employee. 
Works Contract Law & Legal Definition. A works contract is an agreement which is a mixture of service or labour and transfer of goods. Under a works contract the contractor agrees to do certain job in execution whereof, certain goods are transferred to the contractee. Thus, an agreement of building construction, manufacture, processing, fabrication, erection, installation, repair or commissioning of any movable or immovable property, is a works contract.
A contract of employment usually defined to mean the same as a contract of service. A contract of service has historically been distinguished from a contract for the supply of services, the expression altered to imply the dividing line between a person who is employed and someone who is self-employed. The contract is between an employee and an employer.. It has arisen out of the old master-servant law, used before the 20th century. But generally, the contract of employment denotes a relationship of economic dependence and social subordination.
Note: Some contracts meet the definition of “public works” under Labor Code section 1720 thereby requiring prevailing wages, but may not meet the definition of public works under the State Contract Act and therefore may not be subject to other provisions of that Act and this chapter 10. The current amounts are contracts not exceeding $610,000* for most agencies, and not exceeding $839,000* for most Resources Agency departments, boards, commissions, or conservancies. This chapter applies to public works contracts delegated to State agencies by DGS under PCC §§ 10108 and 10108.5. This chapter does not apply to public works contracts, which are defined as projects under PCC § 10108, by agencies listed in PCC § 10106
How Contract Positions Work. Contract positions are employment arrangements that do not involve the same level of commitment as an employer-employee relationship. If you hire contract workers, you are not required to pay employment taxes on the hours they work as you would for a regular employee. 
111 10. PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS 10.00  INTRODUCTION (Rev 11/12) This chapter is intended to provide guidance in the preparation, administration, and execution of small or minor public works contracts, i.e. those that fall within certain dollar amounts, as established by the Department of Finance at two-year intervals. The current amounts are contracts not exceeding $610,000* for most agencies, and not exceeding $839,000* for most Resources Agency departments, boards, commissions, or conservancies. This chapter applies to public works contracts delegated to State agencies by DGS under PCC §§ 10108 and 10108.5. This chapter does not apply to public works contracts, which are defined as projects under PCC § 10108, by agencies listed in PCC § 10106
Full Definition of CONTRACTOR. 1. : one that contracts or is party to a contract: as a: one that contracts to perform work or provide supplies b: one that contracts to erect buildings. 2. : something (as a muscle) that contracts or shortens. See contractor defined for English-language learners.