1 Bring the water to the boil and drop the lobster tails into the pan. 2  Boil the tails for about 1 minute per oz of total weight. 3  If there are 5 oz of lobster tails, you will need to cook them for 5 minutes. 4  Drain the lobster tails and serve hot with melted butter, lemon juice or mayonnaise. 1 Boil the tails for about 1 minute per oz of total weight. 2  If there are 5 oz of lobster tails, you will need to cook them for 5 minutes. 3  Drain the lobster tails and serve hot with melted butter, lemon juice or mayonnaise. 4  Pour 1 cup of water into the bottom of a pan and add salt. 5  Bring the water to the boil
Butterfly the tail, brush with butter or olive oil, place tails in a dish, add about 1 cup of water to the dish and in a preheated 400 degree oven bake a 6 to 8oz lobster tail for 8 to 10 minutes. Bring to a boil, drop the thawed lobster tails in, after the water returns to a boil reduce the heat and begin timing. The rule of thumb is 1 minute per oz of the tail, so a 4-6oz lobster tail will be cooked for 4 to 6 minutes.
You can butterfly the tail or split them in half if you have a larger tail. If using a pot to steam bring the water to a boil place lobster in the basket and steam for about 1 minute per oz of lobster. Season your tail with salt and spread butter over it. I really like the electric food steamer, it's fast and easy and almost fool proof by using the instruction booklet that comes with them. Bring to a boil, drop the thawed lobster tails in, after the water returns to a boil reduce the heat and begin timing. The rule of thumb is 1 minute per oz of the tail, so a 4-6oz lobster tail will be cooked for 4 to 6 minutes.
5. Slightly before the tails are done cooking, cook under the broiler for 1 or 2 minutes (optional). Put a pat of butter on each tail, place at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) underneath the broiler, and cook, keeping a close eye on each lobster tail. Cook for about 1 minute per ounce of tail meat. For example, 10 oz. of tail meat needs to cook for 10 minutes. If you are cooking with 4 tails that each weigh 10 oz., don't cook the tails for 40 minutes; cook for 10 minutes!
Step 2: Prepping and Cooking Lobster Tails. If the lobster tails are frozen, thaw them in the refrigerator. Be sure to plan ahead, as this takes 8 to 10 hours. Uncooked tails have a mottled appearance with a green-blue-brown cast. To cook four 8-ounce tails, bring 6 cups salted water to boiling in a 3-quart saucepan. Add the lobster tails. Simmer, uncovered, for 8 to 12 minutes or until shells turn bright red and the meat is tender when poked with a fork. For larger or smaller tails, adjust the cooking time as needed. Drain in a colander.
1 Whisk in salt, paprika, white pepper, and garlic powder. 2  Split lobster tails lengthwise with a large knife, and brush flesh side of tail with marinade. 3  Lightly oil grill grate. 4  Place tails, flesh side down, on preheated grill. 5  Cook for 10 to 12 minutes, turning once, and basting frequently with marinade. 1 Split lobster tails lengthwise with a large knife, and brush flesh side of tail with marinade. 2  Lightly oil grill grate. 3  Place tails, flesh side down, on preheated grill. 4  Cook for 10 to 12 minutes, turning once, and basting frequently with marinade. 5  Discard any remaining marinade.
Preparation. Boil a pot of water large enough for all the tails to float in, adding 1 tsp salt for each quart of water. Drop the tails in the boiling water and cook for about 1 minute per oz thawed (so 10 0z of tails needs to cook for 10 minutes). If you are cooking a lot of tails, add a minute or two on to the total time