If your GPlayer.exe error is related to a specific program, reinstalling EXETender™ Client-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu. 3  Click Programs. 4  Click Programs and Features. EXE (executable) files, such as GPlayer.exe, are files that contain step-by-step instructions that a computer follows to carry out a function. When you double-click an EXE file, your computer automatically executes these instructions designed by a software developer (eg.
What you should know about GPlayer.exe EXETender Player. GPlayer.exe is not a Windows system file and is known to frequently cause computer problems. GPlayer.exe is found in a subdirectory of C:\Program Files. Frequently occurring are file sizes such as 4,936,152 bytes (18% of all these files), 4,837,808 bytes as well as 11 other variants. An obsolete or defective version of GPlayer.exe can cause problems for your computer that can range from slowness to error messages such as these: 1  EXETender Player has stopped working. 2  Windows is checking for a solution to the problem... ( 3 Windows 8, 7, Vista). 4
gplayer.exe. The gplayer.exe is a EXETender Player. This file is part of Verizon Games on Demand Player. Gplayer.exe is developed by Exent Technologies Ltd. Gplayer.exe is usually located in the %PROGRAM_FILES% sub-folder and its usual size is 2,057,728 bytes.
Therefore, please read below to decide for yourself whether the GPlayer.exe on your computer is a Trojan that you should remove, or whether it is a file belonging to the Windows operating system or to a trusted application. GPlayer.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Program Files. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 4,936,152 bytes (13% of all occurrences), 4,862,384 bytes and 23 more variants.
gplayer.exe is a GPlayer.exe belonging to EXETender™ Client from Exent Technologies Ltd. Non-system processes like gplayer.exe originate from software you installed on your system. Most non-system processes that are running can be stopped because they are not involved in running your operating system. Scan your system now to identify unused processes that are using up valuable resources. gplayer.exe is used by 'EXETender™ Client'.This is an application created by 'Exent Technologies Ltd.'. To stop gplayer.exe permanently uninstall 'EXETender™ Client' from
Description: GPlayer.exe is not essential for Windows and will often cause problems. GPlayer.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Program Files. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 4,936,152 bytes (13% of all occurrences), 4,862,384 bytes and 23 more variants. It is not a Windows system file. The process starts when Windows starts (see Registry key: , ). The file is digitally signed
The GPlayer.exe process is also known as EXETender Player or, as the case may be, GamePlayer and is a part of Free Ride Games Player or, as the case may be, EXETender Client (Version (64 Bit Beta)). This software is produced by Exent Technologies (www.exent.com) or, as the case may be, OXXOMedia. An obsolete or defective version of GPlayer.exe can cause problems for your computer that can range from slowness to error messages such as these: 1  EXETender Player has stopped working. 2  Windows is checking for a solution to the problem... ( 3 Windows 8, 7, Vista). 4