Plant Kingdom. The Plant Kingdom is made up of organisms that can perform photosynthesis to make food. Characteristics of the Plant Kingdom: multicellular, eukaryotic, autotrophic, and mostly green in color. The Protist Kingdom consists of mostly unicellular organisms that can have characteristics similar to plants, animals or fungi. Characteristics of Protists: mostly unicellular, few multicellular, eukaryotic, can be heterotrophic or autotrophic. Ex: algae, Paramecium, kelp (multicellular).   .
The Protista Kingdom lies between the Monera Kingdom and the Plantae Kingdom; most protists are still single-celled like bacteria, but their cells are more complex. Like bacteria, not all protists are autotrophic; however, almost all protists that do engage in photosynthesis have some type of chlorophyll. The Monera Kingdom (which is divided into two kingdoms, the Eubacteria and Archeobacteria) are microscopic, single-celled organisms that are the simplest known forms of life.
Viruses are not included in any of the kingdoms of organisms because they are generally not thought of as truly alive. Unlike living things, viruses do not have cells (they ar … e much smaller) and are basically just DNA (or sometimes RNA) wrapped in protein. 
All organisms in the Kingdom Plantae are multilcellular and autotrophic. According to the University of California at Berkeley, there are over 250,000 species of plants, which makes them the second largest kingdom behind Animalia. The Monera Kingdom (which is divided into two kingdoms, the Eubacteria and Archeobacteria) are microscopic, single-celled organisms that are the simplest known forms of life.
Process of Photosynthesis. During photosynthesis, the energy from sunlight is broken down with carbon dioxide and water to form ATPs (adenosine triphosphate). ATPs are then used to power reactions in the cell that produce glucose, the primary sugar used to fuel the cell's activities. The Monera Kingdom (which is divided into two kingdoms, the Eubacteria and Archeobacteria) are microscopic, single-celled organisms that are the simplest known forms of life.
Organisms that make food through photosynthesis are classified as autotrophs, as opposed to heterotrophs, which must consume other organisms to make their food. The kingdoms which contain photosynthetic organisms are Monera, Protista and Plantae. The Monera Kingdom (which is divided into two kingdoms, the Eubacteria and Archeobacteria) are microscopic, single-celled organisms that are the simplest known forms of life.
L iving organisms are subdivided into 5 major kingdoms, including the Monera, the Protista (Protoctista), the Fungi, the Plantae, and the Animalia. Each kingdom is further subdivided into separate phyla or divisions. Generally animals are subdivided into phyla, while plants are subdivided into divisions. 1. The five-kingdom system of classification for living organisms, including the prokaryotic Monera and the eukaryotic Protista, Fungi, Plantae and Animalia is complicated by the discovery of archaebacteria.
The Kingdom plantae is also called as kingdom Metaphyta. The Kingdom plantae includes all types of eukaryotic, multicellular, photosynthetic plants found in this biosphere. Most of the organism in this kingdom is autotrophs, which synthesis their own food with the help of solar energy. 
There are six kingdoms including plants, animals, fungi, protists, archaebacteria, and eubacteria. Animal Kingdom. The animal kingdom (Animalia in Latin) is the largest of all of the six kingdoms and is made up or more than one million species. 