1 Pyramidal tracts – These tracts originate in the cerebral cortex, carrying motor fibres to the spinal cord and brain stem. 2  They are responsible for the voluntary control of the musculature of the body and face. 3  Extrapyramidal tracts – These tracts originate in the brain stem, carrying motor fibres to the spinal cord. This article is about the descending tracts of the central nervous system. The descending tracts are the pathways by which motor signals are sent from the brain to lower motor neurones. The lower motor neurones then directly innervate muscles to produce movement.
The extrapyramidal system, along with the pyramidal or corticospinal tract, is part of the motor system. The extrapyramidal system is comprised of collections of neurons. The extrapyramidal system indirectly controls motion. It is also referred to as the indirect activation pathway of motor functions. Primarily, the extrapyramidal system is involved in maintaining equilibrium, coordination, posture, muscle tone, and reflexes.
The Pons. The pons, which is also part of the brain stem, is inferior to the midbrain and superior to the medulla. Its posterior border is separated from the cerebellum by the aqueduct of Sylvius, and more inferiorly, by the fourth ventricle. Motor and sensory tracts traverse the anterior surface of the pons. The medulla is the most inferior part of the brain stem. The cell bodies of several cranial nerves are found there. Tthe cell body with it's nucleus, and the axon and axonal branches are all part of the lower motor neuron.
The extrapyramidal system is a neural network in the central nervous system that helps regulate and modulate motion. It is part of the motor system, along with the pyramidal or corticospinal tract. This network arises from regions in the human brain, such as the pons and medulla, and continues to the spinal cord. Intake of substances or medications can affect the extrapyramidal system, leading to disturbances in motion and balance. The extrapyramidal system indirectly controls motion. It is also referred to as the indirect activation pathway of motor functions. Primarily, the extrapyramidal system is involved in maintaining equilibrium, coordination, posture, muscle tone, and reflexes.
The central nervous system, which consists of the brain and spinal cord, receives and transmits signals to the nerves in the peripheral nervous system, which is composed of the nerves in the organs and muscles of the body. The extrapyramidal system indirectly controls motion. It is also referred to as the indirect activation pathway of motor functions. Primarily, the extrapyramidal system is involved in maintaining equilibrium, coordination, posture, muscle tone, and reflexes.
1 Extrapyramidal tracts – These tracts originate in the brain stem, carrying motor fibres to the spinal cord. 2  They are responsible for the involuntary and automatic control of all musculature, such as muscle tone, balance, posture and locomotion. This article is about the descending tracts of the central nervous system. The descending tracts are the pathways by which motor signals are sent from the brain to lower motor neurones. The lower motor neurones then directly innervate muscles to produce movement.
Introduction. The forebrain (proencephalon) is the largest part of the brain, most of which is cerebrum. Other important structures found in the forebrain include the thalamus, the hypothalamus and the limbic system. 
In anatomy, the extrapyramidal system is a neural network that is part of the motor system causing involuntary movements. The system is called extrapyramidal to distinguish it from the tracts of the motor cortex that reach their targets by traveling through the  pyramids  of the medulla. All of these regulatory components can be considered part of the extrapyramidal system, in that they modulate motor activity without directly innervating motor neurons. The extrapyramidal tracts include parts of the following: 1  rubrospinal tract.