MihailDechev/iStock/Getty Images. Food comes from many sources, but in the most general terms, it originates from large-scale or small-scale farms. Large-scale farming also goes by another name: industrial farming. Unlike small-scale farms, large-scale farms utilize various industrial methods to maximize production. Thus, it's not so much about the acres a farm spans, but the methods of production. Often, large-scale farming yields large amounts of one crop, but may actually produce less than could be produced by small-scale farmers who may use products and methods that are less damaging to the soil, produce fewer greenhouse gases and consume fewer natural resources. References.
Intensive farming or intensive agriculture also known as industrial agriculture is characterized by a low fallow ratio and higher use of inputs such as capital and labour per unit land area. This is in contrast to traditional agriculture in which the inputs per unit land are lower. 
Small-scale agriculture is the production of crops and livestock on a small-piece of land without using advanced and expensive technologies. 
To produce the food necessary to reduce high world food prices and meet the future demands of a growing and more affluent population, large-scale commercial farming needs to be encouraged. Any romantic illusions about small-scale farmers should be set aside. What happens to agricultural policy when a large-scale farm sector is created? With relatively few farmers that can readily be organised, who are rich and politically well-connected as well, large-scale farmers in Africa have a track record of lobbying for special favours.
Small-scale agriculture is an alternative to factory farming or more broadly, intensive agriculture or unsustainable farming methods that are prevalent in primarily first world countries. Small-scale agriculture includes a number of sustainable agriculture practices such as: 1  organic farming, which may follow rules and regulations set by International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM). 2  permaculture, which provides a holistic methodology for farm design.
Sustainable Agriculture. Small-scale farming is a natural outgrowth of sustainable agriculture, which is essentially agriculture that produces abundant food without depleting the earth's resources or polluting its environment. Small-scale intensive farming doesn't require large acreage, allows for the cultivation of multiple crops and livestock, and can take place right in your community.
The main obstacle to farming on a large scale is the same one that hit Soviet state farms: the management of labour. Small farms have the advantage that family labour is generally self-supervising, prepared to work long and diligently in ways that hired hands are not. What happens to agricultural policy when a large-scale farm sector is created? With relatively few farmers that can readily be organised, who are rich and politically well-connected as well, large-scale farmers in Africa have a track record of lobbying for special favours.
Despite the claims of industrial farmer lobbies, large-scale farming is often less efficient than small sustainable farms. In fact, industrial single crop culture aims for a high output per worker. On the other side, small-scale farmers produce more food per acre of land. Small-scale agriculture includes a number of sustainable agriculture practices such as: 1  organic farming, which may follow rules and regulations set by International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM). 2  permaculture, which provides a holistic methodology for farm design.