Nash Grier and Cameron Dallas are asswipes who have literally no talent and they're mostly famous for a douchey video of them, telling girls how to be perfect. They're also famous for making 9-12 year old girls tingly down there. Nash Grier is worse in my opinion, considering he uses his younger sister for fame. Asked on Jun 15 2014 by Canadian Girl. Anna. Nash Grier is famous because of the or nah vine and because he always puts his little sister in his vines (it gets annoying -.-), the whole magcon group which is all the vine boys like Cameron Dallas and stuff are mainly just noticed because of their looks. If you noticed, many adults wouldn't know who they wer
Best Answer. Nash Grier is famous because of the or nah vine and because he always puts his little sister in his vines (it gets annoying -.-), the whole magcon group which is all the vine boys like Cameron Dallas and stuff are mainly just noticed because of their looks. If you noticed, many adults wouldn't know who they were. Asked on Jun 15 2014 by Canadian Girl. Anna. Nash Grier is famous because of the or nah vine and because he always puts his little sister in his vines (it gets annoying -.-), the whole magcon group which is all the vine boys like Cameron Dallas and stuff are mainly just noticed because of their looks.
Best Answer: Nash Grier is famous because of the or nah vine and because he always puts his little sister in his vines (it gets annoying -.-), the whole magcon group which is all the vine boys like Cameron Dallas and stuff are mainly just noticed because of their looks. Second... show more These guys have a ton of fame on the internet and they literally do nothing. First example, YouTube. Nash has only 10 videos and 2.8 freaking million subscribers! Cameron has 9 videos and 2 million subscribers.
Cameron Dallas is a 18 adult who became famous on vine but he was starting to become poplar on fb 1st before he went viral on vine! Cameron is a chill guy i had in one of my class for school (Cameron went to chino high school). Aaron I Hernandez · 1 year ago. Report Abuse. Cameron is a creative, photogenic Vine celebrity fro Chino, CA. . He's 19 & will be 20 in Sept. His popularity is due to our primate origins & the biolological imperative which drives adolescent females to find the best genetic match for procreation.
Please try again later. This was Cameron Dallas' first interview ever, and right before he got super famous, he wasn't quite used to everything yet. Also this was the beginning of MagCon before he had all of his vine friends. Please like, comment and subscribe. :). Savy Says TV correspondent Savannah Russell interviews YouTuber and vine famous Cameron Dallas during the Social Media Superstars Meet-Up in Burbank, California on Sunday November 3, 2013. 
Cameron Dallas (born September 8, 1994) is an American internet personality and actor from Chino, California who rose to fame on the video application Vine. Contents. 
Actor. Cameron Alexander Dallas is an American film actor and social media sensation. He began his social media journey on September 10th, 2013. From there he has become one of the most talked about social media personalities