An avoidable cost is a cost that you can eliminate by not engaging in or no longer performing an activity. For example, if you choose to close a production line, then the cost of the building in which it is housed is now an avoidable cost, because you can sell it.| Over the long term, all costs are avoidable. For example, a30-year lease is avoidable if your decision-making period is more than30 years. In the short term, legally-mandated or government-mandated costs, such as leases or environmental cleanup obligations, are not avoidable costs. An avoidable cost is also called an es-capable cost. Unavoidable costs are costs which can never be avoided and will even continue even if a department or product is disposed. Fixed costs are considered to be unavoidable costs eg-property tax costs, depreciation, rent. 0 Comments.
A relevant cost (also called avoidable cost or differential cost) is a cost that differs between alternatives being considered. In order for a cost to be a relevant cost it must be: 
BREAKING DOWN 'Avoidable Cost'. Avoidable costs are expenses that can be avoided if a decision is made to alter the course of a project or business. For example, a manufacturer with many product lines can drop one of the lines, thereby eliminating associated expenses such as labor and materials. Corporations looking for methods to reduce or eliminate expenses often analyze avoidable costs associated with underperforming or non-profitable product lines.
For example, if you choose to close a production line, then the cost of the building in which it is housed is now an avoidable cost, because you can sell the building. The avoidable cost concept is crucial when engaging in cost reduction activities. Over the long term, all costs are avoidable. For example, a 30-year lease is avoidable if the decision-making period is more than 30 years. In the short term, legally-mandated or government-mandated costs, such as leases or environmental cleanup obligations, are not avoidable costs. In general, a variable cost is considered to be an avoidable cost, while a fixed cost is not considered to be an avoidable cost. In the very short term, many costs are considered to be fixed and therefore unavoidable.
Avoidable costs are costs that can be eliminated if a department is closed. Salaries are a good example of avoidable costs. When the branch closes, the salaries are stopped as well. Unavoidable expenses, on the other hand, are expenses that will not be eliminated if a department is closed. Unavoidable expenses are also called inescapable expenses for this very reason.
Definition of Avoidable Cost: A cost that can be avoided by not producing a particular good. For example, if you are building cars, an avoidable costs would be the raw materials. If you stopped producing a car, you would no longer have to pay for the raw materials such as steel and aluminium. However, other costs of a firm maybe unavoidable, at least in the short term. For example, the firm still has the fixed costs such as rent and paying some safety workers. For this reason avoidable costs are often variable costs. 1  Cost Curves.
An expense that will not be incurred if a particular activity is not performed. Avoidable cost refers to variable costs that can be avoided, unlike most fixed costs, which are typically unavoidable.While avoidable costs are often viewed as negative costs, they may be necessary to achieve certain goals or thresholds. Next Up. For example, a manufacturer with many product lines can drop one of the lines, thereby eliminating associated expenses such as labor and materials. Corporations looking for methods to reduce or eliminate expenses often analyze avoidable costs associated with underperforming or non-profitable product lines.
Avoidable cost-Cost that will not be incurred if an activity is suspended; also called escapable cost. For example, it is the cost that can be saved by dropping a particular product line or department (e.g., salaries paid to employees working in a particular product line or department). All costs are avoidable, except (1) sunk costs and (2) costs that will continue regardless of the decision. 
Avoidable fixed costs. are costs that can be avoided by choosing one alternative over another. For example, if an entity decides to discontinue a product line, all costs related to the product line will not be incurred (i.e., avoided). An example of such costs may include salaries of employees working on the product line. Go Back