Purchases of materials by a subcontractor are subject to sales tax in the same manner as purchases made by a prime contractor. A subcontractor who performs taxable services for a prime contractor does not charge the prime contractor sales tax on the labor portion of the bill. The prime contractor is responsible for collecting any sales tax due from the property owner for work performed by the sub
Yes, in the state of New York you can charge sales tax on labor. This tax law is different for each state, so if you travel away from NY, be sure to check local state law.
Fees for labor are taxed when the labor is expended on a taxable item i.e., repairs to a vehicle. (The vehicle was a taxable item, hence labor to repair it is taxable.) This would also apply to appliances, jewelry, and any other taxable items.
Tax usually applies to charges for parts you supply in a repair job if the retail value of the parts is more than 10 percent of your total charges or if you charge separately for the parts. Installation. Sales tax generally does not apply to charges for installation labor. For example, tax would not apply to your itemized charges for installing a car stereo in a used car. Please note that it can be difficult to tell the difference between nontaxable installation and taxable fabrication on site.
Example: You buy $100 worth of materials to use in a taxable repair job for a customer. You pay $100 for the materials and $8 in sales tax ($100 x 8%) to your supplier. You then bill your customer $100 for materials, $200 for labor (for a total of $300), and charge your customer $24 in sales tax ($300 x 8%).
And some states tax some types of labor but not others. NY is a good example of one like that -- if you take your dog to a pet groomer you pay sales tax but not if you take it to a vet. If you're registered to collect and render sales tax it should all be explained in the materials you received when you registered.
Yes, in the state of New York you can charge sales tax on labor. This tax law is different for each state, so if you travel away from NY, be sure to check local state law.