AGROTAIN ® ULTRA nitrogen stabilizer is a fertilizer additive for Urea and Urea Ammonium Nitrate (UAN) fertilizers that reduces volatility by inhibiting the activity of the urease enzyme. ACTIVE INGREDIENT: N-(n-butyl) thiophosphoric triamide (“NBPT”) delivered as a 26.7% by weight solution of the active ingredient. 5. With agitators on, add the appropriate amount of AGROTAIN ® ULTRA stabilizer for the desired concentration in the full volume.6. Mix well and then add the remainder of the UAN solution.7. Use blended UAN solution soon after mixing.
AGROTAIN ® PLUS nitrogen stabilizer contains the premier urease enzyme inhibitor technology and a proven nitrification inhibitor that protects nitrogen from ammonia volatilization, denitrification and nitrate leaching. 
ANYONE TRYING to salvage fertilizer potency may be interested in a newer product. Developed by IMC-Agrico, Agrotain inhibits the break-down of urea into ammonia gas. By slowing the rate of break-down, urea is kept fresh and, thus, more beneficial to plants. The cost for Agrotain is about 2.25 cents per pound of urea. If you're treating 200 pounds of urea, it'll cost about $4 to $5 per acre over the cost of straight urea. “We've had no problems coating urea with Agrotain. Instinct says that if you put a liquid on urea, it will gum up.
Page 1of 2 Effective: January 29, 2008 AGROTAIN ® DC urease inhibitor is a fertilizer additive for Urea Ammonium Nitrate (UAN) Solution fertilizer that reduces volatility for up to 14 days by inhibiting the activity of the urease enzyme. GENERAL INFORMATION AGROTAIN DC urease inhibitor is used with UAN solution to delay the hydrolysis of urea which is catalyzed by the urease enzyme. The net beneficial effect of this application is to reduce the loss of ammonia by volatilization when used in surface applications.
AGROTAIN®. Agrotain is a urea-stabilizing agent that blocks urease, an enzyme found in the soil that breaks urea down into ammonia and carbonic acid gas. 
Agrotain is a liquid urease inhibitor that can be impregnated onto dry urea or tank mixed with liquid fertilizer that contains urea such as urea-ammonium nitrate (UAN). The active ingredient is N-(n-butyl) thiophosphoric triamide (NBPT). Agrotain Plus is a dry concentrate nitrogen stabilizer. It contains the urease inhibitor NBPT and dicyandiamide, a nitrogen stabilizer. When added to UAN, it minimizes volatilization, denitrification, and leaching of nitrogen for the urea portion of UAN. That's where the urease inhibitor Agrotain comes in. Agrotain stops the activity of the urease enzyme for up to 14 days. If the urea is incorporated by tillage, rain, or irrigation during that period, losses should be minimal. Agrotain typically costs $50 to $55 per gallon. The rate for dry urea is four quarts per ton of urea. That amounts to about a nickel per pound of actual nitrogen. The rate for UAN is one quart per 100 gallons, or a little less than a nickel per pound of actual nitrogen
The One Growers Trust. AGROTAIN ® nitrogen stabilizer is the original, most research-proven urease inhibitor technology on the market. With 20 years of trials and real-world results on millions of acres worldwide, it’s the one growers trust to protect their nitrogen investment and yield potential every time. AGROTAIN ® DRI-MAXX stabilizer is our improved, patent-pending dry formulation. This highly concentrated dry formulation offers improved handling characteristics as well as better flowability. This product adheres to the urea granules without adding additional moisture to the blend, resulting in minimal build-up.
Urea can be treated with the product Agrotain, which is a urease inhibitor, to slow the rate of conversion of the urea into the ammonium form. By doing this, it reduces the potential for volatile nitrogen loss. Agrotain can be quite effective for at least two weeks. 
The entire line of AGROTAIN ® nitrogen stabilizer products helps control ammonia volatilization with the only urease inhibitor defined by the American Association of Plant Food Control Officials (AAPFCO). AGROTAIN ® DRI-MAXX stabilizer is our improved, patent-pending dry formulation. This highly concentrated dry formulation offers improved handling characteristics as well as better flowability. This product adheres to the urea granules without adding additional moisture to the blend, resulting in minimal build-up.