Single Car Driveway Widths. A single car driveway width should be 10' wide, anything less than 10 feet will be too narrow to drive or park on comfortably. 12' is often used for added comfort and assuring to get out of your vehicle without stepping on the lawn or landscape. Ideally 20' wide is a comfortable width for a double car driveway. 20' will allow you to park side by side or serve as a passing lane on a long driveway. A 24' width is needed if you have walls on both sides of where you will be parking, to allow the car doors to open without banging the walls.
A single car driveway width should be 10' wide, anything less. than 10 feet will be too narrow to drive or park on comfortably. 12' is often used for added comfort and assuring to get out of your vehicle without stepping on the lawn or landscape. Driveways should allow 20' of length per vehicle. Every 20 feet of driveway will accommodate all cars large or small and full size pick-up trucks & SUV's. This will allow room to walk between vehicles and park far enough from the garage door to allow foot traffic.
Compare circular, curved, and straight driveway layouts. See also: walkway width. Single car driveways can be as narrow as 9 feet, or as wide as 12 feet. A 9 foot driveway is quite tight and may have difficulty accommodating larger vehicles such as delivery or trash trucks. Additionally, 9 feet may mean that guests are stepping in grass or dirt as they exit their vehicles. However, anything wider than 12 feet, but less than 20, is a waste because it is too wide for one car, but not large enough for two. Double car driveways can be between 20 and 24 feet wide. The standard driveway width for residential homes ranges from 9 feet to 24 feet. The width of your driveway will vary based on whether you want a single car drive or double car drive. Additionally, the width may change to accommodate parking or a turn-around, these added features will change the cost of your driveway.
1 15' wide is too narrow for a double wide driveway and too wide for a single car and should not be used as a driveway dimension unless there is a reason. 2  10 - 12 feet wide for a Single Car driveway. 3  14 feet wide if Surrounded by Walls. 4  18 - 20 feet wide for a Double Wide driveway. The layout & design of your driveway will be governed by the amount of area you have to build upon & your garage location. Single Car Driveway Widths. A single car driveway width should be 10' wide, anything less than 10 feet will be too narrow to drive or park on comfortably.
When it comes to parking pads: We figure on 10 feet width per car. And 20 feet in length per car. If you desire for your cars to be parked side by side, a double wide parking pad measuring 20 feet wide is appropriate. However, paying attention to the length of the driveway or parking area is important too. 10-12 Feet In Width Is Normal. If you are starting from scratch such as with nothing or a stone base we would go with 10 -12 feet wide. If you have a mid-size car to pickup truck a 10 foot wide driveway would be the norm. For campers, trailers or bigger pickup trucks we would go to 12 feet in width
Re: How wide should driveway be? « Reply #4 on: August 30, 2007, 04:50:16 PM ». My narrowest spots are about 12 feet of surface area-most wider. On another note -- if you are going to have a dump truck dumping rock then you may want to clear 20 feet or so above or be sure to warn the driver of obstacles. How wide should the driveway be in order to allow reasonable access for the cement truck/dump truck, etc. My hope is to keep the driveway's width on the narrow side.
A single car driveway width should be 10' wide, anything less than 10 feet will be too narrow to drive or park on comfortably. Ideally 20' wide is a comfortable width for a double car driveway. 20' will allow you to park side by side or serve as a passing lane on a long driveway. A 24' width is needed if you have walls on both sides of where you will be parking, to allow the car doors to open without banging the walls.