Theodor Seuss Geisel (March 2, 1904 – September 24, 1991), better known by his pen name, Dr. Seuss, was a famous American writer and cartoonist best known for his children's books, particularly The Cat in the Hat. He also wrote under the pen names Theo. (from Wikipedia-the free encyclopedia). Theodor Seuss Geisel (March 2, 1904 – September 24, 1991), better known by his pen name, Dr. Seuss, was a famous American writer and cartoonist best known for his children's books, particularly The Cat in the Hat. He also wrote under the pen names Theo. LeSieg and Rosetta Stone.
Audrey Geisel is Dr. Seuss 's second wife and widow. She is in charge of his estate. 
1. Dr. Seuss’ real name was Theodor Seuss Geisel. A grandson of German immigrants, Theodor (without an “e”) was born in Springfield, Massachusetts, on March 2, 1904. Seuss was his mother’s maiden name. While the actual German pronunciation of “Seuss” rhymed with “voice,” the American pronunciation, rhyming with “juice,” stuck
Here is information about those marriages to Helen Palmer and Audrey Stone Dimond. Born: Theodore Seuss Geisel aka Ted Geisel and Dr. Seuss: Born March 2, 1904 in Springfield, Massachusetts. Audrey Stone Dimond: Born in 1921 in Chicago. 
Geisel also published one book, 1975's Because a Little Bug Went Ka-Choo!! , a collaboration with Michael K. Frith, under the name Rosetta Stone. Frith and Geisel chose the name in honor of Geisel's second wife, Audrey, whose maiden name was Stone. Theodor Seuss Geisel (/ˈɡaɪzəl/ ; March 2, 1904 – September 24, 1991) was an American writer, poet, and cartoonist. He was most widely known for his children's books written and illustrated as Dr. Seuss. He had used the pen name Dr. Theophrastus Seuss in college and later used Theo LeSieg and Rosetta Stone.
Theodor Seuss Geisel (/ˈsɔɪs/ /ˈɡaɪ.zəl/ ; March 2, 1904 – September 24, 1991) was an American writer and illustrator best known for authoring popular children's books under the pen name Dr. Seuss (/suːs/). Geisel adopted his Dr. Seuss pseudonym during his university studies at Dartmouth College and the University of Oxford. After leaving Oxford in 1927 he began his career as an illustrator and cartoonist for Vanity Fair, Life, and various other publications.
Seuss was Theodor Geisel's middle name, and also his mother's maiden name (Henrietta Seuss Geisel). Geisel drew cartoons for the newspaper while attending Dartmouth College, a … nd always signed them Seuss.. Some of his other pseudonyms were Theo LeSieg, Rosetta Stone and Theophrastus Seuss. A maiden name is the family name that our mothers' use when they are still single, such that they become our middle name.
Mini Bio (2). Acclaimed writer Dr. Seuss was born Theodor Geisel in Springfield, Massachusetts on March 2, 1904. After attending Dartmouth College and Oxford University, he began a career in advertising. His advertising cartoons, featuring Quick, Henry, the Flit!, appeared in several leading American magazines. Even after his death in 1991, Dr. Seuss continues to be the best-selling author of children's books in the world. Following the death of his first wife Helen Geisel in 1967, Geisel wed 'Audrey Stone', who remained his wife until his death on September 24, 1991 at the age of 87. - IMDb Mini Biography By: Anonymous.