Kilobase (kb). Unit of length for DNA fragments equal to 1000 nucleotide s. Knockout ... A kilobase (kb) is a unit of measurement in molecular biology equal to 1000 base pair s of DNA or RNA. Kinase: A kinase is in general an enzyme that catalyzes the trans fer of a phosphate group from ATP to something else. Based on the structure of DNA, each base pair is about 0.34 nm in length. A ~ (that is, 103 base pair s) of DNA is therefore about 0.34 µ
Medical Definition of KILOBASE. : a unit of measure of the length of a nucleic-acid chain (as of DNA or RNA) that equals one thousand base pairs. : a unit of measure of the length of a nucleic-acid chain
Definition of KILOBASE. : a unit of measure of the length of a nucleic-acid chain that equals one thousand base pairs. ADVERTISEMENT
kilobase. a unit of size for nucleic acids, being 1000 nucleotide bases for single-stranded nucleic acids or 1000 nucleotide base pairs in the case of double-stranded nucleic acids. 
A kilobase (kb) is a unit of measurement in molecular biology equal to 1000 base pairs of DNA or RNA. The total amount of related DNA base pairs on Earth is estimated at 5.0 x 10 37, and weighs 50 billion tonnes. DNA sequences have been described which use newly created nucleobases to form a third base pair, in addition to the two base pairs found in nature, A-T (adenine-thymine) and G-C (guanine-cytosine).
kilobase. a unit of size for nucleic acids, being 1000 nucleotide bases for single-stranded nucleic acids or 1000 nucleotide base pairs in the case of double-stranded nucleic acids. 
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. Unit of length for DNA fragments equal to 1000 nucleotides. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. Genes / Proteins | Definitions | Models | Developmental Models | General Concepts | Contribute/Corrections | Links | Protocols | Home. 
3 kilobase s) from viral samples using a short-read sequencer: BAsE-Seq or Barcode-directed Assembly for Extra-long Sequence s. kb. ~ . A ~ is a thousand DNA bases. It is a useful unit of length of DNA. Kinase: A kinase is in general an enzyme that catalyzes the trans fer of a phosphate group from ATP to something else. Based on the structure of DNA, each base pair is about 0.34 nm in length. A ~ (that is, 103 base pair s) of DNA is therefore about 0.34 µ
kilobase. (genetics). Unit of length equal to 1000 base pairs in deoxyribonucleic acid or 1000 nitrogenous bases in ribonucleic acid. Abbreviated kb; kbp. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
Base pairs (unit: bp), which form between specific nucleobases (also termed nitrogenous bases), are the building blocks of the DNA double helix and contribute to the folded structure of both DNA and RNA. DNA sequences have been described which use newly created nucleobases to form a third base pair, in addition to the two base pairs found in nature, A-T (adenine-thymine) and G-C (guanine-cytosine).