Typically, in a burst fracture that occurs at the junction of the thoracic and lumbar spines paralysis of the legs and loss of control of the bowel and bladder may result. In an incomplete spinal cord injury only partial paralysis or reflex loss is seen. Severe Pain. Burst fractures cause severe pain. Typically, this is pain at the level of the fracture, that is, in the back. However, pain may also be present in the legs following the distribution of the affected nerves.
The burst fracture is categorized by the  severity of the deformity, the severity of (spinal) canal compromise, the degree of loss of vertebral body height, and the degree of neurologic deficit.  Burst fractures are considered more severe than compression fractures because long-term neurological damage can follow. Nonsurgical management is possible when the burst fracture subject is intact neurologically. Nonsurgical treatment involves the use of a full-body, exterior brace, normally a Thoracic Lumbar Sacral Orthosis (TLSO), often custom-molded to the subject's body.
A burst fracture is a spinal injury where the vertebra breaks due to immediate and severe compression. Immediate trauma such as a car accident or a severe fall are the leading causes for burst fractures with pieces of the vertebra shattering into surrounding tissues and sometimes the spinal canal. This is different from a compression fracture in that the vertebra breaks in multiple directions. A patient with a burst fracture requires immediate hospitalization and treatment to prevent or minimize spinal cord injury. Immediate hospitalization is required, as such injuries may result in varying degrees of spinal cord injury with possible paralysis
Treatment. A stable burst fracture may be treated without surgery. In general, a stable burst fracture is one in which there is no neurologic injury, in which the angulation of the spine is less than 20 degrees and in which the amount of spinal canal compromise is less than 50 percent. In these patients, treatment with a brace may lead to an excellent result. Surgery. A burst fracture is considered unstable if neurologic injury is present, angulation of the spine is greater than 20 degrees, there is subluxation or dislocation of the spine, or there is greater than 50 percent spinal canal compromise. Unstable burst fractures usually do better with early surgery
A burst fracture is a descriptive term for an injury to the spine in which the vertebral body is severely compressed. They typically occur from severe trauma, such as a motor vehicle accident or a fall from a height. With a great deal of force vertically onto the spine, a vertebra may be crushed. Severe Pain. Burst fractures cause severe pain. Typically, this is pain at the level of the fracture, that is, in the back. However, pain may also be present in the legs following the distribution of the affected nerves.
A thoracolumbar fracture means that a bone is broken in the thoracic (middle) or lumbar (lower back) region of the spine. There are approximately 15,000 thoracolumbar fractures each year in the U.S., and nearly 1/3 of these injuries are associated with a neurologic injury or paraplegia. 
Burst fractures are a type of compression fracture which results in disruption of the posterior vertebral body cortex with retropulsion into the spinal canal. When it involves the thoracolumbar level, it tends to occur between T9 and L5 level. Burst fractures may be stable or unstable. It is a result of a compressive high energy injury (axial loading), much like the Jefferson fracture. Typically it occurs following a fall, landing on the feet, from a significant height.
Axial T2-weighted MRI image in a patient with a burst fracture injury to the upper lumbar spine. The posterior margin of the vertebral endplate has been displaced into the spinal canal (arrow). Cerebrospinal fluid is seen as bright signal anterior to the conus and upper cauda equina. Lumbar spine trauma. Axial CT images of an L2 compression burst fracture after posterior fusion with pedicle screws (yellow arrow) joined by a posterior bar (white arrow). The pedicle screws should be entirely within the bone of the body and pedicle of the vertebral bodies.