Honestly, we think that droopy blobfish up there is actually holding up alright considering everything it’s been through. Psychrolutes marcidus are a deep water fish that live off the coast of Australia, somewhere between 2,000 and 4,000 feet beneath the waves. Down there, the pressure is up to 120 times higher than it is at the surface. You wouldn’t want to be down there without an intense submarine. And, likewise, the blobfish really doesn’t like being up here.
The blobfish is a deep sea fish of the family Psychrolutidae. It inhabits waters at depths of 600-1,200 m (2,000-3,900 ft) off the coasts of mainland Australia, from southern Queensland to southern Australia and Western Australia and Tasmania, as well as the waters of New Zealand (1). It is usually shorter than 30 cm. Learn more about this article. The blobfish (Psychrolutes marcidus) is a deep sea fish of the family Psychrolutidae. It inhabits the deep waters off the coasts of mainland Australia and Tasmania, as well as the waters of New Zealand. Blobfish are typic
Because the blobfish is a sea-bed fish which lives along the bottom of the sea beds w … here the pressure is so high, it is impossible for the gas bladder, found in most fish, to achieve perfect buoyancy. Blobfish are animals that live in Austraila and they are very ugly. They drool, and they also live at the bottom of the ocean I suppose... But I highly reccemend that you go o … n google, and learn about them because honestly, this is hard to tell about.
The blobfish can grow up to 12 inches (30.5 cm) in length. A deep sea fish, it lives at depths of up to 2,700 feet (823 m) in the waters off the coasts of southeast Australia and Tasmania, although there have been few sightings of this peculiar creature because of the extreme depth of its habitat.
The blobfish (Psychrolutes marcidus) is a deep sea fish of the family Psychrolutidae. It inhabits the deep waters off the coasts of mainland Australia and Tasmania, as well as the waters of New Zealand. Blobfish are typically shorter than 30 cm. They live at depths between 600 and 1,200 m (2,000 and 3,900 ft) where the pressure is 60 to 120 times as great as at sea level, which would likely make gas bladders inefficient for maintaining buoyancy. Blobfish are often caught as bycatch in bottom trawling nets. Scientists now fear the blobfish could become an endangered species because of deep-ocean trawling.
The reason the Blob fish is so rare is that they live very deep down in the sea, literally just off of the sea bed. The Blob fish are found at a depth of around 800 meters which would make life impossible for most fish as at that depth the pressure is roughly eighty times more than at sea level. Blob fish out of water. Blob fish out of water. As the Blob fish is comprised of a gelatinous substance they actually have no muscles at all and they just float in the same spot most of the time waiting for their next meal. Scientific research has explained that the main diet of the Blob fish is that of sea urchins and mollusks
A blobfish uses its fins to paddle and its tail to steer/change direction. However... Because the blobfish is a sea-bed fish which lives along the bottom of the sea beds w … here the pressure is so high, it is impossible for the gas bladder, found in most fish, to achieve perfect buoyancy. Blobfish are animals that live in Austraila and they are very ugly. They drool, and they also live at the bottom of the ocean I suppose... But I highly reccemend that you go o … n google, and learn about them because honestly, this is hard to tell about.