Free settlers. In the early years of the colony, very few settlers came to Australia. Free settlers had to fund their own transport and were usually quite wealthy. The few who made the journey to Australia did so mostly to make their fortune. The life of a convict was very harsh. Many of the convicts sent to New South Wales were serving a 7 or 14 year sentence for crimes such as robbery. They were forced to work 10 hours each day, from sunrise to sunset.
Here they founded Jamestown, the first permanent English colony in the New World. The English had been planting similar settlements in Ireland since the 1500s and so used a familiar model in the New World. As settlers, their goal was to transplant their way of life as much as possible. This made the early years of Jamestown difficult for the settlers. The land was hot, humid, and mosquito-infested, and the settlers were mostly aristocrats and artisans who did not know how to farm, fish, or hunt. Instead, they spent much of their time searching for nonexistent go
The date of the start of the history of the United States is a subject of constant debate among historians. Older textbooks start with the arrival of Christopher Columbus in 1492 and emphasize the European background, or they start around 1600 and emphasize the American frontier. The peace treaty of 1783 gave the new nation the land east of the Mississippi River (except Florida and Canada, and Spain disputed the Mississippi Territory until 1795) and confirmed Great Britain's recognition of the United States as a nation.
The Jamestown settlement, established in 1607, was the seat of England's first permanent colony in North America. After the failure of the Roanoke colonies, investors in the Virginia Company of London were anxious to find profit farther to the north, and in April 1607. 
When the first settlements were set up in what is now New Jersey,  settlers survived largely by farming and partaking in a profitable  trade of furs & game with the local Na … tive American tribes. They also needed help from the native populations or they would have died. They were extremely unprepared upon their arrival and desperately needed food and shelter during their first winter.
Two more convict fleets arrived in 1790 and 1791, and the first free settlers arrived in 1793. From 1788 to 1823, the Colony of New South Wales was officially a penal colony comprised mainly of convicts, soldiers and the wives of soldiers. A large number of soldiers were transported for crimes such as mutiny, desertion and insubordination. Australia's first bushranger – John Caesar – sentenced at Maidstone, Kent in 1785 was born in the West Indies.
The capital was established at Fredericton, 114 km up the St. John River. Scottish and Irish settlers began to settle in New Brunswick in the early 1800s. A large number of Irish, escaping from the hardships of the Potato Famine, made their way to Saint John and the Miramichi River region in the 1840s. 
In 1670 the first settlers, drawn from New England and the Caribbean island of Barbados, arrived in what is now Charleston, South Carolina. An elaborate system of government, to which the British philosopher John Locke contributed, was prepared for the new colony. 
Fortunately for the settlers in  Pennsylvania, they had some valuable natural r … esources including  timber, iron ore, and coal. Fur trading was also a large source of  income as were the crops grown on the large farms that were  planted. Survival took a lot of hard work and perseverance. They also needed help from the native populations or they would have died. They were extremely unprepared upon their arrival and desperately needed food and shelter during their first winter.
Image 1 - The convicts had a harsh life in the colony. Image 2 - The New South Wales Corps provided protection to the British settlers from the Aboriginal peoples and supervised the convicts. Image 3 - The huts of free settlers were often very basic. The life of a convict was very harsh. Many of the convicts sent to New South Wales were serving a 7 or 14 year sentence for crimes such as robbery. They were forced to work 10 hours each day, from sunrise to sunset.