You can place a Command Prompt command on the shortcut menu in My Computer or Windows Explorer to start a command prompt in the folder that you want. You must modify the registry to add the Command Prompt command. You can modify the registry manually, or you can use a script. 
Overview: Run cmd.exe or command.exe. To open a Microsoft MS-DOS command prompt shell window, first click the Windows Start menu (located at the very. corner of your computer's desktop) and select Run.... Then if you are using Windows XP or Vista or Windows 7, type cmd into the Run box and click OK. You could also type cmd.exe.
To start a command prompt as an administrator. Click Start, click All Programs, and then click Accessories. Right-click Command prompt, and then click Run as administrator. If the User Account Control dialog box appears, confirm that the action it displays is what you want, and then click Continue. To start a command prompt as an administrator (alternative method). Click Start.
1 Type. 2  in the command prompt to display the current directory. 3  To open the RUN dialog quickly, press the Windows key + R. 4  If you are unsure on the exact spelling of a folder you can press Tab and use the up and down keys to scroll through the folders that finish what you started typing. You can also access it by entering. into the Run field, or it can be found in the Accessories/System Tools folder of the Start menu. 1  In Windows 8, press the the Windows key + X and select Command Prompt from the menu.
Always Open Command Prompt as Administrator. If you want to always open Command Prompt window as Administrator, you can follow these simple steps: 1. Right-click on Command Prompt shortcut and select Properties. 2. Now click on  Advanced  button present in  Shortcut  tab. 3. Enable  Run as administrator  option and apply the changes. 4. That's it. 2. Now click on File menu present in the ribbon and select   option. 6. Open Command Prompt as Administrator using Secret Task Manager Trick. This method works in all Windows versions. Its a hidden feature of Windows which allows you to launch Command Prompt with Administrator privileges using Task Manager.
1 in the command prompt to display the current directory. 2  To open the RUN dialog quickly, press the Windows key + R. 3  If you are unsure on the exact spelling of a folder you can press Tab and use the up and down keys to scroll through the folders that finish what you started typing. You can also access it by entering. into the Run field, or it can be found in the Accessories/System Tools folder of the Start menu. 1  In Windows 8, press the the Windows key + X and select Command Prompt from the menu.
Step 1. Run cmd.exe or command.exe. To open a Microsoft MS-DOS command prompt shell window, first click the Windows Start menu (located at the very. corner of your computer's desktop) and select Run.... Then if you are using Windows XP or Vista or Windows 7, type cmd into the Run box and click OK. You could also type cmd.exe.
up vote 1 down vote. On Windows Start Menu, right click on Command Prompt. Click on Properties. Command Prompt Properties dialog box opens. Edit the field Start in  to a location where you want to start the command prompt. Example: Chand %HOMEDRIVE%%HOMEPATH% to D:\PersonalPrograms. 
Tips. 1  Type. 2  in the command prompt to display the current directory. 3  To open the RUN dialog quickly, press the Windows key + R. 4  If you are unsure on the exact spelling of a folder you can press Tab and use the up and down keys to scroll through the folders that finish what you started typing. 5  then press Tab twice to scroll through your folders .... You can also access it by entering. into the Run field, or it can be found in the Accessories/System Tools folder of the Start menu. 1  In Windows 8, press the the Windows key + X and select Command Prompt from the menu.
Run cmd.exe or command.exe To open a Microsoft MS-DOS command prompt shell window, first click the Windows Start menu (located at the very lower-left corner of your computer's desktop) and select Run.... Then if you are using Windows XP or Vista or Windows 7, type cmd into the Run box and click OK. To open a Microsoft MS-DOS command prompt shell window, first click the Windows Start menu (located at the very. corner of your computer's desktop) and select Run.... Then if you are using Windows XP or Vista or Windows 7, type cmd into the Run box and click OK. You could also type cmd.exe.