(slŭb). slub. slubs in a length of wool yarn. 1. slub-soft lump or unevenness in a yarn; either an imperfection or created by design. burl, knot. raggedness, roughness-a texture of a surface or edge that is not smooth but is irregular and uneven.
Edited to delete pic that was too big. Some of the slub knits are subtle. You would have to enlarge a picture to see the slub in the fabric (online). If you roll over the pictures, sometimes you can see the slub. Others are more obvious. It refers to the fabric. Usually called slub knit, it looks like there are little lines in the fabric. I'm not fond of this type of fabric. It looks a little busy to me.
‎01-11-2014 07:03 PM. slub refers to the actual yarn used in the garment. It has a slightly thick and thin texture and variations in tone of color so when it's knitted you have slightly thicker spots or slubs and a color shading. It refers to the fabric. Usually called slub knit, it looks like there are little lines in the fabric. I'm not fond of this type of fabric. It looks a little busy to me.
: to draw out and twist (as slivers of wool) slightly. ADVERTISEMENT. 
From your favorite jeans, to a comfy flannel or tee, BDG has what you need. Cotton Machine wash Imported Free Ship Over $50 + FR BDG Slub X's Standard-Fit Tee $24 $9.99 Activate Sale Alert. Standardfit shortsleeve tee shirt in a slub fabrication with printed XO patterning from BDG, only at UO. Soft knit cotton construction cut with a more open neck, chest and shoulders for a substantially more relaxed fit. Slimbanded crew neck along with a smaller hem height provide a clean modern finish. 
slub. n. 1. (Textiles) a lump in yarn or fabric, often made intentionally to give a knobbly effect. 2. (Textiles) a loosely twisted roll of fibre prepared for spinning. vb, slubs, slubbing or slubbed. 1. slub-soft lump or unevenness in a yarn; either an imperfection or created by design. burl, knot. raggedness, roughness-a texture of a surface or edge that is not smooth but is irregular and uneven.
tr.v. slubbed, slub·bing, slubs. To draw out and twist (a strand of silk or other textile fiber) in preparation for spinning. n. 1. A soft thick nub in yarn that is either an imperfection or purposely set for a desired effect. 1. slub-soft lump or unevenness in a yarn; either an imperfection or created by design. burl, knot. raggedness, roughness-a texture of a surface or edge that is not smooth but is irregular and uneven.
1 I believe the texture in the fabric was called slub and they may be an acetate rayon blend. 2  The shirt range consists of solids in twills, poplins, structures, linens and checks, as well as slubs, dobbies and indigos in pleasing colours of the season. 1.1 [mass noun] Fabric woven from yarn or thread containing lumps or thick places. Example sentences. 1 
noun. verb. The definition of a slub is a roll of fiber used for spinning or an irregular place in yarn or fabric. An example of slub is a roll of alpaca wool yarn. Slub is defined as to draw out and twist a strand of fiber or textile for spinning. An example of slub is pulling a strand of wool to spin into yarn. 
Noun. 1. slub-soft lump or unevenness in a yarn; either an imperfection or created by design. burl, knot. raggedness, roughness-a texture of a surface or edge that is not smooth but is irregular and uneven.