Cyprus (Greek κύπρος, Turkish Kıbrıs,) is an island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey. After Sicily and Sardinia, Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. Although the island is geographically in Asia it is politically a European country and is a member of the European Union. Talk [edit]. The official languages of Cyprus are Greek and Turkish. Greek is spoken predominately in the south and Turkish is spoken predominantly in the north. English is very widely spoken in south by locals of all ages-partially because of previous British rule and partially due to the tourism industry.
Ayia Napa (officially romanised Agia Napa; Greek: αγία νάπα [. [aˈʝanːapa] ]; Turkish: Aya Napa) is a resort at the far eastern end of the southern coast of Cyprus. The name of the first inhabitant of Ayia Napa was Nikolaos Kemitzis from thesalloniki. he arrived from Greece around 1790 and got married to a village located on the northern east part of Ayia Napa and paralimni, the name of the village was panayia.
Best Answer: Ayia Napa is in Republic Of Cyprus. Official language is Greek. http://www.smiley.cy.net/basspro/cyprus_... http://www.world66.com/lib/map/handle?lo... Hi, It's on the southern side so it's Greek, Go there it's fantastic especially if you love the nightlife, mind you Protaras is nicer and there is a great nightlife there, a lot of the hotels in Protaras are on the beach.
Holidays in Ayia Napa. Tucked away down in southeast Cyprus is the island’s non-stop clubbing capital, Ayia Napa. By day, the resort is a buzzing mix of water sports, seafront bars and sailing, with a top water park nearby and your pick of the white-gold beaches. You drive on the left in Cyprus and the island is reasonably small and easy to get around. By buggy: Buggies or quad bikes are a popular way of getting around in Ayia Napa. They provide cheap and speedy transport to the beach and around town.
Ayia Napa is located on the coast of south eastern Cyprus, south of Famagusta town near Cape Greco. The first people are coming to live here around 1790 from Thessaloniki, Greece. The oldest building in the town is the Ayia Napa monastery which is build around 1500. The name “Ayia Napa” means “Holy wooded valley”. 
Ayia Napa (Greek: αγία νάπα; Turkish: Aya Napa; today officially transliterated into English as Agia Napa) is a resort at the far eastern end of the south coast of the island of Cyprus, famous for its sandy beaches. Hi, It's on the southern side so it's Greek, Go there it's fantastic especially if you love the nightlife, mind you Protaras is nicer and there is a great nightlife there, a lot of the hotels in Protaras are on the beach.
All about the beautiful island of Cyprus. Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, and a member of the European Union. The country has two official languages, Greek and Turkish, and is divided into six administrative regions. The capital of Cyprus is Nicosia. The resorts of Cyprus are numerous, and many of them are in the most beautiful locations in the world. The most popular destination for resort goers is Ayia Napa. Ayia Napa is a resort city on the eastern side
1 Top Resorts in Cyprus: Holiday to Ayia Napa for the nightlife, relax on Paphos' beaches, or visit Limassol for its history. 2  When to go: Due to the year-round good weather, Cyprus holidays are great for any time of the year, whether you want a winter warmer or some summer sizzle. Beach Addicts. Beaches are in abundance in Cyprus and the best beaches include Nissi Beach near Ayia Napa which is popular with young groups, and Fig Tree Bay which is great for families on holiday in Cyprus.
The name Ayia Napa is derived from a Venetian-era monastery of the same name, located in the centre of the town, next to the square that today is the clubbing centre. The word Ayia (Agia) means holy in Greek. Napa is archaic and means wooded valley or dell. The name of the first inhabitant of Ayia Napa was Nikolaos Kemitzis from thesalloniki. he arrived from Greece around 1790 and got married to a village located on the northern east part of Ayia Napa and paralimni, the name of the village was panayia.