Squirrel and rat droppings are similar at quick glance. Color can be useful in helping you figure out which rodents are in your presence. For the most part, squirrel feces is paler than that of rats -- likely because their food intake is nowhere near as diverse as the latter.
Since rats are significantly larger than mice, their droppings are also larger. Both species have oblong droppings, though the rat s indiscriminate diet can lead to loose stool or discoloration. Mouse stool rarely is larger than a grain of rice. Anything larger is likely that of a rat.
Mouse feces indicate areas where mice are most active. Measuring approximately 3 to 6 mm in length, they are granular in shape and black in color. Mouse feces are commonly mistaken for cockroach or rat droppings. Mouse droppings are concentrated near breeding and nesting grounds, although they may also be seen in other areas of the house from time to time. Feces are also present near items that have been destroyed by mice during the nesting process.
The Norway Rat droppings are 1/4 to 1/2 inch in length. The droppings are capsule shaped and have blunt ends. Their droppings are usually a shiny black but may vary according to their diets. Norway Rats and Roof Rats will leave a hind foot track of about 3/4-1 inch where a mouse's track measure's 3/8 of an inch or less.
Rat droppings are a key sign of a rat infestation; the mess and debris they leave in their wake is unmistakable. In addition to scattered nesting materials; debris from chewing, feeding and gnawing; rodents excrete urine and feces every few steps they take along their habitual paths of travel.
Mice droppings or rat droppings? It s bad enough that you ve discovered rodent waste somewhere in your home meaning the creatures have already invaded your building, but now you need to determine just what kind of rodent you re dealing with.
Norway Rat poop/droppings are even thicker that the roof rats and typically much shorter than field mice and roof rats. The feces of small to medium cockroaches are black and resemble black pepper or ground coffee.
These are pictures of rat poop. If you see these types droppings in your attic or yard, they were made by a rat. The above image of rat feces was photographed in the attic of a house with a rat problem. I was able to identify the type of animal by inspecting the turds.