is that phylum is (biology|taxonomy) a rank in the classification of organisms, below kingdom and above class; also called a division, especially in describing plants; a taxon at that rank while genus is (biology|taxonomy) a rank in the classification of organisms, below family and above species; a taxon at that rank. 
• Genus is the first name, and the species is the second name of a scientific name of any organism. • Genus ranks higher compared to species in the hierarchy of taxonomy. • Two fertile animals from one species can produce a fertile progeny, whereas two animals from one genus could or could not do so. These two are the lowest considerable taxonomic levels, but rank above subspecies or breeds or types. However, many used to confuse the two terms, genus and species. Before understanding the difference between the two, it is important to know the meanings of genus and species, and this article follows that. A comparison is presented following the information about the two subjects
is that genus is (biology|taxonomy) a rank in the classification of organisms, below family and above species; a taxon at that rank while species is (biology|taxonomy) a rank in the classification of organisms, below genus and above subspecies; a taxon at that rank. is that genus is (biology|taxonomy) a rank in the classification of organisms, below family and above species; a taxon at that rank while species is a type or kind of thing.
Best Answer: Species (1) The lowest taxonomic rank, and the most basic unit or category of biological classification. (2) An individual belonging to a group of organisms (or the entire group itself) having common characteristics and (usually) are capable of mating with one another. Supplement A species is given a two-part name: the generic name and the specific name (or specific epithet). For example, Allium cepa (commonly known as onion) http://www.biology-online.org/dictionary... Genus (general) A class or group with common attributes. (biology) A taxonomic category ranking used in biological classification that is below a family and above a species level, and includes group(s) of species that are structurally similar or phylogenetically related. Supplement In binomial nomenclature, the genus is used as the first word of a scientific name
Genus vs Species. Although both genus and species are referred to state a particular animal or plant or any organism, there are differences between the two that anyone should know. In biological classification, the genus comes first followed by species, and the species is never stated alone. These two are the lowest considerable taxonomic levels, but rank above subspecies or breeds or types. However, many used to confuse the two terms, genus and species. Before understanding the difference between the two, it is important to know the meanings of genus and species, and this article follows that. A comparison is presented following the information about the two subjects
The first name is the genus followed by the name of their species. For example Homo sapiens refer to human beings. The word Homo refers to genus and the word sapiens refers to species. Let us understand certain differences between genus and species. Species: Species is defined as the largest group organisms that can interbreed to produce a fertile offspring. Organisms having similar set of DNA and similar physical and morphological attributes are said to be of the same species.
Homo is the genus. Sapiens is the species. No two organisms with the same genus can produce fertile off-spring, so a human couldn't mate with something else that was Homo, but we could with something that was sapiens. That's why a mule is non-fertile-because horses and donkeys only share the same genus. the difference between a genus and a species is where a species is a type of an organism and a genus is one specific organism alone. 5 people found this useful.