You should have all the grains available, even brown rice. If you soak the other grains overnight, they will have the same cooking time as white rice. then you can cook them together and have a wide variety of grains, but cut the concentration of the more difficult-to-digest ones. I now eat only brown basmati rice, I do not add any vinegar or acid to it, and I never get heartburn, it's just as easy to digest as white basmati, it makes me regular, unlike white rice, and more importantly, the mental and physical benefits are substantial.
1 Brown Rice and Your Diet As one of the go-to healthy grains, brown rice has a lot to offer. 2  Generally, rice is one of the most widely eaten foods in the world, and with good reason. 3  It's easy to make…. Rice-Brown vs White   White rice has the outer husk (covering) removed; brown rice doesn't, which is why it is brown. Almost all the vitamins, minerals and fiber … in rice is in this outer covering-white rice is just the starch part of the rice.
When I ate white basmati rice, this would not happen. I therefore mistakenly assumed that brown rice was harder to digest than white rice. However, I have now realized that the notion that eating brown rice is like eating a walnut with it's shell still on is not valid. Bran from whole grains is just insoluble fiber. I now eat only brown basmati rice, I do not add any vinegar or acid to it, and I never get heartburn, it's just as easy to digest as white basmati, it makes me regular, unlike white rice, and more importantly, the mental and physical benefits are substantial.
It’s easy to digest and restores bowel function after a bout of diarrhea. Rice makes a complete protein when combined with beans and other legumes. Protein, is necessary for the building and repair of body tissues, produces enzymes, hormones, and other substances the body uses. Jasmine rice is very versatile, so it’s normally part of economical, nutritious, and low fat entrees. Entrées other varieties include rice pudding made with low fat milk and flavored cinnamon which is a soothing and easy to digest dish for. convalescents
So a meal of white rice + some fiber (like a vegetable), or fat (like various oils or nuts), or protein (like chicken) or all of the above will actually be MUCH lower glycemic and digest MUCH slower than a meal of just white (or brown) rice alone. Brown rice has more fiber, more protein and just more “healthy” nutrients overall. White rice on the other hand is just “empty calories” with little to no nutritional value. So if there’s one thing everyone can agree on, it’s that brown easily beats white in this area.
White rice is an easily absorbable form of glucose that is easy to digest, therefore making it a safe starch. I don’t recommend grains of any kind for someone with leaky gut, blood sugar issues or an autoimmune disorder, but for most people white rice is fine. 
And a meal of white rice + some fiber/fat/protein vs a meal of brown rice + that same fiber/fat/protein will digest at virtually the exact same speed and affect blood sugar in virtually the exact same way. Simply put, when other foods enter the meal, the type of rice becomes irrelevant. Brown rice has more fiber, more protein and just more “healthy” nutrients overall. White rice on the other hand is just “empty calories” with little to no nutritional value. So if there’s one thing everyone can agree on, it’s that brown easily beats white in this area.
See which type of yogurt is best for you to digest, full fat, low-fat, or non-fat. 2. Sauerkraut. Sauerkraut is fermented cabbage that is not only easy to digest but can improve your body’s ability to digest the other foods eaten in a meal. It’s the lactic acid bacteria that works the digestive magic once you eat it.