Monosodium Glutamate (MSG) is commonly used in many foods as a flavor enhancer. Some people report sensitivity to Monosodium Glutamate and prefer to avoid foods containing the ingredient. If we add MSG to our products, it will be listed in the ingredient statement as Monosodium Glutamate. We have not added Monosodium Glutamate as a flavor enhancer to the following Frito-Lay products. See ingredient statements for naturally occurring sources of glutamic acid. TOSTITOS® Simply Yellow Corn Tortilla Chips. Although these products do not contain added MSG, glutamate may occur naturally in some of the ingredients. As a result, not all of these products will be appropriate for consumers who want to avoid all sources of glutamate.
T he following foods contain MSG or its business end-the free amino acid glutamate-in amounts large enough to cause reactions in those sensitive to it.: 1  Taste No 5 Umami Paste MSG disguised as a substitute for MSG. 2  A travesty of misleading labeling and marketing. 
Information on the food additive monosodium glutamate, or MSG, needs to be shared to protect the American family. MSG is a flavor enhancer traditionally used in Chinese food, but found today in many foods like breakfast sausages and potato chips. Understanding the pitfalls of MSG can be very confusing. 
For other uses of MSG, see MSG (disambiguation) . Monosodium glutamate (MSG, also known as sodium glutamate) is the sodium salt of glutamic acid, one of the most abundant naturally occurring non-essential amino acids. Glutamate is found in tomatoes, Parmesan cheese, potatoes, mushrooms, and other vegetables and fruits. MSG is used in the food industry as a flavor enhancer with an umami taste that intensifies the meaty, savory flavor of food, as naturally occurring glutamate does in foods such as stews and meat soups. 
What is MSG? MSG, or monosodium glutamate, is a food additive that is used as a flavor enhancer primarily in Asian cooking although it is commonly found in many processed foods. MSG comes from glutamic acid that is naturally found in mushrooms, fermented soy products such as soy sauce and parmesan cheese. Glutamic acid is part of a large category of glutamates which ultimately make up the fifth taste category of umami. Umami has been described as anything “meaty,” “savory,” or “earthy” flavor.
A sack of pure MSG. Photo © Danilo Alfaro. Monosodium glutamate, or MSG, is a flavor-enhancing food additive used in Asian cooking and also commonly found in fast foods as well as commercially packaged food products such as chips, crackers, soups and soup mixes, lunch meats, salad dressings and many others. MSG in Food. MSG is present in many of the items on the menu at fast-food restaurants, particularly the chicken items. In addition, MSG is also added to commercially packaged food products including: 1  Flavored (especially cheese-flavored) chips and crackers.
Food Articles and Tips. MSG, or monosodium glutamate, is a sodium salt of glutamic acid. As a food additive, it’s used to enhance flavor. It’s found in many seasonings, sauces, salad dressings and prepared foods; it’s also often used in fast food preparation
It seems that almost every variety of chips now contain MSG.. I am not freaked out by MSG, im allergic to it. I imagine there are other people who also do not enjoy MSG in their food for a variety of reasons.. All doritos now contain MSG. Notice if most of your sensitivity comes from only foods that are known to have MSG (asian food, japanese food, chinese food, chips, fried chicken, etc). Glutamate is one of the building blocks of life, and is present in a lot of natural foods like cheese and tomatoes.
MSG was first invented when the glutamic acid from the seaweed that was used to make the traditional Japanese broth called kombu dashi. Now you can find pure MSG being sold in Asian markets. It is often used as a seasoning. Latin American and Caribbean cuisines incorporate MSG in the form of dry spice rubs. Also, accent flavor enhancer, used in many U.S. foods, is almost entirely MSG. MSG comes from glutamic acid that is naturally found in mushrooms, fermented soy products such as soy sauce and parmesan cheese. Glutamic acid is part of a large category of glutamates which ultimately make up the fifth taste category of umami. Umami has been described as anything “meaty,” “savory,” or “earthy” flavor.