Two of these are the control of amino acid concentration and detoxification. Urea is produced in the liver and is a metabolite (breakdown product) of amino acids. Ammonium ions are formed in the breakdown of amino acids. When excessive amounts of protein are ingested, the excess amino acids produced from digesting proteins are transported to the liver from the small intestine. When amino acids are absorbed by liver cells a series of chemical reactions begins. The amino acid is oxidised in the presence of an enzyme catalyst.
In molecular biology and genetics, translation is the process in which cellular ribosomes create proteins. In translation, messenger RNA (mRNA) —produced by transcription from DNA —is decoded by a ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide. 1 Elongation: The tRNA transfers an amino acid to the tRNA corresponding to the next codon. 2  Translocation: The ribosome then moves (translocates) to the next mRNA codon to continue the process, creating an amino acid chain. 3  Termination: When a stop codon is reached, the ribosome releases the
Having pioneered amino acid production using fermentation, Ajinomoto produces natural, high-quality amino acids that are unsurpassed in quality and purity. Unlike other manufacturers, Ajinomoto primarily uses carbohydrates and does not use raw materials of animal origin or hair in the production process. 
Production Process. Currently, the amino acids used in amino acid products are mainly manufactured by the fermentation method using natural materials, similar to yogurt, beer, vinegar, miso (bean paste), soy sauce, etc. In order to produce amino acids using microorganisms, it is important to find a microorganism with a high potential for producing amino acids. One gram of natural soil contains about 100 million microorganisms.
1 The instructions for protein synthesis-the code for the correct order and number of amino acids for each protein-is contained in the. ( 2 in the genes, on the. ). 3  In fact, this is a main function of the genetic material-to store the instructions that allow the cell to make proteins. 1 For example, if actin is a protein consisting of a chain of 376 amino acids, then EVERY actin protein will be 376 amino acids long, and EVERY actin protein will have the same amino acid sequence, starting with methionine, cysteine, aspartic acid, asparagine, asparagine, and valine.
Note that tyrosine is really an essential amino acid, as it is synthesized by the hydroxylation of phenylalanine, an essential amino acid. Also, in animals, the sulfhydryl group of cysteine is derived from methionine, which is an essential amino acid, so cysteine can also be considered essential. 
Top Essential amino acids. Humans can produce 10 of the 20 amino acids. The others must be supplied in the food. Failure to obtain enough of even 1 of the 10 essential amino acids, those that we cannot make, results in degradation of the body's proteins—muscle and so forth—to obtain the one amino acid that is needed. Unlike fat and starch, the human body does not store excess amino acids for later use—the amino acids must be in the food every day. The 10 amino acids that we can produce are alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine and tyrosine. Tyrosine is produced from phenylalanine, so if the diet is deficient in phenylalanine, tyrosine will be required as well
Each amino acid contains a carboxylic acid group (COOH), an NH2 amino group and one of twenty functional (R) groups. The NH2 group is very basic and accepts protons (H+) from solution, while the carboxylic acid group is acidic and donates protons to the solution. Amino acids in this form are called zwitterions. 