Cytoplasm. All cells in the human body have three distinctive parts. These are the nucleus, the cytoplasm, and the cell membrane. The cell membrane is the outer-boundary of a cell, and it contains various channels to let materials into and out of a cell. The nucleus is at the center of the cell, and it is home to all of a cell’s chromosomes, or genetic material.
The cytoplasm is the region that is inclosed within the cell membrane. The cytoplasm contains enzymes that control chemical reactions inside cells. It also is the site where m … ost of the cell's cellular activities take place such as the metabolic pathways. The cytoplasm plays a mechanical role, i.e. (example) to maintain the shape, the consistency of the cell and to provide suspension to the organelles. It is also a storage place for chemical substances indispensable to life.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. Within the cells of eukaryote organisms the contents of the cell nucleus are separated from the cytoplasm, and are then called the nucleoplasm. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless.
Based on their function, cells are categorized into different types of cells, the somatic cells and the reproductive cells. Each cell has a nucleus and a jellylike watery substance that is 80% water that occupies the remaining part of the cell. This is called Cytoplasm. The cytoplasm has cell components like endoplasmic reticulum, lysomes, mitochondria and Golgi apparatus. In the plant cells chloroplasts too are found in the organelles of cytoplasm which has a periphery surrounded by fatty membrane.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The cytoplasm consists of all of the contents outside of the nucleus and enclosed within the cell membrane of a cell. This includes the cytosol and in euckaryotic cells, organelles such as mitochondria and ribosomes. 
Cytoplasm is the homogeneous, generally clear jelly-like material that fills cells. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts and organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions. The cytoplasm plays an important role in a cell, serving as a molecular soup in which the organelles are suspended and held together by a fatty membrane. The cytoplasm plays a mechanical role, i.e. (example) to maintain the shape, the consistency of the cell and to provide suspension to the organelles. It is also a storage place for chemical substances indispensable to life.
Lesson Summary. Cytoplasm is the fluid that fills cells and serves several important functions. Cytoplasm holds the internal components of cells in place and protects them from damage. Cytoplasm stores molecules used for cellular processes, as well as hosts many of these processes within the cell itself. 
It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division. Within the cells of eukaryote organisms the contents of the cell nucleus are separated from the cytoplasm, and are then called the nucleoplasm. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless.
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred. 1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 4  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements.