Provisional; temporary; not final. Something intervening between the commencement and the end of a suit which decides some point or matter, but is not a final decision of the whole controversy. Mora v. Sun Mut. Ins. Co., 13 Abb. Prac. (N. Y.) 310. As to interlocutory “Costs,” “Decree,” “Judgment,” “Order,” and “Sentence,” see those titles.
Interlocutory is a legal term which can refer to an order, sentence, decree, or judgment, given in an intermediate stage between the commencement and termination of a cause of action, used to provide a temporary or provisional decision on an issue.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An interlocutory injunction is a court order to compel or prevent a party from doing certain acts pending the final determination of the case. It is an order made at an interim stage during the trial, and is usually issued to maintain the status quo until judgment can be made.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: interlocutory (Noun). A person engaged in a conversation, an interlocutor. interlocutory (Adjective). Of or pertaining to dialogue or conversation.interlocutory (Adjective). Interjected into something spoken
(e) The Supreme Court may prescribe rules, in accordance with section 2072 of this title, to provide for an appeal of an interlocutory decision to the courts of appeals that is not otherwise provided for under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d). .
Interlocutory Appeals Law & Legal Definition. An interlocutory appeal is an appeal of a ruling by a trial court that is made before the trial itself has concluded. It asks an appellate court to review an aspect of the case before the trial has concluded.ourts may also issue interlocutory orders where property is about to be sold or forfeited and a lawsuit has been filed seeking to stop the action. In such cases, the court enters an interlocutory injunction, preventing the transfer of property until it has made a final decision.
of an appeal from an interlocutory order or decree described in subsection (a) or (b) of this section in any case over which the court would have jurisdiction of an appeal under section 1295 of this title; and.e) The Supreme Court may prescribe rules, in accordance with section 2072 of this title, to provide for an appeal of an interlocutory decision to the courts of appeals that is not otherwise provided for under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d). .
Interlocutory decrees of such district courts or the judges thereof determining the rights and liabilities of the parties to admiralty cases in which appeals from final decrees are allowed.e) The Supreme Court may prescribe rules, in accordance with section 2072 of this title, to provide for an appeal of an interlocutory decision to the courts of appeals that is not otherwise provided for under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d). .
Interlocutory refers to something which is temporary or not final, usually an order or decree made provisionally pending a final determination. Interlocutory orders are generally unable to be appealed until a final decision has been rendered in the matter.e) The Supreme Court may prescribe rules, in accordance with section 2072 of this title, to provide for an appeal of an interlocutory decision to the courts of appeals that is not otherwise provided for under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d). .
Interlocutory Decree. A court judgment that is not final until the judge decides other matters in the case or until enough time has passed to see if the interim decision is working. In the past, interlocutory decrees were most often used in divorces.