The nuclear force is also known as the strong force. This is one of the four fundamental forces in the Universe. The nuclear force keeps together the most basic of elementary particles, the quarks. Quarks combine together to form the protons and neutrons in the atomic nucleus. The protons in the nucleus of an atom are positively charged. If protons interact, they are usually pushed apart by the electromagnetic force. (Remember, opposite charges attract, but like charges repel!). However, when two or more nuclei come VERY close together, the nuclear force comes into play.
Another important nuclear process, which strictly speaking doesn't fall under the category of nuclear reactions, is called scattering. In this process, two nuclei come together and exert strong forces on each other, but there is no rearrangement of neutrons and protons. In other nuclear processes, two nuclei come close together, exert forces on one another, and one or both undergo a change.
Nuclear Force is defined as the force exerted between numbers of nucleons. This force is attractive in nature which binds protons and neutrons in the nucleus together. Since the protons are of same positive charge they exert a repulsive force among them. Electromagnetic force, gravitational force and strong nuclear force are the other forces. Weak Nuclear Force is caused by the emission or exchange of W and Z bosons. Weak nuclear forces are very short range because of the heaviness of the W and Z particles.
Because of this attractive Nuclear Force, the total mass of the nucleus is less than the summation of masses of nucleons that is protons and neutrons. This force is highly attractive between nucleons at a distance of 10–15 m or 1 femtometer (fm) approximately from their centers. Electromagnetic force, gravitational force and strong nuclear force are the other forces. Weak Nuclear Force is caused by the emission or exchange of W and Z bosons. Weak nuclear forces are very short range because of the heaviness of the W and Z particles.
For the force that holds quarks together in a nucleon, see Strong interaction. Force (in units of 10,000 N) between two nucleons as a function of distance as computed from the Reid potential (1968). The spins of the neutron and proton are aligned, and they are in the S angular momentum state. The nuclear force is not simple, however, since it depends on the nucleon spins, has a tensor component, and may depend on the relative momentum of the nucleons.
Nuclear forces (also known as nuclear interactions or strong forces) are the forces that act between two or more nucleons. They bind protons and neutrons (“nucleons”) into atomic nuclei. Besides the force between two nucleons (2NF), there are also three-nucleon forces (3NFs), four-nucleon forces (4NFs), and so on. However, the 2NF is much stronger than the 3NF, which in turn is much stronger than the 4NF
The nuclear force (or nucleon–nucleon interaction or residual strong force) is the force between protons and neutrons, subatomic particles that are collectively called nucleons. The nuclear force is responsible for binding protons and neutrons into atomic nuclei. The nuclear force is not simple, however, since it depends on the nucleon spins, has a tensor component, and may depend on the relative momentum of the nucleons.
In radioactivity a single nucleus breaks into two parts. In other nuclear processes, two nuclei come close together, exert forces on one another, and one or both undergo a change. This is called a nuclear reaction
Nuclear fusion and nuclear fission are different types of reactions that release energy due to the presence of high-powered atomic bonds between particles found within a nucleus. In fission, an atom is split into two or more smaller, lighter atoms. 
The nuclear force acts between all of the particles in the nucleus, i.e., between two neutrons, between two protons, and between a neutron and a proton. It is attractive in all cases. In contrast, an electrical force acts only between two protons and it is repulsive. Range. There is no way to observe effects of the nuclear force in experiments done on a human scale, or even on the scale of atoms. The nuclear force only manifests itself in experiments done with nuclei-namely experiments on radioactivity and on nuclear reactions.