By undermining belief in man’s sinful nature and by pitting the dead Romantic poets’ philosophy against a legacy of education and morality, The Dead Poets’ Society subtly wages a war against tradition. The story of these boys and their teacher in Tom Schulman’s movie The Dead Poets’ Society (directed by Peter Weir) creates an appealing picture of Romanticism—a philosophy based on the concept of man as basically good and his feelings as a standard of inherent value.
Mr. Keating, using poetry as his vehicle, teaches his studentsto challenge the institutions around them.Inspired by Mr. Keating's philosophy of life, many of his students recreate theDead Poet's Society, a secret club which meets in a cave in order to discusspoetry, philosophy and other topics. 
The movie, Dead Poets Society directed by Peter Weir is set in an American private school during a time of romanticism in the first half of the twentieth century. Dead Poet’s Society negotiates the transition of poetry and life as an unconventional English teacher encourages a group of private school boys to seize the day. The boys intimidate the teachers youth by reforming the dead poet’s society and getting in touch with romanticism and their true inner life.
Terms Used in this Discussion: The opposite of romanticism in the movie Dead Poets Society is realism. Instead of the idealized vision of life presented in romanticism that was compounded of hopes and feelings, realism tended to be a mimic of life. A brief summary of the terms used in the rest of the website: Therefore Todd MUST be a (or in my argument, the) main character, he is the only one whose character undergoes a change in the movie. Everyone else is the same as they started. Just because Neil died, that does not count as change, he was essentially a dead man at the beginning of Dead Poets Society.
Neil's father requests an inquiry into his son's death, believing that Mr. Keating put Neil up to this absurd acting business.. The members of the Dead Poets Society are pressured into signing a declaration stating that it was Mr. Keating's abuse of his position that led to Neil's death. The group would gather at an old Indian cave and read poetry, letting the words drip from [their] tongues like honey.. The boys are inspired to form their own Dead Poets Society. One of the boys is Neil Perry (played by Robert Sean Leonard).
Aristotle profoundly said that the purpose of education is to make students like or dislike what they ought. Instead of teaching this ordo amoris (proper affection), The Dead Poets’ Society continuously emphasizes the ultimate importance of one’s own feelings. Keating teaches his students to exalt subjectivism and so to shun Aristotle’s view of objective morality. The story of these boys and their teacher in Tom Schulman’s movie The Dead Poets’ Society (directed by Peter Weir) creates an appealing picture of Romanticism—a philosophy based on the concept of man as basically good and his feelings as a standard of inherent value.
Todd Anderson (played by Ethan Hawke) is a close friend of Neil's, and a member of the Dead Poets Society. This is his first year at Welton. Todd is a painfully shy boy, who initially doesn't want to take part in the Dead Poets Society because he thinks it will mean having to read poetry in front of the other boys. The group would gather at an old Indian cave and read poetry, letting the words drip from [their] tongues like honey.. The boys are inspired to form their own Dead Poets Society. One of the boys is Neil Perry (played by Robert Sean Leonard).
I think I hate Dead Poets Society for the same reason that Robyn, a physician assistant, hates House: because its portrayal of my profession is both misleading and deeply seductive. For what Keating (Robin Williams) models for his students isn’t literary criticism, or analysis, or even study. In part, because Dead Poets Society might well be the most enduring and beloved picture ever made about teaching the humanities. While many English professors dislike and distrust the film, there’s another large contingent, even among those who teach literature in high school and college, that loves it.
Few works of art affect me as profoundly as the Dead Poets Society. It arouses my emotions, inflames my mind and inspires my soul. It carries me to the heights of ecstasy, and reduces me to tears. The group would gather at an old Indian cave and read poetry, letting the words drip from [their] tongues like honey.. The boys are inspired to form their own Dead Poets Society. One of the boys is Neil Perry (played by Robert Sean Leonard).