They moved to Detroit and became the Lions in 1934. The NFL's first season was 1920 and the League was then known as the American Professional Football Association (APFA). There were 10 teams in the original APFA and another 4 teams joined during the first season of 1920. The Cardinals and Bears were two of the original 10 teams. The Cardinals were playing in Chicago and known as the Racine Cardinals and the Bears were playing in Decatur and known as the Decatur Staleys.
Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball organization that is the oldest of the four major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada. A total of 30 teams now play in the American League (AL) and National League (NL), with 15 teams in each league. Teams play 162 games each season and five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven championship series between the two league champions that dates to 1903.
For the current Major League Baseball team that has played since 1882, see Cincinnati Reds. For the Major League Baseball team that played from 1876–1880, see Cincinnati Reds (1876-1880) . The Cincinnati Red Stockings of 1869 were baseball 's first openly all-professional team, with ten salaried players. Younger brother and shortstop George Wright, new to the team in 1869, was its best player, maybe the best of his time. The professional Cincinnati Red Stockings played their first game May 4, 1869, with a 45-9 win over the Great Westerns of Cincinnati.
Confidence votes 67. The first teams ever for the United States Major League Baseball were the Black stockings, the White Stockings, and the Red Stockings. 
There were nine teams that played in that first year: Philadelphia Athletics, Chicago White Stockings, Boston Red Stockings, Washington Olympics, New York Mutuals, Troy Haymakers, Fort Wayne Kekiongas, Cleveland Forest Citys, and Rockford Forest Citys. The Cardinals and Bears were two of the original 10 teams. The Cardinals were playing in Chicago and known as the Racine Cardinals and the Bears were playing in Decatur and known as the Decatur Staleys.
The Cincinnati Red Stockings, so named because they wore red socks, were baseball's first openly all-professional team. In 1882, Cincinnati's entry in the newly formed American Association took the same name and retained it after moving to the National League in 1890. Chicago's first professional baseball team was known as the Chicago White Stockings. When the team began to sell off its experienced players in the late 1880s, local newspapers began to refer to the club as Anson's Colts, a reference to player-manager Cap Anson's roster of youngsters.
Within each league, the division winners are the #1, #2 and #3 seeds, based on win–loss records. The team with the best record among non division winners will be the first wildcard and the #4 seed. The team with the second best record among non division winners will be the second wildcard and the #5 seed. Teams play 162 games each season and five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven championship series between the two league champions that dates to 1903.
In the 1860s, aided by the Civil War, New York-style baseball expanded into a national game and spawned baseball's first governing body, The National Association of Base Ball Players. The NABBP existed as an amateur league for twelve years. By 1867, more than 400 clubs were members. Teams play 162 games each season and five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven championship series between the two league champions that dates to 1903.
The American League (AL) was established in 1901 and in 1903, the first World Series was held. The first official game of baseball in the United States took place in June 1846 in Hoboken, New Jersey. In 1869, the Cincinnati Red Stockings became America’s first professional baseball club. Between 1903 and 2007, AL teams were the winners in 61 of the 103 World Series played. The American League’s New York Yankees have won more World Series championships–26–than any other team in baseball.