The following is written by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for paralegals. Most entrants have an associa … te's degree in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's degree in another field and a certificate in paralegal studies. NALA certification is for a period of five years and 50 hours of continuing education is required for recertification. According to the NALA, as of September 4, 2009, there were 15,652 Certified Paralegals in the United States.
Education Requirements for the Paralegal. There are no universal requirements for a paralegal, but there are several possible educational paths a potential paralegal might take. Educational options include certificate programs and degree programs. Essential Information. A paralegal is a lawyer's assistant who helps a lawyer prepare for a meeting or a trial. This preparation may include researching facts or laws and writing reports used during the case. An associate's or bachelor's degree is required, depending on the employer.
Although there are no legal requirements for the education of paralegals in Florida, the Florida Association of Paralegals reports that most law firms will only hire paralegals with a degree. Additionally, many want their new-hires to have passed the Certified Paralegal (CP) exam. National certification, including the CP that many paralegals in Florida hold, is offered by the three national paralegal associations. The exams require education, training or a combination of both. Information about the exams, eligibility requirements, and recertification is available here.
Associate’s and bachelor's degree programs in paralegal studies usually combine paralegal training, such as courses in legal research and the legal applications of computers, with other academic subjects. Most certificate programs provide intensive paralegal training for people who already hold college degrees. How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job.
Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's degree in another field and a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or education and train them on the job. How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Certified Paralegal (CP) or Certified Legal Assistant (CLA) is the title of paralegals in the United States who have passed the Certified Paralegal Exam and have met additional education and experience requirements for certification as a CP or CLA. 
Education and training. There are several ways to become a paralegal. The most common is through a community college paralegal program that leads to an associate degree. Another common method of entry, mainly for those who already have a college degree, is earning a certificate in paralegal studies. The following is by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for Paralegals. Most entrants have an associate degree in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's degree coupled with a certificate in paralegal studies. Some employers train paralegals on the job.
Students in associate's and bachelor's degree programs take a basic core of general education courses in English, math, science and social studies as well as the required courses for paralegal work. There are some master's degree programs available, but this level of education is not required by most employers. Essential Information. A paralegal is a lawyer's assistant who helps a lawyer prepare for a meeting or a trial. This preparation may include researching facts or laws and writing reports used during the case. An associate's or bachelor's degree is required, depending on the employer.