Our Sun is a main sequence star. A main sequence star will experience only small fluctuations in luminosity and temperature. The amount of time a star spends in this phase depends on its mass. Large, massive stars will have a short main sequence stage while less massive stars will remain in main sequence much longer.
The life expectancy of a star (E) depends on its mass (M), roughly following the model of E = M-2.5. For a star with a mass twice that of our sun (enter 2 in place of `M`), th … en the lifespan will give 0.177. Our suns lifespan is around 10 billion years, so this would equate to 1.77 billion years.
Lifespans for main sequence stars have a vast range. Whilst our Sun will spend 10 billion years on the main sequence, a high-mass, ten solar-mass (10 M Sun) star will only last 20 million years (2.0× 10 7 years) on the main sequence.
Main-Sequence Lifespan. The main sequence is the stage where a star spends most of its existence. Relative to other stages in a star's life it is extremely long; our Sun took about 20 million years to form but will spend about 10 billion years (1 × 10 10 years) as a main sequence star before evolving into a red giant.
Very large, massive stars burn their fuel much faster than smaller stars. Their main sequence may last only a few hundred thousand years. Smaller stars will live on for billions of years because they burn their fuel much more slowly. Eventually, the star's fuel will begin to run out.
Our Sun is an average-size star, maybe a little smaller than most stars. Stars the size of our Sun are known as Dwarf Stars. The largest stars can be 10 times larger across then the Sun. These are called Giant or SuperGiant stars. The very smallest stars are not much bigger than the planet Jupiter.
When the stars go out. Eventually, a main sequence star burns through the hydrogen in its core, reaching the end of its life cycle. At this point, it leaves the main sequence. Stars smaller than a quarter the mass of the sun collapse directly into white dwarfs. White dwarfs no longer burn fusion at their center, but they still radiate heat.