Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with! Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill.
1 Heat the grill depending on cut of chicken. 2  For boneless chicken breasts, cook on high heat. 3  This should take about 6-10 minutes on each side. 4  Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 1 Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 2  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 3  Turn chicken every 10 minutes. 4  Use long-handled tongs or a wide metal spatula to move the chicken.
Photo Credit: Regarding BBQ Inc. At a cooking temperature between 300 and 350 degrees F, it takes a chicken about 20 to 30 minutes per pound to cook. A 4 pound chicken should take nearly 2 hours. When the internal temperature of the chicken reaches 175 to 180 degree F, it is time to take it off the heat. 
It depends on the temperature, size of the chicken, and how well you want to cook your chicken, but I would suggest putting it in the oven on 350 until the chicken changes col … or so that it looks cooked, then insert a toothpick or stick inside the meat to see if it is pure white or still red inside. 
1 This should take about 6-10 minutes on each side. 2  Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 3  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 4  Turn chicken every 10 minutes. 1 Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 2  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 3  Turn chicken every 10 minutes. 4  Use long-handled tongs or a wide metal spatula to move the chicken.
How long do you grill chicken. Knowing when your chicken is done – and I'm talking moist, juicy, finger-licking-goodness done, not dry-as-boot-leather done – is easy if you follow three handy little tips. : Go easy on the breast. By its nature, breast meat is very mild and delicate in flavor. : Don't forget that whole chicken is a little slow on brakes. Its internal temperature will rise by another 5 - 10 degrees while resting. So, any time you toss an entire bird on the grill – such as with beer can chicken – be sure to take that into account when checking your temperature for doneness.
Cook time is determined by heat. On average, it takes about 10 to 12 minutes for a chicken breast to cook on a grill. If the fire is hot, turn the meat every 1 or 2 minutes. If the fire has cooled a little, 4 or 5 minutes per turn is good. Start applying sauce on the last 2 turns. Don't reuse the marinade that the chicken was soaking in. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I love chicken, if you have boneless chicken breasts they take less time to cook at med temp & 10 minutes per side, no longer pink. Bone In takes longer depending on the size, 15- 20 min per side until juices run clear.
1 For boneless chicken breasts, cook on high heat. 2  This should take about 6-10 minutes on each side. 3  Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 4  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 1 Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 2  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 3  Turn chicken every 10 minutes. 4  Use long-handled tongs or a wide metal spatula to move the chicken.
Grill with just a pinch of patience – over direct, medium heat for about 10 minutes – and you'll be rewarded with juicy, succulent chicken breasts. And, if you want to plate up breasts that are even more flavorful try grilling free range chicken. : Don't forget that whole chicken is a little slow on brakes. Its internal temperature will rise by another 5 - 10 degrees while resting. So, any time you toss an entire bird on the grill – such as with beer can chicken – be sure to take that into account when checking your temperature for doneness.