Q: How long does it take to cremate a body? A: On the surface, this is a simple question, but answering it requires an understanding of the factors that influence cremation time. First, let's assume that by cremation time, we mean the time it takes to physically reduce the body and casket or container.
The time for cremation to be completed varies with the size and weight of each human remains but usually takes between 1-1/2 – 3 hours. This link has everything you need to know about cremation, http://www.urnsonsale.com/human_crematio... MEOW · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. He said it depends on the size of the body. If the person was big with a lot of fat, it will take longer. But it can vary from 2 hours to 4 hours. Source(s): my husband, who used to work in a funeral home where they did cremations.
A Houston Cremation Requires a Waiting Period. One of the reasons that a Houston cremation might take longer than cremation in another state is that Texas law requires 48 hours to pass before cremation can occur. This is because cremation is more final than burial; in a traditional burial, for example, the body can be exhumed. Cremation, however, is permanent. 
2 votes Vote for this answer. The time for cremation to be completed varies with the size and weight of each human remains, but usually takes between 1-1/2 and 3 hours.. Nice account of the process follows at: http://www.funeralplan.com/funeralplan/cremation/cremationprocessing.html. 
As a result, actual cremation times vary from 60 minutes to more than 5 hours. In the cremation profession, it is widely stated that it takes about 2 hours to cremate an average body of 150 pounds in a cardboard cremation container. A: On the surface, this is a simple question, but answering it requires an understanding of the factors that influence cremation time. First, let's assume that by cremation time, we mean the time it takes to physically reduce the body and casket or
On an average, it takes about one to three hours to cremate a human body, thereby reducing it to 3-7 pounds of cremains. The cremation remains are usually pasty white in color. These remains are transferred in a cremation urn and given to the relative or representative of the deceased. Here’s a video showing the cremation of human body. During incineration, the body is exposed to a column of flames produced by a furnace fueled by natural gas, oils, propane, etc. As the corpse is placed in a casket or container (preferably prepared from a combustible material), the container burns down.
The factors that affect cremation time are the size of the body (weight), the percentage of body fat to lean tissue or muscle, the type of container or casket, the performance standards of the cremation equipment, and whether it is the first cremation of the day, the second, the third and so on. A: On the surface, this is a simple question, but answering it requires an understanding of the factors that influence cremation time. First, let's assume that by cremation time, we mean the time it takes to physically reduce the body and casket or container.
The bones, which are the last to go, become calcified as they are exposed to the heat and begin to flake or crumble [source: Pope ]. An average human body takes from two to three hours to burn completely and will produce an average of 3 to 9 pounds (1.4 to 4.1 kilograms) of ash. The amount of ash depends usually on the bone structure of the person and not so much their weight [source: Ellenberg ]. 
Depends on many things... A pire cremation will take longer than an incinerator since the pire will start out with big flames but will actually be qutie cool, it will take time to get hot and its the heat that does most the cremation not the flames. He said it depends on the size of the body. If the person was big with a lot of fat, it will take longer. But it can vary from 2 hours to 4 hours. Source(s): my husband, who used to work in a funeral home where they did cremations.
Cremation of a dead body is carried out at a temperature ranging between 1400 to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. The intense heat helps reduce the body to its basic elements and dried bone fragments. Here’s a video showing the cremation of human body. During incineration, the body is exposed to a column of flames produced by a furnace fueled by natural gas, oils, propane, etc. As the corpse is placed in a casket or container (preferably prepared from a combustible material), the container burns down.