Lake Chad. Lake Chad (in French: Lac Tchad) is a large, shallow lake in Africa. It is economically very important, providing water to more than 20 million people living in the four countries which surround it Chad, Cameroon, Niger and Nigeria. It is located mainly in the far west of Chad, bordering on northeastern Nigeria. The Chari River is its largest source of water, providing over 90% of Lake Chad's water. The lake possesses many small islands and mudbanks, and its shorelines are largely composed of marshes.
The given Chad location map shows that Chad is located in the central part of Africa continent. Chad map also shows that Chad is a landlocked country bordered with Central African Republic in the south, Cameroon and Nigeria in the southwest, Niger in the west, Libya in the north, and Sudan in the east. Largely country has desert climate, this is the reason that some people also call it Dead Heart of Africa. Country has a big Lake namely Lake Chad, probably country s name kept after this largest wetland in Chad and the second largest in Africa. Chad's highest point is the Emi Koussi in the Sahara. Chad homes more than 200 different ethnic and linguistic groups.
Chad is located in central Africa, and is in both the eastern and northern hemispheres. Chad is bordered by Cameroon, Central African Republic, Libya, Niger, Nigeria and Sudan. 
Chad (French: Tchad) is a country in the Sahel, south of Libya, east of Niger and Cameroon, north of the Central African Republic, and west of Sudan. It shares a short border with Nigeria. 
LOCATION AND SIZE. The former French colony of Chad, a landlocked country located in northern Central Africa, is more than 3 times the size of California. The country has an area of 1,284,000 square kilometers (495,755 square miles), with a land boundary length of 5,968 kilometers (3,708 miles). Lake Chad in the southwestern part of the country is the largest body of water in the Sahel region. Chad also has the Tibesti mountain range in the far north, some smaller mountains in central Chad, and a few hills near the southern and western borders.
Lake Chad is economically important, providing water to more than 68 million people living in the four countries surrounding it (Chad, Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria) on the edge of the Sahara Desert. For the lake in Antarctica, see Lake Chad (Antarctica) . Lake Chad (French: lac Tchad) is a historically large, shallow, endorheic lake in Africa, which has varied in size over the centuries.
N'Djamena is the capital and the largest city of Chad. It is located in the southwestern part of the country. Despite the many violent conflicts in the capital, the city continues to be the economic center of Chad. The estimated population of the capital city is 993,492. 
Chad (/tʃaed/ ; Tʃæd: arabic ‎ تشاد; Tshād: French), tchad officially The republic Of (Chad: جمهورية جمهوريه ‎ تشاد Jumhūrīyat; Tshād: French republique République), du tchad is a landlocked Country In. central africa It is the fifth largest country in Africa in terms of area. Chad has several regions: a desert zone in the north, an arid Sahelian belt in the centre and a more fertile Sudanian Savanna zone in the south. Lake Chad, after which the country is named, is the largest wetland in Chad and the second-largest in Africa. N'Djamena, the capital, is the largest city. Chad is home to over 200 different ethnic and linguistic groups. Arabic and French are the official languages.
Geography. A landlocked country in north-central Africa, Chad is about 85% the size of Alaska. Its neighbors are Niger, Libya, the Sudan, the Central African Republic, Cameroon, and Nigeria. Lake Chad, from which the country gets its name, lies on the western border with Niger and Nigeria.