Every month, the United States Department of Agriculture figures out the average cost of food based on family size, age and style. For September 2010, the USDA determined that a family of two, aged 19 to 50 years old, would typically spend $347.50 on a thrifty food plan or up to $688.60 on a liberal plan. 
% of your total monthly budget spent on food: I spend 9% of my monthly budget on food. Total of $160; in Seattle. How much you spend on groceries versus takeout/eating out: 93% is spent on groceries, while 7% is budgeted towards restaurants. My wife and I spend about 7.5% of our after tax income on food. We budget $400 per month for dining out and $300 for groceries. It’s just two of us, though we have dinner guests at least once a week. I’m an econo-tarian and buy whatever is on sale or have a coupon (coupon food is pretty much junk food).
The average food budget for 1 person per month varied from a low of about one hundred ninety-six dollars ($196) for a single female in the 51 - 70 age group on a thrifty plan to about four hundred forty-eight dollars ($448) for a single male in the 19 - 50 age group on a liberal plan. The following chart shows that the average food budget for 1 person per month is almost two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in Alaska and about three hundred sixty-five dollars ($365) in Hawaii. Both of these numbers are for the thrifty plan, which is the only one listed by the USDA for those two states.
This average food budget for 1 person per month was derived by taking an average of the estimated food budget per month for a single male and single female in two age groups (19 - 50 and 51 - 70) and four different food-cost plans (thrifty to liberal), as shown in the chart below. The following chart shows that the average food budget for 1 person per month is almost two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in Alaska and about three hundred sixty-five dollars ($365) in Hawaii. Both of these numbers are for the thrifty plan, which is the only one listed by the USDA for those two states.
You'd be surprised, perhaps. The thrifty food budget for a family of 2 under 50 years old is $373.30 a month; the liberal food plan budget is $743.10 for that same 2 person family as of December 2011). After entering your info, you'll get a lot of charts comparing your spending across demographics, household income, and more. Then see how much you can allocate to variable and discretionary expenses. Food will fall into that category, and obviously shouldn't exceed your remaining budget for variable expenses. Overall, Americans spend 9-12% of our income on food (this is actually less than any other country spends, as a percentage of income).
Question: What is the average food budget for 1 person per month? Answer: According to the United States Department of Agriculture, Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion, the average food budget for 1 person per month in the United States is approximately three hundred one dollars ($301). The following chart shows that the average food budget for 1 person per month is almost two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in Alaska and about three hundred sixty-five dollars ($365) in Hawaii. Both of these numbers are for the thrifty plan, which is the only one listed by the USDA for those two states.
For females, the average food budget for 1 person per month is about two hundred eighty-three dollars ($283). For males, the average food budget for 1 person per month is closer to three hundred twenty dollars ($320). The following chart shows that the average food budget for 1 person per month is almost two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in Alaska and about three hundred sixty-five dollars ($365) in Hawaii. Both of these numbers are for the thrifty plan, which is the only one listed by the USDA for those two states.
% of your total monthly budget spent on food: 23% of take home pay, or roughly $1000 per month. How much you spend on groceries versus takeout/eating out: We rarely eat out, maybe twice per month. This isn’t counted in the above tota. Your household size: Two adults mid 30s, two kids under age 10. My wife and I spend about 7.5% of our after tax income on food. We budget $400 per month for dining out and $300 for groceries. It’s just two of us, though we have dinner guests at least once a week. I’m an econo-tarian and buy whatever is on sale or have a coupon (coupon food is pretty much junk food).