Answer: chick, nestling. A baby penguin is called a chick, nestling. Penguins (order Sphenisciformes, family Spheniscidae) are a group of aquatic, flightless birds living almost exclusively in the Southern Hemisphere. Highly adapted for life in the water, penguins have countershaded dark and white plumage, and their wings have become flippers.
A group of penguins is called a colony, a rookery or a Waddle, but these terms are typically used for a group of penguins on land. The small chicks are concentrated in groups called creches, which often remain attached for warmth in the absence of a developed plumage. A group of penguins is very noisy and look chaotic, but they have the ability to recognize each other through sounds and vocalizations.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Young penquins are refered to as chicks or fledglings. The source includes names of groups, young, and males/females for most animal groups. Source(s): http://dictionary.reference.com/writing/... 
Answer: Baby penguins are called chicks or nestlings, but chick is the common and widely used term. They also are called young penguins when speaking in general terms. Baby penguins are usually organized in groups called creches (crèches From). French the purpose of these groups is to protect them easily from predators and keep warm in extreme temperature conditions while their parents are away searching. food
Although all penguin species are native to the Southern Hemisphere, they are not found only in cold climates, such as Antarctica. In fact, only a few species of penguin live so far south. Several species are found in the temperate zone, and one species, the Galapagos galápagos, penguin lives near the. equator The largest living species is the emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri): on average adults are about 1.1 m (3 ft 7 in) tall and weigh 35 kg (77 lb) or more.
Report Abuse. Owlet means a young owl and a little owl, the unfledged nestlings are chicks. Young penguins are chicks although there could be local names of which I am unaware.Young king penguins were at one stage clled smews. This is a sailor's term and was used for various different birds. The young king penguin is so unlike the adult it was once thought to be a separate species. Penguin colonies are called rookeries. Source(s): 40 years of bird observation including 9 species of penguin. 
They raise their young by putting the egg under the flaps of their skin in between their legs. The male penguin uaually take care of the egg until it is hatched. When a mother … s egg is lost or stolen the male penguin steals another penguins egg from their nest. They do this so they don't really feel bad for losing their young. 11 people found this useful.
The smallest penguin species is the little blue penguin (Eudyptula minor), also known as the fairy penguin, which stands around 40 cm (16 in) tall and weighs 1 kg (2.2 lb). The largest living species is the emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri): on average adults are about 1.1 m (3 ft 7 in) tall and weigh 35 kg (77 lb) or more.
Group of Penguins. A group of penguins is called a colony, a rookery or a Waddle, but these terms are typically used for a group of penguins on land. A group of penguins floating in the ocean is called a raft. The small chicks are concentrated in groups called creches, which often remain attached for warmth in the absence of a developed plumage. A group of penguins is very noisy and look chaotic, but they have the ability to recognize each other through sounds and vocalizations.
Penguins (order Sphenisciformes, family Spheniscidae) are a group of aquatic, flightless birds living almost exclusively in the Southern Hemisphere, especially in Antarctica. Highly adapted for life in the water, penguins have countershaded dark and white plumage, and their wings have evolved into flippers. The largest living species is the emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri): on average adults are about 1.1 m (3 ft 7 in) tall and weigh 35 kg (77 lb) or more.