The antler is a long bone that is connected to the skull.  There are usually six points, or prot … rusions, that are coming from  the base. The range and size of elk antlers is so diverse that  there isn't much of a range. Some of the larger ones that have been  seen were 64 ¾­­­ to 74 inches.    The antlers have a peculiar skin like material that grows around it  called velvet. if a male elk starts attacking you, try to pock the elk eye, before  that grab hold of the antlers with on hand and your legs so your  other hand pocks the eye. But if a fem … ale attacks you, grab hold of  the legs when it's kicking you, then kick the stomach.
The North American Elk (Cervus elaphus) is also called the Wapiti, a Shawnee word meaning white rump.. Elk are the second largest members of the deer family, moose being the largest. They are two-toed, hoofed mammals that are strictly herbivorous. 
Elk, also called wapiti, is the largest species of deer, which is found primarily in North America and East Asia. It is also one of the largest mammals inhabiting these regions. It has also been introduced to countries like New Zealand and Argentina. Male elk is called bull, whereas the female is known as cow. The body color of an elk varies from deep copper brown to light tan. Its legs and neck are often darker than its body color. We bring you some more interesting facts and amazing information on elks, in the lines below.
The last adaptation that elk have is the hooves that they use to  walk long distances. They are specialized to protect the feet from  the many different types of terrain while also being specialized to  be able to scale many mountains and steep surfaces. if a male elk starts attacking you, try to pock the elk eye, before  that grab hold of the antlers with on hand and your legs so your  other hand pocks the eye. But if a fem … ale attacks you, grab hold of  the legs when it's kicking you, then kick the stomach.
Here are some facts that may surprise you. For thousands of years, hunters, scientists, and nature lovers have been fascinated by North American elk. To the Lakota, elk represented strength, courage, and wisdom. At birth, Lakota boys were given an elk tooth charm to ward off ill fortune and to promote a long life. Some of that wild mystery persists to this day, and few people are more enamored with elk than those who hunt them. On the flip side, elk and other predators (including wolves) lived together with steady populations historically. It’s likely this is some kind of settling in period for them. The elk getting used to how wolves hunt again (it’s been several decades and generations).
The jaw of the elk has a few teeth in the front used for grabbing and tearing. Then moving backward the jaw has a break where there are no teeth following a long stretch of large teeth that have some ridges on them. The ridges are used to help with grinding and breaking down the food as much as possible. In some cases a sudden jerk of the head is enough to break the antlers off. When the antler is broken off there is a very loud and audible crack that can be heard. Usually when the antler snaps the elk will run away in fear that there is a threat around(Whitehead 1972).
The most outstanding fact about elk is that it is the largest species of deer in the world. Read on to know some more interesting facts and amazing information on elks. Male elk is called bull, whereas the female is known as cow. The body color of an elk varies from deep copper brown to light tan. Its legs and neck are often darker than its body color. We bring you some more interesting facts and amazing information on elks, in the lines below.
O ne of the most important adaptations that the elk has is their antlers. The antler is a long bone that is connected to the skull. There are usually six points, or protrusions, that are coming from the base. The range and size of elk antlers is so diverse that there isn’t much of a range. Some of the larger ones that have been seen were 64 to 74 inches. In some cases a sudden jerk of the head is enough to break the antlers off. When the antler is broken off there is a very loud and audible crack that can be heard. Usually when the antler snaps the elk will run away in fear that there is a threat around(Whitehead 1972).
Collecting naturally shed deer and elk antlers is legal, but there are some ethical considerations to keep in mind and a few places that are restricted or off-limits. The easiest antler hunting is, of course, where deer or elk concentrate in the winter. 