Motor neurone disease (MND) causes a progressive weakness of many of the muscles in the body. There are various types of MND. This leaflet is mainly about amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), which is the most common type of MND. Although there is no cure for MND, treatments can help to ease symptoms and disability. 
In most cases of motor neurone disease, the condition progresses rapidly and the sufferer undergoes an obvious and visible deterioration in a relatively short space of time. Symptoms usually begin in one region of the body. Some estimates suggest that around 1 in 5 patients survive for 5 years after diagnosis and 1 in 10 survive for 10 years after diagnosis. One of the most well known survivors who has lived with this disease for more than four decades is Professor Stephen Hawking.
There are four main types of MND, each affecting people in different ways. There can be a great deal of overlap between all of these forms, so, while it is useful to separate the various types of the disease, in practise it is not always possible to be so specific. Kennedy’s Disease and MND have similar traits, which can cause confusion during diagnosis. Kennedy’s Disease is a slowly progressive disorder of the motor neurones that is caused by a genetic mutation. It is a rare form of muscular atrophy leading to weakness.
What is ALS/MND? Motor Neurone Disease (MND) is the name given to a group of diseases in which the nerve cells (neurones) that control muscles undergo degeneration and die. By any name, ALS/MND is characterised by progressive degeneration of the motor nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. The motor cells (neurones) control the muscles that enable us to move around, speak, breathe, and swallow. With no nerves to activate them, muscles gradually weaken and wast
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Motor neurone disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that leads to decreased control of muscle movement and eventually paralysis. Symptoms can be mild at first and a tendency to drop things is often one of the first signs of the condition to develop. Some estimates suggest that around 1 in 5 patients survive for 5 years after diagnosis and 1 in 10 survive for 10 years after diagnosis. One of the most well known survivors who has lived with this disease for more than four decades is Professor Stephen Hawking.
Motor neurone disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that leads to decreased control of muscle movement and eventually paralysis. Some estimates suggest that around 1 in 5 patients survive for 5 years after diagnosis and 1 in 10 survive for 10 years after diagnosis. One of the most well known survivors who has lived with this disease for more than four decades is Professor Stephen Hawking.
Prognosis varies depending on the type of MND and the age of onset. Some MNDs, such as PLS or Kennedy’s disease, are not fatal and progress slowly. People with SMA may appear to be stable for long periods, but improvement should not be expected. Some MNDs, such as ALS and some forms of SMA, are fatal. A brief description of the symptoms of some of the more common MNDs follows. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also called Lou Gehrig's disease or classical motor neuron disease, is a progressive, ultimately fatal disorder that disrupts signals to all voluntary muscles.
At first, symptoms may be restricted to one side of the body, but over time the symptoms spread and become more debilitating. As the disease progresses, there is an overall decline in the control of muscle movement that can eventually lead to complete immobility and paralysis. Some estimates suggest that around 1 in 5 patients survive for 5 years after diagnosis and 1 in 10 survive for 10 years after diagnosis. One of the most well known survivors who has lived with this disease for more than four decades is Professor Stephen Hawking.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Prognosis varies depending on the type of motor neuron disease (MND) and the age of onset. Some MNDs, such as Post-polio syndrome (PLS), are not fatal and progress slowly. People with Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) may appear to be stable for long periods, but improvement should not be expected.