Simvastatin is used together with a proper diet to treat high cholesterol and triglyceride (fat) levels in the blood. This medicine may help prevent medical problems (eg, heart attacks, strokes) caused by clogged blood vessels.
Simvastatin is in a group of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, or  statins .. Simvastatin reduces levels of bad cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL) and triglycerides in the blood, while increasing levels of good cholesterol (high-density lipoprotein, or HDL).
A: Zocor (simvastatin) is classified as a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor antilipemic agent, commonly referred to as a statin. Zocor works in the body to lower LDL or bad cholesterol, lower triglycerides and increase HDL or good cholesterol. Zocor is used for the treatment of high cholesterol and other uses.
Uses. Simvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver.
High Cholesterol or Triglycerides Treatment. Simvastatin is used for treating high cholesterol in those people who cannot lower cholesterol through lifestyle changes alone. Simvastatin can lower total cholesterol and LDL ( bad cholesterol ) and increase HDL ( good cholesterol ). Simvastatin has also been shown to lower triglyceride levels in the blood.
Zocor (simvastatin) is a statin that lowers lipids and cholesterol levels used in conjunction with lifestyle changes such as a low-fat, low cholesterol diet, and exercise to reduce the chances of cardiovascular disease and ischemic strokes in patients with elevated lipids and cholesterol.
Simvastatin belongs to a group of medicines known as statins. These work by reducing the amount of total cholesterol, ‘bad’ cholesterol (LDL cholesterol), and certain fatty substances called triglycerides in your blood. In addition, simvastatin raises levels of ‘good’ cholesterol (HDL cholesterol).
A: Zocor (simvastatin) is a medication that is used to treat high cholesterol. It is classified in a group of medications known as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, more commonly referred to as statins, that work by blocking the production of cholesterol in the liver.