The AWP Value Rx program is designed to help you learn about the availability of affordable generic and brand name drugs within a therapeutic class. It is important that you discuss any alternatives with your physician so that the most cost-effective drug for your treatment can be prescribed. The AWP Value Rx program is broken into 4 tiers; however, you are encouraged to find a drug within the first two tiers of the plan as these will be the least expensive options.
Answers. Best Answer: AWP is for Average Wholesale Price. $120.68 / 500 = $0.24136 per tablet $0.24136 * 1.04 = $0.2510 per tablet w/ 4% increase $0.2510 * 30 = $7.53 for the 30 tablets $7.53 + $6.25 = $13.78 Add in the dispensing fee... (Answer)
Ever wanted to be a great AWPer? Counter-Strike: Global Offensive comprehensive AWP tutorial, in depth how-to guide with Tips and Tricks to learning how to use the AWP in CSGO. Match your wits against Counter-Terrorists and Terrorists alike, learn how to counter an AWPer with smokes and flashes. This Tutorial has it all! Simply The Best AWP weapon Guide around, so you can improve your skill, pwn noobs, and conquer counterstrike.
Overview Edit. The AWP is a powerful bolt-action sniper rifle available to both teams. It is infamously renowned for being able to instantly kill a player with one hit on any part of the body except for the legs. For this reason, the AWP is one of the most popular and widely used weapons in the Counter-Strike series. The AWP is a fairly heavy weapon. While wielded, the player's movement speed is reduced from the default 250 units per second to 210 units per second (200 in Global Offensive), meaning a user will suffer 16% to 20% speed reduction. While zoomed in, the movement speed is 100 units per second.
Prior to use of the AWP as a pricingbenchmark, Medicare Part B drugs were reimbursed on the basis of thephysician’s acquisition cost. That system was eventually replaced withone based on 100 percent of the AWP, and then to the lower of the esti-mated acquisition cost (EAC) or 95 percent of the AWP. For brand-name drugs or for generic drugs with fewer thanthree generic versions the reimbursement is the lower of (a) thepharmacist’s usual and customary charge to the general public and (b). 7 NHPF Issue Brief No.775 / June 7, 2002 the drug’s estimated
TIER 1: Select generic and brand name drugs available for $10 or less TIER 2: Select generic and brand name drugs available for $20 or less TIER 3: Select generic and brand name drugs available for $50 or less TIER 4: Generic and brand name drugs for which AWP Value Rx has negotiated a discounted price. It is important that you discuss any alternatives with your physician so that the most cost-effective drug for your treatment can be prescribed. The AWP Value Rx program is broken into 4 tiers; however, you are encouraged to find a drug within the first two tiers of the plan as these will be the least expensive options.
EAC is oftendetermined by subtracting a percentage discount from a drug’s AWP.Finally, on January 1, 1998, as a result of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997and in an effort to bring down costs, Medicare Part B began to reimbursecovered brand-name drugs at 95 percent of the AWP. For brand-name drugs or for generic drugs with fewer thanthree generic versions the reimbursement is the lower of (a) thepharmacist’s usual and customary charge to the general public and (b). 7 NHPF Issue Brief No.775 / June 7, 2002 the drug’s estimated acquisition cost.
Average Wholesale Price (AWP) AWP is a list price for drugs published in commercial publica-tions (or drug price compendia). Two companies’ compendia (Medi-Span and First DataBank) are used as the basis of pric-ing most pharmacy claims in the United States. For the NDC numbers where the former multiplier was 1.25, the AWP reduction was 4%, 13 derived from dividing the 5-point reduction by the former mul-tiplier 1.25. The overall effect on all brand AWPs was different for each payer, determined by the utilization and dollar mix of affected and unaffected NDC numbers.
Recontract with pharmacy providers using a new (lower) AWP discount.If the former discount for brand drugs was 84% of AWP (i.e., AWP– 16%), then the new discount might be 87.5% of AWP (AWP– 12.5%).3. Recontract with pharmacy providers using a new price benchmark.WAC is used as the new price benchmark. For the NDC numbers where the former multiplier was 1.25, the AWP reduction was 4%, 13 derived from dividing the 5-point reduction by the former mul-tiplier 1.25. The overall effect on all brand AWPs was different for each payer, determined by the utilization and dollar mix of affected and unaffected NDC numbers.