The three different types are the skeletal, smooth, and cardiac  muscles. The cardiac muscles are ONLY found in the heart area, the  skeletal is the muscle that moves the bo … nes and the smooth muscle  is in most of your main organs. Prachi Tejan. The 3 different types of muscle are smooth, cardiac, and skeletal muscle. Smooth muscle is located on the walls of hollow organs, cardiac muscle is located on the wall of the … heart, and skeletal muscle is located on skeletal muscle organs (most organs).
There are three types of muscle tissue found in the human body. There are visceral muscles, which consist of smooth muscle tissue, which is controlled by the autonomic nervous system and responds to both hormones and neural stimulation. Smooth muscles have no striations, as the nucleus is centrally located. There are two important types of skeletal muscle. Type I, also called slow-twitch, is composed of small fibers and is used primarily for carrying light loads. This type of fiber predominates in a runner who is very thin and whose body contains a lot of lean muscle.
Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Muscle tissue is also found inside of the heart, digestive organs, and blood vessels. In these organs, muscles serve to move substances throughout the body.... 
Not all fibres within Skeletal muscles are the same. Different fibre types contract at different speeds, are suited to different types of activity and vary in colour depending on their Myoglobin (an oxygen carrying protein) content. This type of muscle is found solely in the walls of the heart. It has similarities with skeletal muscles in that it is striated and with smooth muscles in that its contractions are not under conscious control. However this type of muscle is highly specialised.
Different types of muscles in the body perform different functions according to their type and location. Muscles are the contractile tissues [Tissue that is able to contract] that are responsible for performing various voluntary and involuntary functions. Muscles can be regarded as motors of the body. Skeletal Muscles. Skeletal muscles are types of muscles which are most abundant and are found attached to skeleton. They are also called striped, striated, somatic, or voluntary muscles. They exhibit cross-striations under microscope, and are considered to be the best differentiated form of muscle.
3 types of muscles: 1) Smooth muscle-controlled by the autonomic nervous system; may either be generally inactive and then respond to neural stimulation or hormones or may be rhythmic. 2) Cardiac muscle-found in the heart, acts like rhythmic smooth muscle, modulated by neural activity and hormones. 
Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary. The three types of muscle (skeletal, cardiac and smooth) have significant differences. However, all three use the movement of actin against myosin to create contraction. In skeletal muscle, contraction is stimulated by electrical impulses transmitted by the nerves, the motoneurons (motor nerves) in particular.
There are three types of muscle tissue found in the human body. There are visceral muscles, which consist of smooth muscle tissue, which is controlled by the autonomic nervous … system and responds to both hormones and neural stimulation. Smooth muscles have no striations, as the nucleus is centrally located. The 3 different types of muscle are smooth, cardiac, and skeletal muscle. Smooth muscle is located on the walls of hollow organs, cardiac muscle is located on the wall of the … heart, and skeletal muscle is located on skeletal muscle organs (most organs).