Like Y. pseudotuberculosis and Y. enterocolitica, Y. pestis is host to the plasmid pCD1. In addition, it also hosts two other plasmids, pPCP1 (also called pPla or pPst) and pMT1 (also called pFra) that are not carried by the other Yersinia species. Y. pestis was discovered in 1894 by Alexandre Yersin, a Swiss / French physician and bacteriologist from the Pasteur Institute, during an epidemic of plague in Hong Kong. Yersin was a member of the Pasteur school of thought.
Name of the Organism: Yersinia enterocolitica (and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis). Y. enterocolitica, a small rod-shaped, Gram-negative bacterium, is often isolated from clinical specimens such as wounds, feces, sputum and mesenteric lymph nodes. However, it is not part of the normal human flora. Y. pseudotuberculosis has been isolated from the diseased appendix of humans.
Through additional revisions, the genus Yersinia has grown to include eleven species (2, 9, 10, 51), three of which are potentially pathogenic to humans: Y. pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis, and Y. enterocolitica. Of these, Y. enterocolitica is most important as a cause of foodborne illness. Virulent strains of Yersinia also invade mammalian cells such as HeLa cells in tissue culture (29). However, strains that have lost other virulent properties retain HeLa invasiveness, because the invasive phenotype for mammalian cells is encoded by chromosomal loci.
Yersinia pestis. By: Katia Sutyak. Life History Yersinia pestis is the causative agent of the systemic invasive infectious disease often referred to as the plague. The Y. pestis is an extremely virulent pathogen that is likely to cause severe illness and death upon infection unless antibiotics are administered. Transmission. Y. pestis has the ability to cause disease in rodents, insects and humans. The primary carriers of the pathogen are the Oriental rat flea, Xenopsylla cheopis, and infected rodents. The path of transmission to humans usually involves a flea feeding on an infected rodent and becoming a carrier of infection.
Microbiological Characteristics. Yersinia pestis is a Gram-negative, bipolar-staining coccobacillus member of the Enterobacteriaceae family, and is an obligate intracellular pathogen that must be contained within the blood to survive. Transmission. Y. pestis has the ability to cause disease in rodents, insects and humans. The primary carriers of the pathogen are the Oriental rat flea, Xenopsylla cheopis, and infected rodents. The path of transmission to humans usually involves a flea feeding on an infected rodent and becoming a carrier of infection.
It infects the host by sticking to the cells of the host using trimeric autotransporter adhesins (TAAs). The genus Yersinia includes 11 species: Y. pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis, Y. enterocolitica, Y. frederiksenii, Y. intermedia, Y. kristensenii, Y. bercovieri, Y. mollaretii, Y. rohdei, Y. aldovae and Y. ruckeri. Y. enterocolitica is a heterogeneous group of strains, which are traditionally classified by biotyping into six biogroups on the basis of phenotypic characteristics, and by serotyping into more than 57 O serogroups, on the basis of their O (lipopolysaccharide or LPS) surface antigen.
Yersinia pestis (formerly Pasteurella pestis) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped coccobacillus, a facultative anaerobic bacterium that can infect humans and animals. It causes the deadly disease named plague. Y. pestis was discovered in 1894 by Alexandre Yersin, a Swiss / French physician and bacteriologist from the Pasteur Institute, during an epidemic of plague in Hong Kong. Yersin was a member of the Pasteur school of thought.
Y. pestis is a nonmotile, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobe with bipolar staining (giving it a safety pin appearance). Similar to other Yersinia species, it tests negative for urease, lactose fermentation, and indole. Y. pestis was discovered in 1894 by Alexandre Yersin, a Swiss / French physician and bacteriologist from the Pasteur Institute, during an epidemic of plague in Hong Kong. Yersin was a member of the Pasteur school of thought.