I was saddened to hear of the death of Jim Cronin. My sympathies go to his wife, Alison and I wish her and her wonderful team all the luck in the world. After watching Monkey Business on TV in Australia, my views and understanding of all primates have changed for the better. Keep up the wonderful work. It is heart-warming to see the love and care that the late Jim Cronin and his wife Alison gives to the primates in their care. Jim was a very special man and Alison must miss him terribly, however, his legacy lives on at Monkey World. I wish Alison and her wonderful team all the best for Monkey World's future.
Monkey World founder Jim Cronin died three years ago. Andy Martin / / News. Share. 3 comments. ‘One of the greatest sadnesses is that Jim is not here to share it’Dr Alison Cronin. “I WISH he could have been there.” Today, Monkey World Dr Alison Cronin is in Vietnam releasing two gibbons onto a 40-acre island sanctuary. The project has been seven years in the making and there could not be a more appropriate or poignant day for the release to take place. It was Alison’s husband, Monkey World founder Jim Cronin, who started the Vietnam initiative.
‘One of the greatest sadnesses is that Jim is not here to share it’. Dr Alison Cronin The project has been seven years in the making and there could not be a more appropriate or poignant day for the release to take place. It was Alison’s husband, Monkey World founder Jim Cronin, who started the Vietnam initiative. And today is the third anniversary of his death. 
Jim Cronin (zoo keeper). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. James Jim Michael Cronin MBE (15 November 1951 – 17 March 2007) was the founder in 1987 of Monkey World in Dorset, England, a sanctuary for abused and neglected primates. 
Jim Cronin, who died of cancer on Saturday aged 55, had devoted the past 20 years to the sanctuary for apes which he ran in Dorset. 
Alison and Jim Cronin set up the centre to rescue abused apes Jim Cronin, the founder of Monkey World ape rescue centre, has died aged 55. Mr Cronin died in hospital in New York on Saturday afternoon after a short illness. Alison and Jim Cronin set up the centre to rescue abused apes. Mr Cronin died in hospital in New York on Saturday afternoon after a short illness. Monkey World, near Wool in Dorset, was set up in 1987 to provide abused Spanish beach chimps with a permanent home.
Monkey World’s founder Jim dies. ILLNESS: Jim Cronin. / News. Share. JIM Cronin, the founder of Monkey World ape rescue centre, has lost his battle against liver cancer. The world-renowned primate expert died in hospital in his native New York at the weekend, his wife and fellow conservationist Alison by his side. 
I just realised that Jim Cronin died. I came t watch Monkey World while living in Dublin and quickly came to love Jim & Alison and the work that they do. I know that he is with all of the angels and Rodney in heaven. It is heart-warming to see the love and care that the late Jim Cronin and his wife Alison gives to the primates in their care. Jim was a very special man and Alison must miss him terribly, however, his legacy lives on at Monkey World. I wish Alison and her wonderful team all the best for Monkey World's future.
Monkey World's founder Jim dies. Dorset Echo On-line. JIM Cronin, the founder of Monkey World ape rescue centre, has lost his battle against liver cancer. The world-renowned primate expert died in hospital in his native New York at the weekend, his wife and fellow conservationist Alison by his side. He was 55.