A second family of interpolation methods consists of geostatistical methods, such as kriging, which are based on statistical models that include autocorrelation—that is, the statistical relationships among the measured points. The IDW (inverse distance weighted) and Spline interpolation tools are referred to as deterministic interpolation methods because they are directly based on the surrounding measured values or on specified mathematical formulas that determine the smoothness of the resulting surface.
Example of one-dimensional data interpolation by Kriging, with confidence intervals. Squares indicate the location of the data. The Kriging interpolation, shown in red, runs along the means of the normally distributed confidence intervals shown in gray. The difference with the classical Kriging approach is provided by the interpretation: while the spline is motivated by a minimum norm interpolation based on a Hilbert space structure, Kriging is motivated by an expected squared prediction error based on a stochastic model.
Cokriging is an interpolation technique that allows one to better estimate map values by kriging if the distribution of a secondary variate sampled more intensely than the primary variate is known. 
The basic geostatistical interpolation procedure, assuming Ordinary Kriging (OK) for the time being, is essentially identical to that used in deterministic interpolation, notably interpolation using radial basis functions (see Section 6.6.4, Radial basis and spline functions). 
How to use Kriging. Kriging is an alternative to many other point interpolation techniques. Unlike straightforward methods, such as Nearest Point, Trend Surface, Moving Average or Moving Surface; Kriging is based on a statistical method. Kriging is the only interpolation method available in ILWIS that gives you an an interpolated map and output error map with the standard errors of the estimates. As Kriging is an advanced technique that heavily relies on statistical theory, the novice user of GIS may need to ask advice from an expert.
Kriging. Kriging is a stochastic, global interpolation technique that estimates the Z-value at an unknown location using spatial attributes of the entire dataset. (Dutton Institute). The first step in kriging is to develop a semivariance diagram. For a given separation distance, h, the semivariance diagram shows the averaged square difference in z-values between pairs of input points separated by h (ESRI). Once the semivariance diagram is constructed, a line-of-best fit is generated.
There is one main difference between kriging and another popular interpolation method, inverse distance weighting (IDW). The first difference is that kriging is a stochastic interpreter, which means that information about the spatial structure of the data is used to predict the value of an unsampled location. The first step in kriging is to develop a semivariance diagram. For a given separation distance, h, the semivariance diagram shows the averaged square difference in z-values between pairs of input points separated by h (ESRI). Once the semivariance diagram is constructed, a line-of-best fit is generated.
Kriging is a multistep process; it includes exploratory statistical analysis of the data, variogram modeling, creating the surface, and (optionally) exploring a variance surface. Kriging is most appropriate when you know there is a spatially correlated distance or directional bias in the data. The IDW (inverse distance weighted) and Spline interpolation tools are referred to as deterministic interpolation methods because they are directly based on the surrounding measured values or on specified mathematical formulas that determine the smoothness of the resulting surface.
From Wiki.GIS.com. Kriging is a group of statistical techniques to interpolate the value of a random field (e.g., the elevation, z, of the landscape as a function of the geographic location) at an unobserved location from observations of its value at nearby locations. Kriging belongs to the family of linear least squares estimation algorithms. As illustrated in Figure 1, the aim of kriging is to estimate the value of an unknown real-valued function, , at a point, , given the values of the function at some other points, .
[edit] General equations of kriging. Kriging is a group of statistical techniques to interpolate the value Z(x0) of a random field Z(x) (e.g. the elevation Z of the landscape as a function of the geographic location x) at an unobserved location x0 from observations of the random field at nearby locations. Kriging belongs to the family of linear least squares estimation algorithms. As illustrated in Figure 1, the aim of kriging is to estimate the value of an unknown real-valued function, , at a point, , given the values of the function at some other points, .