Upset at his father’s unrelenting misconception that he, Biff, was a salesman for Oliver, Biff plans to relieve Willy of his illusions. Willy enters, and Biff tries gently, at first, to tell him what happened at Oliver’s office. Willy blurts out that he was fired. Stunned, Biff again tries to let Willy down easily.
Biff steals because from a young age, Biff was not taught the difference between right and wrong or allusion versus reality. He was taught that it was okay to steal as long as success comes from the stealing.
Willy: You'll give him the answers!. This is another incident when Willy shows Biff that it is okay to cheat if it leads to success. Biff also feels as though the world owes him something, so when the people around him do not give him what he's owed, he steals from them to punish them in a passive aggressive manor.
Biff stole while growing up and he steals as an adult. He takes what he wants without hesitation. He blames his father for this habit because Willy did not punish him for stealing when he was young and instill in him a sense of integrity. Biff had gone to see Bill Oliver to pitch a deal and borrow money. Oliver keeps him waiting for hours, which Biff surely resented, and then dismisses him quickly.
Willy: You'll give him the answers!. This is another incident when Willy shows Biff that it is okay to cheat if it leads to success.   Biff also feels as though the world owes him something, so when the people around him do not give him what he's owed, he steals from them to punish them in a passive aggressive manor.
Biff steals because from a young age, Biff was not taught the difference between right and wrong or allusion versus reality. He was taught that it was okay to steal as l … ong as success comes from the stealing.
(Answer #3). Biff stole while he was younger and this habit continued as an adult. When he didn't know what to do he just felt like he HAD to steal something, this being Oliver's pen. When he stole the pen he came to the understanding that he is a thief.