Ecologix is growing fast and we're looking for Sales Engineers based out of our Alpharetta, GA office. The Sales Engineer must have a strong background in the water and wastewater treatment industries and a proven record of growing revenue in engineering/manufacturing organizations. Mechanical Design Engineer. Ecologix is seeking innovative, out-of-the-box thinking Mechanical Engineers to work at our Alpharetta, GA office. The Mechanical Engineering must have a strong background and working proficiency in 3D modeling software such as AutoCAD, Solid Edge, SolidWorks or equivalent.
It's free! Ecologix was founded over a decade ago with a simple vision: recruit the best people, acquire the best tools, provide an “A-class” working environment, and continually deliver value-added products to our clients, on-budget and on time. 
Use water spray to cool the surrounding area and to maintain fire temperature below decomposition temperature. SPECIAL FIRE FIGHTING PROCEDURES: Wear a NIOSH/MSHA approved self-contained breathing apparatus and full protective clothing. 
Project Manager. Ecologix is currently looking for a Project Manager located in our Alpharetta, GA office. The Project Manager is an individual that has extensive expertise with project delivery and methodology. Mechanical Design Engineer. Ecologix is seeking innovative, out-of-the-box thinking Mechanical Engineers to work at our Alpharetta, GA office. The Mechanical Engineering must have a strong background and working proficiency in 3D modeling software such as AutoCAD, Solid Edge, SolidWorks or equivalent.
Ecologix Resource Group, Inc. (OTCBB: EXRG) is a natural resource company focused on the growing, harvesting, and marketing of high quality timber and will pursue the production of alternative energy solutions. The Company manages a tropical hardwood forest in Cameroon, Africa. 
Ecologix™ Technologies. Ecologix Asia, a division of U.S. based Company Ecologix Technologies, Inc., manufactures some of the most advanced equipment for wastewater and water treatment plant currently available in the market. With over 30 years of extensive experience, research, and activities. Furthermore, Ecologix is dedicated of offer the best possible service to ensure that our products consistently meet the needs of our clients. Each and every requirement from the customer is regarded as a challenge that we respond with pioneering and economical solutions.
Editing. We offer copy editing and proofreading services of all types of documents and web content. We check spelling, word usage, grammar, punctuation, syntax, and word flow. Editing of manuscripts written by non-native English speakers is our speciality. 