1 (Or with gas grill, on grate with heat setting on medium/low.). 2  Baste the loin frequently and turn occasionally. 3  Roast for 3-1/2 hours or to 160°F on a meat thermometer. 4  After roasting, I transfer the basting sauce to a saucepan and thicken for gravy.
Cover the grill, and let the pork loin cook for about an hour. Check it after 30 minutes, inserting a probe thermometer to check the temperature. When the pork hits 150°F*, take it off the grill. Let it rest about 15 minutes, tented with foil.
4. Remove your pork tenderloin from the grill and let it rest for 15 minutes. Put your meat on a cutting board, or a platter, and cover with tin foil to let the meat rest before carving it up. It'll be much juicer and more tender if you let it sit for a couple of minutes.
Rub generously on the pork tenderloin. Brush the gas grill grates with vegetable oil with a pastry brush. Turn the grill on high for 10 to 15 minutes with the lid closed. After 15 minutes scrape the grill grates with a grill brush and reduce the temperature to a medium-high heat. Place the tenderloins on the grill and grill for about three minutes on each side. Check the temperature of the pork with a meat thermometer.
Check the temperature of the pork tenderloin using your meat thermometer. For a medium tenderloin, internal temperature should be 145 degrees Fahrenheit. For a 1 and 1/2 lb. tenderloin, cooking time is approximately 30 minutes.
Cook for roughly 7 minutes for a 2-pound tenderloin. Flip the tenderloin and grill the other side for 6 minutes. This provides an even sear and browning on both sides of the loin. Transfer the tenderloin to the indirect heat side of the grill, and finish cooking it for 5 minutes.
1 Pour sauce over loin. 2  Cover with foil. 3  Place pan on hot coals. ( 4 Or with gas grill, on grate with heat setting on medium/low.). 5  Baste the loin frequently and turn occasionally. 6  Roast for 3-1/2 hours or to 160°F on a meat thermometer. 7  After roasting, I transfer the basting sauce to a saucepan and thicken for gravy.