It can be defined as the use of biotechnical methods to modify the genetic material of living cells so they will produce new substances or perform new functions (5). It also refers to genetic engineering and genetic modification, or more generally to moving or transferring genetic material between sources. 
Modern Biotechnology Modern biotechnology refers to a number of techniques that involve the intentional manipulation of genes, cells and living tissue in a predictable and controlled manner to generate changes in the genetic make-up of an organism or produce new tissue. These discoveries laid the groundwork for the transition from traditional to modern biotechnology. They made it possible to produce desired changes in an organism through the direct manipulation of its genes in a controlled and less time-consuming fashion in comparison to traditional biotechnology techniques.
Biotechnology: Useful Notes on Traditional and Modern Biotechnology. Biotechnology deals with techniques of using live micro-organisms, plant or animal cells or their components or enzymes from organisms to produce products and processes (ser­vices) useful to human beings.
Traditional Biotechnology. Traditional biotechnology refers to a number of ancient ways of using living organisms to make new products or modify existing ones. In its broadest definition, traditional biotechnology can be traced back to human's transition from hunter-gatherer to farmer. As farmers, humans collected wild plants and cultivated them and the best yielding strains were selected for growing the following seasons. These discoveries laid the groundwork for the transition from traditional to modern biotechnology. They made it possible to produce desired changes in an organism through the direct manipulation of its genes in a controlled and less time-consuming fashion in comparison to traditional biotechnology techniques.
Traditional Biotechnology Traditional biotechnology refers to a number of ancient ways of using living organisms to make new products or modify existing ones. In its broadest definition, traditional biotechnology can be traced back to human's transition from hunter-gatherer to farmer. Traditional biotechnology uses old methods of using living organisms to change a product. Fermentation is a good example of traditional biotechnology. It uses yeast to change … grapes into wine. Using yeast to rise bread dough is another
Examples of these techniques include: recombinant DNA techniques (r DNA or genetic engineering), tissue culture and mutagenesis.   Traditional Biotechnology   Traditional biotechnology refers to a number of ancient ways of using living organisms to make new products or modify existing ones. In its broadest definition, traditional biotechnology can be traced back to human's transition from hunter-gatherer to farmer. Examples of Modern biotechnology are tissue culture, genetic engineering, recombinant DNA techniques, mutagenesis, drugs, antibiotics, monoclonol antibodies, antipyretics, analgesics, breeding, cloning etc.
Answer by Antoniopj24. Confidence votes 104. Modern Biotechnology Modern biotechnology refers to a number of techniques that involve the intentional manipulation of genes, cells and living tissue in a predictable and controlled manner to generate changes in the genetic make-up of an organism or produce new tissue. Traditional biotechnology uses old methods of using living organisms to change a product. Fermentation is a good example of traditional biotechnology. It uses yeast to change … grapes into wine. Using yeast to rise bread dough is another
Insulin crystals. Biotechnology is the use of living systems and organisms to develop or make products, or any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use (UN Convention on Biological Diversity, Art. 2). For example, one application of biotechnology is the directed use of organisms for the manufacture of organic products (examples include beer and milk products). Another example is using naturally present bacteria by the mining industry in bioleaching.
c) Traditional biotechnology is centered by active techniques which have great efficiency and accuracy. Modern biotechnology uses gene manipulation to passively engineer organism with high efficiency and accuracy. Discussion Board. 
Agricultural biotechnology is a range of tools, including traditional breeding techniques, that alter living organisms, or parts of organisms, to make or modify products; improve plants or animals; or develop microorganisms for specific agricultural uses. 