Add the red wine and reduce by half. Add the broth and cook until reduced by half. Whisk in the mustard and butter and cook for 30 seconds. Season with salt and pepper, to taste. Place each fillet on top of a crouton and spoon some of the sauce over. Heat oil in a large saute pan over medium heat. Add the onions and cook slowly until caramelized. Add the garlic and balsamic vinegar and cook for 2 minutes. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch baking pan a place a layer of potatoes on the bottom and season with salt and pepper. 
The dish comprises a beef tournedos (filet mignon), pan-fried in butter, served on a crouton, and topped with a hot slice of fresh whole foie gras briefly pan-fried at the last minute. The dish is garnished with slices of black truffle and finished with a Madeira demi-glace sauce. Tournedos Rossini is a French steak dish, perhaps created for the composer Gioachino Rossini by French master chefs Marie-Antoine Careme carême Or Adolphe, duglere dugléré Or By savoy Hotel Chef. auguste escoffier
Definition of TOURNEDOS. : a small fillet of beef usually cut from the tip of the tenderloin. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Our tournedos are ideal for quick sautes. Sautés cut from the large or small end of a whole, tenderloin they share the same rich taste and-fork tender texture as our filet. Mignons sometimes referred to as petite, filet tournedos are cut into-4 ounce. portions Sometimes referred to as petite filet, tournedos are cut into 4-ounce portions. The classic preparation calls for two tournedos per serving, each paired with a different sauce. When butterflied and pounded flat, these tournedos are ideal for dishes calling for beef scaloppine.
Filet mignon wrapped with bacon with assorted fruits and vegetables. Filet mignon (French for tender fillet or dainty fillet) is a steak cut of beef taken from the smaller end of the tenderloin, or psoas major of the beef carcass, usually a steer or heifer. 
Tournedos Rossini with foie gras and truffles with Madeira sauce. Tournedos Rossini is a French steak dish, perhaps created for the composer Gioachino Rossini by French master chefs Marie-Antoine Careme carême Or Adolphe, duglere dugléré Or By savoy Hotel Chef. auguste escoffier
The term filet mignon is a French derivative, the literal meaning is small (mignon) bone-less meat (filet). Cut from the small end of the beef tenderloin. Filet Mignon or Tenderloin Steak is a cut of meat that is considered the king of steaks because of its tender, melt in the mouth texture. They're the most tender steaks you can buy, though not the most flavorful. Also known as: Tenderloin Tournedos Chateaubriand Beef Medallion. Filet Fraud-Don't be fooled! Also known as mock tender steak, fish steak, chuck fillet steak, chuck tender steak, shoulder petit tender.
Filet mignon, tournedos, and Chateaubriand (we may as well add that to the list) all are cut from the tenderloin. The tenderloin is part of the short loin, from which come T-bone and porterhouse steaks–but let’s leave those last two aside. A Chateaubriand is just a double or triple filet mignon, cooked in one piece and served to two or more people. Tournedos Rossini at Commander’s Palace. The tournedos (that is both the singular and the plural form, pronounced “TOO-neh-doe”) comes from the narrow end of the tenderloin, right next door to the filet mignon.
The filet mignons are the three or four steaks cut from the center of the tenderloin. This is the best-looking part of the tenderloin, with the least extraneous trimmings. A Chateaubriand is just a double or triple filet mignon, cooked in one piece and served to two or more people. Tournedos Rossini at Commander’s Palace. The tournedos (that is both the singular and the plural form, pronounced “TOO-neh-doe”) comes from the narrow end of the tenderloin, right next door to the filet mignon.
Cut from the large or small end of a whole tenderloin, they share the same rich taste and fork-tender texture as our filet mignons. Sometimes referred to as petite filet, tournedos are cut into 4-ounce portions. The classic preparation calls for two tournedos per serving, each paired with a different sauce. When butterflied and pounded flat, these tournedos are ideal for dishes calling for beef scaloppine.