Location. This report describes the typical weather at the Cozumel International Airport (Cozumel, Mexico) weather station over the course of an average February. It is based on the historical records from 1991 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Over the course of February typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 17 mph (calm to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 24 mph (strong breeze). The highest average wind speed of 9 mph (gentle breeze) occurs around February 29, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 17 mph (moderate breeze).
Monterrey is located southwest of the southern point of Texas. The city can be considerably cooler than some other cities in Mexico, however it also can get quite hot. The average high temperature in January is 66 to 72 degrees, with low temperatures ranging from 34 to 40 degrees. The average lows during these two months is between 76 and 80 degrees. The coolest month in Mazatlan is January, when high temperature reach an average between 80 and 82 degrees and lows are 66 to 68 degrees.
Like January, February is also one of the coolest months in Riviera Maya, Mexico. During this time of year, the average temperature is 23°C, created by highs of 28°C and lows of 20°C. With eight hours of sunshine each day and an average sea temperature of 26°C, February is a great time to spend a few hours by the beach. There are around five rainy days throughout the month and the average humidity is high at 79%. Where to stay.
Average Temperatures in Mexico for February. The tables below list the average temperatures in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit for Mexico's cities in February. The temperatures are averages of weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for different regions of the country: Baja California, Northern Mexico, The Bajio, Central Mexico, Pacific Coast and Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula You can jump to a separate table for different regions of the country: Baja California, Northern Mexico, The Bajio, Central Mexico, Pacific Coast and Yucatan Yucatán. Peninsula temperatures here are for places in the states Of Baja california And Baja California sur in Northwest. mexico
Averages for Cancun in February. Weather lowdown. The weather hardly changes between January and February in Cancun, Mexico when the average temperature is a pleasant 23°C. During this month, lows of 20°C are common, rising up to 28°C at the warmest part of the day. At this time of the year, the resort enjoys nine hours of sunshine each day and an average sea temperature of 26°C, making it a wonderful month to spend a day at the beach. With an average of 14 rainy days throughout the ...
Mazatlan. Mazatlan, a southern Mexico city, experiences average highs of 90 to 92 degrees in July and August. The average lows during these two months is between 76 and 80 degrees. The coolest month in Mazatlan is January, when high temperature reach an average between 80 and 82 degrees and lows are 66 to 68 degrees.
Average Temperatures for New Mexico in February. Average temperatures for February at cities, towns, parks and lakes throughout New Mexico are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010 by the US National Climatic Data Center. 