A rise in the temperature of matter makes the particles vibrate faster. Thermal energy is what we call energy that comes from the temperature of matter. The hotter the substance, the more its molecules vibrate, and the therefore the higher its thermal energy. For example, a cup of hot tea has thermal energy in the form of kinetic energy from its vibrating particles. When you pour some milk into your hot tea, some of this energy is transferred from the hot tea to the particles in the cold milk. 
Thermal energy is the energy of motion of the atoms or molecules within a quantity of matter. Thus it is the energy associated with the temperature of matter. the energy that came into use by forcing or exciting the atoms using some process that involves heat is called as thermal energy. 
Microscopically, the thermal energy may include both the kinetic energy and potential energy of a system's constituent particles, which may be atoms, molecules, electrons, or particles. It originates from the individually random, or disordered, motion of particles in a large ensemble. Thermal energy would ideally be the amount of heat required to warm the metal to its temperature, but this quantity is not well-defined, as there are many ways to obtain a given body at a given temperature, and each of them may require a different amount of total heat input.
Thermal energy is not chemical energy. Thermal energy is the internal energy of a substance; the sum of the random kinetic energies and potential energies of all the particles (atoms) that make up the substance. Heat is the thermal energy that is transferred between two systems when at different temperatures. An isolated object may have thermal energy, but there is no heat in the formal sense of the word. When you rub your hands together, you do not generate heat because there is no temperature difference between your hands.
Thermal energy is the internal energy of an object due to the kinetic energy of its atoms and/or molecules. The atoms and/or molecules of a hotter object have greater kinetic energy than those of a colder one, in the form of vibrational, rotational, or, in the case of a gas, translational motion. While a hot object has greater thermal energy than a cold object of the same type (for example, a hot brick versus a cold brick), it is possible for a large cold object, such as a mountain lake, to have more thermal energy than a small hot object, such as a cup of boiling water.
The ultimate source of thermal energy available to mankind is the sun, the huge thermo-nuclear furnace that supplies the earth with the heat and light that are essential to life. The nuclear fusion in the sun increases the sun's thermal energy. Once the thermal energy leaves the sun (in the form of radiation) it is called heat. Heat is thermal energy in transfer. Thermal energy is part of the overall internal energy of a system. Read about the physics of thermal energy. At a more basic level, thermal energy comes from the movement of atoms and molecules in matter.
Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or system due to the movement of particles within the object or the system. Thermal energy is one of various types of energy, where ' energy ' can be defined as 'the ability to do work.' Work is the movement of an object due to an applied force. Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or a system due to the movement of particles within that object or system. Energy is simply the ability to do work, and work is accomplished when a force moves an object. In this context, a system is a collection of objects within a boundary, like a pot of water.
The sun produces thermal energy (heat energy) in the form of radiation. Thermal energy is heat energy in transfer. Heat is a form of energy. When heat it is in the process of being transfered, it is called thermal energy. At a more basic level, thermal energy comes form the movement of atoms and molecules in matter. It is a form of kinetic energy produced from the random movements of those molecules.
Because thermal energy is due to the movement of particles, it is a type of kinetic energy, which is the energy due to motion. Thermal energy results in something having an internal temperature, and that temperature can be measured-for example, in degrees Celsius or Fahrenheit on a thermometer. Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or a system due to the movement of particles within that object or system. Energy is simply the ability to do work, and work is accomplished when a force moves an object. In this context, a system is a collection of objects within a boundary, like a pot of water.