Confidence votes 359. Administrative Assistant-Performs administrative and office support activities for multiple supervisors. Duties may include fielding telephone calls, receiving and directing visitors, word processing, filing, and faxing. Some Administrative Assistants perform only the duties listed above. Others perform them along with their secretarial duties. Still others specialize in Finance, Marketing, Personnel, or Engineering, for example, and their title should clearly express their special area of concentration.
An administrative assistant basically assists their manager or boss  with whatever is needed. Duties can include preparing reports,  answering the phone, organizing the offi … ce, ordering supplies,  functioning as a receptionist, making travel arrangements and any  other duties you are asked to do by your boss. Some Administrative Assistants perform only the duties listed above. Others perform them along with their secretarial duties. Still others specialize in Finance, Marketing, Personnel, or Engineering, for example, and their title should clearly express their special area of concentration.
Secretaries and administrative assistants perform a variety of clerical and administrative duties that are necessary to run an organization efficiently. They use computer software to create spreadsheets, manage databases, and prepare presentations, reports, and documents. Executive secretaries and executive administrative assistants provide high-level administrative support for an office and for top executives of an organization. They often handle more complex responsibilities, such as reviewing incoming documents, conducting research, and preparing reports.
Secretaries and administrative assistants, except legal, medical, and executive is the largest subcategory of secretaries and administrative assistants. They handle an office’s administrative activities in almost every sector of the economy, including schools, government, and private corporations. Executive secretaries and executive administrative assistants provide high-level administrative support for an office and for top executives of an organization. They often handle more complex responsibilities, such as reviewing incoming documents, conducting research, and preparing reports.
Secretaries and administrative assistants perform a variety of clerical and administrative duties that are necessary to run an organization efficiently. They use computer software to create spreadsheets, manage databases, and prepare presentations, reports, and documents. What Secretaries and Administrative Assistants Do. Secretaries and administrative assistants perform routine clerical and administrative duties. They organize files, draft messages, schedule appointments, and support other staff.
Medical administrative assistants perform a variety of duties to aid in the efficient workflow and operations of a medical-related facility. A number of industries employ medical administrative assistants. Some typical duties are discussed in this article. Work Environment. Medical administrative assistants are employed in a variety of settings and their job duties vary depending on the employer. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov), over 50% of medical assistants worked for physicians' offices in 2012.
Commonly referred to as secretaries, administrative assistants perform a wide range of clerical duties that are essential for running an organization smoothly and efficiently. 
Medical assistant duties vary widely based on the type of medical assistant, the state a medical assistant is employed in, the employer’s industry, the number of other medical assistants working, and other factors. All of these factors combine to produce a specific medical assistant job description. 
Job Duties Administrative assistants perform clerical duties in nearly every industry. Some administrative assistants, like those in the legal industry, may be more specialized than others. Most administrative assistant duties revolve around managing and distributing information within an office. Specialized Administrative Assistant Duties Administrative assistants in some fields may be required to have extensive professional knowledge. Accordingly, duties for these assistants may be more specialized.
What Secretaries and Administrative Assistants Do. Secretaries and administrative assistants perform routine clerical and administrative duties. They organize files, draft messages, schedule appointments, and support other staff. Executive secretaries and executive administrative assistants provide high-level administrative support for an office and for top executives of an organization. They often handle more complex responsibilities, such as reviewing incoming documents, conducting research, and preparing reports.