Third-degree heart block is very serious and requires immediate care from your doctor. First-and second-degree heart block should be diagnosed by your physician, who will help you determine the best course of treatment, if any.
1 Type II second-degree heart block, also called Mobitz Type II—In this type of heart block, some of the electrical signals do not reach the ventricles. 2  This is less common, but more serious. 3  Third-degree, or complete, heart block—This is the most serious type of heart block.
First-degree heart block (also called first-degree AV block). The electrical impulses are slowed as they pass through the conduction system, but all of them successfully reach the ventricles. First-degree heart block rarely causes any symptoms or problems, and well-trained athletes may have this.
First-degree heart block may not cause any severe symptoms. Second-degree heart block may result in the heart skipping a beat or beats. This type of heart block also can make you feel dizzy or faint. Third-degree heart block limits the heart's ability to pump blood to the rest of the body.
First-degree atrioventricular (AV) block, or first-degree heart block, is defined as prolongation of the PR interval on an electrocardiogram (ECG) to more than 200 msec.
1 First-degree heart block—This is the mildest form of heart block. 2  In this case, the electrical signals from the SA node move more slowly than normal to the AV node, but all signals reach the ventricles. 3  There are usually no symptoms, and heartbeat and rhythm are normal.
There are 3 types of heart block, ranging from mild to serious: 1  First-degree heart block—This is the mildest form of heart block. 2  In this case, the electrical signals from the SA node move more slowly than normal to the AV node, but all signals reach the ventricles.
First-Degree Heart Block. In first-degree heart block, the heart's electrical signals are slowed as they move from the atria to the ventricles (the heart's upper and lower chambers, respectively). This results in a longer, flatter line between the P and the R waves on the EKG (electrocardiogram).