If the plastic you are using are hard in nature than PVC glue will work the best. It will not let go as long as the surface area being glued is substantial (a lap joint as aposed to a but joint). Gorilla glue is a strong glue, but it exspands when dried so the seams will show. Depends on the plastic, but if you go to a model shop they will sell plastic liquid glue. You brush this on with small paint brush or they sometimes have a brush built in the lid. This glue is by far the best for plastic models etc.
There are two ways in which a glue can work on plastics, depending on the plastic type. Conventional glues fill a very small gap between two parts and use surface roughness to grip. The bond strength therefore relies both on the strength of the bulk adhesive as well as how well it grips the surface. Thanks Greg Paarman I have had really good luck with a super glue type product called plastic surgery, it is probably a cousin or a varient of super glue. It is the best I have found by far. I have not had the best of luck with loctite products, actually rather disappointed with them.
Loctite Super Glue Gel Control has proven superior performance over ordinary super glues. It works faster and holds stronger on more surfaces than ordinary instant adhesives thanks to a patented additive. The gel formula works on a variety of porous and non-porous surfaces and is ideal for vertical applications. 
The Best Glue for Plastic: JB Weld PlasticWeld-This glue bonded nearly every material perfectly, with the exception of Teflon to itself (not surprising given the material’s use for its non-stick properties). Thanks Greg Paarman I have had really good luck with a super glue type product called plastic surgery, it is probably a cousin or a varient of super glue. It is the best I have found by far. I have not had the best of luck with loctite products, actually rather disappointed with them.
You can try using other ways to glue pieces of plastic together. A glue gun is actually the best way to handle with plastic. The hot glue gun provides hot glue therefore the plastic is able to stick permanent and well. But here's the catch, when you use a glue gun it actually leaves stains on your plastic. Depends on the plastic, but if you go to a model shop they will sell plastic liquid glue. You brush this on with small paint brush or they sometimes have a brush built in the lid. This glue is by far the best for plastic models etc.
for every job... Loctite® Super Glue is a fast bonding, super strength, instant adhesive with specially engineered formulas and applicators to bond virtually any material. Loctite Super Glue is ideal for small bonds that are subject to daily use and occasional harsh conditions. including yours. Loctite® Super Glue is a fast bonding, super strength, instant adhesive with specially engineered formulas and applicators to bond virtually any material. Loctite Super Glue is ideal for small bonds that are subject to daily use and occasional harsh conditions.
The Original Super Glue® is a name synonymous around the world with strength, quality, and durability. Original formula Super Glue forms the strongest bonds on clean breaks of non-porous material such as plastic, rubber, and metal, and once exposed to air it bonds instantly and sets in seconds. The success of The Original Super Glue® derives from both its strength and versatility.
Please try again later. The Loctite Super Glue Plastic Bonding System is great for bonding plastic-see it compared to regular super glue in this video! Learn more about the product: http://www.loctiteproducts.com/p/4/2/... 