Medical Definition of ALIMENTARY CANAL. : the tubular passage that extends from mouth to anus, functions in digestion and absorption of food and elimination of residual waste, and includes the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. Full Definition of ALIMENTARY CANAL. : the tubular passage that extends from mouth to anus and functions in digestion and absorption of food and elimination of residual waste. See alimentary canal defined for English-language learners.
Answer = Another name for the alimentary Canal is the  Gut.. The Alimentary Canal is the tube that runs through the body from the mouth to the anus, in which digestion of foo … d takes place. The structure of the epithelium varies in different parts of the alimentary canal, but it always contains cells which secrete mucus. 42833iem24lnq9k Beneath it is a layer of connective tissue called lamina propria, which means 'closest layer'. And beneath that is a layer of smooth muscle called the muscular is mucosa.
Human Alimentary Canal 1. The main part of the digestive system is the alimentary canal which consists of the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, small intestine and large intestine. 2. There are other organs associated with the alimentary canal to assist with digestion. These include the salivary glands, the pancreas, the liver and the gall bladder. V) Small intestine i) The small intestine is the longest section of the alimentary canal (about 6 metres) and consists of three segments forming a passage from the stomach to the large intestine.
• ALIMENTARY CANAL (noun). The noun ALIMENTARY CANAL has 1 sense: 1. tubular passage of mucous membrane and muscle extending about 8.3 meters from mouth to anus; functions in digestion and elimination. Familiarity information: ALIMENTARY CANAL used as a noun is very rare.
The structure of the human alimentary canal The alimentary canal is a long hollow tube which runs from the mouth to the anus .Together with several other organs, including th … e liver and the pancreas, it makes up the digestive system. The structure of the epithelium varies in different parts of the alimentary canal, but it always contains cells which secrete mucus. 42833iem24lnq9k Beneath it is a layer of connective tissue called lamina propria, which means 'closest layer'. And beneath that is a layer of smooth muscle called the muscular is mucosa.
Along the whole length of the alimentary canal there are muscles in the walls. These produce waves, of Contraction and relaxation called peristaltic waves, which move food along the alimentary canal and help to mix the contents. Each region of the alimentary canal has it own function and different structure. There are 4 basic layers in the wall of the alimentary canal. Working from the inside these are: a) the mucosa b) the submucosa c) the muscularis externa d) the serosa. The structure of the epithelium varies in different parts of the alimentary canal, but it always contains cells which secrete mucus. 42833iem24lnq9k Beneath it is a layer of connective tissue called lamina propria, which means 'closest layer'. And beneath that is a layer of smooth muscle called the muscular is mucosa.
Food enters the alimentary canal through the mouth or oral cavity. The functions of the oral cavity include analysis, mechanical processing, digestion and lubrication. The anatomy of the mouth includes the following features: Lips-protect the anterior opening of the mouth. The alimentary canal The Poo Machine (GI tract) is a continuous tube that winds and twists through the ventral body cavity. It is about 9 m (30 ft) in a cadaver but somewhat shorter in a living person. The organs that form the alimentary canal include:
In certain regions of the alimentary canal, the mucosa may perform one or all three of these functions. Digestive mucosa is made up of three sublayers: (1) a lining epithelium, (2) a lamina propria, and (3) a musclularis mucosae. The mucosa (also known as mucus membrane) is the innermost layer of tissue. It’s a moist epithilial membrane that lines the alimentary canal lumen from mouth to the anus. The mucosa has three major functions: 1  Secrete mucus, digestive enzymes, and hormones. 2  Absorb the end products of digestion into the blood.