Example of limited shoulder rotation. Arm should rotate to table. Glenohumeral Internal Rotation Deficit (GIRD) is the medical term for limited rotation in your shoulder. It has been identified in many baseball pitchers but in reality it is present in everyone. We all have limited forward rotation in one or both of our shoulders. GIRD is actually due to poor positioning of the shoulder blade and ultimately the shoulder joint which results in mechanical restrictions within the joint. Therefore the solution is to restore the position of the shoulder blade and thereby restore the normal mechanics within the shoulder.
Follow. Glenohumeral internal rotation deficit is a cause of shoulder pain in throwing athletes. It is most commonly seen in baseball players, although you can see it in high-level tennis players and other overhead athletes. But if the loss of internal rotation is significant, then GIRD is likely the cause of the patient’s pain and decreased performance. Treatment starts with physical therapy for stretching the posterior and inferior capsules.
The purpose of this study was to determine if glenohumeral internal rotation deficits (GIRD) exist in an asymptomatic population of professional pitchers, and to assess whether these changes are primarily a bony or soft tissue adaptation. GIRD Definitions and Measurement Several definitions of GIRD exist. According to Burkhart et al. (Burkhart et al., 2003b),GIRD is the loss in degrees of glenohumeral internal rotation of the throwing shoulder compared with the non-throwing shoulder.
Glenohumeral Internal Rotation Deficit (GIRD) was described in a 2003 landmark article in the Journal of Arthroscopy by Dr.’s Burhart, Morgan and Kibler. GIRD is the loss in degrees of glenohumeral internal rotation compared to the contralateral shoulder. Examination includes stabilizing the glenohumeral joint with anterior-posterior pressure on the joint in the supine position with the shoulder abducted at 90 degrees. Internal rotation is measured in degrees. GIRD: A Common Cause of Shoulder Pain. (1) This article not only defined the pathomechanics of GIRD but also showed a more accurate method to examine internal rotation of the shoulder.
The thrower's paradox. he thrower’s shoulder must be lax enough to allow excessive external rotation, but stable enough to prevent symptomatic humeral head subluxations, thus requiring a delicate balance between mobility and functional stability. Theories related to external rotation gain and GIRD include the presence of subtle microtrauma to the static and dynamic restraints of the glenohumeral joint from repetitive overhead throwing, contracture of the posteroinferior joint capsule, and osseous adaptation of the humerus.
GIRD is a common finding in asymptomatic professional pitchers, and is related to humeral retroversion. Thus internal rotation deficits should not be used as the sole screening tool to diagnose the disabled throwing shoulder. GIRD Definitions and Measurement Several definitions of GIRD exist. According to Burkhart et al. (Burkhart et al., 2003b),GIRD is the loss in degrees of glenohumeral internal rotation of the throwing shoulder compared with the non-
Glenohumeral Internal Rotation Deficit (GIRD) is a term used to describe to the apparent loss of shoulder internal rotation (IR) range of motion often seen in overhead throwing athletes. The loss of IR in the throwing shoulder is often accompanied by an increase in external rotation (ER) range of motion. 
The throwing shoulder must be mobile enough to allow the extremes of external rotation needed to throw a ball, but it is a delicate balance between mobility and stability that is needed to perform the demands of the overhead throwing motion without undue strain on the other structures of the shoulder joint. 
This patient has glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) with external rotation gain (ERG), which is often seen in asymptomatic throwers. However, the total arc of motion should equal 180 degrees, according to the total motion concept. Select Answer to see Preferred Response. The clinical presentation is consistent with GIRD which is treated with aggressive rehabilitation consisting of posterior capsular and cuff stretching.GIRD (glenohumeral internal rotation deficit) is now commonly recognized in throwing shoulders.