GWX.exe's description is  GWX . GWX.exe is digitally signed by Microsoft Windows. GWX.exe is usually located in the 'c:\Windows\winsxs\wow64_microsoft-windows-gwx_31bf3856ad364e35_6.1.7601.18804_none_18fdc1e9a139c989\' folder. None of the anti-virus scanners at VirusTotal reports anything malicious about GWX.exe
GWX.exe is the notification for Windows 10 free upgrades from Microsoft and it is not a malware, virus or trojan active files. The file are located at the System 32 folder C:\Windows\System32\GWX and it will run automatically when Windows started. To stop it just right click on the Taskbar and select Task Manager then right click on the GWX.exe and end process. Do the same for the GWXUX.exe as they are not needed at all the time.
GWX.exe is an actual Microsoft file-Windows 10 Update. Your problem is that it stands for 'Get Windows 10', and is a sales-hype program with a folder in SYSTEM32 called GWX. It is a system loader spy, reporting to microsoft the files, programs and drivers you load, and as such, will slow your computer down. Add Review for gwx.exe. If you don't know details about the file, you can easily check your file with our free tool. Download System Explorer. System Explorer is our freeware awards winning tool which provides easy way how to check all running processes via our database.
Important: Some malware camouflages itself as GWX.exe, particularly when located in the C:\Windows or C:\Windows\System32 folder. Therefore, you should check the GWX.exe process on your PC to see if it is a threat. We recommend Security Task Manager for verifying your computer's security. The file GWX.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Windows\System32. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 406,528 bytes (96% of all occurrences) or 392,704 bytes. There is an icon for this program on the taskbar next to the clock.
Process with filename gwx.exe can be Safe or Threat. You must define more file attributes to determine right rating. Our freeware awards winning tool provides easiest way to check your files via our database. Tool contains many useful functions for keep your system under control and uses minimum system resources. Add Review for gwx.exe. If you don't know details about the file, you can easily check your file with our free tool. Download System Explorer. System Explorer is our freeware awards winning tool which provides easy way how to check all running process
isatKU-GWx.exe is known as IsatKU and it is developed by BudhieOrgilz. We have seen about 1 different instances of isatKU-GWx.exe in different location. So far we haven't seen any alert about this product. If you think there is a virus or malware with this product, please submit your feedback at the bottom.
Turns out, this one belongs to a process called GWX.exe, and it is a part of Windows update KB3035583, which is deceptively labeled as an important one and preselected, intended to give Windows 7 and 8.X users an option to freely upgrade to Windows 10. Well, so far so good. 
GWX.exe file information. GWX.exe process in Windows Task Manager. The process known as GWX belongs to software Microsoft Windows Operating System by Microsoft (www.microsoft.com). Description: The original GWX.exe is an important part of Windows and rarely causes problems. The file GWX.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Windows\System32. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 406,528 bytes (96% of all occurrences) or 392,704 bytes. There is an icon for this program on the taskbar next to the clock. The GWX.exe file is a Windows core system file