Business Unit or BU refers to a division, facility or department of an organization. 1  Examples of business units include retail outlets and human resource department. 2  A business unit can perform a number of business functions.
2. Refers to a division, facility or department of an organization. Examples of business units include retail outlets and human resource department. A business unit can perform a number of business functions. (Source: Singapore Standard 540 - SS 540:2008). 3.
A logical element or segment of a company (such as accounting, production, marketing) representing a specific business function, and a definite place on the organizational chart, under the domain of a manager. Also called department, division, or a functional area.
An organization is often divided into business units, which are composed of divisions. Divisions, in turn, are composed of departments. However, not all organizations use this three-level hierarchy, and instead might have just departments and
Refers to a division, facility or department of an organization. Examples of business units include retail outlets and human resource department. A business unit can perform a number of business functions. (Source: Singapore Standard 540 - SS 540:2008).
Keep the following in mind when creating business units: 1  The organization (also known as the root business unit) is the top level of a Microsoft Dynamics CRM business unit hierarchy. 2  CRM automatically creates the organization when you install or provision CRM.
The company or subsidiary is a corporate body; the business units are the various parts comprising the entity. A business unit is a division, department or functional area within a company responsible for a specific corporate activity. Examples of business units which are a part of most companies, including subsidiaries, include accounting, marketing, human resources, sales and research and development.
When deciding on the business units for the organization, take a close look at the existing structure of the system. Examine the organizational elements (such as company codes, organization codes, and division codes) and relate them to business units.