Most of the human body consists of water, which is made from hydrogen and oxygen. The most abundant element in the body is oxygen. Steve Allen, Getty Images. Reference: Chang, Raymond (2007). Chemistry, Ninth Edition. McGraw-Hill. pp. 
(Because of its low atomic weight, even though 63% of the atoms in a body are Hydrogren, this equates to just 10% of the mass of a body). 99% of the mass of the human body is made up of the six elements: Oxygen, Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Calcium, and Phosphorus. 
Of the elements found in the human body, four of them make up the largest percentage of our body weight (96.2%). The four elements are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen. Before you start thinking we should float away with all the oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen atoms, remember that the oxgen molecules are mainly part of the water in our body (H 2 O). In fact, over half of the human body is made up of water (50-70%). Cite | Send.
Most of the human body is made up of water, H2O, with cells consisting of 65-90% water by weight. Therefore, it isn't surprising that most of a human body's mass is oxygen. Carbon, the basic unit for organic molecules, comes in second. 99% of the mass of the human body is made up of just six elements: oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, and phosphorus. 1  Oxygen (65%)
Compounds have many functions that encourage a human cell and a human body to function. Compounds are pure substances made up of atoms of two or more elements chemically combined together in fixed ratios determined by mass. Chemically, carbohydrates are organic molecules made up of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen and are produced by green plants in the process of undergoing photosynthesis. A carbohydrate can be broken down into four different chemical groups: monosaccharides, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, and polysaccharides.
Pie charts of typical human body composition by percent of mass, and by percent of atomic composition (atomic percent). Almost 99% of the mass of the human body is made up of six elements: oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, and phosphorus. Only about 0.85% is composed of another five elements: potassium, sulfur, sodium, chlorine, and magnesium. All are necessary to life. The average 70 kg adult human body contains approximately 7 x 10 27 atoms and contains at least detectable traces of 60 chemical elements. About 29 of these elements are thought to play an active positive role in life and health in humans.
The elemental composition of the human body can be looked at from the point of view of either mass composition, or atomic composition. To illustrate both views, the adult male human body is approximately 57% water, and water is 11% hydrogen by mass but 67% by count of atoms (i.e. 67 atomic percent). Thus, most of the mass of the human body is oxygen, but most of the atoms in the human body are hydrogen atoms. The average 70 kg adult human body contains approximately 7 x 10 27 atoms and contains at least detectable traces of 60 chemical elements. About 29 of these elements are thought to play an active positive role in life and health in humans.
Roughly 96 percent of the mass of the human body is made up of just four elements: oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen, with a lot of that in the form of water. The remaining 4 percent is a sparse sampling of the periodic table of elements. Oxygen (65%) and hydrogen (10%) are predominantly found in water, which makes up about 60 percent of the body by weight. It's practically impossible to imagine life without water.
The human body is one of the most complex and fascinating things on this planet. There are five major groups of compounds that compose the human body. These are carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleotides, and water. These compounds are all very important to humans and without them humans would not be able to survive. Chemically, carbohydrates are organic molecules made up of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen and are produced by green plants in the process of undergoing photosynthesis. A carbohydrate can be broken down into four different chemical groups: monosaccharides, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, and polysaccharides.