The Sespe Condor Sanctuary is a 53,000-acre (210 km 2) wildlife refuge in the Topatopa Mountains, in northeastern Ventura County, southern California. It is within the Sespe Wilderness in southern Los Padres National Forest. The United States Forest Service established the Sespe Condor Sanctuary in 1947 for the California condor, an endangered species which is the largest living bird in North America. For visitors, the sanctuary has a public-access corridor near Dough Flat.
History of MTY condors — some interesting facts about wild condors in Monterey County: 1  The first California Condor known to science was described from the shores of Monterey Bay in 1792. 2  Condors were once a regular part of the MTY avifauna. Eventually all of the last 27 wild condors were captured in hopes of captive breeding, the final one in April 1987. The captive breeding effort was successful: the world population was over 80 birds by the time of the first releases of captive-bred condors in January 1992 at the Sespe Condor Sanctuary, Ventura County.
Numbers rose through captive breeding and, beginning in 1991, condors were reintroduced into the wild. The California condor is one of the world's rarest bird species: as of October 2014 there are 425 condors living wild or in captivity. The condor is a significant bird to many Californian Native American groups and plays an important role in several of their traditional myths. The condor is a scavenger and eats large amounts of carrion. It is one of the world's longest-living birds, with a lifespan of up to 60 years. Condor numbers dramatically declined in the 20th century due to poaching, lead poisoning, and habitat destruction.
Its huge 3.0 m (9.8 ft) wingspan is the widest of any North American bird, and its weight of up to 12 kg (26 lb) nearly equals that of the trumpeter swan, the heaviest among native North American bird species. The condor is a scavenger and eats large amounts of carrion. It is one of the world's longest-living birds, with a lifespan of up to 60 years. Condor numbers dramatically declined in the 20th century due to poaching, lead poisoning, and habitat destruction.
Sorenson said that it's likely that condor #597 flew through Santa Cruz County. The birds also have been observed in rural Santa Clara County, east of Mount Hamilton, and in southern Alameda County. Today the California condor population has grown to 433. Of those, 238 live in the wild at Big Sur, Pinnacles, Southern California, Arizona, Utah and Mexico. The other 195 condors live in captivity, at places such as the Los Angeles Zoo.
The prehistoric California Condor — one of the world's great birds — is back in the skies of Monterey County. Prior to the recovery project, the last wild condor in Monterey County was seen 10 Dec 1980. That was when the entire world population, centered around Mt. Pinos in southern California, was on the brink of extinction. Eventually all of the last 27 wild condors were captured in hopes of captive breeding, the final one in April 1987. The captive breeding effort was successful: the world population was over 80 birds by the time of the first releases of captive-bred condors in January 1992 at the Sespe Condor Sanctuary, Ventura County.
Condors last nested in Monterey County in 1905. The Ventana Wilderness Sanctuary, a private non-profit group, began releasing captive-raised condors in January 1997. Condor pairs formed, found nest sites, laid eggs, and hatched wild young in Monterey County by 2006. Eventually all of the last 27 wild condors were captured in hopes of captive breeding, the final one in April 1987. The captive breeding effort was successful: the world population was over 80 birds by the time of the first releases of captive-bred condors in January 1992 at the Sespe Condor Sanctuary, Ventura County.
At a new wildlife hospital, the Oakland Zoo began treating wild condors last month. The last condor verified in San Mateo County was observed in 1904, one mile west of the Stanford University campus, by professor Harold Heath. Today the California condor population has grown to 433. Of those, 238 live in the wild at Big Sur, Pinnacles, Southern California, Arizona, Utah and Mexico. The other 195 condors live in captivity, at places such as the Los Angeles Zoo.
The first California condor released into Baja California, Mexico, as part of the California Condor Recovery Program was seen flying in San Diego County on April 5, 2007. The California condor population was almost wiped out by the destruction of habitat, poaching, and lead poisoning. In 1982, only 22 birds remained in the wild. San Diego Zoo Global was given permission to begin the first captive propagation program for California condors.
(Ventana Wildlife Society). Sending a jolt of excitement through biologists who are trying to bring one of America's most endangered species back from the brink of extinction, a California condor has been spotted in San Mateo County, the first since 1904. Today the California condor population has grown to 433. Of those, 238 live in the wild at Big Sur, Pinnacles, Southern California, Arizona, Utah and Mexico. The other 195 condors live in captivity, at places such as the Los Angeles Zoo.