The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu.
The most common virus is the common cold, which is actually caused by several different families of viruses. Even though you may experience upper-respiratory symptoms associated with a bacterial infection, most cases of the common cold are not caused by bacteria-which make antibiotics useless against them.
The belief that bacteria causes the common cold may stem from the fact that people with the common cold have symptoms that are similar to the symptoms experienced by a person with a sinus infection. Pain in the face, forehead or teeth will typically accompany a sinus infection, but not a cold.
Colds are caused by viruses, not bacteria (which means antibiotics are useless against colds). There are more than 200 cold-causing viruses. As many as half of colds are brought on by a special type of virus called a rhinovirus (from rhino, the Greek word for nose).
By Patsy Hamilton | Cold | Rating: Many people still think that bacteria causes the common cold and this is probably the reason that people still visit the doctor asking for antibiotics. Actually, people with the common cold have a viral infection of the upper respiratory system. With the common cold, symptoms are confined to areas above the neck.
Pneumonia can be caused by bacteria or viruses. However, the common cold virus does not cause pneumonia. If pneumonia occurred as a complication of a cold the most likely pathogen would be bacterial. The patient will be prescribed antibiotics.
Other Causes of the Common Cold. About 10% to 15% of adult colds are caused by viruses also responsible for other, more severe respiratory illnesses. The causes of 20%-30% of adult colds, presumed to be viral, remain unidentified. The same viruses that produce colds in adults appear to cause colds in children.