Aluminized Steel Sheets. Aluminized steel is carbon steel coated, through the hot-dip process, with an aluminum-silicon alloy. The aluminum coating provides resistance to high temperatures and a bright appearance. The silicon promotes better adherence of the coating to the base metal
Aluminized Steel Type 2, is a metallic jacketing recommended by CINI for the applications of hot/cold/sound insulation and weatherproofing. Hot-dip coated for exceptional metallurgy in accordance with ASTM A463/A463M T2 300, it gives Aluminized Steel Type 2 the combined advantage of steel and aluminum. The rate of attack is governed by the cathode/anode area ration. Aluminized Steel Type 2 is a commercially pure aluminum. It is intended principally for use in applications requiring corrosion resistance.
Some of the common products made from aluminized steel include water heaters, ranges, furnaces, space heaters and grills. Stainless steel is also used in the manufacture of many things like kitchen utensils, cookware, storage tanks and even in the construction industry. Aluminized steel vs Stainless steel. Steel comes in many varieties and each of them has very specific features and qualities. Let us look at Aluminized steel and stainless steel. The first thing to talk about is the economical aspect of these two varieties of steel.
Aluminized steel is made by coating steel with aluminum and silicon at high temperatures that cause it to diffuse into the steel creating an intermetallic layer above the steel base layer, but below the outside aluminum coating. 
Aluminized steel is basically steel that has been specially treated with an aluminum coating to make it stronger and more durable. Many manufacturers claim that it has all the best qualities of both aluminum and steel — it’s durable, largely heat-resistant, and doesn’t corrode under most normal circumstances. 
409 Aluminized Stainless Steel. Type 409 Aluminized is a ferritic stainless steel that is dipped in an aluminum coating. This alloy was developed for car exhaust systems and therefore possesses great corrosion and oxidation resistance as well as superior formability properties. 409 aluminized stainless steel is specifically used in car and truck exhaust systems for its ability to resist pitting corrosion from road salt, to resist muffler corrosion, to reduce red rust, and to provide oxidation resistance.
Aluminized steel is steel that has been hot-dip coated both sides with aluminum-silicon alloy (5%-11%). This process assures a tight metallurgical bond between the steel sheet and its aluminum coating, producing a material with a unique combination of properties possessed neither by steel nor by aluminum alone. 
A: Aluminized steel resists fire, heat, corrosion, and oxidation. It’s used in many applications, such as weather shielding and exhaust systems. Steel is hot-dipped in an aluminum solution, which provides aluminum qualities on the surface of the cheaper and stronger steel base metal. 
Aluminized steel is steel that has been hot-dip coated on both sides with aluminium-silicon alloy. This process assures a tight metallurgical bond between the steel sheet and its aluminium coating, producing a material with a unique combination of properties possessed neither by steel nor by aluminium alone. Aluminized steel has the ability to maintain its strength at temperatures up to 677 °C (1,251 °F). Although stainless steel is the stronger of the two, aluminized steel has a greater electrostatic surface, and can therefore reflect heat better.