It refers to Robert Frost's poem Nothing Gold Can Stay and has a profound impact on Johnny, who relates it to his own imperiled youth. Later, as he is on his deathbed, Johnny's last words are, Stay gold, Ponyboy. Stay gold..... Here is the text of the poem: Nature's first green is gold, Her hardest hue to hold. it means that when all things start out as gold since it is natures first hue for example a child, everyone is a child at some point and that “ nothing gold can stay” is saying that no one is a child forever and that you should cherish your childhood fully and make the most out of it.
Lesson Summary. Robert Frost's 1923 poem 'Nothing Gold Can Stay' explores the idea that nothing good or precious can last forever by using nature and The Garden of Eden as metaphors for cycles of life and death and the loss of innocence. Below is the full text of the poem for your reference: Nature's first green is gold, Her hardest hue to hold. Her early leaf's a flower; But only so an hour. Then leaf subsides to leaf. So Eden sank to grief, So dawn goes down to day, Nothing gold can stay. In this poem, Frost explains that nothing, especially that which is perfect and beautiful, can last forever
The poem Nothing Gold Can Stay by Robert Frost goes as follows: Natures First Green is Gold, Her hardest hue to hold. Her early leaf's a flower; But only so an hour. … Then leaf subsides to leaf. So Eden sank to grief, So dawn goes down to day. Nothing Gold Can Stay is a poem by Robert Frost used in S.E.  Hinton's novel The Outsiders to explain how nothing can stay  young, and new, and bright, and innocent. Lik … e Ponyboy, the rest of  the Outsiders, and the Socs can't stay young and hopeful and  innocent forever. Answered.
So dawn goes down to day. Nothing gold can stay. explores the idea that happiness, perfection, bliss (all symbolized by gold) cannot and will not endure. The apparent paradox of line 1 is based on the fact that when buds appear in the spring, their first color is gold rather than green. it means that when all things start out as gold since it is natures first hue for example a child, everyone is a child at some point and that “ nothing gold can stay” is saying that no one is a child forever and that you should cherish your childhood fully and make the most out of it.
Frost's poem celebrates the purity of life at its beginning (nature's first green is gold), and laments its impermanence (nothing gold can stay). When Johnny tells Ponyboy to stay gold, he is referring to the innocence the greasers once had in common as children. it means that when all things start out as gold since it is natures first hue for example a child, everyone is a child at some point and that “ nothing gold can stay” is saying that no one is a child forever and that you should cherish your childhood fully and make the most out of it.
Nothing Gold Can Stay is hard to describe in a nutshell, because, well, it's somewhat of a nutshell in itself. It demonstrates one of the main reasons why its writer, Robert Frost, was able to create so many enduring poems: he had a knack for summing up the whole world in a few elegant little lines. Short enough that it's easy to memorize, and hard to forget to begin with, Nothing Gold Can Stay covers everything from a tiny leaf, to the cycle of the sun, to the Garden of Eden, in only eight lines.
How is “Nothing Gold Can Stay,” the Robert Frost poem that Ponyboy recites to Johnny at the church, relevant to Ponyboy and Johnny’s story? “Nothing Gold Can Stay” offers Ponyboy and Johnny a way to understand their lives; it gives the boys a framework for the traumatic events of their story. 
Nothing Gold Can Stay is a poem by Robert Frost, written in 1923, and published in the Yale Review in October of that year. It was later published in the collection New Hampshire (1923; copyright renewed 1951) that earned Frost the 1924 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. 