Since the term mimis is predominantly used within the Hispanic culture, it is most likely derived from the Spanish language. Through baby talk, dormir underwent a form of clipping and reduplication. In dormir, mi is the stressed syllable and the difficult d and r sounds are removed. 
Mimi. Mimis are fairy-like beings of Arnhem Land in the folklore of the Indigenous Australians of northern Australia. They are described as having extremely thin and elongated bodies, so thin as to be in danger of breaking in case of a high wind. To avoid this, they usually spend most of their time living in rock crevices.
Mimi /mi-mi/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MEE-mee. It is of French origin. Pet name for Marilyn or Miriam. Also used as a Spanish pet name for Mira, Maria, and Noemi. First used by parents after the appearance of Puccini's famous opera La Boh me and its tragic heroine Mimi. Actress Mimi Rogers. 
The name Mimi is of French origin, and it means Diminutive form of any name beginning with m . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
The name Mimi is like the word mami in Hebrew meaning sweet. The reason it means sweet is because it comes from the Hebrew word Marar which is the sweet herb eaten at a Passov … er seder. Some claim the name Mimi also means bitter. Mimi also means 'baby' in Chez. 
Mimi. Mimis are fairy-like beings of Arnhem Land in the folklore of the Indigenous Australians of northern Australia. They are described as having extremely thin and elongated bodies, so thin as to be in danger of breaking in case of a high wind.
In the opera, Mimi the Parisian seamstress and heroine is famous for her line ' Mi chiamano Mimi' meaning 'They call me Mimi'. In addition, Mimi is a diminutive form (Italian) of Maria. Mimi is also a diminutive form of the name Marilyn (English). Mimi is also a variation (English, German, and Italian) of the name Mary (English). Mimi is also a diminutive form (English and French) of the name Miriam (English, French, German, Yiddish, and Hebrew). Mimi is also a variation (French) of the name Wilhelmina (Dutch, English, German, and Polish). 
The name Mimi is like the word mami in Hebrew meaning sweet. The reason it means sweet is because it comes from the Hebrew word Marar which is the sweet herb eaten at a Passov … er seder. Some claim the name Mimi also means bitter. Mimi also means 'baby' in Chez. 
Mimi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Mi-mi. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5373 in baby name popularity for girls with 25 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Mimi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mimi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mimi to other names. Mimi is a diminutive (nickname) of Maria.
The name Mimi is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mimi is: Resolute. Hebrew Meaning: The name Mimi is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Mimi is: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. French Meaning: The name Mimi is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Mimi is: Form of Williamina. Spanish Meaning: The name Mimi is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Mimi is: Mira; Maria and Noemi.