Generally both inventors and entrepreneurs are able to come up with new ideas, and share some common characteristics, however, the key difference is that inventors are usually focused on the tangible invention, while entrepreneurs are more focused on the business opportunity. 
An innovation is a new idea that is put into valuable or profitable action. An innovation can be created by an inventor who then licenses her invention to others to commercialize, or commercializes the concept herself as a small business person-in this case as an entrepreneur. Another thing-having been a founder in a start-up, most entrepreneurs don't need or want a lot of help from an innovation perspective. They are betting the farm on their one great idea. For them, its all a matter of execution to bring that one idea to life, and then successfully scaling that idea.
Entrepreneur vs Inventor. Entrepreneur is a French word that has come to mean a person who takes the initiative and starts or sets up a business. He is the person who assumes all risks and organizes and operates the business. An inventor is someone who first thinks of a novel idea. However, not all great ideas are turned into useful products or services for the society, and it takes an entrepreneur to convert the idea of an inventor into something of value thus generating profits for the entrepreneur.
First, the definitions. An entrepreneur is a person who starts a new business. That's not necessarily innovative, but it can create new jobs and new wealth, so it is valuable. Sometimes, entrepreneurs create new businesses based on new ideas, either inventions or new innovations. Another thing-having been a founder in a start-up, most entrepreneurs don't need or want a lot of help from an innovation perspective. They are betting the farm on their one great idea. For them, its all a matter of execution to bring that one idea to life, and then successfully scaling that idea.
Entrepreneur-A person who has the ability to recognize a need/deficiency, ability to differentiate between a useful need and an idea that can be a successful business, design a solution, use his/her drive and ambition to implement the solution, and then profit from that solution to the desired level of the entrepreneur. An entrepreneur is a person. Entrepreneurship is the act of being an entrepreneur. Joe is an entrepreneur. Joe's success is attributable to his entrepreneurship.
The difference between innovation, invention and entrepreneurs. After all I read on the blogs and on Twitter, and all the new innovation programs and initiatives in state and local governments, I feel the need to revisit the definitions of these key words. Another thing-having been a founder in a start-up, most entrepreneurs don't need or want a lot of help from an innovation perspective. They are betting the farm on their one great idea. For them, its all a matter of execution to bring that one idea to life, and then successfully scaling that idea.
by olivia. Entrepreneur vs Inventor. Entrepreneur is a French word that has come to mean a person who takes the initiative and starts or sets up a business. He is the person who assumes all risks and organizes and operates the business. He is also one to enjoy the fruits of an opportunity that he sees in the market. An inventor is someone who first thinks of a novel idea. However, not all great ideas are turned into useful products or services for the society, and it takes an entrepreneur to convert the idea of an inventor into something of value thus generating profits for the entrepreneur.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An Entrepreneur is someone who starts up a business and has all the necessary resources to implement his/her business idea. However Inventor is someone actually creates something new for the society and/or world as a whole. An entrepreneur is a person. Entrepreneurship is the act of being an entrepreneur. Joe is an entrepreneur. Joe's success is attributable to his entrepreneurship.
Follow Business Insider: There's a fundamental difference between an innovator and an inventor, writes digital entrepreneur Tom Grasty in a great column over at MediaShift Idea Lab. Invention is the creation of a product or introduction of a process for the first time.. Thomas Edison was an inventor. 