The average cost of prescription drugs in 2007 was just under $70. That includes both brand name and generic. The average cost of generic prescription drugs in 2007 was only about $35, but brand name prescription drug costs averaged almost $120. This average is based upon a one-month supply. People with no insurance coverage pay full price
After dropping during the recession, drug prices have reignited in the past four years, returning to growth rates of a decade ago. In 2012, prescription drug prices rose 3.6%, twice the 1.7% inflation rate, Bureau of Economic Analysis data show. The trend is in sharp contrast to other health costs. Prices for a doctor's visit, lab test and nursing home room all fell below the rate of inflation for the past two years. What's driving drug costs up: brand-name drugs paid for by insurance and often heavily advertised. The top-selling drugs reflect the strategy of the $310 billion annual drug industry: No. 1 Nexium, a heartburn drug, had a 7.8% price hike to a $262 average prescription in the first nine months of 2012, IMS Health reports. No. 2 Abilify, for bipolar disorder, increased 10.4% to $642 per prescription
Each medication works to block and slow HIV’s progression. These medication prices are an average of estimated costs for both brand name and generic medications. These costs do not take into account any expense covered by health insurance or prescription drug insurance. 
Add an average of $11.34 per prescription for overhead -- the latest available figure, from 2012 -- and the pharmacy's cost is $12.23. Overhead is 93 percent of the cost. Pharmacy Costs. In May 2015, for example, a pharmacy's wholesale cost for simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, averaged 2.955 cents per 10 mg. pill, or just under 89 cents for a 30-day prescription.
1 For patients without health insurance, diabetes medication costs $200 to $500 or more a month for a multi-drug regimen that could include other classes of oral medications, including newer medications such as the brand name Januvia, or injectable medications such as the brand name Byetta. 1 The American Diabetes Association has a guide to Medicare and diabetes prescription drug benefits. 2  For patients covered by insurance, typical out-of-pocket costs consist of a prescription drug copay ranging from $10 to $50, depending on the drug.
Finding the best price for your own prescription is easier -- if you know where to look. Medicaid tracks average retail drug prices to help the states price their Medicaid drugs. In July 2013, Medicaid stopped tracking the price tags for patients, but it still tracks how much community pharmacies pay for medicines. This National Average Drug Acquisition Cost survey, or NADAC, is published once a week. Pharmacy Costs. In May 2015, for example, a pharmacy's wholesale cost for simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, averaged 2.955 cents per 10 mg. pill, or just under 89 cents for a 30-day prescription.
More important, the costs of high-priced drugs are being passed on to patients. Lilly’s drug Cyramza will cost the average Medicare patient $2,600 per month without supplemental insurance. That’s more than most Medicare-age people earn each month, before taxes. Actually, high prices get passed on to us all, either through individual costs or insurance. That leaves us with two options. ELI LILLY charges more than $13,000 a month for Cyramza, the newest drug to treat stomach cancer. The latest medicine for lung cancer, Novartis’s Zykadia, costs almost $14,000 a month.
For members with high-deductible health insurance policies, who usually pay the cost of prescription drugs themselves, the site compares the retail prices for the drug you select at several local and mail-order pharmacies. Rxaminer is a great way to find generic alternatives, as well as other brand-name drugs in the same category that provide similar effect. Even if your drug doesn't have a generic version, you still can save a lot of money by switching to another brand-name drug (Rxaminer says the average annual saving per drug is $524).