chromatic aberration. n. 1. (Astronomy) a defect in a lens system in which different wavelengths of light are focused at different distances because they are refracted through different angles. 
Chromatic Aberration. A lens will not focus different colors in exactly the same place because the focal length depends on refraction and the index of refraction for blue light (short wavelengths) is larger than that of red light (long wavelengths). The amount of chromatic aberration depends on the dispersion of the glass
Chromatic aberration (also known as color fringing or dispersion) is a common problem in lenses which occurs when colors are incorrectly refracted (bent) by the lens, resulting in a mismatch at the focal point where the colors do not combine as they should. The good news is that if you are stuck working with a lens that exhibits some form of visible chromatic aberration there are several easy-to-understand strategies which can help you to remove or minimize the visible effect of it in your photos.
Chromatic aberration as it relates to photography is also known as fringing. The cause and effect of chromatic aberration deals directly with the scientific engineering of the lens that you’re using on your camera. But first, here is a photo with chromatic aberration: 
Types [edit]. There are two types of chromatic aberration: axial (longitudinal), and transverse (lateral). Axial aberration occurs when different wavelengths of light are focused at different distances from the lens, i.e., different points on the optical axis (focus shift). In some circumstances it is possible to correct some of the effects of chromatic aberration in digital post-processing. However, in real-world circumstances, chromatic aberration results in permanent loss of some image detail.
In optics, chromatic aberration (CA, also called achromatism, chromatic distortion, and spherochromatism) is an effect resulting from dispersion in which there is a failure of a lens to focus all colors to the same convergence point. In some circumstances it is possible to correct some of the effects of chromatic aberration in digital post-processing. However, in real-world circumstances, chromatic aberration results in permanent loss of some image detail.
Chromatic Aberration. Chromatic aberrations are wavelength-dependent artifacts that occur because the refractive index of every optical glass formulation varies with wavelength. When white light passes through a simple or complex lens system, the component wavelengths are refracted according to their frequency
Chromatic aberration is caused by lens dispersion, with different colors of light travelling at different speeds while passing through a lens. As a result, the image can look blurred or noticeable colored edges (red, green, blue, yellow, purple, magenta) can appear around objects, especially in high-contrast situations. Here is an example of longitudinal chromatic aberration that is visible at different distances: NIKON D3S + 35mm f/1.4 @ 35mm, ISO 200, 1/320, f/1.4. Note the green color on the top of the image, transforming to neutral in the middle, then becoming purple on the bottom part of the image that is closer to the camera.
When it originates in the lens, chromatic aberration is caused by a lens having a different refractive index for different wavelengths of light. Because each hue in the spectrum is not focused at a single point, colored halos or fringing appears. 
By Nasim Mansurov 31 Comments. Chromatic Aberration, also known as “color fringing” or “purple fringing”, is a common optical problem that occurs when a lens is either unable to bring all wavelengths of color to the same focal plane, and/or when wavelengths of color are focused at different positions in the focal plane. Here is an example of longitudinal chromatic aberration that is visible at different distances: NIKON D3S + 35mm f/1.4 @ 35mm, ISO 200, 1/320, f/1.4. Note the green color on the top of the image, transforming to neutral in the middle, then becoming purple on the bottom part of the image that is closer to the camera.