That's only to produce one colour-a seriolithograph is more colours, ergo more stones. Like anything else though, you get what you pay for. In words of one syllable: artist-produced lithos are worth more than artist-produced silkscreens. 
j Paul PFG, Picture Framing God. My understanding of the term Seriolithograph, having sat in on one of the cruise auctions with Park West Gallery is that it is a combination method of printing. That is, it is both a Serigraph and a Lithograph. The cert stated the art was A Seriolithograph on wove paper. Looked like just a poster on heavy stock paper to me. I looked in Kistler's book on mounting to see if it was OK to drymount a Seriolithograph.
This Site Might Help You. RE: When purchasing a seriolithograph, what does it mean to be &quot;numbered on verso?&quot;? I am about to purchase a seriolithograph from someone who purchased it from a Park West Gallery auction, it has an certificate of authenticity but no apparent number or signature. Yet the print is appraised for a few hundred dollars. I'm not sure if this is a limited edition or not. Follow. 
If you were to compare like with like-say the artist doing two types of prints of the same thing, alone (no assistants, and no professional service physically setting and pulling the prints), and the number of prints produced was the same, then, a seriolithograph would be worth more. 
Making a Lithograph. To create lithographs, artists use special water-resistant drawing tools, most often litho chalks (also known as litho crayons), as well as litho pens and even brushes for use with melted litho ink. Lithography's History. Lithography was invented in Germany in the late 1700s by Alois Senefelder, a writer who sought a way to print his own works.
Full Definition of LITHOGRAPHY. 1. : the process of printing from a plane surface (as a smooth stone or metal plate) on which the image to be printed is ink-receptive and the blank area ink-repellent. 2. : the process of producing patterns on semiconductor crystals for use as integrated circuits. See lithography defined for English-language learners.
“[Krasnyansky’s] art is characterized by dualities; old world and new, history and imagination, hazy architectural forms and sharply defined performers, subtle tonalities and intense primary colors. His scenes of old Europe juxtapose against his highly imaginative, harlequin-like figures floating in space. 
The term seriolithograph is used by Park West Gallery, a major publisher of graphic editions. The term is used to distinguish a form of hybrid fine art printing technique. Seriolithographs are a combination of lithography (offset, stochastic, photo-mechanical or continuous tone) with serigraphy, a fine art stencil printing technique. Although the term is used by Park West Gallery most commonly, Park West is not the only gallery that publishes or represents these types of hybrid prints. Fine art prints of this type are published by numerous artists and publishers worldwide, and are widely accepted and collected.
Evolution of the Seriolithograph. By combining the intricate detail obtained through lithography with the rich colors and textures created through serigraphy, the seriolithograph is quickly emerging as the ideal technique for superior reproductions of paintings. Lithography's History. Lithography was invented in Germany in the late 1700s by Alois Senefelder, a writer who sought a way to print his own works.