In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the pollen and the embryo sac. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half. In flowering plants, the sporophyte comprises the whole multicellular body except the pollen and embryo sac. Bryophytes (mosses, liverworts and hornworts) have a dominant gametophyte phase on which the adult sporophyte is dependent for nutrition.
Lesson Summary. 1  All plants have a life cycle with alternation of generations. 2  In nonvascular plants, the gametophyte generation is dominant. 3  In vascular plants, the sporophyte generation is dominant. 4  In seed plants, the gametophyte generation takes place in a cone or flower, which forms on the mature sporophyte plant. The flower in Figure above is obviously an innovation in the angiosperm life cycle. Flowers form on the dominant sporophyte plant. They consist of highly specialized male and female reproductive organs. Flowers produce spores that develop into gametophytes.
A multicellular gametophyte, which is haploid with n chromosomes, alternates with a multicellular sporophyte, which is diploid with 2 n chromosomes, made up of n pairs. A mature sporophyte produces spores by meiosis, a process which reduces the number of chromosomes to half, from 2 n to n. Land plants all have heteromorphic (anisomorphic) alternation of generations, in which the sporophyte and gametophyte are distinctly different. All bryophytes, i.e. liverworts, mosses and hornworts, have the gametophyte generation as the most conspicuous. As an illustration, consider a monoicous moss.
The Life Cycle of an Angiosperm. The life of an angiosperm alternates between diploid sporophyte and gametophyte generations. The angiosperm's male flowering parts, also called anthers, contains millions of microsporocytes. Microsporocytes divide through a process called meiosis to produce haploid microspores. 
Some angiosperms are imperfect, having either microsporangia or megasporangia but not both. 1  Monoecious plants have both types of imperfect flower on the same plant. 2  Dioecious plants have imperfect flowers on separate plants; that is, some plants are male, some female. 1 Dioecious plants have imperfect flowers on separate plants; that is, some plants are male, some female. 2  Examples include willows, poplars, and the date palm. 3  Most dioecious plants use an X-Y system of of sex determination like that in mammals [ Link ].
Gymnosperms. Gymnosperms are one of the two groups of seed plants. The flowering plants (angiosperms), are the other. In going from mosses and ferns to the seed plants, we see a very significant difference in plant life cycles. In mosses and ferns the propagating units for new individuals are spores. A major distinction we can make between seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) and the non-seed plants (mosses and ferns) is that seed plants are heterosporous and non-seed plants are homosporous.
1 All plants have a life cycle with alternation of generations. 2  Plants alternate between diploid sporophyte and haploid gametophyte generations, and between sexual reproduction with gametes and asexual reproduction with spores. 3  In nonvascular plants, the gametophyte generation is dominant. The flower in Figure above is obviously an innovation in the angiosperm life cycle. Flowers form on the dominant sporophyte plant. They consist of highly specialized male and female reproductive organs. Flowers produce spores that develop into gametophytes.
Gymnosperms, therefore, as exemplified by pine trees, are heterosporous. A major distinction we can make between seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) and the non-seed plants (mosses and ferns) is that seed plants are heterosporous and non-seed plants are homosporous.
Young sporophytes of the common moss Tortula muralis. In mosses, the gametophyte is the dominant generation, while the sporophytes consist of sporangium-bearing stalks growing from the tips of the gametophytes. A sporophyte (/spɔːroʊˌfaɪt/) is the diploid multicellular stage in the life cycle of a plant or alga. In flowering plants, the sporophyte comprises the whole multicellular body except the pollen and embryo sac. Bryophytes (mosses, liverworts and hornworts) have a dominant gametophyte phase on which the adult sporophyte is dependent for nutrition.