702-414-1000. The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino is a luxury hotel and casino resort situated between Harrah's and The Palazzo on the east side of the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, NV, United States, on the site of the old Sands Hotel. The hotel tower contains 40 stories and rises 475 feet. It is connected by the free Mandalay Bay Tram to its sister properties, Excalibur and Luxor.. Unique features of the Mandalay Bay hotel: Shark Reef, 11-acre tropical beach, House of Blues, 4-story tall wine rack with 10,000 wine bottles at Aureole Bar.
The distance from Mandalay Bay to Venetian is 2.04 miles (3.28 kilometers) in straight line. Walking at a normal rate of 3 miles per hour in a straight line, it would take 41 minutes between Mandalay Bay and Venetian. Driving or taking a bus or cab to Venetian might be a better use of your limited time in Las Vegas, unless you have certain things you want to see or do along the way.
Mandalay Bay has 3,309 hotel rooms, 24 elevators and a casino of 135,000 square feet (12,500 m 2). Adjacent to the hotel are the 1,000,000 square feet (93,000 m 2) Mandalay Bay Convention Center and the 12,000-seat Mandalay Bay Events Center. The Mandalay Bay Tram connects the resort to its sister properties, Excalibur and Luxor, all three of which were constructed by Circus Circus Enterprises before its sale to MGM.
The distance from Venetian to Mandalay Bay is 2.04 miles (3.28 kilometers) in straight line. It is connected by the free Mandalay Bay Tram to its sister properties, Excalibur and Luxor.. Unique features of the Mandalay Bay hotel: Shark Reef, 11-acre tropical beach, House of Blues, 4-story tall wine rack with 10,000 wine bottles at Aureole Bar.
I've stayed at all three and for your moneys worth, The Venetian is the best bet. Mandalay Bay is the FARTHEST end of the strip (south strip). It's extremely inconvenient to get around to other (worthwhile) properties from there. The Venetian has the LARGEST standard rooms by far at 650 square feet for a King bed room, and 720 square feet for a Queen beds room and generally rates do not get as expensive as Bellagio even though the rooms are MUCH nicer at The Venetian.
Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino is a 43-story luxury hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada, owned and operated by MGM Resorts International. The Mandalay Bay Tram connects the resort to its sister properties, Excalibur and Luxor, all three of which were constructed by Circus Circus Enterprises before its sale to MGM.
I would say that Wynn, Bellagio and Venetian are all very similar in that they all have everything you would expect from a 5 Star hotel. Mandalay Bay, while still a beautiful place is probably a notch down from the other 3 when it comes to a pure service stand point. If you really want pampering, Wynn would be the best choice with MB last. Venetian has the biggest rooms with a large seating area with Bellagio having the smallest standard room of the bunch. If you want a fun pool with the most gawking opportunities, Mandalay Bay wins hands down.
Wynn and Venetian are really at one end of the strip and Mandalay Bay is at the other end with the Bellagio right in the middle. What a pleasant choice you have to make ... Can't go wrong with any of them. If you really want pampering, Wynn would be the best choice with MB last. Venetian has the biggest rooms with a large seating area with Bellagio having the smallest standard room of the bunch. If you want a fun pool with the most gawking opportunities, Mandalay Bay wins hands down.