Symptoms of the flu usually develop suddenly, about three days after being exposed to the virus. They include fever, chills, cough, sore throat, runny nose, and soreness … and aching in the back, arms and legs. + 73 others found this useful. Mary E Ramos. 
Report Abuse. The stomach bug is contagious for up to 14 days later. You can only catch it by ingesting it through the mouth, not by simply breathing around him or touching him. If he throws up be careful because there are droplets of it in the air that you might ingest. My boyfriend had a stomach bug on Thursday (Being sick a few times), but felt fine after about 10 o'clock. We are going out on Saturday and i really don't want to be ill.
A. It takes approximately 24-48 hours for initial symptoms to appear after exposure to the influenza virus. If you suspect you have the flu, seek medical treatment quickly. Tamiflu, if taken within the first 48 hours of symptoms occurring, can reduce the time it takes to heal and can reduce symptoms. 
1 The stomach bug sheds from your intestines for up to two weeks after the last symptoms end. 2  This means you and your kids are contagious long after your last stomach cramp. 3  Don’t get lax about washing, disinfecting, or sharing food during the shedding phase. 4  Do a home sweep. I have a healthy fear of the stomach virus. It’s insanely contagious and, when I get it, I get it BAD. Right now, my entire Facebook news feed is filled with mentions of the disease so I thought it would be a good time to remind everyone what the stomach virus is and how to avoid it.
Answers. Best Answer: A stomach bug's symptoms will appear in 12-72 hours (normally within 48 hours) so if you don't have it after three days, you are in the clear. Stomach bugs are really fast moving so you don't have to worry about it for long. I'm sure you wont get it at this point. 
1 Follow the two-week rule. 2  The stomach bug sheds from your intestines for up to two weeks after the last symptoms end. 3  This means you and your kids are contagious long after your last stomach cramp. 4  Don’t get lax about washing, disinfecting, or sharing food during the shedding phase. I have a healthy fear of the stomach virus. It’s insanely contagious and, when I get it, I get it BAD. Right now, my entire Facebook news feed is filled with mentions of the disease so I thought it would be a good time to remind everyone what the stomach virus is and how to avoid it.
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 
Sometimes people additionally have a low-grade fever, chills, headache, muscle aches, and a general sense of tiredness. The illness often begins suddenly, and the infected person may feel very sick. Symptoms usually begin 24-48 hours after exposure to the virus, but can appear as early as 12 hours. 