Medical Definition of NONMETAL. : a chemical element (as boron, carbon, or nitrogen) that lacks the characteristics of a metal and that is able to form anions, acidic oxides, acids, and stable compounds with hydrogen. Definition of NONMETAL. : a chemical element (as boron, carbon, or nitrogen) that lacks the characteristics of a metal. See nonmetal defined for kids.
Noun. 1. nonmetal-a chemical element lacking typical metallic properties. chemical element, element-any of the more than 100 known substances (of which 92 occur naturally) that cannot be separated into simpler substances and that singly or in combination constitute all matter.
Metals and Nonmetals. As shown on the periodic table of the elements below, the majority of the chemical elements in pure form are classified as metals. It seems appropriate to describe what is meant by metal in general terms. This general description is adapted from Shipman, et al.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: metalloid (Noun). An element, such as silicon or germanium, intermediate in properties between that of a metal and a nonmetal; especially one that exhibits the external characteristics of a metal, but behaves chemically more as a nonmetal. 
Nonmetal Definition: One of the elements which do not exhibit metallic properties, generally located in the upper righthand corner of the Periodic Table. Example: oxygen, nitrogen. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. 
nonmetal. any of those elements lacking the characteristics of a metal; specif., any of the electronegative elements (e.g., oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, fluorine, phosphorus, sulfur) whose oxides form acids and stable compounds with hydrogen. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of nonmetal is an element that doesn’t have the characteristics of metal including: ability to conduct heat or electricity, luster, or flexibility. An example of a nonmetal element is carbon.
Nouns denoting substances. Hypernyms (nonmetal is a kind of...): chemical element; element (any of the more than 100 known substances (of which 92 occur naturally) that cannot be separated into simpler substances and that singly or in combination constitute all matter). • NONMETAL (adjective). Familiarity information: NONMETAL used as a noun is very rare. • NONMETAL (adjective). The adjective NONMETAL has 1 sense: 1. not containing or resembling or characteristic of a metal. Familiarity information: NONMETAL used as an adjective
Nonmetal, or non-metal, is a term used in chemistry when classifying the chemical elements. On the basis of their general physical and chemical properties, every element in the periodic table can be termed either a metal or a nonmetal. 
1. a chemical element lacking typical metallic properties. Familiarity information: NONMETAL used as a noun is very rare. • NONMETAL (adjective). The adjective NONMETAL has 1 sense: 1. not containing or resembling or characteristic of a metal. Familiarity information: NONMETAL used as an adjective is very rare.
A non-metal is an element on the periodic table that does not have the properties of a metallic element, such as malleability. Nonmetals are usually found in nature as gases o … r weak, brittle solids. Acetate is not any single substance, but a group or ion found in certain esters and salts. It is composed of the nonmetals hydrogen, oxygen and carbon. Because it is not an … element it cannot properly be considered a metal or a nonmetal.