Privacy Winner is a free privacy tool for Windows that deletes all internet activity traces and program activities instantly. With this tool you can easily remove your complete internet history, search history, windows history and chat history. It supports Internet Explorer, Netscape, Opera, and Firefox web browsers.
To delete your internet tracks you could try using Firefox and before closing it delete everything by using Clear Private Data. You could try putting things on the desktop every time you download things. That way they are deletable.
Securely erase all traces of your Internet and computer activity. Extremely easy to use software with premium security features. Free-up space on your drive and maintain privacy. Remove all unwanted history tracks, including the lists of recently visited sites, viewed pictures and videos.
Instructions. The first thing you should do is to delete your web browser history. In Internet Explorer, you can do this by going to Tools menu and selecting Delete Browsing History.... Then press the Delete All button at the bottom of the popup window.
Have you ever wanted to remove all traces of online activity but didn’t know where to start? Wipe is a handy, easy to use program that lets you do just that. Wipe erases passwords, Internet history, cookies, cache and more.
To permanently delete traces of these listed programs, click Delete All. To remove junk temporary files for different browsers, 3rd party applications, and other random activities. Select Junk from the left sidebar and choose what places you would like to Scan.
Are there any free programs to remove traces of all Internet and computer activities? Update: I want to SECURE DELETE things things that I've deleted in the past and I'm not sure how to do it.
Delete Browsing History. Internet Cleaner allows to clear all traces of your browser activity. This privacy tool permanently deletes Internet history information, erases the browser address bar history, cleans the browser cache, removes all temporary Internet files, cookies, and more.