Bronze -- a Natural Blond. The color of bronze is relatively gold in hue. The mix of copper and tin balance to give its color. Many people don't expect this to be bronze's natural color, since the most popular color of bronze is brown. Potassium sulphide is applied to the surface of bronze, where it reacts to the copper in the alloy, turning the color a an extravagant, deep, creamy brown. Often heat is applied with a torch to hasten the coloration.
Displayed at right is the color blast-off bronze. Blast-off bronze is one of the colors in the special set of metallic Crayola crayons called Metallic FX, the colors of which were formulated by Crayola in 2001. This is supposed to be a metallic color, but there is no mechanism for displaying metallic colors on a flat computer screen. Crayola Metallic FX crayons. 
Bronze is the color of the alloy bronze. The first recorded use of bronze as a color name in English was in 1753. 1 The color bronze means third place after gold (first place) and silver (second place) in awards such as the Olympic medals for the Olympic Games.
The rich chocolate brown color of bronze is the most widely recognized. Potassium sulphide is applied to the surface of bronze, where it reacts to the copper in the alloy, turning the color a an extravagant, deep, creamy brown. Often heat is applied with a torch to hasten the coloration.
A patina is the outside color of bronze. It is the result of a chemical reaction with the copper in the bronze that literally changes the surface color of the bronze and it can be either natural, man-made or both. A great example of a natural patina can be seen on the Statue of Liberty. There is a widely held belief that the natural color of bronze is brown. While it is true that many bronze sculptures you may have seen have been given a brown patina, the natural color of quality made bronze is actually gold. In fact, I have a bronze ingot bar on my desk and I am often asked if it is a gold bar.
Different chemicals react with the bronze to achieve different colors. One of the most common patinas is Liver of Sulfur (potash) which results in a golden-brown to almost black color. Other chemicals include Ferric Nitrate (golds, browns and reds) and Cupric Nitrate (greens and blues). There is a widely held belief that the natural color of bronze is brown. While it is true that many bronze sculptures you may have seen have been given a brown patina, the natural color of quality made bronze is actually gold. In fact, I have a bronze ingot bar on my desk and I am often asked if it is a gold bar.