Sexual imprinting is the process by which a young animal learns the characteristics of a desirable mate. For example, male zebra finches appear to prefer mates with the appearance of the female bird that rears them, rather than that of the birth parent when they are different. It was first used to describe situations in which an animal or person learns the characteristics of some stimulus, which is therefore said to be imprinted onto the subject. Imprinting is hypothesized to have a critical period.
The best-known form of imprinting is filial imprinting, in which a young animal acquires several of its behavioral characteristics from its parent. It is most obvious in nidifugous birds, which imprint on their parents and then follow them around. It was first used to describe situations in which an animal or person learns the characteristics of some stimulus, which is therefore said to be imprinted onto the subject. Imprinting is hypothesized to have a critical period.
Definition of IMPRINTING. : a rapid learning process that takes place early in the life of a social animal (as a goose) and establishes a behavior pattern (as recognition of and attraction to its own kind or a substitute). See imprinting defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. unstinting. 1. : a rapid learning process that takes place early in the life of a social animal (as a greylag goose) and establishes a behavior pattern (as recognition of and attraction to its own kind or a substitute). 2. : genomic imprinting.
Imprinting. A process whereby a young animal follow the characteristics of his/her mother after hatching.It can be filial imprinting or followiing a future mating partner. Example: A young chick after hatching can follow his/her mother and adapt to the environment where his/her mother goes, and also the movement of his/her mother.
For other uses, see Imprinting (disambiguation) . In psychology and ethology, imprinting is any kind of phase-sensitive learning (learning occurring at a particular age or a particular life stage) that is rapid and apparently independent of the consequences of behavior. It was first used to describe situations in which an animal or person learns the characteristics of some stimulus, which is therefore said to be imprinted onto the subject. Imprinting is hypothesized to have a critical period.
Genomic imprinting is the epigenetic phenomenon by which certain genes are expressed in a parent-of-origin-specific manner. If the allele inherited from the father is imprinted, it is thereby silenced, and only the allele from the mother is expressed. If the allele from the mother is imprinted, then only the allele from the father is expressed. Forms of genomic imprinting have been demonstrated in fungi, plants and animals. Genomic imprinting is a fairly rare phenomenon in mammals; most genes are not imprinted. In insects, imprinting affects entire chromosomes. In some insects the entire paternal genome is silenced in male offspring, and thus is involved in sex determination
Many people believe that imprinting is very important to social development. Young birds deprived of a chance to imprint are often socially awkward, and they may not recognize other members of their species, or they may have difficulty engaging in basic behaviors which are common to their species. It can take a variety of forms, but the most famous type is probably filial imprinting, in which young birds learn to recognize and follow their parents. Typically, in addition to being time-sensitive, this type of learning also happens very quickly, with animals quickly absorbing the lessons they need to learn.
Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic mechanism of inheritance which allows genes to be expressed differently depending on which parent they come from. This means it is modification of the genome, or changes what the genome produces, without changing the nucleotide (DNA) sequence. 