How do you pronounce SAP some people call it 'S-A-P' but many say 'Sap'.     S-A-P is proper pronounciation and not 'sap' as it is an abbreviation.     But, when it has a prefix, the proper pronounciation is mysap as one word and not … my S-A-P. 6 people found this useful. Look in a dictionary and learn the pronunciation symbols. After that, you will always be able to find the pronunciation of any word. Try it with the seven-ough words above. There may be one extra way at least - 8) hiccough (like up in cup).
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
Answer by Quirkyquantummechanic. Confidence votes 77.7K. To pronounce roughhewn, start with ruff (for rough) and add hue (like a 'hue' of red or a 'hue' of blue) and n to the end You'll have ruff hue n for roughhewn. If you need a little extra help, take the word universe and break it down into syllables (that aren't the real ones). You'll get un and i and verse when you do. Take the first syllable, add the letter h and you've got hewn down pat. Rough is still pronounced ruff like in the first example. How do you pronounce 'that'? That    The th is pronounced like the th  in them, there, or  those.    The a in that is pronounced like the  a in the word cat,  bat, or mat.
There are seven different ways to pronounce-ough: 1) though (like o in go), 2) through (like oo in too), 3) cough (like off in offer), 4) rough (like uff in suffer), 5) plough (like ow in flower), 6) ought (like aw in saw), and 7) borough (like a in above). Look in a dictionary and learn the pronunciation symbols. After that, you will always be able to find the pronunciation of any word. Try it with the seven-ough words above. There may be one extra way at least - 8) hiccough (like up in cup).
Well, fortunately ough is an extreme example. English words are not always that difficult. But in general, when you learn a new word, you should also make sure you know its pronunciation. If you do not have a teacher or someone to say the word for you, you can look in a dictionary. All good dictionaries give the pronunciation for each word, often with special symbols. So it's a good idea to look at your dictionary carefully and learn the pronunciation symbols. But in English you need to be a little more careful. Take the letters ough, for example. They occur in many words, but they do not always sound the same. 1  though (like o in go). 2  through (like oo in too). 3  cough (like off in offer). 4  rough (like uff in suffer). 5  plough (like ow in flower).
Ough is a letter sequence often seen in words in the English language. 1 Shorten 'ough' to 'o' when it is sounded as /oʊ/ – though→tho (but doh for dough). 2  Shorten 'ough' to 'ou' when it is sounded as /aʊ/ – bough→bou, plough→plou, drought→drout. 3  Change 'ough' to 'au' when it is sounded as /ɔː/ – ought→aut, bought→baut, thought→thaut.
7 Ways to Say ough. It's a pity that English is not phonetic! In some languages, you can look at a word and know immediately how to pronounce it. But in English you need to be a little more careful. Take the letters ough, for example. They occur in many words, but they do not always sound the same. 1  though (like o in go). 2  through (like oo in too). 3  cough (like off in offer). 4  rough (like uff in suffer). 5  plough (like ow in flower).
What sequence of letters has the most different pronunciations?That prize goes to-ough. Say these words: bough, rough, through, cough, dough. You will see that not one of these words sounds like any of the others. These are all native Anglo-Saxon words, not products of foreign borrowings. Look in a dictionary and learn the pronunciation symbols. After that, you will always be able to find the pronunciation of any word. Try it with the seven-ough words above. There may be one extra way at least - 8) hiccough (like up in cup).
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 