Invisalign-A Transparent, Retainer-like Alternative to Braces. Invisalign is a treatment option that relies on transparent, retainer-like aligners to shift teeth into place. You wear the aligners for no less than 22 hours per day, changing them every two weeks to a new pair that will continue shifting your teeth. The treatment typically takes nine months to a year. Each is caused by skeletal or dental issues. Dental, or teeth overbites mean the teeth are the problem, while skeletal overbites indicate the jaw is to blame. Whether the overbite is dental or skeletal can have a big impact on treatment.
1 Whether the problem is due to jaw position or position of the teeth, or both. 2  If position of the teeth is the issue, Invisalign can correct it. 3  In many cases, the lower teeth are tipped inward toward the inside of the mouth, creating the appearance of an overbite. An underbite occurs when the lower teeth overlap the top teeth, causing uneven wear of the teeth and in some cases TMJ. What is commonly known as an overbite is actually referred to by dental professionals as an overjet, and it occurs when the upper teeth protrude past the lower teeth.
An overbite can occur for many reasons. From thumb sucking to insufficient jaw space to accommodate your teeth, the resulting overbite can squash self-confidence and discourage even the happiest person from smiling. However, there is a modern option available to correct an overbite without metal bands and brackets by using Invisalign clear plastic aligners. You can eliminate an unsightly overbite without the discomfort of a mouthful of metal, wires and rubber bands. A consultation with the dentist will outline the many advantages of orthodontic correction with Invisalign. Clear, soft plastic aligners are designed to gently shift teeth into their correct position, but are virtually undetectable.
Overbite Correction without Invisalign® or Braces. Spending years in corrective braces or Invisalign® to straighten your teeth or to correct your overbite are no longer necessary. Now, there is a modern solution for people who want a beautiful smile and a better bite without having to rely on overbite braces. 
1 Overbite – (Also called “overjet” by professionals), an overbite occurs when the upper teeth align excessively over the lower teeth. 2  Causes include genetics, overdevelopment of the bone supporting the teeth, and even negative oral habits. 3  If left untreated, problems with the gum, jaw, and joint may arise. 
Invisalign: Correcting an Underbite or Overbite. There are some who claim that Invisalign is not capable of correcting underbites and overbites. We disagree. In the right circumstance, and in the hands of an experienced and trained Invisalign doctor, both conditions can be successfully treated with these clear braces. An underbite occurs when the lower teeth overlap the top teeth, causing uneven wear of the teeth and in some cases TMJ. What is commonly known as an overbite is actually referred to by dental professionals as an overjet, and it occurs when the upper teeth protrude past the lower teeth.
UNDERBITE. Underbite can occur when the lower teeth protrude past the front teeth. It's usually caused by undergrowth of the upper jaw, overgrowth of the lower jaw, or both. It can also be caused by missing upper teeth. This can prevent the normal function of front teeth or molars, which can lead to tooth wear. It causes one or more upper teeth to bite on the inside of the lower teeth, and can happen on both the front and the sides of the mouth. This can cause wear of the teeth, gum disease and bone loss. TAKE THE FREE SMILE ASSESSMENT Find out if Invisalign is the right choice for you.
What people commonly refer to as an overbite is known to dental professionals as overjet.. It occurs when the upper teeth bite over the lower teeth. It's typically caused by genetics, bad oral habits, or overdevelopment of the bone that supports the teeth. It causes one or more upper teeth to bite on the inside of the lower teeth, and can happen on both the front and the sides of the mouth. This can cause wear of the teeth, gum disease and bone loss. TAKE THE FREE SMILE ASSESSMENT Find out if Invisalign is the right choice for you.