Aging, integumentary changes that occur with. Though the premise of aging tends to conjure images of WRINKLES and gray HAIR or baldness, the SKIN, hair, and NAILS undergo numerous changes across the lifespan. Age-related changes begin to affect the hair in midlife, too. Melanocytes, skin cells that produce melanin, thin from the hair follicles, diminishing the amount of pigment that appears in new hair fibers.
THE SKIN AS AN ORGAN The skin (integument) is the largest organ of the body, and to-gether with its accessory organs (hair, glands, and nails), it consti-tutes the integumentary system. In certain areas of the body, ithas adaptive modifications that accommodate protective or meta-bolic functions. Synthesis The integumentary system synthesizes melanin and keratin, whichremain in the skin synthesis of vitamin D, which is used elsewherein the body and begins in the skin with activation of a precursormolecule by UV light.
The integumentary system is the organ system that protects the body from various kinds of damage, such as loss of water or abrasion from outside. The system comprises the skin and its appendages (including hair, scales, feathers, hooves, and nails). The integumentary system has a variety of functions; it may serve to waterproof, cushion, and protect the deeper tissues, excrete wastes, and regulate temperature, and is the attachment site for sensory receptors to detect pain, sensation, pressure, and temperature.
The integumentary system, formed by the skin, hair, nails, and associated glands, enwraps the body. It is the most visible organ system and one of the most complex. The integumentary system is essential to the body's homeostasis, or ability to maintain the internal balance of its functions regardless of outside conditions. The system works to protect underlying tissues and organs from infections and injury. It also prevents the loss of body fluids.
The Integumentary System Objectives The Skin 1. Name the tissue types composing the epidermis and dermis. List the major layers of each and describe the functions of each layer. 2. Describe the factors that normally contribute to skin color. 
CHAPTER SUMMARY. The integumentary system provides the first example of a system to be studied by students. The anatomy of skin, the heaviest organ in the body, is thoroughly examined; in addition, the physiology of the skin is also described. The blood supply of the integumentary system is portrayed. The development of the integumentary system and the effects of aging on the integumentary system are concisely examined. A glossary of key medical terms associated with the integumentary system is provided.
The organs of the integumentary system include the skin and its accessory structures including hair, nails, and glands, as well as muscles and nerves. B. Structure of the Skin. (p. 122). 1. The skin (. cutaneous membrane). covers the body and is the largest organ of the body. The blood supply of the integumentary system is portrayed. The development of the integumentary system and the effects of aging on the integumentary system are concisely examined. A glossary of key medical terms associated with the integumentary system is provided.
Integumentary Changes in Youth. During infancy and early childhood, the integumentary structures are soft and the hair may be fine. By about age 10 or 11 years, the hormonal shifts of PUBERTY are under way. Isolated pimples may break out on the face, chest, and back. Age-related changes begin to affect the hair in midlife, too. Melanocytes, skin cells that produce melanin, thin from the hair follicles, diminishing the amount of pigment that appears in new hair fibers.
The integumentary system is composed primarily of the skin and accessory structures. Those structures include hair, nails, and certain exocrine glands (glands that have ducts or tubes that carry their secretions to the surface of the skin or into body cavities for elimination). The integumentary system is essential to the body's homeostasis, or ability to maintain the internal balance of its functions regardless of outside conditions. The system works to protect underlying tissues and organs from infections and injury. It also prevents the loss of body fluids.