Protein is made up of amino acids. When you digest food that contains … protein your body breaks the protein down in to these amino acids. When food is being digested the body selects the amino acids that are needed for a specific function and they are absorbed though the large intestine. Protein forms many body structures, including muscles, skin, and hair. t maintains and replaces tissues in your body. Protein manufactures hemoglobin (red blood cells that carry oxygen). It's integral to your body's blod clotting ability. As well, it manufactures antibodies to fight diseases and illnesses.
A complete protein is a source of protein that will contain all the essential amino acids the body needs, whereas an incomplete protein source will not. Examples of complete proteins are usually animal products such as meat. Incomplete proteins are usually found in plant sources such as seeds or nuts. Protein forms many body structures, including muscles, skin, and hair. t maintains and replaces tissues in your body. Protein manufactures hemoglobin (red blood cells that carry oxygen). It's integral to your body's blod clotting ability. As well, it manufactures antibodies to fight diseases and illnesses.
From what I understand is that your body can make protein from the amino acids it makes in your cells. Well, there is 8 essential Amino Acids that your body can not make. That … is why we eat animal proteins(such as eggs, milk, meat, and fish) because they contain those 8 essential amino acids. Protein forms many body structures, including muscles, skin, and hair. t maintains and replaces tissues in your body. Protein manufactures hemoglobin (red blood cells that carry oxygen). It's integral to your body's blod clotting ability. As well, it manufactures antibodies to fight diseases and illnesses.
The Power of Protein. It's easy to understand the excitement. Protein is an important component of every cell in the body. Hair and nails are mostly made of protein. Your body uses protein to build and repair tissues. You also use protein to make enzymes, hormones, and other body chemicals. Protein is an important building block of bones, muscles, cartilage, skin, and blood.
Protein is the “building block” of muscle. Without enough of it, your body just can NOT (and will not) build muscle. So, if your goal is to build any amount of muscle, increase strength or improve performance in virtually any capacity, a sufficient protein intake is more than just an important part of the process. Well, it turns out that eating a sufficient amount of protein on a daily basis is THE key dietary factor in getting your body to preserve your muscle and burn fat instead. Yes, it’s probably even more important than the size of the caloric deficit itself.
Protein is a vital part of our bodies. The most obvious proteins most of us would recognize are our muscles. Muscle tissue consists of two proteins, actin and myosin, that interact with each other to make muscle a tissue which contracts or shortens. Muscles attached to bone allow us to move. 
Structure and Movement. There is protein in every single cell in your body – from your hair to your nails to your muscles and organs. These proteins are known as structural proteins; they quite literally provide the structure for your body. Without them, you could not walk, run or even stand. Protein has more physiological roles than any other nutrient. Protein is considered a macronutrient, which means that your body needs it in large amounts every day to function properly. When you eat protein, your body breaks it down into amino acids that are used for several purposes.
Other Functions. Your body can convert individual amino acids to energy when needed. Although protein is not the body’s main source of energy – glycogen from carbohydrates is the preferred source – excess protein/amino acids may metabolize to form glycogen when your body’s stores are low. Another healthful benefit of protein is in liver health. White blood cells, made from proteins, attack viruses and bacteria in your bloodstream. Certain sources of protein, such as dairy or whey, help boost levels of glutathione in your system, which is an antioxidant that helps fight bacteria and viruses.