Fairbanks is the largest city in the Interior region of Alaska. Estimates put the population of the city proper at 32,324, and the population of the Fairbanks North Star Borough at 100,807, making it the second most populous metro area in Alaska (after Anchorage). Fairbanks is also home to the Yukon Quest, an international 1,000 mile sled dog race that is considered one of the toughest in the world. The race alternates its starting and finishing points each year between Fairbanks, Alaska and Whitehorse, Yukon.
Barrow /ˈbaeroʊ/ (ˈbæroʊ Inupiaq /iñupiaq/ utqiaġvik Utqiaʁvik /or/) ukpiaġvik ukpiaʁvik is the largest city Of The North slope borough In.The. u s State of alaska and is located Above The. arctic circle 
Print this map. RELATIVE LOCATION: Alaska is positioned in both the eastern, northern and western hemispheres. Dissected by the Arctic Circle, it's located in the far northwestern corner of North America, bordering the Canadian province of British Columbia and Canada's Yukon Territory. It's ringed by the Arctic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, and assorted bays, gulfs, seas and sounds.
The Metropolitan Statistical Area encompasses all of the Fairbanks North Star Borough and is the northernmost Metropolitan Statistical Area in the United States, located less than 120 miles (190 km) south of the Arctic Circle. Fairbanks is also home to the Yukon Quest, an international 1,000 mile sled dog race that is considered one of the toughest in the world. The race alternates its starting and finishing points each year between Fairbanks, Alaska and Whitehorse, Yukon.
Fairbanks /ˈfɛərbaeŋks/ ˈfɛərbæŋks is a home rule city and the borough seat of The Fairbanks North Star borough in The.U. s state Of. alaska Fairbanks is also home to the Yukon Quest, an international 1,000 mile sled dog race that is considered one of the toughest in the world. The race alternates its starting and finishing points each year between Fairbanks, Alaska and Whitehorse, Yukon.
Gardening is big in the Interior. [Photo of gold panner is courtesy the University of Alaska Archives; Musher is David Arlan Rogers.] Fairbanks is called The Golden Heart of Alaska, a reference to the character of her people as much as to the location in Alaska's interior, or to the discovery of gold in 1902. Fairbanks, Alaska Information Site! Fairbanks, Alaska information on activities and events for our visitors and friends. To help you learn more about Fairbanks Alaska & plan your visit to our great state, we have made available here a number of resources.
Read more. Fairbanks is the gateway to Alaska and a great place to orient oneself to a far north vacation! Allow at least 2 full days to experience some of what Fairbanks has to offer, from river trips to museums, gold mining to Flight-seeing, sight-seeing to shopping. ... view all faqs. 
The University of Alaska Fairbanks is located Northwest of the city of Fairbanks. Several websites have good maps of the entire Fairbanks area including Lonely Planet and Yahoo (Google Fairbanks map). This is a penthouse that has a wonderful view of the Alaska Range, and everyone should visit this room at least once. For directions to all of these locations, go to the UAF Campus Map. The map that appears looks very crowded, but if you zoom in, it becomes clearer.
Fairbanks /ˈfɛərbaeŋks/ ˈfɛərbæŋks is a home rule city and the borough seat of The Fairbanks North Star borough in The.U. s state Of. Alaska fairbanks is the largest city in The interior region Of. alaska Fairbanks is also home to the Yukon Quest, an international 1,000 mile sled dog race that is considered one of the toughest in the world. The race alternates its starting and finishing points each year between Fairbanks, Alaska and Whitehorse, Yukon.
Map Regions. myFairbanks. Fairbanks. Fairbanks, Alaska's second largest city, is located in the vast Interior north of Denali and south of the Arctic Circle, bordered by the Alaska Range to the south and the Brooks Range to the north.