Eglantine is an uncommon first name for females. Eglantine is also a unique last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Eglantine for girls. Eglantine has not been ranked in the Top 1000 thus far.
Eglantine /eglan-tine/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Old French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Eglantine is needle. From Old French aiglent, a derivative of Latin acus, referring to the plant's thorns. Botanical and flower name for the sweetbriar plant. Kreatif forms: Eglantice, Eglantino, Eglantiny. Eglantine is also a unique last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Eglantine for girls. Eglantine has not been ranked in the Top 1000 thus far.
• EGLANTINE (noun). The noun EGLANTINE has 1 sense: 1. Eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips. Familiarity information: EGLANTINE used as a noun is very rare. 
The Capture — The Journey. Eglantine was born to Barn Owls Noctus and Marella, and developed a strong relationship with her elder brother, Soren. Her eldest brother, Kludd, did not care for her very much. When Soren was shoved from the nest by Kludd and taken to St. Aggie's, he worried about her terribly. Eglantine was then moon blinked and given to Allomere, a slipgizzle. She was taken to the Great Tree along with another owlet. While the Guardians went out on a rescue mission, Soren and Mrs. P. stayed with her.
Églantine églantine is A french floral name given since the eighteenth. Century eglantines are the flowers of the, eglantier églantier a, wild rosebush which are also known as Sweetbriar. In english the prioress in the Prologue'of Chaucer S canterbury tales Is Named. madame eglantine Eglantine was then moon blinked and given to Allomere, a slipgizzle. She was taken to the Great Tree along with another owlet. While the Guardians went out on a rescue mission, Soren and Mrs. P. stayed with her.
Example sentences. 1  Species whose fruits are used both in Europe and Asia include the briar rose or dog rose, which is made into tea or tisane, and the eglantine. 2  Eglantine is a wonderful rose that is rarely see these days in commerce. 1 Species whose fruits are used both in Europe and Asia include the briar rose or dog rose, which is made into tea or tisane, and the eglantine. 2  Eglantine is a wonderful rose that is rarely see these days in commerce. 3  The Eglantine is the poet's flower
1. eglantine-Eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips. briar, Rosa eglanteria, sweetbriar, sweetbrier, brier. rose, rosebush-any of many shrubs of the genus Rosa that bear roses. 
Eglantine  is a song written by the Sherman Brothers from Bedknobs and Broomsticks. It was sung by Professor Emelius Brown (David Tomlinson) as he tried to convince Miss Eglantine Price (Angela Lansbury) to perform magic shows with him, but it didn't work. The Soldiers of the Old Home Guard | The Age of Not Believing | With a Flair | Eglantine | Portobello Road | The Beautiful Briny | Substitutiary Locomotion | Nobody's Problem | A Step in the Right Direction.
1 Eglantine House, believed to have been built by the Hill Family, landlords of Hillsborough, pre. 2  1800; it was the estate of the Irish Mill Baron, Edward Thomas Green, from c. 1920 to c. 1973; it burned in 1990 [1] also Eglantine Parish Church. 