5.2 Sediment Sources. Sediment in the active beach system is derived from 1) erosion of upland by rivers, 2) longshore transport from adjacent coastal compartments, 3) erosion of older beach and shoreface deposits, and 4) erosion of older deposits on the inner shelf. Erosion of Beach and Shoreface Deposits. The contribution of sediment from beach and shoreface erosion is estimated by analyzing beach-profile geometries and historical erosion rates (Gayes and others, 2003).
Sediment refers to the conglomerate of materials, organic and inorganic, that can be carried away by water, wind or ice 3. While the term is often used to indicate soil-based, mineral matter (e.g. clay, silt and sand), decomposing organic substances and inorganic biogenic material are also considered sediment 1. Sediment transport is the movement of organic and inorganic particles by water 10. In general, the greater the flow, the more sediment that will be conveyed. Water flow can be strong enough to suspend particles in the water column as they move downstream, or simply push them along the bottom of a waterway 11.
Description: Resuspension occurs when sediment that has settled to the bottom of a bayou, lake, or bay is redistributed through the water. Waves created by wind or boat wakes most frequently cause this, but sometimes it can be caused mechanically by dredging. 
In addition to the mineral-based aspect, sediment can be organic in source. Organic sediment comes from decaying algae, plants, and other organic material that falls in the water (such as leaves) 4. Bacteria attached to this detritus or other inorganic matter are also categorized as organic 18. Sediment transport is the movement of organic and inorganic particles by water 10. In general, the greater the flow, the more sediment that will be conveyed. Water flow can be strong enough to suspend particles in the water column as they move downstream, or simply push them along the bottom of a waterway 11.
Sediments are most often transported by water (fluvial processes), wind (aeolian processes) and glaciers. Beach sands and river channel deposits are examples of fluvial transport and deposition, though sediment also often settles out of slow-moving or standing water in lakes and oceans. Desert sand dunes and loess are examples of aeolian transport and deposition. Sediment is transported based on the strength of the flow that carries it and its own size, volume, density, and shape. Stronger flows will increase the lift and drag on the particle, causing it to rise, while larger or denser particles will be more likely to fall through the flow.
The banks and bed of streams and rivers are another source of sediment in the Minnesota River. The extent to which streambank erosion and streambed scouring account for the sediment load varies. At particular times and locations it can be significant. In addition, it is likely that a certain percentage of the sediments in the streambed and along the bank originated from upland sources. Thus, it is hard to clearly separate upland and near or in-stream sediment sources (Basin Plan, 2001).
A considerable proportion of sediment in the modern coastal system is derived from the erosion of older materials underlying the inner shelf. Wehmiller and others (1995) provide evidence of this process by showing that up to 75 percent of clam shells found on beaches in the region are actually fossils. Erosion of Beach and Shoreface Deposits. The contribution of sediment from beach and shoreface erosion is estimated by analyzing beach-profile geometries and historical erosion rates (Gayes and others, 2003).
Sediment is earth material. Soil and rock transported from hillslopes and other land surfaces into watercourses are the major sources of sediment in waterbodies. Sediment encompasses particles ranging in size from clay to boulders. It is the natural work of rivers to move these materials across the landscape.
Sediment comes from many sources throughout the Minnesota River Basin including eroding from agricultural land, stream banks and stream beds, and from urban areas. In addition, it is likely that a certain percentage of the sediments in the streambed and along the bank originated from upland sources. Thus, it is hard to clearly separate upland and near or in-stream sediment sources (Basin Plan, 2001).
Answer by Anna Vinogradova. Confidence votes 3. The two main sources of sediment in the deep sea are: (1) Coastal Erosion-rivers, wind-blown dust and sand (from the deserts), volcanic eruptions (ash), glacially dumped sediment-about 45%. 