The term coleslaw arose in the 18th century as an anglicisation of the Dutch term koolsla (kool in Dutch sounds somewhat like cole) or koolsalade meaning cabbage salad. A variety of seasonings, such as celery seed, may be added. The cabbage may come in finely minced pieces, shredded strips, or small squares. Other slaw variants include broccoli slaw, which uses shredded raw broccoli in place of the cabbage. Cream, sour cream, or buttermilk are also popular additions.
The word “coleslaw” comes from the Dutch word, “koolsla”, “kool” meaning cabbage and sla, lettuce or salad. The word entered our English language from the Dutch in New York in the late 1700s. Since then it has been a featured side dish at almost every picnic or barbecue in America. 
Categories: Salad. From the Dutch koolsla, meaning cabbage salad(cabbage) plus sla (salad). Coleslaw is a salad of shredded red or white cabbage mixed with a mayonnaise, vinaigrette or other type of dressing. Other ingredients such as chopped onion, celery, sweet green or red pepper, pickles, bacon or herbs may be added.
Expert Tips. Coleslaw comes from the Dutch word koolsla, meaning “cool cabbage.”. Add color to this classic picnic salad by using a 10-ounce bag of coleslaw or broccoli slaw mix instead of the 4 cups of shredded cabbage. 
The word slaw, today, is no longer limited to just coleslaw. It has come to mean any type of dressed salad with shredded vegetables. Slaws may be sweet or savory, chilled or warm. But most of them still tend to contain some type of cabbage, probably because cabbage is able to be shredded and still give a good crunch. The kool part is the Dutch word for cabbage and the sla part is a Dutch abbreviation of the word salade. In the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, Dutch settlers flooded into New York, so much so that the city was originally called New Amsterdam.
For other uses, see Cole slaw (disambiguation) . Coleslaw (also known as Cole slaw) is a salad consisting primarily of finely-shredded raw cabbage and dressed most commonly with a vinaigrette salad dressing. Prepared in this manner, coleslaw can be pickled for up to four weeks if it is stored in an airtight container. A variety of seasonings, such as celery seed, may be added. The cabbage may come in finely minced pieces, shredded strips, or small squares. Other slaw variants include broccoli slaw, which uses shredded raw broccoli in place of the cabbage. Cream, sour cream, or buttermilk are also popular additions.
Posted on 20 May 2012 19:01. The term coleslaw came from the Dutch term koolsla, meaning cabbage salad. The kool part is the Dutch word for cabbage and the sla part is a Dutch abbreviation of the word salade. In the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, Dutch settlers flooded into New York, so much so that the city was originally called New Amsterdam.