Opium (poppy tears, lachryma papaveris) is the dried latex obtained from the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum). Opium latex contains approximately 12% of the analgesic alkaloid morphine, which is processed chemically to produce heroin and other synthetic opioids for medicinal use and for the illegal drug trade. The word  meconium  (derived from the Greek for opium-like, but now used to refer to infant stools) historically referred to related, weaker preparations made from other parts of the opium poppy or different species of poppies.
Papaver somniferum, the opium poppy, is the species of plant from which opium and poppy seeds are derived. Opium is the source of many drugs, including morphine (and its derivative heroin), thebaine, codeine, papaverine, and noscapine. The Latin botanical name means the sleep-bringing poppy, referring to the sedative properties of some of these opiates.
Opium is a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act. Most opioids are Schedule II, III, IV, or V drugs. Some drugs that are derived from opium, such as heroin, are Schedule I drugs. Common places of origin. The poppy plant, Papaver somniferum, is the source of opium. Overview. Opium is a highly addictive non-synthetic narcotic that is. extracted from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum. The opium. poppy is the key source for many narcotics, including morphine, codeine, and heroin.
Opium, the mother of all pain relief medications, has a long history as a treatment drug. Opium comes from the opium poppy plant. As a substance, opium itself belongs to the narcotics class of drugs, commonly known for their highly potent and addictive effects, according to Palomar College. Opium’s strong pain-relieving effects naturally carry over to its opium derivatives.
Legal status in the United States Opium is a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act. Most opioids are Schedule II, III, IV, or V drugs. Some drugs that are derived from opium, such as heroin, are Schedule I drugs. Common places of origin The poppy plant, Papaver somniferum, is the source of opium. It was grown in the Mediterranean region as early as 5,000 B.C., and has since been cultivated in a number of countries throughout the world. Overview. Opium is a highly addictive non-synthetic narcotic that is. extracted from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum. The opium. poppy is the key source for many narcotics, including morphine, codeine, and heroin.
Today, about 40 percent of our prescription medicines come from plant extracts or synthesized plant compounds. plant-based medicines are everywhere, including the shelves of our local drugstores.Quinine (Malaria Drug) Derived from: Cinchona tree (cinchona pubescens) part used: Bark active ingredient: Quinine. The leaves can be used for tea, salads, and as an herb in foods. aspirin Derived from: Willow (salix) part of plant used: Bark active ingredient: Salicin, a compound that breaks down to become salicylic acid (aspirin). Salicylic acid (aspirin) is now synthesized.
Plants are the original source materials for as many as 40% of the pharmaceuticals in use in the United States today. This is to say that either the drugs currently contain plant-derived materials, or synthesized materials from agents originally derived from plants. Much of the current drug discovery and development process is plant-based, and new medicines derived from plants are inevitable. On this website, you will encounter a great deal of information about the non-pharmaceutical side of plant medicines.
1. Plant Sources: Plant source is the oldest source of drugs. Most of the drugs in ancient times were derived from plants. Almost all parts of the plants are used i.e. . leaves, stem, bark, fruits and roots.
There are over a hundred active ingredients derived from plants for use as drugs and medicines. This is by no means a comprehensive list of all of the plants, names of chemicals, or uses for those chemicals, but it should serve as a useful starting point for further research. 
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Morphine was the first single-substance drug to be derived from a plant, in this case from the resin of the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) by a German pharmacist named Setrurner, in 1803-1805. It was first sold commercially by Heinrich Merck in the 1820's. 