This article is about the species called elk in North America. For the species called elk in Eurasia (Alces alces), see moose. For other uses of the names, see Elk (disambiguation) and Wapiti (disambiguation) . 
For the other deer species called elk, see Wapiti. A moose (Alces alces; called elk in Europe) is a large deer. Some authorities put the American moose in a different species, Alces americanus. A male moose is called a bull, a female moose is called a cow, and a young moose is called a calf. A group of moose is called a herd. The plural form of moose is moose..
Word History: In British English, elk refers to the species of large deer (scientific name Alces alces) known as moose in North America. In North American English, elk refers to a completely different species of deer, Cervus canadensis, that is closely related to the red deer (Cervus elaphus) of Europe. 1. (Animals) a large deer, Alces alces, of N Europe and Asia, having large flattened palmate antlers: also occurs in North America, where it is called a moose.
n, pl elks or elk. 1. (Animals) a large deer, Alces alces, of N Europe and Asia, having large flattened palmate antlers: also occurs in North America, where it is called a moose. 2. (Animals) American elk another name for wapiti. 3. (Tanning) a stout pliable waterproof leather made from calfskin or horsehide
. The name elk is used in North America to designate a different animal, the wapiti wapiti, large North American deer, Cervus canadensis, closely related to the Old World red deer. It is commonly called elk in America although the name elk is used in Europe to refer to the moose...... Click the link for more information. , closely related to the red deer of Europe. The Eurasian species, A. alces, is known in Europe as the elk, a name which in North America is applied to another large deer, the wapiti...... Click the link for more information. .
. The name elk is used in North America to designate a different animal, the wapiti wapiti, large North American deer, Cervus canadensis, closely related to the Old World red deer. It is commonly called elk in America although the name elk is used in Europe to refer to the moose...... Click the link for more information. , closely related to the red deer of Europe. The Eurasian species, A. alces, is known in Europe as the elk, a name which in North America is applied to another large deer, the wapiti...... Click the link for more information. .
In North America this animal is called moose moose,largest member of the deer family, genus Alces, found in the northern parts of Eurasia and North America. The Eurasian species, A. alces, is known in Europe as the elk, a name which in North America is applied to another large deer, the wapiti...... Click the link for more information. .
European elk-large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male; called `elk' in Europe and `moose' in North America. Alces alces, elk, moose. cervid, deer-distinguished from Bovidae by the male's having solid deciduous antlers. Alces, genus Alces-elk or moose. 
The moose (North America) or elk (Eurasia), Alces alces, is the largest extant species in the deer family. Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other members of the family have antlers with a dendritic (twig-like) configuration. 