AB: Short form of English Abner, meaning father of light.. ABADDON: Anglicized form of Greek Abaddōn, meaning destruction, ruination.. In the New Testament bible, this is the name of the place of destruction. And it is a name given to the angel of the bottomless pit, the Destroyer Apollyon. ABNAR: English variant spelling of Hebrew Abner, meaning father of light.. ABNER: Hebrew name meaning father of light.. In the bible, this is the name of a cousin of Saul who was also a commander of his army.
Its pronunciation is Taa-SH AA N †. Tashawn is used chiefly in the English language and its origin is English-American. The name is derived from the combination of the prefix ' Ta -' and the name Shawn. Tashawn is a variant of the name Shawn (English and Irish) in the English language. Tashan, Tashaun, Tashon, Tashun, and Teshawn (English) are variants of Tashawn. Tashawn is an infrequently used baby name for boys. 
This Names Dictionary helps you benefit more out of your name as well as your baby name. Click here, for us to suggest you a baby names. Learn more about most popular baby names around the world, with their meaning. The list has been compiled keeping in mind, various aspects of names. You can also share your experience on having such wonderful names with a purposeful meaning. 
THE MEANING OF ENGLISH NAMES. Here is fairly comprehensive list of first (Christian) names used in the English-speaking world (Great Britain, the United States, Ireland; Australia etc.). It also includes an indication of the traditional meaning of these names. It should of some use to anyone thinking about choosing a name for a baby or interested in finding out what their own name means. Top 10 English names. A-C / D-F / G-I / J-L / M-O / P-R / S-U / V-Z.
name noun [C]. › a well-known and ​successful ​company, ​person, or ​product: a big/famous name Some ​big names in the ​technology ​sector were ​hardest ​hit. › the ​reputation of a ​company, ​person, or ​product: good/bad name It is hard to put a ​value on a firm's good name. 
The one-stop resource for the English language and more ... Here is fairly comprehensive list of first (Christian) names used in the English-speaking world (Great Britain, the United States, Ireland; Australia etc.). It also includes an indication of the traditional meaning of these names. It should of some use to anyone thinking about choosing a name for a baby or interested in finding out what their own name means. Top 10 English names. A-C / D-F / G-I / J-L / M-O / P-R / S-U / V-Z.
Login To Favorites. When discussing “English” here, we are actually referring to British English versus English spoken in America. British English, though a sister to American English, is spoken in the United Kingdom and around the British Isles. 
Try our Big List of baby names sorted by origin, keyword, meanings and more, from countries and cultures across the world with different flavors for you to choose from. If you are looking for some inspiration, have fun spinning our Random Namer for quirky first and middle names and seeing their combined name meanings. 
THE MEANING OF ENGLISH NAMES. Here is fairly comprehensive list of first (Christian) names used in the English-speaking world (Great Britain, the United States, Ireland; Australia etc.). It also includes an indication of the traditional meaning of these names. It should of some use to anyone thinking about choosing a name for a baby or interested in finding out what their own name means. Top 10 English names. A-C / D-F / G-I / J-L / M-O / P-R / S-U / V-Z.
Even if you are here just to browse, we hope that you will enjoy a unique spin on a fascinating study field. We offer name meanings for over 45,000 different baby names, surnames, and city names from all over the world. We are in the process of building many tools and resources to help make your studies easier. We invite you to contribute name meanings, ratings, comments, participate in our forums, or contribute facts and information to our growing community. Here is a great resource if you are looking for-Baby Names. Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?.