Electrometer Tube. a receiving tube used in electronic and electrical measuring instruments to amplify and measure small currents (down to 10 –14 ampere) in circuits with a very high electrical resistance.
The gold-leaf electroscope was one of the first sensitive instruments used to indicate electric charge. It is still used for science demonstrations but has been superseded in most applications by electronic measuring instruments. The instrument consists of two thin leaves of gold foil suspended from an electrode. Valves designed for electrometer use have leakage currents as low as a few femtoamperes (10 −15 amperes). Such valves must be handled with gloved hands as the salts left on the glass envelope can provide leakage paths for these tiny currents.
An electrometer is an electrical instrument for measuring electric charge or electrical potential difference. There are many different types, ranging from historical handmade mechanical instruments to high-precision electronic devices. Valves designed for electrometer use have leakage currents as low as a few femtoamperes (10 −15 amperes). Such valves must be handled with gloved hands as the salts left on the glass envelope can provide leakage paths for these tiny currents.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. An electrometer is a device used to measure the charge or potential difference of electricity. Available in a variety of designs, the instrument is essential in finding the voltage between two places in the electrical circuit. @Charred-I guess the principle is the same but the programmable electrometer measures variations within the circuit itself. I suppose you could use it to measure the battery too but the idea is that you could probe any section of the circuit and measure voltage variances.
Definition of ELECTROMETER. : any of various instruments for detecting or measuring potential differences or ionizing radiations by means of the forces of attraction or repulsion between charged bodies. ADVERTISEMENT. 1749. electrometer. noun elec·trom·e·ter \i-ˌlek-ˈtraem-ˈträm-ət\. : ər any of various instruments for detecting or measuring-electric potential differences or ionizing radiations by means of the forces of attraction or repulsion between charged. bodies
Medical Definition of ELECTROMETER. : any of various instruments for detecting or measuring electric-potential differences or ionizing radiations by means of the forces of attraction or repulsion between charged bodies. — elec·tro·met·ric \-trə-ˈme-trik\ adjective. electrometer. noun elec·trom·e·ter \i-ˌlek-ˈtraem-ˈträm-ət\. : ər any of various instruments for detecting or measuring-electric potential differences or ionizing radiations by means of the forces of attraction or repulsion between charged. bodies
electrometer (ēlektrom´ətur) , n an electrostatic instrument for measuring the potential difference between two points. In radiology, electrometers are used to measure changes in the potential of charged electrodes resulting from ionization occasioned by radiation. 
While the term quadrant electrometer eventually referred to Kelvin's version, this term was first used to describe a simpler device. It consists of an upright stem of wood, to which is affixed to a semicircle of ivory. From the center there hangs a light cork ball upon a pivot. Valves designed for electrometer use have leakage currents as low as a few femtoamperes (10 −15 amperes). Such valves must be handled with gloved hands as the salts left on the glass envelope can provide leakage paths for these tiny currents.
The binant electrometer, in which the stationary part is divided into two sections, or binants, is a variation of the quadrant electrometer. Kurs elektricheskikh izmerenii, part 1. Edited by V. T. Prytkov and A. V. Talitskii. Moscow-Leningrad, 1960. See Electrical units and standards. The quadrant electrometer consists of a cylindrical metal box divided into quadrants which stand on insulating pillars. Opposite quadrants are connected electrically, and a light, thin metal vane of large area is suspended by a conducting torsion fiber inside the quadrants.