Fair Isaac Corporation developed the FICO score 27 years ago (1987). Since that time, it has definitely been the gold standard for credit scoring, as it is the score most commonly used by lenders. You can get your FICO score for free with these cards. However, rather than pay, you can actually get free access to your TransUnion FICO score if you have a card from Discover, American Express (which starting offering this service in August), Chase (on certain cards like Slate) or from Barclaycard: Most websites also get the average seriously wrong, too. A FICO score can range from 300 to 850. There is a lot of misinformation on the internet as to what the average score is (many sources cite numbers in the 670’s)
The minimum FICO-based credit score is 300 while the maximum is 850. However, some scoring models utilized by credit bureaus may be tweaked so that a different formula is used … as well as a somewhat different range in scores may be used. The highest possible credit score is 850- anything above around 700 is really good. Below 620 you are considered a serious credit risk and will pay high interest rates on any … loans, credit cards, etc. you can get It depends on the Credit Reporting Agency because they all use varying models.
Best Answer: You got suckered and got one of the BS scores from the credit bureaus. The only score that counts is the FICO score, and that tops out at 850. I believe the TU score tops out at 950 or 975, so that would be a good score. ADDED: It's not that the Vantage score is a scam. It's just worthless. Lenders want to see your FICO score. 
Yes, it’s possible to get a perfect credit score. However, this answer comes with a few caveats. First off, the “yes” assumes you’re thinking about the 850 FICO score. While the FICO score is the most common score lenders use to determine your creditworthiness, it’s not your only score. 
Of course we all want the best, but the highest possible credit score — the 850 FICO — is almost unattainable. In fact, there are many loan officers that have been in the business for years who have said they’ve never seen a perfect 850 credit score before. However, rather than pay, you can actually get free access to your TransUnion FICO score if you have a card from Discover, American Express (which starting offering this service in August), Chase (on certain cards like Slate) or from Barclaycard: Most websites also get the average seriously wrong, too. A FICO score can range from 300 to 850. There is a lot of misinformation on the internet as to what the average score is (many sources cite numbers in the 670’s)
If you are looking for the best rates and the highest credit limits, you should aim for a credit score of 760, according to FICO. Anything above a 760 is just going to be for bragging rights, since a score of 760 or above will get you the best rates and credit limits. Truthfully, the highest credit score is not the score you should be shooting for. The whole point of a credit score is to get you the best rates and credit limits when you are applying for loans and credits.
FICO scores range from 300 to 850, where 850 is considered to be the best score achievable. According to myFICO.com, a division of the Fair Issac Corporation, only 13% of the U.S. population has a FICO score greater then 800, while only 2% has a FICO score lower then 500. The largest proportion of the population, 27%, has a FICO score between 750 and 800
A: Your FICO score is used by creditors to determine the overall credit risk of any individual consumer. This score is calculated by using a proprietary tool developed by the Fair Issac Corporation (NYSE: FIC). Each major credit bureau in the United States-Experian, Equifax (NYSE: EFX) and TransUnion-uses Fair Issac's technology to calculate a FICO score for any borrower. According to myFICO.com, a division of the Fair Issac Corporation, only 13% of the U.S. population has a FICO score greater then 800, while only 2% has a FICO score lower then 500.