1 Problems with the thyroid gland, which regulates the way the body uses energy. 2  A low thyroid level (hypothyroidism) can cause fatigue, weakness, lethargy, weight gain, depression, memory problems, constipation, dry skin, intolerance to cold, coarse and thinning hair, brittle nails, or a yellowish tint to the skin. Both weakness and fatigue are symptoms, not diseases. Because these symptoms can be caused by many other health problems, the importance of weakness and fatigue can be determined only when other symptoms are evaluated.
These are all the potential causes of muscle weakness from anxiety. There may be other links as well-anxiety can affect many different aspects of your body. Some people may feel more lightheaded as though they're going to faint and this can cause a feeling of muscle weakness as well. Yet it's extremely common for anxiety to cause muscle weakness. It's especially common if you have other anxiety symptoms that relate to the potential causes of muscle weakness. Before reading onward, take my anxiety test to get a better idea of these symptoms.
Depression is associated with fatigue and low energy, but not actual weakness. Some people with anxiety have fluctuating feelings of numbness or weakness in their limbs, especially during intense anxiety or panic attacks. 
1 Problems with the thyroid gland, which regulates the way the body uses energy. 2  A low thyroid level (hypothyroidism) can cause fatigue, weakness, lethargy, weight gain, depression, memory problems, constipation, dry skin, intolerance to cold, coarse and thinning hair, brittle nails, or a yellowish tint to the skin. 1 Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome a rare nerve disorder that causes weakness in the, legs, arms and other muscles and that can progress to complete. 2  Paralysis myasthenia, gravis a, rare chronic disorder that causes weakness and rapid muscle.  fatigue
Fatigue is a feeling of tiredness, exhaustion, or lack of energy. You may feel mildly fatigued because of overwork, poor sleep, worry, boredom, or lack of exercise. Any illness, such as a cold or the flu, may cause fatigue, which usually goes away as the illness clears up. 1 Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome a rare nerve disorder that causes weakness in the, legs, arms and other muscles and that can progress to complete. 2  Paralysis myasthenia, gravis a, rare chronic disorder that causes weakness and rapid muscle.  fatigue
1 If muscle weakness is the result of pain, the person may be able to make muscles work, but it will hurt. 2  Fatigue is a feeling of tiredness or exhaustion or a need to rest because of lack of energy or strength. 3  Fatigue may result from overwork, poor sleep, worry, boredom, or lack of exercise. 1 Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome a rare nerve disorder that causes weakness in the, legs, arms and other muscles and that can progress to complete. 2  Paralysis myasthenia, gravis a, rare chronic disorder that causes weakness and rapid muscle.  fatigue
If fatigue occurs without an obvious cause, it is important to evaluate your mental health. Fatigue is a common symptom of mental health problems, such as anxiety or depression. Fatigue and depression may become so severe that you may consider suicide as a way to end your pain. Both weakness and fatigue are symptoms, not diseases. Because these symptoms can be caused by many other health problems, the importance of weakness and fatigue can be determined only when other symptoms are evaluated.
Weakness is the feeling of body fatigue (tiredness). A person experiencing weakness may not be able to move that part of their body properly or they may experience tremors (uncontrollable movement or twitches) in the area of weakness. This will give your doctor an idea as to what is causing you to feel weak. Your doctor may request that you give a urine sample and he or she may also take a blood sample from you. These samples are tested for infections and signs of possible medical conditions that may cause weakness.
Fatigue is a feeling of tiredness, exhaustion, or lack of energy. You may feel mildly fatigued because of overwork, poor sleep, worry, boredom, or lack of exercise. Any illness, such as a cold or the flu, may cause fatigue, which usually goes away as the illness clears up. Both weakness and fatigue are symptoms, not diseases. Because these symptoms can be caused by many other health problems, the importance of weakness and fatigue can be determined only when other symptoms are evaluated.
1 A low thyroid level (hypothyroidism) can cause fatigue, weakness, lethargy, weight gain, depression, memory problems, constipation, dry skin, intolerance to cold, coarse and thinning hair, brittle nails, or a yellowish tint to the skin. 1 Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome a rare nerve disorder that causes weakness in the, legs, arms and other muscles and that can progress to complete. 2  Paralysis myasthenia, gravis a, rare chronic disorder that causes weakness and rapid muscle.  fatigue