Split and merge into it. Answer by Fwmh. Confidence votes 79.9K. An 'epithet' is a term used to characterize a person or thing, usually a descriptive substitute for the name or title of a person, or an abusive or contemptuous word or phrase. 1 An epithet is a descriptive phrase expressing a quality or a characteristic of the person…. 2  Epithets and How to Use Them Epithets are often used by writers to develop characters, as epithets can be used as a nickname or a title. 3  There are endless ways that epithets can be used.
epithet. noun ep·i·thet \ˈe-pə-ˌthet also-thət\. Tweet. : a word or phrase that describes a person or thing. : an offensive word or name that is used as a way of abusing or insulting someone. 1. a: a characterizing word or phrase accompanying or occurring in place of the name of a person or thing b: a disparaging or abusive word or phrase c: the part of a taxonomic name identifying a subordinate unit within a genus. 2. obsolete: expression.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: epithet (Noun). A term used to characterize a person or thing. epithet (Noun). A term used as a descriptive substitute for the name or title of a person. epithet (Noun). An abusive or contemptuous word or phrase. epithet (Noun). A word in the scientific name of a taxon following the name of the genus or species. This applies only to formal names of plants, fungi and bacteria. In formal names of animals the corresponding term is the specific name. 
An epithet is a word or phrase used in place of the name of a person. Usually an epithet is capitalized, just as a name is capitalized. Here are some examples: The Prince o … f Peace is an epithet for Jesus Christ. The Queen of Soul is an epithet for Aretha Franklin. 1 An epithet is a descriptive phrase expressing a quality or a characteristic of the person…. 2  Epithets and How to Use Them Epithets are often used by writers to develop characters, as epithets can be used as a nickname or a title. 3  There are endless ways that epithets can be used.
Full Definition of EPITHET. 1. a: a characterizing word or phrase accompanying or occurring in place of the name of a person or thing b: a disparaging or abusive word or phrase c: the part of a taxonomic name identifying a subordinate unit within a genus. 2. obsolete: expression.
The noun EPITHET has 2 senses: 1. a defamatory or abusive word or phrase. 2. descriptive word or phrase. Familiarity information: EPITHET used as a noun is rare. 
An epithet (from Greek: ἐπίθετον epitheton, neut. of ἐπίθετος epithetos, attributed, added) is a byname, or a descriptive term (word or phrase), accompanying or occurring in place of a name and having entered common usage. It can be described as a glorified nickname. Some epithets are known by the Latin term epitheton necessarium because they are required to distinguish the bearers, e.g. as an alternative to numbers after a prince's name—such as Richard the Lionheart (Richard I of England), or Charles the Fat alongside Charles the Bald.