Psychological behaviorism is a research program within psychology. It purports to explain human and animal behavior in terms of external physical stimuli, responses, learning histories, and (for certain types of behavior) reinforcements. This non-behavioral something is environmental stimuli and an organism's interactions with, and reinforcement from, the environment. So, the third reason for behaviorism's appeal is that it tries to avoid circular, regressive explanations of behavior.
Watson promoted a change in psychology through his address Psychology as the Behaviorist Views it, which was given at Columbia University in 1913. Through his behaviorist approach, Watson conducted research on animal behavior, child rearing, and advertising. 
It has sometimes been said that “behave is what organisms do.” Behaviorism is built on this assumption, and its goal is to promote the scientific study of behavior. The behavior, in particular, of individual organisms. Not of social groups. Not of cultures. This non-behavioral something is environmental stimuli and an organism's interactions with, and reinforcement from, the environment. So, the third reason for behaviorism's appeal is that it tries to avoid circular, regressive explanations
Behaviorism (or behaviourism) is an approach to psychology that focuses on an individual's behavior. It combines elements of philosophy, methodology, and psychological theory. 1 Methodological: Watson's behaviorism states that only public events (behaviors of an individual) can be objectively observed, and that therefore private events (thoughts and feelings) should be ignored.
Behaviorism is a psychological movement that can be contrasted with philosophy of mind. The basic premise of radical behaviorism is that the study of behavior should be a natural science, such as chemistry or physics, without any reference to hypothetical inner states of organisms as causes for their behavior. 1 Methodological: Watson's behaviorism states that only public events (behaviors of an individual) can be objectively observed, and that therefore private events (thoughts and feelings) should be ignored.
Behaviorism. the view that psychology (1) should be an objective science (2) that studies behavior without reference to mental processes. consciousness orignially started as observations of behavior, the view that psychology (1) should be an objective science that (2) studies behavior without reference to mental processes.
Psychology should be defined not as the study of the mind and internal mental processes via introspection, but as the science of behavior. The most famous proponents of psychological behaviorism were John Watson and B. F. Skinner (1904 – 1990). Radical behaviorism. In his 1938 book The Behavior of Organisms: An Experimental Analysis, psychologist B. F. Skinner (1904 – 1990) introduced radical behaviorism. Skinner insisted that behavior should be studied as a function of external variables apart from any reference to mental or physiological states or processes.
BEHAVIORISM. Behaviorism is a theoretical approach in psychology that emphasizes the study of behavior — that is, the outwardly observable reactions to a stimulus of an organism, whether animal or human — rather than the content of the mind or the physiological correlates of behavior. Radical behaviorism. In his 1938 book The Behavior of Organisms: An Experimental Analysis, psychologist B. F. Skinner (1904 – 1990) introduced radical behaviorism. Skinner insisted that behavior should be studied as a function of external variables apart from any reference to mental or physiological states or processes.
1 Psychology is the science of behavior. 2  Psychology is not the science of mind -- as something other or different from behavior. 3  Behavior can be described and explained without making ultimate reference to mental events or to internal psychological processes. This non-behavioral something is environmental stimuli and an organism's interactions with, and reinforcement from, the environment. So, the third reason for behaviorism's appeal is that it tries to avoid circular, regressive explanations