The Rhine is considered to be the nation's longest river. With a total length of 1,319 kilometers (820 miles), the river is formed by the confluence of two tributaries in eastern Switzerland; it then flows north and northwest through Germany before reaching the Netherlands. The North Sea coastline of the Netherlands consists mostly of dunes. The low-lying sandy dunes of the northwestern coastline were created by the action of wind and water. In some areas, they are nearly 30 meters (100 feet) high. Further south, the major rivers flow into the North Sea and form the delta region.
The geology of the North Sea describes the geological features such as channels, trenches, and ridges today and the geological history, plate tectonics, and geological events that created them. The basement of the North Sea was formed in an intraplate setting during the Precambrian. Rigid blocks were overlaid with various depositions, sands and salts.
1 LOCATION AND SIZE. The Netherlands (formerly also known as Holland) is located in Western Europe between Belgium and Germany, bordering the North Sea. With an area of about 41,526 square kilometers (16,033 square miles), the country is slightly less than twice the size of the state of New Jersey. The North Sea coastline of the Netherlands consists mostly of dunes. The low-lying sandy dunes of the northwestern coastline were created by the action of wind and water. In some areas, they are nearly 30 meters (100 feet) high. Further south, the major rivers flow into the North Sea and form the delta region.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1815. In 1830 Belgium seceded and formed a separate kingdom. The Netherlands remained neutral in World War I, but suffered invasion and occupation by Germany in World War II. A modern, industrialized nation, the Netherlands is also a large exporter of agricultural products.
The Netherlands are located in the north European plains. This area is formed by a crystalline basement generally about 4km deep, covered by more or less horizontal Mesozoic sediments. The sediments are typically marls, limestones, dolomites, and at the bottom salt and gypsum. The Netherlands are said to be a country with exactly one natural cave. This ist not true, there are only natural cave of the country is not open to the public. Nevertheless, the Netherlands have a show cave.
The Netherlands may be divided into two main regions, one comprising areas below sea level, called the Low Netherlands, and the other including land above sea level, called the High Netherlands. These classifications are based not only on differences in elevation, but also on differences in geological formation. The North Sea coastline of the Netherlands consists mostly of dunes. The low-lying sandy dunes of the northwestern coastline were created by the action of wind and water. In some areas, they are nearly 30 meters (100 feet) high. Further south, the major rivers flow into the North Sea and form the delta region.
Throughout the last 10,000 years, the geological development of the Netherlands has largely been determined by a rise in sea level, which was about 65 centimetres for each century. In the coastal areas, a constant battle between land and sea has been taking place. When exactly the geographical area that we call ‘the Netherlands’ first came into being, is difficult to say. There are times the area was totally flooded, and times when thick layers of sand or clay covered the Netherlands. The geological history of the Netherlands is made up of three parts: the Paleozoic, the Mesozoic and the Cenozoic. In this section, you can read about what happened to the Netherlands in each of these chapters. Finally, information is available about the developments during the last 10,000 years
The geology of the Netherlands describes the geological sequence of the Netherlands. Large parts of the Netherlands today are below sea level and have in the past been covered by the sea or flooded at regular intervals. The modern Netherlands formed as a result of the interplay of the four main rivers (Rhine, Meuse, Schelde and IJssel) and the influence of the North Sea. The Netherlands is mostly composed of deltaic, coastal and eolian derived sediments during the Pleistocene glacial and interglacial periods. Fairly all of the west Netherlands is composed of the Rhine-Meuse river estuary, but human intervention greatly modified the natural processes at work. Most of the western Netherlands is below sea level due to the human process of turning standing bodies of water into usable land, a polder.