According to the widely accepted WHO definition, Bisphenol A (BPA) is not an endocrine disruptor, as it does not show any reproducible evidence of adverse effects as a result of hormone-like properties. Indeed, an endocrine disruptor is an endocrine active substance that will produce negative health effects in human. Like many naturally-occurring substances and everyday foodstuffs, BPA shows very weak, estrogen-like activity, but only at extremely high levels to which humans realistically can never be exposed to.
14 Bisphenol A: a known endocrine disruptor compared to 1-1.9ppb for new tableware. 52 The leaching of BPA into soup was tested by usingnew and used polycarbonate soup bowls, and filling them with vegetable soup, water, and otherliquids at temperatures of 60-95 o C, then allowing these liquids to cool for 30 minutes. Bisphenol A: a known endocrine disruptor 19 Table 4: Effects in rodents exposed in utero – exposed via feed or gavage of dams Dose given to mother during pregnancy – via feed or gavageµg/kg bw/dayResearchers Days ofPregnancyfemalesdosedAge maleoffspringexamined0.2 2 20 50 100 200 Vom Saal etal.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an organic synthetic compound with the chemical formula (CH 3) 2 C(C 6 H 4 OH) 2 belonging to the group of diphenylmethane derivatives and bisphenols, with two hydroxyphenyl groups. It is a colorless solid that is soluble in organic solvents, but poorly soluble in water. BPA is employed to make certain plastics and epoxy resins. BPA-based plastic is clear and tough, and is made into a variety of common consumer goods, such as water bottles, sports equipment, CDs, and DVDs.
Bisphenol A is an endocrine disruptor that can mimic estrogen and has been shown to cause negative health effects in animal studies. To be specific, bisphenol A closely mimics the structure and function of the hormone estradiol with the ability to bind to and activate the same estrogen receptor as the natural hormone. BPA is employed to make certain plastics and epoxy resins. BPA-based plastic is clear and tough, and is made into a variety of common consumer goods, such as water bottles, sports equipment, CDs, and DVDs.
Abstract. There is growing evidence that bisphenol A (BPA) may adversely affect humans. BPA is an endocrine disruptor that has been shown to be harmful in laboratory animal studies. Until recently, there were relatively few epidemiological studies examining the relationship between BPA and health effects in humans. 
Some endocrine disruptors have been identified and removed from the market (for example, a drug called diethylstilbestrol), but it is uncertain whether some endocrine disruptors on the market actually harm humans and wildlife at the doses to which wildlife and humans are exposed. They are sometimes also referred to as hormonally active agents, endocrine disrupting chemicals, or endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs). Studies in cells and laboratory animals have shown that EDs can cause adverse biological effects in animals, and low-level exposures may also cause similar effects in human beings.
Endocrine disruptors are chemicals that may interfere with the body’s endocrine system and produce adverse developmental, reproductive, neurological, and immune effects in both humans and wildlife. When absorbed in the body, an endocrine disruptor can decrease or increase normal hormone levels (left), mimic the body's natural hormones (middle), or alter the natural production of hormones (right).
Bisphenol A: a known endocrine disruptor 11. HUMAN EXPOSURE TO BPA FROM FOOD CANS In 1995, Brotons and colleagues detected BPA in the liquid portion of several types ofvegetables (peas, artichokes, green beans, mixed vegetables, corn, and mushrooms) taken fromcans with epoxy resin linings. Bisphenol A: a known endocrine disruptor 19 Table 4: Effects in rodents exposed in utero – exposed via feed or gavage of dams Dose given to mother during pregnancy – via feed or gavageµg/kg bw/dayResearchers Days ofPregnancyfemalesdosedAge maleoffspringexamined0.2 2 20 50 100 200 Vom Saal etal.
Endocrine disruptors are naturally occurring compounds or man-made substances that may mimic or interfere with the function of hormones in the body. Endocrine disruptors may turn on, shut off, or modify signals that hormones carry, which may affect the normal functions of tissues and organs. 
Endocrine disruptors are chemicals that, at certain doses, can interfere with the endocrine (or hormone) system in mammals. These disruptions can cause cancerous tumors, birth defects, and other developmental disorders. Any system in the body controlled by hormones can be derailed by hormone disruptors. They are sometimes also referred to as hormonally active agents, endocrine disrupting chemicals, or endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs). Studies in cells and laboratory animals have shown that EDs can cause adverse biological effects in animals, and low-level exposures may also cause similar effects in human beings.