Installing a helical pile only 20 feet will cost significantly less than installing helical pile 60 feet, this is only common sense. Helical piles also have varying thicknesses of the shaft. The load specifications will determine the thickness of the helical pile shaft. Two inch thick shafts are less expensive to purchase than 3 inch and 4 inch shafts. The size of the helical pile itself will be determined by the weight of the building and the soil conditions.helical pile foundation system cost will finally be determined by the depth of each helical pile that is installed.
Quick to install. Helical piles have the built-in advantage of rapid installation with small equipment, immediate loading capabilities and cost efficiency when compared with traditional foundation methods. Helical piles also feature built-in quality control through real-time tracking of the torque-to-capacity ratio during installation. Built-in advantages. Helical piles have the built-in advantage of rapid installation with small equipment, immediate loading capabilities and cost efficiency when compared with traditional foundation methods.
Helical Pile Definition-A helical pile is a deep foundation element used to support or resists any load or application in either compression (down), tension (up) or lateral (side). The helical pier is comprised of three elements. The pile is installed applying a torsion force to the pier via a hydraulic motor. 
A helical pile consists of a high strength steel shaft with one or more helical bearing plates. attached. It is rotary installed into the ground to support a variety of commercial, residential and industrial structures. Each project is unique in it’s application of Helical Pile design and installation. We evaluate and estimate each job individually and provide a detailed cost proposal. Helical Piles are an economical choice and when their outstanding performance is. considered, Helical Piles are a great value.
Helical Piles are steel shafts with a series of low-pitched circular steel helical plates welded at strategic positions along the shaft. The plates give the foundation both tension and compression bearing capacity which enables them to be used for a wide range of applications across many industries and sectors. The helical pile is a versatile, environmentally friendly and cost-effective technology with many uses across civil engineering industries such as buildings, transport and communications. Other benefits include: 1  Cost effective, rapid installation. 2  No concrete required, saving both curing time and money.
The Basics of a Helical Deep Foundation. A helical foundation consists of at least one helix-shaped steel bearing plate attached to a central steel shaft. The shaft is typically solid steel bar (12 to 23 inches square) or heavy wall pipe (2f to 8 inches in diameter). The helix plates are high-strength steel (6 to 16 inches in diameter, d or 2 inch thick). Soils: Helical foundations can be installed into soils with a blow count (N-value) less than 80 blows/foot of the 2-inch OD sampler per ASTM D-1586. A limitation of screw foundations is they cannot be installed into competent rock or very hard, dense soil greater than about 80 blows/foot.
The Composition of a Helical Pile. A helical pile can be a solid square steel shaft, a round shaft open steel pipe pile or a combination of both square and round with one or more helical plates welded to the pipe near the tip. The pile is installed by rotating the shaft. Built-in advantages. Helical piles have the built-in advantage of rapid installation with small equipment, immediate loading capabilities and cost efficiency when compared with traditional foundation methods. Helical piles also feature built-in quality control through real-time tracking of the torque-to-capacity ratio during installation
Posted by admin on March 20, 2013 in Helical Pile Cost with Comments Off. Unfortunately calculating a helical pile foundation system cost is difficult. The exact cost of installing helical piles is not always the same, there are many factors that must be considered. A structural engineer will determine the condition of the foundation and how many helical piles will be required. The size of the helical pile itself will be determined by the weight of the building and the soil conditions.helical pile foundation system cost will finally be determined by the depth of each helical pile that is installed.