1 $8 to $16m2 for plasterboard -- install only. 2  $15 to $20m2 for plasterboard -- supply and install. 3  $4 to $16 per linear metre for cornice installation (mid-range). 4  $5 to $10 per linear metre for supply and installation of cornices (mid-range). Cornices and other decorative plaster products can cost much more, but these estimates show the average difference between the cost of Gyprock® and similar products and their installed costs. The average size of a Gyprock® installation is about 170 square metres. With a $5 difference in supply and installation rates for plasterboard, that can amount to a difference in quotes of nearly $900. Clearly, it's worth getting quotes from plasterers if you want to get the best price
DIY Guide How to install Gyprock plasterboard and cornice – a quick reference that takes you through the complete process Download. DIY Guide How to install Gyprock plasterboard and cornice – a quick reference that takes you through the complete process Download. How to install Gyprock plasterboard and cornice – a quick reference that takes you through the complete process. Getting Started How to measure up and prepare for installing Gyprock plasterboard and cornice Download. Getting Started How to measure up and prepare for installing Gyprock plasterboard and cornice
Cost to gyprock whole house. My parents live in Innisfail and their house was badly damaged by cyclone larry in march 2006. They finally got a new roof and windows put in last week only 1 year and 5 months later. Anyway their existing walls are masonite which have bowed due to water damage. All these rates are for min 2 day jobs. I now get my sparky and plumber through a local well regarded builder but the rates are still around $70 - $80. Said builder is currently building a few townhouses (smaller wall area than my house) and he said each townhouse cost him 18k for gyprock and finish wipes.
Using a square foot rate of $1 per square foot, this job would only costs $705 for both, labor and material. Material costs being about $300 would leave only $400 for labor. For a good quality journeyman to spend 3 or more days for both hanging and finishing, $400 is not going to be quite enough. Therefore, depending on the style of texture and other features, this project will probably cost between $900 and $1,000. 
1 $15 to $20m2 for plasterboard -- supply and install. 2  $4 to $16 per linear metre for cornice installation (mid-range). 3  $5 to $10 per linear metre for supply and installation of cornices (mid-range). 4  I choose you 3. Cornices and other decorative plaster products can cost much more, but these estimates show the average difference between the cost of Gyprock® and similar products and their installed costs. The average size of a Gyprock® installation is about 170 square metres. With a $5 difference in supply and installation rates for plasterboard, that can amount to a difference in quotes of nearly $900. Clearly, it's worth getting quotes from plasterers if you want to get the best price
How to repair a plasterboard/gyprock ceiling. There are 3 methods of repairing a sagging plasterboard or gyprock ceiling. The method used will depend on how long a sagging ceiling has been left and the distance it has dropped from the ceiling timbers.
This maybe of assistance, back in February this year I purchased 571m/2 of gyprock, 149m/2 villaboard, 277m2 insulation R3.3 and 288m2 insulation R2. Total cost $6,770.00. Sorry I can't break the costs down. All these rates are for min 2 day jobs. I now get my sparky and plumber through a local well regarded builder but the rates are still around $70 - $80. Said builder is currently building a few townhouses (smaller wall area than my house) and he said each townhouse cost him 18k for gyprock and finish wipes.
Some of the labor rates I have been quoted within the last 6 months here at Noosa-Plumbers $110 an hour, Electricians with microvoltage certificate $145 an hour, Gyprock team for small jobs (2 guys) $ 60 an hour, Tiler $95 per metre, Carpenters $85 an hour. All these rates are for min 2 day jobs. I now get my sparky and plumber through a local well regarded builder but the rates are still around $70 - $80. Said builder is currently building a few townhouses (smaller wall area than my house) and he said each townhouse cost him 18k for gyprock and finish wipes.
Repairing a Hole in Plasterboard For Holes up to 50mm 1 Fill the hole with compound using a 100mm broadknife. Allow to dry. 2 Apply 1 or 2 strips of Easy Tape to cover the hole. 3 Apply two coats of compound over the tape, allowing them to dry between coats (approx. 20 minutes). 4 Lightly sand ready for painting. Leave to dry for at least 1 hour. 4 Apply compound to the front face of the backing blocks and gently push the new plasterboard into place, ensuring the face is level with the existing wall