Proton's CEO Datuk Abdul Harith Abdullah told Bernama that Proton has sold 11,000 units of the Iriz since its launch in September 2014, and that it expects sales to improve over the next few months, especially with the coming Hari Raya festival. Total sales for calendar year 2014 reached a new low of 115,783 units, eroding its market share to just 17.4 percent but the company is optimistic that Proton will turnaround by the end of financial year ending March 2016.
Proton has got to be commended for the level of safety equipment on the Iriz. Every model gets dual airbags, ABS with EBD and brake assist (BA), Hill Hold Assist (HHA) and even Electronic Stability Control (ESC) and traction control. I am not sure about Iriz but if Proton is going to convince me, they will need to have at least 2-3 more new models after Iriz to do so. For now, the best way to test the Iriz is to test drive a 2nd hand Iriz (2-3 years old) to see how good the car is.
The first official teaser of the Iriz was included as part of Proton's 2014 Hari Raya television advertisement which was first aired on 23 July 2014. A single image of the Iriz's front headlamp housing was shown at the end of the video, with the caption Nantikan Kemunculannya (English: Wait For Its Appearance). The heart of Proton Iriz, direct-injected versions of the 1.3 and 1.6 VVT motors (designed to Euro 5 standards, detuned to Euro 4 for Malaysia due to Malaysian lower fuel quality) would certainly go hand-in-hand with its borrowed diesel engine towards meeting the upcoming Euro 6 standards in future.
The Proton Iriz, which is known as the Proton Global Small Car (GSC) and the Proton Compact Car (PCC) by its internal codename is a five-door supermini in development by Malaysian automobile manufacturer, Proton. The heart of Proton Iriz, direct-injected versions of the 1.3 and 1.6 VVT motors (designed to Euro 5 standards, detuned to Euro 4 for Malaysia due to Malaysian lower fuel quality) would certainly go hand-in-hand with its borrowed diesel engine towards meeting the upcoming Euro 6 standards in future.
But perhaps not surprising if one considers that the Proton Iriz 2014 (automotive blog) was launched to compete with Perodua Axia. Proton Iriz 2014 as emphasized by the Chief Executive Officer of Proton, Datuk Abdul Harith Abdullah, is in the B-segment compact car with an engine capacity of 1.3 liters and 1.6 liters. Compared with Perodua Axia, it is also a compact car, but in a category A segment with 1.0 liter engines. Axia Vs Iriz 2014 :Perodua Axia Was Born And Built To Give Alternative to B Segment Market? Axia VS Iriz 2014: Proton Iriz was born to provide an alternative to the B-segment market Perodua Myvi, Honda Jazz, Kia Rio, Peugeot 2008, Ford Fiesta, Suzuki Swift, Volkswagen Polo and Mitsubishi Mirage.
The Proton Iriz, which is a larger B-segment hatchback will not compete with the Perodua Axia, a similar but smaller A-segment car, which is launched in the second half of 2014. The Proton Iriz will compete directly with the Perodua Myvi instead. The heart of Proton Iriz, direct-injected versions of the 1.3 and 1.6 VVT motors (designed to Euro 5 standards, detuned to Euro 4 for Malaysia due to Malaysian lower fuel quality) would certainly go hand-in-hand with its borrowed diesel engine towards meeting the upcoming Euro 6 standards in future.
On looks alone, the Iriz impresses – as virtually all new Proton models have. It also handles well and drives well, as the run to Penang and back showed. In fact, its looks and driving characteristics would certainly qualify it as a global product, right alongside hatchbacks of other brands in the same class. The way the test was set up was to ensure that we drove in a realistic manner, including having the air-conditioner on all the time. The results were impressive as the best consumption achieved for the Iriz 1.3 with manual transmission was 15.4 kms/litre while the Iriz 1.6 with CVT got a best of 15.6 kms/litre.