Morgellons disease is an uncommon, unexplained skin disorder characterized by sores, crawling sensations on and under the skin, and fiber-like filaments emerging from the sores. It's not certain what these strings are. Some say they are wisps of cotton thread, probably coming from clothing or bandages. People who have Morgellons disease report the following signs and symptoms: 1  Skin rashes or sores that can cause intense itching. 2  Crawling sensations on and under the skin, often compared to insects moving, stinging or biting. 3  Fibers, threads or black stringy material in and on the skin. 4  Severe fatigue.
Morgellons disease is a delusional disorder that leads to the belief that one has parasites or foreign material moving in, or coming out of, the skin. Morgellons disease is a little-known disorder that is often associated with nonspecific skin, nerve, and psychiatric symptoms. Some refer to it as a fiber disease. Morgellons disease symptoms and signs. People with Morgellons disease often complain of. 1  skin itching, 2  burning, 3  feeling like there is something crawling under their skin.
The main symptom of Morgellons is a fixed belief  that fibers are embedded in or extruding from the skin. People with the condition may also believe that they are infested with disease-causing agents described as things like insects, parasites, or hairs. Morgellons is a pattern of dermatologic symptoms very similar, if not identical, to those of delusions of parasitosis, and the vast majority (elsewhere, 95%) of people with Morgellons are diagnosed with delusional parasitosis or another psychosomatic illness.
Morgellons syndrome or Morgellons disorder is the name given to an inconsistent set of symptoms. That said, there are several tell-tale symptoms that are most common. You may have just a couple of these symptoms or all of them: 1  Little black specks in your skin, scalp, shower floor or bed sheets. 
This explanation is, however, unpopular among individuals identifying themselves as having Morgellons disease. In delusional parasitosis, people hold a delusional belief that they are infested with parasites. They may experience formication, a sensation similar to that of insects crawling on or under the skin. Morgellons is a pattern of dermatologic symptoms very similar, if not identical, to those of delusions of parasitosis, and the vast majority (elsewhere, 95%) of people with Morgellons are diagnosed with delusional parasitosis or another psychosomatic illness.
For these reasons, Morgellons disease is sometimes referred to as skin crawling disease. The individual with this problem may feel that they have skin mites, springtails (collembola), or scabies that cause the skin sensation. Other symptoms that are sometimes associated with this condition include. 1  depression, Morgellons disease symptoms and signs. People with Morgellons disease often complain of. 1  skin itching, 2  burning, 3  feeling like there is something crawling under their skin.
In this article. Morgellons is a controversial and poorly understood condition in which unusual thread-like fibers appear under the skin. The patient may feel like something is crawling, biting, or stinging all over. Some medical experts say Morgellons is a physical illness. Some patients report thread-like fibers stuck in the skin. People with Morgellons sometimes complain of other symptoms which may include: 1  Difficulty paying attention and concentrating.
Leitao's Morgellons Research Foundation and people associated with the organization who are self-diagnosed successfully lobbied members of the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to investigate the condition. Morgellons is a pattern of dermatologic symptoms very similar, if not identical, to those of delusions of parasitosis, and the vast majority (elsewhere, 95%) of people with Morgellons are diagnosed with delusional parasitosis or another psychosomatic illness.