Methylsulfonylmethane, which is often abbreviated to MSM, is a sulfurous substance that is found naturally in your body. MSM is sold as nutritional supplements for a variety of health-promoting purposes. As with any nutritional supplement you should talk to your health care practitioner before supplementing with MSM. MSM and Inflammatory Disorders. Alternative medical practitioners suggest that MSM supplements help treat chronic pain and a variety of inflammatory disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, bursitis, tenosynovitis, tendinitis and eye inflammation.
MSM in this case doesn’t mean mainstream media. It stands for methylsulfonylmethane, which is a form of sulfur that’s found naturally in many foods. Although some people claim MSM supplements help osteoarthritis pain, we say BS (Bad Science).
For More Information See: Research. MSM (methyl-sufonyl-methane), a stable metabolite of DMSO, is a special biological sulfur found in all plants, soils, fruits, vegetables, fish, poultry, eggs, meats and milk. It is organic sulfur, a naturally occurring compound in the human body. 
Toxicity of methylsulfonylmethane in rats. Food Chem Toxicol. 2002. MSM is a popular dietary supplement used in a variety of conditions including pain, inflammation, allergies, arthritis, parasitic infections and the maintenance of normal keratin levels in hair, skin and nails. Despite its popularity, there is little published toxicology data.
Methylsulfonylmethane, or MSM, is a form of organic sulfur that is found in many different fruits, vegetables, grains, and animals. Evidence supporting the need for dietary MSM or the use of MSM as a source of dietary sulfur is lacking. It stands for methylsulfonylmethane, which is a form of sulfur that’s found naturally in many foods. Although some people claim MSM supplements help osteoarthritis pain, we say BS (Bad Science).
That's not an easy question to answer because there's not a lot of research on the long-term effects of the dietary supplement called methylsulfonylmethane (MSM). MSM is formed using dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), an organic form of sulfur that's also used as a dietary supplement. Animals observed for 90 days on a daily dose of MSM five to seven times greater than what's typically used in people had no serious problems. Stomach upset, diarrhea and headache have been reported in human trials of MSM lasting up to 12 weeks. However, people taking a placebo also reported similar symptoms. Since little is known about the long-term safety of MSM, it's no surprise that the efficacy also is unclear.
MSM and the corresponding sulfoxide dimethyl sulfoxide ((CH 3) 2 SO, DMSO) have different physical properties. MSM is a white crystalline solid at STP (m.p. Structure and chemical properties [edit]. MSM and the corresponding sulfoxide dimethyl sulfoxide ((CH 3) 2 SO, DMSO) have different physical properties. MSM is a white crystalline solid at STP (m.p. = 109 °C) whereas DMSO is a liquid under standard conditions.
Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) is an organosulfur compound with the formula (CH 3) 2 SO 2. It is also known by several other names including DMSO2, methyl sulfone, and dimethyl sulfone. This colorless solid features the sulfonyl functional group and is considered relatively inert chemically. Structure and chemical properties [edit]. MSM and the corresponding sulfoxide dimethyl sulfoxide ((CH 3) 2 SO, DMSO) have different physical properties. MSM is a white crystalline solid at STP (m.p. = 109 °C) whereas DMSO is a liquid under standard conditions.
People take MSM by mouth or apply it to the skin, mostly using it to lessen inflammation. They take MSM to try to relieve pain or swelling from: 1  Osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Bursitis, tendinitis, or tenosynovitis. 3  Osteoporosis. 4  Muscle cramps. 5  Scleroderma. 6  Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disorders. 7  Headaches or hangover. MSM is a chemical in animals, humans, and many plants. People use it most often to try to treat arthritis. MSM can be produced in a lab, where it is sometimes combined with other supplements such as glucosamine or chondroitin.