Ascites (/əˈsaɪtiːz/ ə-SY-teez, from Greek askites, baglike) is a gastroenterological term for an accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. The medical condition is also known as peritoneal cavity fluid, peritoneal fluid excess, hydroperitoneum or more archaically as abdominal dropsy. Mild ascites is hard to notice, but severe ascites leads to abdominal distension. Patients with ascites generally will complain of progressive abdominal heaviness and pressure as well as shortness of breath due to mechanical impingement on the diaphragm.
Ascites refers to fluid that accumulates within the peritoneal cavity. Although ascites is most commonly observed in patients with cirrhosis and resulting portal hypertension (approximately 85% of cases), 7% to 10% of patients with ascites develop secondary to a malignancy. 1. Malignant ascites can develop through several mechanisms: blocked lymphatic channels as a result of malignancy, direct production of fluid into the peritoneal cavity by highly active cancers, and when “functional” cirrhosis develops in patients with extensive hepatic metastases resulting in portal hypertension.
Ascites is the pathologic accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity and is a common manifestation of liver failure, being one of the cardinal signs of portal hypertension. 
190 Followers. A. The diagnosis of ascites is based on physical examination in conjunction with a detailed medical history to ascertain the possible underlying causes since ascites is often considered a nonspecific symptom for other diseases. 
Definition and Etiology. Ascites is defined as the accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. It is a common clinical finding, with various extraperitoneal and peritoneal causes (Box 1), but it most often results from liver cirrhosis. Ascites is the most common major complication of cirrhosis and is an important landmark in the natural history of chronic liver disease. If observed for 10 years, approximately 60% of patients with cirrhosis develop ascites requiring therapy.
If ascites fluid is greater than 500ml, it can be demonstrated on physical examination by bulging flanks and fluid waves performed by the doctor examining the abdomen. Smaller amounts of fluid may be detected by an ultrasound of the abdomen. 
Ascites can occur with cancer and other conditions. When ascites is due to cancer, or if the fluid in the abdomen contains cancer cells, it is often called malignant ascites or malignant peritoneal effusion. 
Overview. Accumulation of fluid in the abdominal cavity is called ascites. Ascites is common in people with cirrhosis and it usually develops when the liver is starting to fail. In general, the development of ascites indicates advanced liver disease and patients should be referred for consideration of liver transplantation. Screening/Diagnosis. Depending on how much fluid is present in the abdomen, ascites may be diagnosed by the doctor on physical examination but is usually confirmed by tests such as ultrasound or CT scan of the abdomen.