Harnessing the very best nature can provide, Jurlique has found that this is the only way to truly achieve beautiful, healthy skin that is good for you and the environment. Their wide range of skin care offers anti-aging, acne and brightening products, for which they utilize breakthrough natural skin care science. 
Our story began in 1985. Jurlique was founded by Jurgen and Ulrike Klein, a German couple who migrated to Australia armed with their natural expertise – his as a biochemist, hers as a botanist – and a vision to create the purest skin care on earth. * Certified biodynamic by the National Association for Sustainable Agriculture, Australia. Jurlique’s products and farm are not certified by or affiliated with Demeter® USA or Demeter International.
The name Jurlique is a phonetic combination of our founders’ names. What was once their two-person operation – Ulrike grew and picked the herbs and botanicals, Jurgen formulated and manufactured the products – is now sold in more than 20 countries across the globe. * Certified biodynamic by the National Association for Sustainable Agriculture, Australia. Jurlique’s products and farm are not certified by or affiliated with Demeter® USA or Demeter International.
Jurlique International Pty Ltd, is an Australian cosmetics manufacturer specialising in natural botanical-based skincare and cosmetics under the brand name Jurlique. Ulrike was a horticulturalist and botanist. The Klein's 153 acre 'biodynamic' farm is still part of the Jurlique company. Today Jurlique claims to be the number two prestige skincare brand in Australia.
In fact Jurlique is a phonetic combination of the names Jurgen and Ulrike. This dynamic couple sought the purest place on earth to establish the Jurlique farm and grow the organic ingredients for their Australia natural skin care range. They found it in the pristine environment of South Australia’s Adelaide Hills. The home of Australian natural skin care is Jurliqu
Jurlique is considered ethical and environmentally friendly, although internationally it does submit some samples for animal testing as mandated by Chinese local laws for products sold in that market. Ulrike was a horticulturalist and botanist. The Klein's 153 acre 'biodynamic' farm is still part of the Jurlique company. Today Jurlique claims to be the number two prestige skincare brand in Australia.
Farm Expansion. Due to the growing demand for Jurlique natural skin care products, the Klein’s farm required expansion. In 1996 the Klein’s moved the majority of the farm operations to a new location. Ngeringa Farm is located on the outskirts of the Adelaide Hills town of Mt Barker. The home of Australian natural skin care is Jurlique. This dynamic couple sought the purest place on earth to establish the Jurlique farm and grow the organic ingredients for their Australia natural skin care range.
Overview. Dr. Jurgen Klien, a scientist and naturopath. Along with his wife, Ulrike, who is a horticulturist, he founded the Jurlique company in 1983. Jurlique is a natural plant-based arrangement of products that relies on herbalism, aromatherapy, and homeopathy for their different combinations. 
Jurlique counter at David Jones Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Jurlique was founded in 1985 the Australian state of South Australia by Dr Jurgen Klein and his wife Ulrike. The company's name is based on a phonetic combination of their first names. Ulrike was a horticulturalist and botanist. The Klein's 153 acre 'biodynamic' farm is still part of the Jurlique company. Today Jurlique claims to be the number two prestige skincare brand in Australia.