Internet Explorer. In order to see which plugins are installed in Internet Explorer, you can simply click on the gear icon on the toolbar and select Manage add-ons. This will bring you to the add-ons window where you can see a list of plugins.
To turn add-ons on. Open Internet Explorer by clicking the Internet Explorer icon on the taskbar. Click the Tools button, and then click Manage add-ons. Under Show, click All add-ons. Tap or click the add-on, click Enable, and then click Close.
Open Internet Explorer for the desktop. Tap or click the Tools button, and then tap or click Manage add-ons. Under Show, tap or click All add-ons, and then do one of the following: To disable an add-on, tap or click it, and then tap or click Disable.
Access the Manage Add-ons dialog box. Open Internet Explorer and click the Tools tab in the menu bar. The Manage Add-ons dialog box will open on the desktop.
1. Open Internet Explorer by clicking the Start button, and then clicking Internet Explorer. 2. Click the Tools button, and then click Manage Add-ons. 3. Under Show, click Downloaded controls to display all ActiveX controls. 4. Click the ActiveX control you want to delete, and then click More information. 5.
In order to see which plugins are installed in Internet Explorer, you can simply click on the gear icon on the toolbar and select Manage add-ons. This will bring you to the add-ons window where you can see a list of plugins.
Method 1: You may try the following steps to remove Internet Explorer 10 add-ons: a) Open Internet Explorer. b) Click the Tools button, and then click Manage Add-ons. c) Under Show, click Downloaded controls to display all ActiveX controls.
Open Internet Explorer. Click the Tools button, and then click Manage add-ons. To display all ActiveX controls, under Show, click Downloaded controls. Click the ActiveX control you want to delete, and then click More information.
Open the desktop, and then tap or click the Internet Explorer icon on the taskbar. Tap or click the Tools button, and then tap or click Manage add-ons. Under Show, tap or click All add-ons. Tap or click the add-on, tap or click Enable, and then tap or click Close.