4. When the oven is up to 500 degrees, put the beef roast back in uncovered with a thermometer to monitor internal temperature. If you like a rare roast, cook it 125 degrees F. If you like medium, 140 is your number, and for you sadists who like well done, 160 is the magic number. 2. Once you have finished prepping the roast and the oven is up to heat, turn the oven down to 200 degrees F and put the roast in. If you have a thermometer that can be in the roast while it is in the oven, put that in the very center of the roast. You will let the roast cook until it reaches 118 degrees F
Ensuring that your oven is heated before your put in the roast will help ensure even cooking from start to finish. 3. Brown the outside of the meat to sear in the juices. Place a large pan over medium high heat on the stove top. Place the meat in the hot pan and sear the meat on all sides. Allow the meat to cook for about thirty seconds on all sides to quickly brown the outer layer of the meat. Turn the oven down to 200ºF and cook for about 1 hour per pound. Check your meat with a thermometer after 2.5 hours for a 2.5 pound roast. Follow these guidelines for doneness when checking temperature 1  : 130ºF Rare.
Place vegetables in a 5- to 6-quart slow cooker. Trim fat from meat. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cut roast to fit, if necessary; place on top of vegetables. Omit cooking oil. Add beef broth to cooker. Cover and cook on low-heat setting for 9 to 11 hours or on high-heat setting for 4-12 to 5-12 hours. Remove meat and vegetables from cooker; cover to keep warm. Using 1-12 cups of the cooking juices, prepare gravy as directed in Step 3. Season to taste with salt and pepper
Step 2. Place the roasting pan or Dutch oven in the oven. Estimate the cooking time at approximately twice the time the meat or poultry would cook at 350 to 375 degrees Fahrenheit. If you're cooking meat, depending on the size of the cut, this could be as long as six to eight hours. Coat it with any seasoning rub you prefer, then heat oil in a frying pan on the stove top. Brown the meat or chicken pieces on all sides and transfer them to a roasting pan or Dutch oven. If you're cooking beef, lamb or pork, insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the roast.
Place the meat thermometer into the thickest part of the roast. Place the Dutch oven into the preheated oven and cook until the thermometer reads 115 degrees, about 45-60 minutes. Crank the heat up to 500 degrees and continue cooking until the roast reaches 125-130 degrees, for medium rare. 
1 Cook the pork roast in a slow cooker, for the most tender roast. 2  Place the brown roast in the slow cooker for approximately 6 hours on low. 3  If your roast is extremely large, you may want to cut it into a few pieces. 1 Cook the pork roast in a Dutch oven on your stove top. 2  You will want to bring all the ingredients, including the added liquid, to a boil. 3  Then, turn down the temperature and cook covered on low for 2.5 to 3 hours.
Step 3. Remove the roast from the refrigerator, set it in a large pot or roaster pan and slide it into an oven preheated to 375 degrees F. Cook the roast until the internal temperature, as measured by a stem thermometer, reaches 145 F for medium-rare, 160 F for medium and 175 F for well done. You Might Also Like. Remove the roast from the oven and let it rest for 20 to 30 minutes before serving to allow the natural juices time to circulate throughout the roast. Combine your favorite seasonings such as salt, dried thyme, rosemary, oregano, black pepper or garlic powder in a small bowl.
If a pan with a rack is not available, place the meat on sturdy foods such as potatoes or carrots to keep it from getting too wet. 5. Turn the oven down to 200ºF and cook for about 1 hour per pound. Check your meat with a thermometer after 2.5 hours for a 2.5 pound roast. Follow these guidelines for doneness when checking temperature 1  : 130ºF Rare.