In photophosphorylation, light energy is used to create a high-energy electron donor and a lower-energy electron acceptor. Electrons then move spontaneously from donor to acceptor through an electron transport chain. ATP is made by an enzyme called ATP synthase. Both the structure of this enzyme and its underlying gene are remarkably similar in all known forms of life. ATP synthase is powered by a transmembrane electrochemical potential gradient, usually in the form of a proton gradient.
Cyclic Electron Transport in Photosynthesis. Photophosphorylation refers to the use of light energy to ultimately provide the energy to convert ADP to ATP, thus replenishing the universal energy currency in living things. Karp points out that this cyclic photophosphorylation also takes place in isolated chloroplasts and can provide additional ATP to aid the carbohydrate synthesis taking place as result of the non-cyclic electron transport.
In bacterial photosynthesis, a single photosystem is used, and therefore is involved in cyclic photophosphorylation. It is favoured in anaerobic conditions and conditions of high irradiance and CO 2 compensation points. ATP is made by an enzyme called ATP synthase. Both the structure of this enzyme and its underlying gene are remarkably similar in all known forms of life. ATP synthase is powered by a transmembrane electrochemical potential gradient, usually in the form of a proton gradient.
The basic reaction of photosynthesis is: CO 2 + H 2 2 O)n + O 2. Photophosphorylation is the process of converting energy from a light-excited electron into the pyrophosphate bond of an ADP molecule. Photophosphorylation consists of two pigments to excite, called PS1 (photosystem 1) and PS2 (photosystem 2). In Photosystem II, the pumping to H ions into the thylakoid and the conversion of ADP + P into ATP is driven by electron gradients established in the thylakoid membrane. The equation is the net result of two processes. One process involves the splitting of water.
The aim is to produce ATP from ADP and inorganic P and harvest hydrogen so that carbon dioxide can be reduced to form a carbohydrate in the second series of reactions. The production of ATP using light is called photophosphorylation. When light is absorbed by PS I and PS II, electrons in the chlorophyll molecule are boosted to higher energy levels. They are emitted and passed on to electron carriers. The loss of electrons from PS II causes the splitting of water.
Cyclic photophosphorylation requires photosystem I, but not photosystem II. Light-dependent electron transport occurs in the thylakoid membranes, where electrons follow a cyclic pathway, returning to the photosystem I reaction center. 
In these systems there is a process called cyclic photophosphorylation, which just accomplishes the ADP to ATP process for immediate energy for these cells. This process uses only Photosystem I and the chlorophyll P700. Karp points out that this cyclic photophosphorylation also takes place in isolated chloroplasts and can provide additional ATP to aid the carbohydrate synthesis taking place as result of the non-cyclic electron transport.
The other pathway, non-cyclic photophosphorylation, is a two-stage process involving two different chlorophyll photosystems. Being a light reaction, non-cyclic photophosphorylation occurs in the frets or stroma lamellae. First, a water molecule is broken down into 2H + + 1/2 O 2 + 2e − by a process called photolysis (or light-splitting). ATP is made by an enzyme called ATP synthase. Both the structure of this enzyme and its underlying gene are remarkably similar in all known forms of life. ATP synthase is powered by a transmembrane electrochemical potential gradient, usually in the form of a proton gradient.
The light reaction is a process by which organisms capture and store radiant energy as they produce oxygen gas. . This energy is stored in the form of chemical bonds of compounds such as NADPH and ATP. The energy contained in both NADPH and ATP is then used to reduce carbon dioxide to glucose. In Photosystem II, the pumping to H ions into the thylakoid and the conversion of ADP + P into ATP is driven by electron gradients established in the thylakoid membrane. The equation is the net result of two processes. One process involves the splitting of water.