Therefore, to rotate around the Kaaba, which is the symbol of Islam, means to love Islam, to rotate around it like a moth and to attach oneself to Allah. Worshipping; is fulfilling the duties like takbir, hamd, shukr by a slave for Allah in the way that He orders.
The Kaaba is seen as the most sacred space in the Muslim world, the site to which hundreds of millions of Muslims throughout the world turn each day when they pray. Located inside the compound of the Grand Mosque at Mecca, the Kaaba (literally, “cube”) is a cube-shaped structure known as the House of God.
The Kaaba is built around a sacred black stone, a meteorite that Muslims believe was placed by Abraham and Ishmael in a corner of the Kaaba, a symbol of God's covenant with Abraham and Ishmael and, by extension, with the Muslim community itself.
Al-Masjid al-Haram, the most sacred mosque in Islam, is built around the Kaaba and are situated in Mecca Main Baka being the inner city of Mecca It was named Baka because people crowding touch each other.
Every year millions of Muslims travel to Mecca for the hajj, one of the five pillars of Islam. Muslims travel to Islam’s most sacred mosque, al-Masjid al-Haram, during the six-day pilgrimage. Mecca is thought to be the place where Ishmael and his mother Hagar were provided with a spring of water in the desert.
• KAABA (noun). The noun KAABA has 1 sense: 1. (Islam) a black stone building in Mecca that is shaped like a cube and that is the most sacred Muslim pilgrim shrine; believed to have been given by Gabriel to Abraham; Muslims turn in its direction when praying. Familiarity information: KAABA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
The noun KAABA has 1 sense: 1. (Islam) a black stone building in Mecca that is shaped like a cube and that is the most sacred Muslim pilgrim shrine; believed to have been given by Gabriel to Abraham; Muslims turn in its direction when praying. Familiarity information: KAABA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.