Mycenae Map. Mycenae is an ancient town of Peloponnese located in the prefecture of Argolida. Ancient Mycenae is a legendary city, whose imposing remains attract visitors from all around the world. 
Things to see and do. Ancient Mycenae is one of the most impressive archaeological sites in Greece. It is located in Peloponnese, in mainland Greece. Dating from the Late Bronze Era, this was the kingdom of the legendary king Agamemnon, leader of the Greeks in the Trojan War. Travel guide to Mycenae, Greece. Mycenae is among the most important archaeological sites in Greece. It is located on the eastern side of Peloponnese, close to Nafplion Town, and can be easily visited for a day trip from Athens.
Answer by KugaWolf01. Mycenae is located in southwestern Greece, in the middle of a large peninsula. According to my map, it's not far from Corinth, another ancient city--state. Macedonia, on the other hand, is something else entirely. 
The ancient citadel of Mycenae is located in the North-East part of Peloponnese in Argolis, about 1.5 hours away from Athens, and it is an imposing site on top of a rocky hill. Legend has it that Mycenae was founded by Perseus, and the entire culture of mainlad Greece during the Bronze age was named Mycenaean during the late Helladic period. With its legents, art, and ideas, Mycenean culture reached its zenith from 1300 BCE until 1100 BCE.
MYCENAEAN AGE (600 - 1100 BC). The Mycenaean Age dates from around 1600 BC to 1100 BC, during the Bronze Age. Mycenae is an archaeological site in Greece from which the name Mycenaean Age is derived. Mycenae site is located in the Peloponnese, Southern Greece. The remains of a Mycenaean palace were found at this site, accounting for its importance.
by Mark Cartwright. Mycenae was a fortified late Bronze Age city located between two hills on the Argolid plain of the Peloponnese, Greece. The acropolis today dates from between the 14th and 13th century BCE when the Mycenaean civilization was at its peak of power, influence and artistic expression
Ancient Mycenae is located in the Southern region of Greece between Corinth and Argos. It was a part of the Late Hellenic III period, which was also during the Bronze Age which was from roughly 1550 to 1100 BCE (Taylour 20). 
Mycenae was a fortified late Bronze Age city located between two hills on the Argolid plain of the Peloponnese, Greece. The acropolis today dates from between the 14th and 13th century BCE when the Mycenaean civilization was at its peak of power, influence and artistic expression. 
Mycenae is the largest and most important center of the civilization that was named Mycenaean after this very citadel. Mycenaean is the culture that dominated mainland Greece, the Aegean islands, and the shores of Asia Minor during the late Bronze Age era (circa 1600-1100 BCE). 