Choose a variety of pomegranate. Punica granatum is a small deciduous tree. It will grow to about 2.5 metres (8.2 feet) tall, with orange flowers during the summer season. The dwarf variety Nana will grow shorter, to about 1 metre (3.2 feet) and are the best for growing in containers. Pick a spot that that gets plenty of sunshine. Pomegranate trees love sunshine and will only fruit reliably when they get enough sun. If you do not have a spot in your yard that gets constant sun throughout the day, pick the spot that gets the least amount of shade.
Immature pomegranate trees – those 3 years of age and younger –typically don’t bloom. If they do, they typically drop any fruit that forms. If your pomegranate tree isn’t blooming, it may be because it’s too young. In this case, fertilize the tree in January with a high-bloom formula, such as 6-12-12. Give the young pomegranate tree 1 pound of fertilizer in November and again in March. Mature trees require 4 1/2 pounds during the same time periods
As the tree matures, it will begin to produce fruit that matures on the tree; generally, fruit needs about six or seven months on the tree to be ready for picking. A pomegranate is mature when it makes a tinny, metallic sound when tapped with a finger. Timing. Growing a pomegranate tree that produces fruit requires time and the proper conditions. During its first three years, a young, newly planted tree is unlikely to bear usable fruit, although it may have small fruits that drop before they reach maturity.
One thing is certain -- the pomegranate tree (Punica granatum) is a survivor, sometimes living for hundreds of years. It is described by botanists as a deciduous shrub, although growers in the warmest of its U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 to 11 may laugh at the shrub part of the description. In this case, fertilize the tree in January with a high-bloom formula, such as 6-12-12. Give the young pomegranate tree 1 pound of fertilizer in November and again in March. Mature trees require 4 1/2 pounds during the same time periods
The pomegranate (/ˈpɒmɨɡraenɨt/), ˈpɒmɨɡrænɨt botanical Name punica, granatum is a-fruit bearing deciduous shrub or small tree growing between 5 and 8 (m 16 and 26) ft. Tall in The Northern, hemisphere the fruit is typically in season From september To, february and in The Southern hemisphere From march To. may A shrub or small tree growing 6 to 10 m high, the pomegranate has multiple spiny branches, and is extremely long-lived, with some specimens in France surviving for 200 years. P. granatum leaves are opposite or subopposite, glossy, narrow oblong, entire, 3–7 cm long and 2 cm broad.
Most of a pomegranate's fruit-producing flowers bloom in the first three months of spring. Blooming may happen continuously or come in continual flushes, depending on growing conditions and the tree itself. All pomegranate varieties flower on the same basic schedule with minimal variation, but varieties differ in the time fruits take to ripen. Pomegranate trees decline in flowering and productivity after approximately 15 years.
Vladimir1965/iStock/Getty Images. Young pomegranate trees (Punica granatum) produce scattered blossoms during their first few years, but the trees flower in earnest once they reach 3 to 4 years old. When that time arrives, flowering occurs from midspring into fall, with several cycles of heavy early blooms and fruit set. All pomegranate varieties flower on the same basic schedule with minimal variation, but varieties differ in the time fruits take to ripen. Pomegranate trees decline in flowering and productivity after approximately 15 years.
In California’s San Joaquin Valley, pomegranate trees may bloom up to three times in the spring, setting fruit after each bloom. In Florida they bloom through the summer, and in Georgia, the pomegranate blooms in spring and then again in flushes throughout the warmer periods of summer and fall. In this case, fertilize the tree in January with a high-bloom formula, such as 6-12-12. Give the young pomegranate tree 1 pound of fertilizer in November and again in March. Mature trees require 4 1/2 pounds during the same time periods
This deciduous bush typically grows from 12 to 20 feet tall and nearly the same in spread. Some patience is required when growing a pomegranate tree, as it takes five to seven months for fruit to become mature and the tree itself needs 2-3 years before it bears more than a couple of fruits. Plant in USDA Zones 8-10. Fertilize the pomegranate tree in March and July with a balanced fertilizer (10-10-10) in the amount of one pound per three feet of plant height, and maintain an evenly moist soil.