FPC, often labeled as “microbial rennet” or “vegetable rennet,” and described in product literature as “vegetarian,” is believed by those in the cheese industry to yield high-quality and good-tasting cheese indistinguishable from that produced through the use of calf rennet. History. As we wrote in a 2008 article on rennet, there are four major types of rennet: calf rennet, microbial rennet, FPC, and vegetable rennet. In 2012, best estimates from enzyme companies and dairy groups attribute 90% of all commercial cheese production in the United States to FPC.
Rennet /ˈrɛnɨt/ is a complex of enzymes produced in the stomachs of ruminant mammals. Rennet is used in the production of most cheeses. Chymosin, its key component, is a protease enzyme that curdles the casein in milk. This helps young mammals digest their mothers' milk. Natural calf rennet is extracted from the inner mucosa of the fourth stomach chamber (the abomasum) of harvested young, unweaned calves. These stomachs are a byproduct of veal production.
Answer: If you're vegetarian, buy cheese made with microbial rennet or rennet derived from plants. Typically, plant-based rennet for cheese comes from thistle. Microbial rennet is usually fermented from bacteria but can also be genetically modified. The FDA does not require cheesemakers to specify what type of rennet they use.
How Vegetarian Rennet is Made. As stated above, vegetarian rennet serves the same purpose as regular rennet, to aid coagulation in the making of vegetarian cheeses. The difference is that the two main sources from which vegetarian rennet comes are vegetable or microbial in origin. Before we talk about vegetarian rennet, let's take a look at what rennet is and why vegetarians should avoid products made with it. Rennet is the ingredient used to make cheese coagulate quicker. It sounds harmless enough, but it's not.
Vegetable rennets are also suitable for vegetarians. Vegetable rennet might be used in the production of kosher and halal cheeses, but nearly all kosher cheeses are produced with either microbial rennet or FPC. Commercial so-called vegetable rennets usually contain rennet from the mold Mucor miehei. Natural calf rennet is extracted from the inner mucosa of the fourth stomach chamber (the abomasum) of harvested young, unweaned calves. These stomachs are a byproduct of veal production.
Rennet is used to coagulate (thicken) milk during the cheesemaking process, making curds form. Rennet comes from the following sources: 1  Enzymes extracted from the stomach lining of a calf, ewe or baby goat (traditional/animal rennet). 2  Plants (plant-based rennet). 3  Microbes in fungus and yeast (microbial rennet). 
GM Free Vegetarian and Animal Rennet. All the rennets listed are suitable for cheese and junket making. We have a variety of sizes to siut the home and small scale cheese maker. The Microbial Rennet Tablets are particularly useful in hot climates where storing and using liquid rennet may be difficult or impractical. 
The primary alternatives include: vegetable rennet, microbial rennet or fermentation-produced chymosin (chymosin, along with pepsin, is one of the primary coagulating enzymes in animal rennet). Fermentation-produced chymosin has been made several ways, deriving from calf or synthesized genes. Ruggles Hill Creamery Ada’s Honor – made with microbial rennet. Microbial rennet is derived from molds that are able to produce a coagulating enzyme and are viewed as vegetarian appropriate – however, they seem to have a reputation for occasionally engendering bitterness, especially in cheeses that are aged.