1 Court costs and filing fees can add another $100-$400 or more, depending on location and how much other paperwork or research is needed. 2  It's possible to handle the expungement process yourself, but it's important to be sure every phase is completed correctly. Shopping for expungement: 1  If you can't afford an attorney, call the Legal Aid office in the area where you were convicted to see if you are eligible for free or reduced-rate legal help. 2  When first contacting a lawyer, try to have as many details about your situation as possible. 3  The American Bar Association links to lawyer referral services by ...
Depending on the court, the total price of an expunction or order of non-disclosure is between $1,300 and $2,500. This price includes nearly $500 in filing fees, agency notification fees, court order certification fees, and certified mailing fees. Most people who have successfully completed a deferred adjudication can have their record sealed with an Order of Non-Disclosure. For felonies, there is usually a waiting period, however. Some felony charges including sexual assault, indecency with a child, endangering a child, murder and others can never be sealed.
First, I want to advise there is a difference between expunging a record and sealing a record. You can have a record expunged if you are found not guilty at trial. Otherwise, and this applies to a deferred adjudication, you file what is called a Petition for Non-Disclosure. This is same thing as sealing the record.
Do not let the cost of a record seal or record expungement hamper your future. The cost to seal or expunge your arrest record is $499.00(see table below for details)plus clerk/court costs of between $40-80.00 (depending on which Florida county your case is in) . There is also a Florida Departmentt of Law Enforcement fee of $75.00 to process your application to seal or expunge your case. NEW!!! You will lose a lot more in the long run. The cost to seal or expunge your arrest record is $499.00(see table below for details)plus clerk/court costs of between $40-80.00 (depending on which Florida county your case is in) .
Attorney Richard McConathy is knowledgeable in all areas of DWI defense and will work with you to expunge your DWI record. Call The Law Offices of Richard C. McConathy at (972) 445-4300 to determine whether your DWI offense is eligible for expungement. Contact The Law Offices of Richard C. McConathy today for a consultation about your DWI record sealing or expungement questions throughout Dallas County in Texas.
Texas Expungement Cost. We charge a flat fee for the Texas expungement service that does not include filing fees. Courts charge a filing fee to expunge a case. The fee is per case, not per charge. So a single case with multiple charges will be just be one filing fee. However, two cases will be two filing fees. The filing fees vary by court and often by case. We can give you an estimate of the filing fee once we speak to you and know which county your case is in. On most Texas expungement cases we provide a money-back guarantee. Additionally, we have a low-price guarant
With an expungement, all records of your case are destroyed and cannot be used against you in the future. An Order of Non-Disclosure effectively hides your record from the public by preventing law enforcement agencies from disclosing the offense. Most people who have successfully completed a deferred adjudication can have their record sealed with an Order of Non-Disclosure. For felonies, there is usually a waiting period, however. Some felony charges including sexual assault, indecency with a child, endangering a child, murder and others can never be sealed.
* This price for a TX expungement does not include filing fees and court costs. Filing fees must be paid prior to filing and Attorney will notify Client of amount when the court determines it. In some instances a report from the Department of Public Safety (DPS) may need to be obtained. However, two cases will be two filing fees. The filing fees vary by court and often by case. We can give you an estimate of the filing fee once we speak to you and know which county your case is in. On most Texas expungement cases we provide a money-back guarantee.
We have successfully expunged or sealed more than 14,000 criminal records, and our attorneys have more than 50 years of combined experience. We are the nation's leading criminal record expungement law firm —in fact, we helped define the expungement law. 