2) In prototype-based programming, a prototype is an original object; new objects are created by copying the prototype. 3) In hardware design, a prototype is a hand-built model that represents a manufactured (easily replicable) product sufficiently for designers to visualize and test the design. The word prototype comes from the Latin words proto, meaning original, and typus, meaning form or model. In a non-technical context, a prototype is an especially representative example of a given category
A web prototype is typically one of the first steps towards building any new website or application. Learn more about how they are used and what to focus on when looking at your own web prototypes. For more information on web design and development visit www.verndale.com. 
An array of prototypes leading to the final design. A prototype is an early sample, model, or release of a product built to test a concept or process or to act as a thing to be replicated or learned from. It is a term used in a variety of contexts, including semantics, design, electronics, and software programming. Prototypes explore different aspects of an intended design: 1  A Proof-of-Principle Prototype explores some functional, but not all, aspects of the intended design. 2  A Form Study Prototype explores the size and appearance, but not the functionality,
Prototyping is the process of building a model of a system. In terms of an information system, prototypes are employed to help system designers build an information system that intuitive and easy to manipulate for end users. Prototyping is an iterative process that is part of the analysis phase of the systems development life cycle.
Software prototyping is the activity of creating prototypes of software applications, i.e., incomplete versions of the software program being developed. It is an activity that can occur in software development and is comparable to prototyping as known from other fields, such as mechanical engineering or manufacturing. A prototype typically simulates only a few aspects of, and may be completely different from, the final product. Prototyping has several benefits: The software designer and implementer can get valuable feedback from the users early in the project. Extreme Prototyping as a development process is used especially for developing web applications. Basically, it breaks down web development into three phases, each one based on the preceding one. The first phase is a static prototype that consists mainly of HTML pages.
A foundation for ambitious web applications. Prototype takes the complexity out of client-side web programming. Built to solve real-world problems, it adds useful extensions to the browser scripting environment and provides elegant APIs around the clumsy interfaces of Ajax and the Document Object Model. 
JavaScript Prototypes. All JavaScript objects inherit the properties and methods from their prototype. Objects created using an object literal, or with new Object(), inherit from a prototype called Object.prototype. Objects created with new Date() inherit the Date.prototype. The Object.prototype is on the top of the prototype chain. 
Another way that prototypes are classified is by the fidelity of the prototype, or the degree to which the prototype represents the appearance and interaction of the system.[ 4 ] A low-fidelity prototype is one that is quickly constructed to depict concepts, design alternatives, and screen layouts. In systems analysis a prototype is a model of the system (or subsystem) under analysis [ 2 ]. A system can be anything from the food ordering system at a restaurant to the air traffic control system of a major airport. Prototypes of these systems can take many forms.
Nodes of the Web of Intrigue. The Web of Intrigue is a collection of memories Alex Mercer had collected from those he has consumed. He was able to review these memories whenever he wanted. Mercer had a total of 131 memories of individuals which he considered important. James Heller is also capable of retaining important memories of his targets. 