1 Before planting, put black or red plastic over the soil to pre-heat the soil, warm it up faster. 2  Plant tomatoes when the soil temperature is above 55°F (how do I find that out?) and the air temperature does not go below 45 degrees at night. But the magic is not associated with them being in the ground versus being in a planter, it's in the soil temperature. Tomato roots will not grow or provide nutrients to the plant at soil temperatures of 50°F or below. Researchers have found that the ideal root temperature for tomatoes is 70°F.
Spring planting should occur when soil is warm, at least 3 weeks after last frost, and when temperatures remain above 70 degrees F. You can plant early if you use water towers. To prevent branches from breaking from the weight of tomatoes, use 5 to 6 ft tall cages. To tie plants to stakes, use soft strips of cloth. 
Wait until the soil warms to above 70 degrees to plant warm-season vegetables such as tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, cucumbers, squash, corn and melons. It can take several weeks for tomatoes, eggplant and peppers to germinate in the garden. 
Tomatoes are a warm-season annual that grow best when the soil temperature is at least 55°F and the air temperature ranges between 65° and 90°F. Tomatoes require from 50 to more than 90 warm, frost-free days to reach harvest. Tomatoes are commonly grown from seedlings started indoors and transplanted into the garden. Grow tomatoes in full sun. Tomatoes require warm, well-drained but moisture retentive soil rich in organic matter. Tomatoes will produce earlier in light, sandy soil, but the yield will be greater in heavier, loamy soil. Add aged compost to planting beds in advance of planting. Tomatoes prefer a soil pH of 5.5 to 6.8
Setting out plants Set tomatoes in the garden when the weather has warmed and soil temperatures are above 60 degrees F. Temperatures below 50 degrees F impair tomato growth. In southern Missouri, plant tomatoes outside from April 20 to May 15.
Germination. Warm soil stimulates tomato seeds to germinate faster than cooler earth. In fact, Organic Gardening reports that a 10-degree window between 75 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit is the best temperature range for successful germination in just one week. Low Temperatures. Cool soil temperatures affect the tomato plant negatively, especially if they persist for more than a week. Temperatures dipping below 55 degrees Fahrenheit stops both pollen production and overall plant growth. As a result, you see visible stunting to both foliage and fruits, if the plant produces fruits at all