Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree is a class A misdemeanor and Criminal Contempt in the First Degree is a class E felony. If the person actually causes physical injury to the witness, then the person is guilty of Aggravated Criminal Contempt, which is a class D felony. Even an apology is a violation of the order if it is a full order. If the person violates that order, he is guilty of Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree. If the person threatens the witness or has previously been convicted of Criminal Contempt, then he commits Criminal Contempt in the First Degree.
While NY PL 215.50 (Second Degree Criminal Contempt) is violated when the call was made in violation of the order of protection, NY PL 215.51 (First Degree Criminal Contempt) has further elements and requirements. As rightfully concerning an arrest for First Degree Criminal Contempt may and will no doubt be, it is not a defense to concede your conduct was illegal and throw yourself at the mercy of the court or Assistant District Attorneys.
Second Degree Criminal Contempt is an “A” misdemeanor while a conviction for Criminal Contempt in the First Degree is an “E” felony. These crimes are punishable with sentences up to one year in jail and four years in state prison respectively. A third option which is commonly seen, and is often issued, is a restraining order that permits “incidental contact” where two people may work together or live in the same building. 1  Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree: New York Penal Law 215.50. 2  Criminal Contempt in the First Degree: New York Penal Law 215.51.
If strict liability crimes truly existed in the New York Penal Law, Criminal Contempt in the First Degree, Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree and Aggravated Criminal Contempt would be their codification. A third option which is commonly seen, and is often issued, is a restraining order that permits “incidental contact” where two people may work together or live in the same building. 1  Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree: New York Penal Law 215.50. 2  Criminal Contempt in the First Degree: New York Penal Law 215.51.
Defendant, charged with criminal contempt in the second degree (Penal Law § 215.50(3)), aggravated harassment in the second degree (Penal Law § 240.30(2)), and harassment in the second degree (Penal Law § 240.26(3)), moves to dismiss, arguing that the Information is facially insufficient. On February 16, 2015, defendant was arraigned on a misdemeanor complaint charging him with one count each of criminal contempt in the second degree, under Penal Law § 215.50(3), aggravated harassment in the second degree, under Penal Law § 240.30(2), and harassment in the second degree, under Penal Law § 240.26(3).
My son father is charged with criminal contempt in the second degree for failing his drug test for drug court for the first time and they keep him today. His been in the drug court program for 14 months on honor roll and due to graduate from drug court next month. What’s the worst that can happen. 
Other than Aggravated Criminal Contempt, Criminal Contempt in the First Degree is the most serious and severe Criminal Contempt crime in New York. As rightfully concerning an arrest for First Degree Criminal Contempt may and will no doubt be, it is not a defense to concede your conduct was illegal and throw yourself at the mercy of the court or Assistant District Attorneys.
Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree: New York Penal Law 215.50. Not the only subsection of Second Degree Criminal Contempt, New York Penal Law 215.50(3) is likely the “brand” of Criminal Contempt you will face if you violate a restraining order in New York. That is, you are guilty of NY PL 215.50(3) if you intentionally disobey a mandate of a court. While there is a codified exception referencing cases involving labor disputes, in the criminal realm those matters are few and far between while having little or nothing to do with domestic offenses.
On its face, the law of Second Degree Criminal Contempt is relatively clear. That is, you are guilty of NY PL 215.50(3) if you intentionally disobey a mandate of a court. While there is a codified exception referencing cases involving labor disputes, in the criminal realm those matters are few and far between while having little or nothing to do with domestic offenses.
In. , 2013 NY Slip Op 5127 – NY: Appellate Div., 4th Dept. 2013, the defendant was arrested and charged with Criminal Contempt in the First Degree pursuant to New York Penal Law 215.51 [b] [iv] and Criminal Contempt in the Second Degree pursuant to New York Penal Law 215.50 [3]. As rightfully concerning an arrest for First Degree Criminal Contempt may and will no doubt be, it is not a defense to concede your conduct was illegal and throw yourself at the mercy of the court or Assistant District Attorneys.