Ethane (/ˈɛθeɪn/ or /ˈiːθeɪn/) is an organic chemical compound with chemical formula C 2 H 6. At standard temperature and pressure, ethane is a colorless, odorless gas. Ethane is isolated on an industrial scale from natural gas, and as a byproduct of petroleum refining. The name ethane is derived from the IUPAC nomenclature of organic chemistry. Eth- refers to the presence of 2 carbon atoms, and -ane refers to the presence of a single bond between them.
Another way of showing the condensed structural formula of this compound is to show a carbon atom bonded to one hydrogen atom and also to three other groups, each of which is a carbon atom bonded to three hydrogen atoms. Complete Structural FormulaH H H | | | H-C - C-C - H | | | H H-C-H H | H. In the condensed structural formula, each carbon atom is written separately and following each carbon atom are listed the other atoms that are bonded to that carbon atom.
imagine 2 carbon atoms bonded with 3 hydrogen atoms on each side this is for ethane and for propane imagine 3 carbon atoms bonded with hydrogen on each them.dont get confused … by its molecular formula of C3H8. 1 person found this useful. butanal is analdehyde. An oxygen atom is attached to a carbon chain by a double bond and therefre called a carbonyl group. It is found at the end of a carbon atom/chain.
The complete structural formula for ethane is: Condensed structural formulas show the number of hydrogens around each carbon. The condensed structural formula for ethane is: CH3 − CH3. Another short-hand form of structural formula shows only the carbon atoms and the carbon-carbon bonds. It is understood that each carbon has four bonds. All bonds other than carbon-carbon are understood to be carbon-hydrogen. The short-hand for ethane is: C − C. Some resources may use another short-hand for longer alkanes. In this structure, there is a carbon atom at the end of each line segment (a total of 7).
We used only condensed structural formulas in Table 13.1 Physical Properties of Some Selected Alkenes . Thus, CH 2 =CH 2 stands for. The double bond is shared by the two carbon atoms and does not involve the hydrogen atoms, although the condensed formula does not make this point obvious. Note that the molecular formula for ethene is C 2 H 4, whereas that for ethane is C 2 H 6. 
A molecular formula lists the numbers of the atoms of a specific element in a compound. A structural formula is a picture of how the atoms in a specific molecule are connected … , with each atom represented by its chemical symbol. For example, oxygen's molecular formula is O2. Its structural formula is O-O. 9 people found this useful.
What is Cyclobutene condensed structural formula? The formula for cyclobutene is (C4H6): {-CH2-CH=CH-CH2-} It calls  for making a ring with the ends-C and C-to be connected, and  formed in the shape of a square. In additi … on to the ring there is a  bond of double C=C. butanal is analdehyde. An oxygen atom is attached to a carbon chain by a double bond and therefre called a carbonyl group. It is found at the end of a carbon atom/chain.
One way of getting around this problem is the use of condensed structural formulas. In the condensed structural formula, each carbon atom is written separately and following each carbon atom are listed the other atoms that are bonded to that carbon atom.
In this case the first carbon atom has three hydrogen atoms bonded to it, the second carbon atom has two hydrogen atoms bonded to it, the third carbon atom has two hydrogen atoms, and the fourth carbon atom has three hydrogen atoms. Another even more condensed way of writing a condensed structural formula is this. In the condensed structural formula, each carbon atom is written separately and following each carbon atom are listed the other atoms that are bonded to that carbon atom.
Write the condensed structural formula or draw the expanded structural formula for each of the following. methane? Express your answer as a condensed structural formula. ethane? Express your answer as a condensed structural formula. 