Apples benefit your health by boosting your intake of vitamin C, or ascorbic acid. Vitamin C helps you make collagen, a protein found abundantly in your skin. Collagen is a crucial structural component of skin and helps maintain your skin's waterproof barrier. Vitamin A. Apples provide a small amount of skin-friendly vitamin A, a family of chemicals called retinoids. Vitamin A plays an important role in skin development -- it helps immature skin develop into mature and functional skin tissue.
Health benefits. Apples are loaded with vitamin C. Almost half of an apple's vitamin C content is just under the skin, so it's a good idea to eat apples with their skins. Flores said that this is also where apples' fiber is found. Apples contain insoluble fiber, which provides bulk in the intestinal tract. 
Apples contain skin-friendly nutrients, including vitamin C and copper. Eating fruit each day -- 1.5 cups for women or 2 cups for men, recommends the U.S. Department of Agriculture -- benefits your health. Consuming apples boosts your intake of essential nutrients, including fiber and the essential mineral potassium. Vitamin A. Apples provide a small amount of skin-friendly vitamin A, a family of chemicals called retinoids. Vitamin A plays an important role in skin development -- it helps immature skin develop into mature and functional skin tissue.
Add apples to your salad -- the fruit pairs well with dried cranberries, spinach and a maple-balsamic vinaigrette. Try adding apples to your pureed soups -- butternut squash and apple soup or a carrot-ginger-apple soup make for comforting meals in cooler weather. Vitamin A. Apples provide a small amount of skin-friendly vitamin A, a family of chemicals called retinoids. Vitamin A plays an important role in skin development -- it helps immature skin develop into mature and functional skin tissue.
Granny Smith and Red Delicious. Nutritionists say that two varieties of apples, the Granny Smith and the Red Delicious, are best for the skin. While all apples are good for you, these two varieties in particular contain abundant amounts of both collagen and elastin, both great for youthful skin. In addition, Braeburn apples contain ingredients that can protect you from harmful UV rays, one of the most damaging threats to healthy skin. You can use green apples, in particular, to give your skin a healthy, toned glow. The Granny Smith apple if your best bet. Core the apple and remove the seeds, but leave the peel on. Cut the apple into small cubes. Combine the apple and 1/2 cup lukewarm water in a small saucepan and bring it to a boil.
Here are some very powerful reasons to never remove the skin again. The skin packs most of the fiber. A medium apple with the skin contains 4.4 grams of fiber. Without the skin, you're only getting 2.1 grams, not even enough to qualify it as a good source of fiber (the cutoff is 3 grams). The skin also packs most of the vitamins
Apples, be it red, green, yellow, or rose, are packed with countless vitamins, antioxidants, fiber, and other nutrients. Along with being excellent sources of energy, these oval shaped fruits are good for your skin, hair, and overall health. 1 Green Apple juice is an excellent ingredient to tone tired and stressed out skin. 2  Cut the green apple in small cubes and boil it in 300 ml water. 3  Strain the infusion through a sieve and add 1/4 th cup of witch hazel to it. 4  Use this toner every night to get a smooth and glowing skin.
Apple is a good source of fiber, including both soluble and insoluble pectins, and it's also a good source of vitamin C. Apple nutrients are disproportionately present in the skin, which is a particularly valuable part of the fruit with respect to its nutrient content. Description. Apples are a crisp, white-fleshed fruit with a red, yellow or green skin. The apple is actually a member of the Rose family, which may seem strange until we remember that roses make rose hips, which are fruits similar to the apple.
Using apples in facial applications means your skin will be getting Vitamins A, B and C directly from the masks. Face mask with wheat germ: 1 tbsp. pureed apple (or organic applesauce), 1 tbsp. wheat germ. Mix the wheat germ with the pureed apple until you've made a smooth paste. You can use green apples, in particular, to give your skin a healthy, toned glow. The Granny Smith apple if your best bet. Core the apple and remove the seeds, but leave the peel on. Cut the apple into small cubes. Combine the apple and 1/2 cup lukewarm water in a small saucepan and bring it to a boil.