The illustration at left depicts a virion – the infectious particle that is designed for transmission of the nucleic acid genome among hosts or host cells. A virion is not the same as a virus. I define virus as a distinct biological entity with five different characteristics. Others believe that the virus is actually the infected host cell. The idea that virus and virion are distinct was first proposed by Bandea in 1983. How about a virus is: the genetic material, and a virion is the vehicle that transports it, a cell with virus particles is simply a cell infected with a virus. The thing is, science and academics are not supposed to be easy, they are just what they are.
virion. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a virus in infective form, consisting of an RNA particle within a protein covering. vi·ri·on. n. A complete viral particle, consisting of RNA or DNA surrounded by a protein shell and constituting the infective form of a virus.
a single virus particle with a central nucleoid surrounded by a protein coat or capsid. The complete nucleocapsid with a nucleic acid core may constitute a complete virus, such as the adenoviruses and the picornaviruses, or it may be surrounded by an envelope, as in the herpesviruses and the myxoviruses. 
a single virus particle with a central nucleoid surrounded by a protein coat or capsid. The complete nucleocapsid with a nucleic acid core may constitute a complete virus, such as the adenoviruses and the picornaviruses, or it may be surrounded by an envelope, as in the herpesviruses and the myxoviruses. vi·ri·on. The complete virus particle that is structurally intact and infectious. /vi·ri·on/ (vi´re-on) the complete viral particle, found extracellularly and capable of surviving in crystalline form and infecting a living cell; it comprises the nucleoid (genetic material) and the capsid.
Definition of VIRION. : a complete virus particle that consists of an RNA or DNA core with a protein coat sometimes with external envelopes and that is the extracellular infective form of a virus. ADVERTISEMENT. French, from viri en viral (from virus virus) + -on 2 -on. First Known Use: 1959. Medical Definition of VIRION. : a complete virus particle that consists of an RNA or DNA core with a protein coat sometimes with external envelopes and that is the extracellular infective form of a virus. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about virion.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A virion is an entire virus particle. It is the complete form of a virus with an outer protein shell, an inner core of DNA or RNA, and a capsid. 
virion - (virology) a complete viral particle; nucleic acid and capsid (and a lipid envelope in some viruses). virus - (virology) ultramicroscopic infectious agent that replicates itself only within cells of living hosts; many are pathogenic; a piece of nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) wrapped in a thin coat of protein. vi·ri·on. n. A complete viral particle, consisting of RNA or DNA surrounded by a protein shell and constituting the infective form of a virus.
vi•ri•on. the infectious form of a virus as it exists outside the host cell, consisting of a core of DNA or RNA, a protein coat, and, in some species, an external envelope. virion (1959) = viri(en) viral (see virus, -ian) + -on-on 1 ]. vi·ri·on. n. A complete viral particle, consisting of RNA or DNA surrounded by a protein shell and constituting the infective form of a virus.
The noun VIRION has 1 sense: 1. (virology) a complete viral particle; nucleic acid and capsid (and a lipid envelope in some viruses). Familiarity information: VIRION used as a noun is very rare. 