Frameshift mutation. Definition. noun, plural: frameshift mutations. A type of gene mutation wherein the addition or deletion of (a number of) nucleotide (s) causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA, thus, may eventually lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence at protein translation. Supplement. Mutations involving the genes are of two major types:
Nouns denoting natural events. Hypernyms (deletion is a kind of...): chromosomal mutation; genetic mutation; mutation ((genetics) any event that changes genetic structure; any alteration in the inherited nucleic acid sequence of the genotype of an organism). 
Deletion mutation. Definition. noun. A type of gene mutation wherein the deletion (as well as addition) of (a number of) nucleotide (s) causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA, thus, may eventually lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence at protein translation. Supplement.
Indel is a molecular biology term for the insertion or the deletion of bases in the DNA of an organism. It has slightly different definitions between its use in evolutionary studies and its use in germ-line and somatic mutation studies. 
Deletion is a type of mutation involving the loss of genetic material. It can be small, involving a single missing DNA base pair, or large, involving a piece of a chromosome. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute. 
deletion - (genetics) the loss or absence of one or more nucleotides from a chromosome. inversion - (genetics) a kind of mutation in which the order of the genes in a section of a chromosome is reversed. A change in the genes or chromosomes of an organism. Mutations occurring in the reproductive cells, such as an egg or sperm, can be passed from one generation to the next. Most mutations have harmful effects, but some can increase an organism's ability to survive.
Lesson Summary. A deletion mutation occurs when part of a DNA molecule is not copied during DNA replication. This uncopied part can be as small as a single nucleotide or as much as an entire chromosome. The loss of this DNA during replication can lead to a genetic disease. Deletion Mutation and DNA. A deletion mutation occurs when part of a DNA molecule is not copied during DNA replication. This uncopied part can be as small as a single nucleotide or as much as an entire chromosome.
a mutation that results from insertion or deletion of a single nucleotide into, or from, the normal DNA sequence; because the genetic code is read three nucleotides at a time, all nucleotide triplets distal to the mutation will be one step out of phase and misread, and hence translated as different amino acids. 
Deletion on a chromosome. In genetics, a deletion (also called gene deletion, deficiency, or deletion mutation) (sign: δ) is a mutation (a genetic aberration) in which a part of a chromosome or a sequence of DNA is lost during DNA replication. Any number of nucleotides can be deleted, from a single base to an entire piece of chromosome. The smallest single base deletion mutations are believed occur by a single base flipping in the template DNA, followed by template DNA strand slippage, within the DNA polymerase active site.