The Importance of Blood Transfusion in the Human Life. The science of blood transfusion dates to the first decade of the 19th century, with the discovery of distinct blood types leading to the practice of mixing some blood from the donor and the receiver before the transfusion (an early form of cross-matching). Blood transfusion will be creates an inspiration and better future life to the patient to stay alive and build their carrier. Blood donation and blood collection is very important in order to keep the blood banks full for when blood is needed and used in transfusion.
Plasma. Plasma is the fluid in the blood containing proteins that help the blood to clot. A transfusion of plasma may be needed if there's severe bleeding, such as after surgery, trauma or childbirth. A transfusion may also be needed in conditions (such as liver disease) that affect the production of clotting proteins. Platelets. A platelet transfusion is used to treat people who have very low levels of platelet cells in their blood. This is known as thrombocytopenia. If you have thrombocytopenia, you're at risk of excessive bleeding, either through a minor accident, cut or graze, or as a result of surgery or dental work.
People receive blood transfusions for many reasons, including surgery, injury, bleeding and disease. Blood has several components, including red cells, white cells, plasma and platelets. You'll receive a transfusion that provides the part or parts of blood that will be most helpful for you. Whole blood means the blood contains all its parts. But it is not common to use whole blood for a transfusion.
1 If you have type O blood, you can only get type O red blood cell transfusions. 2  But you can give your red blood cells to people with type A, B, AB, or O blood, which is why you are sometimes called a universal donor. ( 3 Universal donor blood is only used in extreme emergencies. ABO blood types. Two antigens on blood cells (A and B) determine a person’s ABO blood type (A, B, AB, or O). In the United States, the most common blood type is O, followed closely by type A. 1  If you have type O blood, you can only get type O red blood cell transfusions.
Blood transfusion is the process of transferring whole blood or blood-based products from one person into the circulatory system of another. The purpose of blood transfusion are to save many human life and provide a better life. Blood transfusion will be creates an inspiration and better future life to the patient to stay alive and build their carrier. Blood donation and blood collection is very important in order to keep the blood banks full for when blood is needed and used in transfusion.
Blood transfusion is also important in the treatment of bleeding disorders .In the bleeding disorder patient ,blood transfusion are needed to provide new hemoglobin and platelet by correcting hemoglobin and platelet concentration in the patient’s blood plasma. Blood transfusion will be creates an inspiration and better future life to the patient to stay alive and build their carrier. Blood donation and blood collection is very important in order to keep the blood banks full for when blood is needed and used in transfusion.
Getting the wrong blood type by accident is the main risk in a blood transfusion, but it is rare. For every 1 million units of blood transfused, getting the wrong blood type happens, at the most, 4 times. Transfusion with the wrong blood type can cause a severe reaction that may be life-threatening. Before you get a blood transfusion, your blood is tested to find out your blood type. And the blood you will get in the transfusion is tested to make sure it matches your blood. You may have a mild allergic reaction even if you get the correct blood type. Signs of a reaction include: 1  A fever.
1 The number of blood donors in the U.S. in a year: 9.2 million. 2  Although an estimated 38% of the U.S. population is eligible to donate, less than 10% actually do each year. 3  Blood cannot be manufactured – it can only come from generous donors. 1 The number of blood donations collected in the U.S. in a year: 15.7 million. 2  The number of blood donors in the U.S. in a year: 9.2 million. 3
This transfusion therapy can help to support the patient while the blood is moving out from own blood circulation and blood volume to be maintained. In conclusion to the important of blood transfusion, we can see that blood transfusion can be life saving in a lot of situation in the entire life of human being. Blood transfusion will be creates an inspiration and better future life to the patient to stay alive and build their carrier. Blood donation and blood collection is very important in order to keep the blood banks full for when blood is needed and used in transfusion.