The water and solutes then pass into the peritubular capillaries and back into the bloodstream. Glomerular filtrate that has not been reabsorbed passes from the proximal convoluted tubule into the proximal straight tubule and into the loop of Henle and the distal convoluted tubule. The proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) is a small tubular structure within the nephron of the kidney. The PCT connects Bowman's capsule with the proximal straight tubule, and it is essential for the reabsorption of water and solutes from filtrate within the nephron
Proximal Convoluted Tube is-Fluid in the filtrate entering the proximal convoluted tubule is reabsorbed into the peritubular capillaries. This is driven by sodium transport from the lumen into the blood by the Na+/K+ ATPase in the basolateral membrane of the epithelial cells. Sodium reabsorption is primarily driven by this antiporter. This is the most important transport mechanism in the PCT. The proximal tubule is the portion of the duct system of the nephron leading from Bowman's capsule to the loop of Henle. Structure and appearance The most distinctive characteristic of the proximal tubule is its brush border (or striated border)
Renal tubules are essential structures in the kidneys. This lesson explores the function of the renal tubule and its parts, including the proximal and distal convoluted tubules, the loop of Henle, and the collecting duct. Learn how these components work together to absorb materials and form urine. Proximal Convoluted Tubule. The filtrate in the Bowman's space I just mentioned enters the first duct in the renal tubule. This duct is called the proximal convoluted tubule, which is a section of the renal tubule located in the kidney's cortex that is responsible for the reabsorption of the majority of ultrafiltrate.
Definition of PROXIMAL CONVOLUTED TUBULE. : the convoluted portion of the vertebrate nephron that lies between Bowman's capsule and the loop of Henle and functions especially in the resorption of sugar, sodium and chloride ions, and water from the glomerular filtrate —called also proximal tubule. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Reabsorption & Secretion.  As fluid passes into the lumen of the tubule, a filtrate is formed = primary urine  As fluid passes through the tubule, about 99% of the volume is recovered.  Remodeling of primary urine occurs as it passes through successive regions of tubule and results in the production of final urine. Nephron  Fluid in lumen moves through successive specialized regions of the tubule: 1. Proximal Convoluted Tubule 2. Loop of Henle 3. Distal Convoluted Tubule  Fluid from multiple tubules, drain into collecting ducts, several of which fuse to form papillary ducts, which empty into the minor calyx.
Each nephron consists of the renal corpuscle, the proximal convoluted tubule, the loop of Henle and the distal convoluted tubule. As blood flows through the capillaries in the renal corpuscle, about 20 percent of the plasma water is secreted into Bowman's capsule. The proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) is a small tubular structure within the nephron of the kidney. The PCT connects Bowman's capsule with the proximal straight tubule, and it is essential for the reabsorption of water and solutes from filtrate within the nephron
Fluid in the filtrate entering the proximal convoluted tubule is reabsorbed into the peritubular capillaries. This is driven by sodium transport from the lumen into the blood by the Na+/K+ ATPase in the basolateral membrane of the epithelial cells. Sodium reabsorption is primarily driven by this P-type ATPase. The proximal tubule as a part of the nephron can be divided into two sections, pars convoluta and pars recta. Differences in cell outlines exist between these segments, and therefore presumably in function too.
The proximal tubule is the portion of the duct system of the nephron of the kidney which leads from Bowman's capsule to the loop of Henle. The proximal tubule as a part of the nephron can be divided into two sections, pars convoluta and pars recta. Differences in cell outlines exist between these segments, and therefore presumably in function too.