A Release of Deed of Trust is a written request by the mortgage company or lender, their agent or attorney or a title insurance company to the Public Trustee. The purpose of the release is to remove all or a portion of the property from the lien created by a Deed of Trust.
1 The need for title to the trust property to be effectively conveyed to the trustee, if not already present (Milroy v Lord (1862)). 2  The statutory requirements for the validity of trusts of certain kinds of property (s 53 of the Law of Property Act 1925).
Answer Plan. 1  Brief summary of the concept of a trust. 2  The need for title to the trust property to be effectively conveyed to the trustee, if not already present (Milroy v Lord (1862)). 3  The statutory requirements for the validity of trusts of certain kinds of property (s 53 of the Law of Property Act 1925).
Requirements for a Valid Trust. A trust is created when a property interest is held by one person (the trustee) for the benefit of a different person (the beneficiary). The person creating the trust is called the settlor. The creation, administration, and modification of a trust are all regulated by state law.
1 Brief summary of the concept of a trust. 2  The need for title to the trust property to be effectively conveyed to the trustee, if not already present (Milroy v Lord (1862)). 3  The statutory requirements for the validity of trusts of certain kinds of property (s 53 of the Law of Property Act 1925).
States may vary as to the specific requirements and deadlines for the creation of a valid trust. However, they will usually look for the following in determining whether a trust is considered to be valid: 1  Intent to create a trust-this must be provable from the face of the creating documents themselves.
1 Valid trust purpose-the trust must have a specific purpose and may not further illegal activity. 2  Trust property-the trust must convey some form of property. 3  Future interests in property are acceptable, but they must be in existence at the time of creation. 4  Property based on speculation is not acceptable.
If the main purpose of the trust is charitable and the non-charitable purpose is incidental, then the gift is valid. This approach is illustrated by Jenkins’s 44 judgment in Re Coxen. 45 He says that where the amount applicable for non-charitable purposes cannot be quantified, the gift as a whole fails for uncertainty.