Related articles: Forehead Lift, Facelift, Breast Lift. 1  A tummy tuck, also called abdominoplasty, varies widely in cost from $3,000 to $8,500. 2  Patients in the northeastern United States can expect to pay higher surgeon's fees, averaging $4,995, while patients in the south central states pay much less, averaging $3,681. 1 In a tummy tuck operation, which usually takes two to five hours, the surgeon makes a vertical and a horizontal incision to create a skin flap, which is lifted to reveal the girdle of muscles that holds in the internal organs.
For example, anesthesia can cost anywhere from $425 to $1,800, and the fee for the surgical facility can cost $1,200 if your tummy tuck is performed in your doctor's office or up to $10,000 if it takes place in a hospital and an overnight stay is warranted. If you are considering a tummy tuck (abdominoplasty), the cost of the procedure will likely play a role in your final decision. In general, tummy tuck cost includes three major fees: the surgeon's fee, the anesthesia fee and the facility fee. The average surgeon's fee is slightly more than $5,000, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. This is the average, which means individual surgeons may charge much more or less
Just as any surgical procedure, a tummy tuck does include a significant cost. The average cost of a tummy tuck may range from $3,000 to $10,000. This may seem like a wide range, but this is because there are many factors that affect the final cost of tummy tuck surgery. Some of these factors include: 1  The surgeon’s fee. 
Find Your Surgeon. Find Your Surgeon. The average cost of a tummy tuck is $5,493, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Tummy tuck surgery cost can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses
A tummy tuck, or abdominoplasty, can cost between $3,000 and $12,000, depending on the surgeon you choose, the geographic location of the surgeon's practice, the scope of treatment, and several other factors. Throughout our lives, perhaps no other area of the body is subject to as many changes as the abdomen. 
Tummy tuck prices vary somewhat based on supply and demand in a particular location but range from $3000 to $10,000 and average about $4500. The higher the demand for tummy tucks, the more skilled the physician becomes at performing the surgery. $6,500. Fees vary based on location, experience of the surgeon and other factors. Your tummy tuck surgeon will give you an estimate of surgery costs during your initial consultation. Ask about anesthesia, facility expenses, medications, home health care and supplies.
Cost. According to reports from www.smarttummytucks.com, the average tummy tuck cost in 2009 falls somewhere between $5,000 and $9,000. It is important for patients to factor in facility fees, anesthesia fees, and surgeon fees when calculating the total cost of surgery. 
Cost of Tummy Tuck: (Cost Varies) : $6,500. The average cost of tummy tuck in Minneapolis-St. Paul is $6,500. This includes your surgical fee and all follow-up visits with Dr. Rocheford. This estimate also includes the facility fee and anesthesia costs. This is an estimate and may be different depending on your specific situation. 