The Vice President of the United States is the designated President of the Senate as is set forth in the US Constitution. However when the Vice President is away then the Sena … te's president pro tempore (or any others so designated) is the acting President of the Senate. The President of the Senate is the position filled by the VIce-President of the US, currently Joseph Biden (D) Delaware whose salary (as of 2011) was $230,700. per year. 2 people found this useful.
List of Senate Presidents [edit]. This list includes Vice Presidents and Presidents pro tempore who served as a Presiding Officer of the Senate (not including senators who presided over sessions temporarily in the place of the sitting President). However, during a vacancy in the office (such as that caused by death, resignation or presidential succession), the President pro tempore of the United States Senate serves as the permanent President of the Senate.
The Senate President is a constitutional officer who leads the Florida Senate for a two-year term. The President, who is elected by members of the Senate, manages the operations of the Senate and presides over its sessions. 
Confidence votes 52.7K. The Vice-President of the United States is the President of the US Senate. Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Vice President of the United States, became President of the Senate on January 20, 2009. He is not a member of the Senate but can vote in case of a tie vote. The Vice President of the United State s presides over the US Senate. He cannot vote unless there is a tie vote. But on a daily basis, this role is fulfilled by a senior senator, the President pro tempore, or his designates. Joe Biden is the current US Vice President. His term will expire on Jan. 20, 2017. Patrick Leahy, from Vermont is the senate president pro tempore which is a position elected by the Senate and filled by a senior senator.
The President of the Senate is a title often given to the presiding officer of a senate, and is the speaker of other assemblies. The President of the Australian Senate is a senator, traditionally a member of the governing party or coalition, elected by the Senate at the beginning of each parliament as the first item of business. They are assisted by a Deputy President who is traditionally a member of the largest opposition party.
The United States Senate is a legislative chamber in the bicameral legislature of the United States, and together with the U.S. House of Representatives makes up the U.S. Congress. 
The President of the Senate in the United States is also the Vice President of the US. He is allowed to vote only when a particular Senate vote is tied. He is not a senator. H … e is not allowed to vote to create a tie. There is also a president pro tempore of the Senate. The President of the Senate is the position filled by the VIce-President of the US, currently Joseph Biden (D) Delaware whose salary (as of 2011) was $230,700. per year. 2 people found this useful.
The Vice President of the United States is designated by the Constitution as, ex officio, President of the United States Senate. However, during a vacancy in the office (such as that caused by death, resignation or presidential succession), the President pro tempore of the United States Senate serves as the permanent President of the Senate.
Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., represented Delaware for 36 years in the U.S. Senate before becoming the 47th and current Vice President of the United States. 
The President of the Senate is the presiding officer of the Senate of Nigeria, elected by its membership. The current President of the Senate is Dr Bukola Saraki, who represents Kwara State for the APC. The President of the Australian Senate is a senator, traditionally a member of the governing party or coalition, elected by the Senate at the beginning of each parliament as the first item of business. They are assisted by a Deputy President who is traditionally a member of the largest opposition party.