With 11 executions spread over 27 years, on a per execution basis, California and federal taxpayers have paid more than $250 million for each execution. It costs approximately $90,000 more a year to house an inmate on death row, than in the general prison population or $57.5 million annually. The Attorney General devotes about 15% of his budget, or $11 million annually to death penalty cases. Executing all of the people currently on death row, or waiting for them to die there of other causes, will cost California an estimated $4 billion more than if they had been sentenced to die in prison of disease, injury, or old age; California death penalty trials have cost as much as $10.9 million.
A 2012 study showed that death penalty has cost California more than $4 billion since 1978, and suggested that commuting all the state's death sentences to life imprisonment would immediately result in $170 million in savings per year. In Kansas, death penalty cases studied between 2004-2011 cost around four times more than cases where the death penalty was not sought. States could save millions of dollars a year by eliminating the death penalty. 1.
Using conservative rough projections, the Commission estimates the annual costs of the present (death penalty) system to be $137 million per year. The cost of the present system with reforms recommended by the Commission to ensure a fair process would be $232.7 million per year. Executing all of the people currently on death row, or waiting for them to die there of other causes, will cost California an estimated $4 billion more than if they had been sentenced to die in prison of disease, injury, or old age; California death penalty trials have cost as much as $10.9 million.
The alarming cost of the death penalty. Many people believe that the death penalty is more cost-effective than housing and feeding someone in prison for life. In reality, the death penalty’s complexity, length, and finality drive costs through the roof, making it much more expensive. 1 Before ending the death penalty, Maryland spent $186 million extra to carry out just five executions. 2  A similar study showed that California has spent over $4 billion extra for the death penalty since 1978.
A Seattle University study examining the costs of the death penalty in Washington found that each death penalty case cost an average of $1 million more than a similar case where the death penalty was not sought ($3.07 million, versus $2.01 million). In its review of death penalty expenses, the State of Kansas concluded that capital cases are 70% more expensive than comparable non-death penalty cases. The study counted death penalty case costs through to execution and found that the median death penalty case costs $1.26 million.
Texas death penalty cases cost more than non-capital cases. Each death penalty case in Texas costs taxpayers about $2.3 million. That is about three times the cost of imprisoning someone in a single cell at the highest security level for 40 years. (Executions Cost Texas Millions, Dallas Morning News, March 8, 1992). In its review of death penalty expenses, the State of Kansas concluded that capital cases are 70% more expensive than comparable non-death penalty cases. The study counted death penalty case costs through to execution and found that the median death penalty case costs $1.26 million.
That translates to $37.2 million for each of the state’s five executions since the state reenacted the death penalty. The study estimates that the average cost to Maryland taxpayers for reaching a single death sentence is $3 million - $1.9 million more than the cost of a non-death penalty case. In its review of death penalty expenses, the State of Kansas concluded that capital cases are 70% more expensive than comparable non-death penalty cases. The study counted death penalty case costs through to execution and found that the median death penalty case costs $1.26 million.
For the states which employ the death penalty, this luxury comes at a high price. In Texas, a death penalty case costs taxpayers an average of $2.3 million, about three times the cost of imprisoning someone in a single cell at the highest security level for 40 years. [3] In Florida, each execution is costing the state $3.2 million. Kansas, for example, estimated that the annual cost for implementing the death penalty would be $11.4 million, of which $9.2 million would be for trial costs. Kansas Legislative Research Dept. Memorandum, Feb. 11, 1987.
1 The most rigorous cost study in the country found that a single death sentence in Maryland costs almost $2 million more than a comparable non-death penalty case. 2  Before ending the death penalty, Maryland spent $186 million extra to carry out just five executions. 1 Before ending the death penalty, Maryland spent $186 million extra to carry out just five executions. 2  A similar study showed that California has spent over $4 billion extra for the death penalty since 1978.