Sucrose is chemically classified as a disaccharide, which means it's a carbohydrate made up of two smaller sugar units, explain Drs. Mary Campbell and Shawn Farrell in their book Biochemistry.. The smaller sugars that combine chemically to form sucrose are called glucose and fructose. 
Sucrose is commonly known as table sugar, and is obtained from sugar cane or sugar beets. Fruits and vegetables also naturally contain sucrose. When sucrose is consumed, the enzyme beta-fructosidase separates sucrose into its individual sugar units of glucose and fructose. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharides and are the building blocks of sucrose, a disaccharide. Thus, disaccharides are just a pair of linked sugar molecules. They are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed -- a dehydration reaction.
The Natural Aspect of Sucrose. Sucrose is made out of two sugars, fructose and glucose. Known as “fruit sugar,” fructose is found in all types of fruits and honey, as well as a few vegetables. Fruits also contain glucose. Despite coming from nature, sucrose contains few nutrients but is still caloric. Too much sugar consumption may lead to obesity. 
Sucrose is found naturally in many fruits and vegetables, but usually in small amounts. As refined table sugar, sucrose is a major ingredient in many baked goods and processed foods. Sucrose is made from one molecule of glucose and one molecule of fructose. Sucrase -- an intestinal enzyme -- cleaves sucrose in half so it can be absorbed. Sucrose tastes sweet -- which is why it’s made into granulated and baking sugars -- but not as sweet as refined fructose or artificial sweeteners. Dried dates are naturally high in sucrose sugar. Sucrose is a type of carbohydrate called a disaccharide, because it’s made from two simple sugars. Sucrose is quickly metabolized in your intestines and absorbed into your blood, where it stimulates the release of insulin.
Fructose, or fruit sugar, is a simple ketonic monosaccharide found in many plants, where it is often bonded to glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose. It is one of the three dietary monosaccharides, along with glucose and galactose, that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion. 
Sucrose is a common, naturally occurring carbohydrate found in many plants and plant parts. Saccharose is an obsolete name for sugars in general, especially sucrose. The molecule is a disaccharide combination of the monosaccharides glucose and fructose with the formula C12H22O11. Sucrose is formed by plants and cyanobacteria but not by other organisms. Sucrose is found naturally in many food plants along with the monosaccharide fructose. In many fruits, such as pineapple and apricot, sucrose is the main sugar. In others, such as grapes and pears, fructose is the main sugar
Sugar cane is a natural source of sucrose, or table sugar. Sucrose, glucose and fructose are important carbohydrates, commonly referred to as simple sugars. Sugar is found naturally in whole foods and is often added to processed foods to sweeten them and increase flavor. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharides and are the building blocks of sucrose, a disaccharide. Thus, disaccharides are just a pair of linked sugar molecules. They are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed -- a dehydration reaction.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. - Sucrose is found naturally in many food plants such as pineapples, apricots, grapes and pears. 
Fructose is a sugar found naturally in many fruits and vegetables, and added to various beverages such as soda and fruit-flavored drinks. However, it is very different from other sugars because it has a different metabolic pathway and is not the preferred energy source for muscles or the brain. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharides and are the building blocks of sucrose, a disaccharide. Thus, disaccharides are just a pair of linked sugar molecules. They are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed -- a dehydration reaction.