Just put a tiny drop of oil in the zipper and slide it up and down at the part where it gets stuck. Hopefully that will fix the problem. Just make sure you dont get anything on the dress. A small drop of baby oil or a little bit of vasaline on the zipper should allow it to move easier. Also be sure you are pulling straight up on the zipper and obviously be sure not to get oil or vasaline on the dress. Katelyn A · 5 years ago.
Rub it on both sides of the zipper, then work the head up and down. You might need to re-soap the zipper once or twice more and work the head up and down a … few times to ensure the soap gets into the grooves. Works for me ;-)   More information   Try rubbing a pencil on it-graphite is a terriffic lubricant. 
When the pull breaks off a zipper it makes it incredibly hard to zip the zipper up. The good news is that this is pretty much the easiest fix out there. You can turn a paperclip, a keyring, or even a telephone wire connector into a zipper pull. Just slide it through the tab on the slider and you have a new zipper pull. Try it again and it should work. If that doesn't work, it's time to move on to a lubricant. Windex is good because it's not oil-based, but you can also use bar soap, or lip balm. Start with the zipper all the way up, and slowly apply the the lubricant to the teeth.
Confidence votes 26.2K. Use a bar of soap. Rub it on both sides of the zipper, then work the head up and down. You might need to re-soap the zipper once or twice more and work the head up and down a few times to ensure the soap gets into the grooves. Mr. Whitcomb Judson (who also invented the 'Pneumatic Street Railway') marketed a 'Clasp Locker' a device similar to the 1851 Howe patent. Being first to market gave Whi … tcomb the credit of being the 'Inventor of the Zipper', However, his 1893 patent did not use the word zipper.
Rub the cotton swab along the zipper and zipper teeth. Run the zipper up and down to spread the oil. Repeat until it zips easier. Rub a bar of soap along the zipper and zipper teeth. You can also use one or two drops of liquid soap, allowing it to penetrate inside the zipper itself. The soap's lubrication will help the zipper move easier.
The balm allows the slider of the zipper to move up and down the teeth easier. Dip a cotton swab in distilled white vinegar. Allow the vinegar to soak on the teeth of an open zipper for about ten minutes. Move the zipper up and down after the zipper teeth air dry. Open the zipper and rub the soap on the teeth. Go up and down the teeth about four times to allow the slider to move more easily. Rub a candle on the teeth of an open metal zipper. Give the teeth a wax coat as you bring the wax up and down the open teeth three times. Close the zipper once completed.
Vislon Metal Sliders Metal locking sliders are perfect for use with Vislon zipper by the yard and are very durable. This piece is easy to put onto Vislon zipper by the yard, or can be used to replace a lost or broken slide on outerwear or skiwear. Slider with single, double or flip reversible pull. 
This video will explain how to put a zipper slider back on to the zipper chain. This can be used to repair a zipper or if you're making a handbag and will be assembling the zippers yourself. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 