Sand is a loose granular material blanketing the beaches, riverbeds and deserts of the world. Composed of different materials that vary depending on location, sand comes in an array of colors including white, black, green and even pink. The most common component of sand is silicon dioxide in the form of quartz. The Earth's landmasses are made up of rocks and minerals, including quartz, feldspar and mica. Weathering processes — such as wind, rain and freezing/thawing cycles — break down these rocks and minerals into smaller grains
Beaches are formed by waves depositing sand and sediment. The size of a beach can vary dramatically over the course of its lifetime. Pure quartz is colorless, however most examples contain traces of other minerals that give them color. The action of waves on coral reefs creates sediment. Sand Formation. Sand is formed by erosion. This can take place by the action of water in rivers, by glaciers grinding against rock, by alternate freezing and thawing, and by the action of waves on rocks, coral reefs, and shells.
Beach Formation and Types of Beaches and Sand describes the process in which beaches are formed and includes the characteristics of beach sediment. 
How Sand is Formed. Sand is a sedimentary material; loose grains of worn out and disintegrated rocks. Sand is of fine granules with grains ranging between 0.06 and 2.0 mm in diameter. Sand is a naturally occurring fragmented material comprised of tiny particles of decomposed rocks, shells, or corals. Industrially Manufactured Sand. The process of manufacturing sand also involves natural decomposition of rocks. Other processes that follow are extraction, sorting, washing, and sometimes crushing is also involved. Sand manufacturing plants are situated near the source of the materials, often near riverbeds.
Beaches are the result of wave action by which waves or currents move sand or other loose sediments of which the beach is made as these particles are held in suspension. Alternatively, sand may be moved by saltation (a bouncing movement of large particles). A beach is a landform along the coast of an ocean or sea, or the edge of a lake or river. It usually consists of loose particles, which are often composed of rock, such as sand, gravel, shingle, pebbles, or cobblestones. The particles comprising a beach are occasionally biological in origin, such as mollusc shells or coralline algae
Sand is typically made mostly of varying amounts of material weathered from inland rocks (or seacliff material) and transported to the beach on the wind or in rivers, and/or shells and other hard parts precipitated out of the ocean water by marine organisms. 