So before we consider the first idea a word fitly spoken lets focus our attention on the second phrase apples of gold and something God calls pictures of silver. Since he says that a word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver he means for us to examine this phrase. And as we do so we will learn more about what it means for a word to be spoken fitly. But the word, if presented fitly, as the apples in a silver basket, then the word fitly spoken will be received more readily. In other words there is a way that words spoken will be accepted more readily if spoken properly or fitly.
fitly spoken or 'is like golden apples of silver or a word spoken with propriety, opportunely and suitably to the occasion, is as much in its place and as conspicuously beautiful as the golden fruit which appears through the apertures of an exquisitely wrought silver basket. Proverbs 15:23. A person finds joy in giving an apt reply-- and how good is a timely word! Proverbs 25:10. or the one who hears it may shame you and the charge against you will stand. Treasury of Scripture. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. word. Proverbs 15:23 A man has joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due …. Proverbs 24:26 Every man shall kiss his lips that gives a right answer
Proverbs 25:11, A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. (Simplicity is truth's most becoming garb). (The plow enters most effectively when the earth is softened). This is another of the many proverbs that compare one thing to another for the purpose of edification and clarity. But the word, if presented fitly, as the apples in a silver basket, then the word fitly spoken will be received more readily. In other words there is a way that words spoken will be accepted more readily if spoken properly or fitly.
A Word Fitly Spoken. Proverbs 25:11. Sometimes we know exactly what needs to be said -- we have the facts down -- but we do not give enough thought to how these things are said.
So we can conclude that the golden apples are equal to the word of the first phrase and the silver basket or the picture of silver is equal to the word fitly in the first phrase. Word = Apples, fitly equals pictures of silver. But the word, if presented fitly, as the apples in a silver basket, then the word fitly spoken will be received more readily. In other words there is a way that words spoken will be accepted more readily if spoken properly or fitly.
- One of the emblematical distiches in which this collection is rich. A word fitly spoken. עַל־אָפְנָיו may be translated in due season, or upon its wheels (Venetian, ἐπὶ τῶν τροχῶν αὐτῆς). In the latter case the phrase may mean a word quickly formed, or moving easily, spoken ore rotundo, or a speedy answer. But the metaphor is unusual and inappropriate; and it is best to understand a word spoken under due consideration of time and place. A word well set upon the wheels of speech excelled it. Ornamentation of this kind in the precious metals was known, even as late as in the middle ages, as oeuvre de Salomon. 11. a word fitly—literally, quickly, as wheels roll, just in time. The comparison as apples … silver gives a like sense.
But the bible tells us that a word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.. This is a beautiful image or picture -- apples of gold, surrounded by or set in silver. There is a similar statement in Prov. 16:24, Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the bones.. Obviously we need to give attention to how we speak, as well as what we speak. Sometimes we know exactly what needs to be said -- we have the facts down -- but we do not give enough thought to how these things are said.
Proverbs 25:11 A word fitly spoken [is like] apples of gold in pictures of silver.. These words fitly spoken mean that these words come from a pure heart. Apples are fruit much desired and gold has to do symbolically with the purity of God. We see, here, the fruit of these lips come from a heart filled with the pureness of God. These pictures of silver are beautiful in symbolism, as well. This is just another way to say don't think too much of yourself as self seeking and pride will bring a person down. Proverbs 25:8 Go not forth hastily to strive, lest [thou know not] what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.. Quick anger causes embarrassment.