Guam first came under United States control after it was captured without bloodshed on June 20, 1898, during the Spanish American War. It was permanently ceded to the U.S. by … Spain at the signing of a Protocol of Peace between the U.S. and Spain. However the US hung on to both the Philippines and Puerto Rico due to their strategic locations. The Philippines was granted independence in 1946 shortly after World War II.
The Philippines was a part of the United States as a territory until1946 when by a majority vote the Filipino people decided to becomea nation among nations. 
On July 25, 1898, during the Spanish–American War, Puerto Rico was invaded by the United States with a landing at Guanica. Guánica as an outcome of the, war The–Jones Shafroth act granted all the inhabitants Of Puerto Rico.U. s citizenship in. 1917 The Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI) was a United Nations trust territory in Micronesia (western Pacific) administered by the United States from July 18, 1947, comprising the former League of Nations Mandate administered by Japan and taken by the U.S. in 1944.
Puerto Rico was ceded to the United States by Spain in the Treaty of Paris ending the Spanish American War in 1898. Cuba and the Philippines were ceded to the US at the same t … ime. However the US hung on to both the Philippines and Puerto Rico due to their strategic locations. The Philippines was granted independence in 1946 shortly after World War II.
With a population of about 100 million people, the Philippines is the seventh-most populated country in Asia and the 12th most populated country in the world. An additional 12 million Filipinos live overseas, comprising one of the world's largest diasporas. 
Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines (for which the United States compensated Spain $20 million, equivalent to $567 million in present-day terms), were ceded by Spain after the Spanish–American War in the 1898 Treaty of Paris. The Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI) was a United Nations trust territory in Micronesia (western Pacific) administered by the United States from July 18, 1947, comprising the former League of Nations Mandate administered by Japan and taken by the U.S. in 1944.
Confidence votes 111. No The Philippines became a territory of the United States after the Spanish-American War. Under the December 10, 1898 Treaty of Paris, Spain ceded the islands to the United States for $20 million. In 1935 the Philippines became a self-governing commonwealth.
Puerto Rico became a US territory the same time as the Philippines, and remains a US territory, because Puerto Rico never achieved a majority of votes to petition for either statehood or independance, in several elections on statehood held in Puerto Rico over the past 100 years. 
Located approximately 3,300 miles West of Hawaii, 1,500 miles east of the Philippines and 1,550 miles South of Japan, the Island of Guam is the Western most territory of the United States and one of the leading tourist destinations in the Western Pacific. Guam is truly a tropical island paradise. 