Hallmark Channel’s choice of Colorado to film episodes of When Calls the Heart was facilitated by the Colorado Film Office with the legislation signed last year by Gov. Hickenlooper. The legislation added incentives to make Colorado more competitive for television and film production. 
The first series was mostly filmed in Slaithwaite, with some exterior shots filmed in the village of Baildon, but from series 2 onwards, Marsden was used as the principal filming location. The theme song Where the Heart is was performed by Prefab Sprout (written and sung by Paddy McAloon). It was released as a single and appears on the band's 38 Carat Collection. The programme is now repeated on ITV3.
The film opened in theaters in the United States on April 28, 2000. Where the Heart Is accumulated (USD)$8,292,939 in its opening weekend, opening at number 4. There are some parts in the film that are different from the novel: 1  Novalee finds the number 5 very unlucky in the movie and the number 7 unlucky in the book. 2  Sister Husband has brown hair in the movie and blue hair in the book. 3  Lexie marries Leon Yoder (Ernie the Exterminator was not in the book).
Slaithwaite (pronounced Slough wit) is used as the canal side location for the long running series Last of the Summer Wine and the fictional Skelthwaite location for the TV series Where the Heart is. A beautiful part of Yorkshire. Best Answer: The series is filmed in the Colne Valley using the real life villages of Slaithwaite and Marsden for many of the external shots. Some key filiming hot spots are Skethwaite Arms-The Silent Woman Pub, Slaithwaite Goddards Mill-Metham Mills, Meltham Health Centre-Marsden Health Centre, Marsden.
The screenplay, written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel, is based on the best-selling novel by Billie Letts. The film follows five years in the life of Novalee Nation, a pregnant 17-year-old, who is abandoned by her boyfriend at a Wal-Mart in a small Oklahoma town. She secretly moves into the Wal-Mart store where she eventually gives birth to her baby, which attracts media attention. There are some parts in the film that are different from the novel: 1  Novalee finds the number 5 very unlucky in the movie and the number 7 unlucky in the book. 2  Sister Husband has brown hair in the movie and blue hair in the book. 3  Lexie marries Leon Yoder (Ernie the Exterminator was not in the book).
Where the Heart Is is a British television family drama series set in the fictional Yorkshire town of Skelthwaite. First shown in 1997, it was created by Ashley Pharoah and Vicky Featherstone and focuses on the professional and personal lives of the district nurses who work in the town. The theme song Where the Heart is was performed by Prefab Sprout (written and sung by Paddy McAloon). It was released as a single and appears on the band's 38 Carat Collection. The programme is now repeated on ITV3.
Where the Heart Is is a 2000 drama / romance film directed by Matt Williams, in his film directing debut. The movie stars Natalie Portman, Stockard Channing, Ashley Judd, and Joan Cusack with supporting roles done by James Frain, Dylan Bruno, Keith David, and Sally Field. There are some parts in the film that are different from the novel: 1  Novalee finds the number 5 very unlucky in the movie and the number 7 unlucky in the book. 2  Sister Husband has brown hair in the movie and blue hair in the book. 3  Lexie marries Leon Yoder (Ernie the Exterminator was not in the book).
In October 2006, the series was cancelled after nine years, despite viewing figures of well over 7 million. The theme song Where the Heart is was performed by Prefab Sprout (written and sung by Paddy McAloon). It was released as a single and appears on the band's 38 Carat Collection. The programme is now repeated on ITV3.