The term gentiles is derived from Latin, used for contextual translation, and not an original Hebrew or Greek word from the Bible. The original words goy and ethnos refer to peoples or nations and is applied to both Israelites and non-Israelites in the Bible. Gentile derives from Latin gentilis, which itself derives from the Latin gens (from which, together with forms of the cognate Greek word genos, also derive gene, general, genus, genesis, gentry, and gentleman) meaning clan or tribe. Gens derives from the Proto-Indo-European *ǵenh₁tis. ǵénh₁tis
Gentile or Goy (from Latin gentilis, by the French gentil, feminine: gentille, meaning of or belonging to a clan or tribe) is an ethnonym that commonly means non–Jew. Other groups that claim Israelite heritage sometimes use the term to describe outsiders. Gentile derives from Latin gentilis, which itself derives from the Latin gens (from which, together with forms of the cognate Greek word genos, also derive gene, general, genus, genesis, gentry, and gentleman) meaning clan or tribe. Gens derives from the Proto-Indo-European *ǵenh₁tis. ǵénh₁tis
The term gentile thus became identical to the later term Ummot ha-olam (nations of the world). Latin and later English translators selectively used the term gentiles when the context for the base term peoples or nations referred to non-Israelite peoples or nations in English translations of the Bible. Gentile derives from Latin gentilis, which itself derives from the Latin gens (from which, together with forms of the cognate Greek word genos, also derive gene, general, genus, genesis, gentry, and gentleman) meaning clan or tribe. Gens derives from the Proto-Indo-European *ǵenh₁tis. ǵénh₁tis
To summarize: the word gentile is derived from the Latin word gentilis and is only one of several words that are used to translate the Hebrew word goi and the Greek word ethnos into English. The best word to use is nations. It would have been better if the word gentile had never appeared in the English text. 
Question: What is a Gentile?. Answer: The word Gentile is an English translation of the Hebrew word goyim (people, nations) and the Greek word ethne (nations, people groups, people). The Latin Vulgate translated these words as gentilis, and this word was then carried over into English as Gentile. The term refers to a person who is not a Jew
The Hebrew and Greek words, which are sometimes translated Gentile, have both pagan and Israelite connotations. The idea that the word refers only to non-Israel people comes from the translators, who took their lead from the Latin Vulgate -- whose interpretation of Gentile was one who was not of Rome. What the word Gentile has come to mean is not the original meaning and therefore not the true meaning. by. 
Gentile Name Meaning. Italian: from the personal name Gentile, a continuation of Late Latin Gentilis meaning ‘of the same stock (Latin gens)’ and then ‘non-Christian’, ‘pagan’; as a medieval name it was an omen name with the sense ‘noble’, ‘courteous’, also ‘delicate’, ‘charming’, ‘graceful’ (Italian gentile). 
Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Gentiles. (Heb., usually in plural, goyim), meaning in general all nations except the Jews. In course of time, as the Jews began more and more to pride themselves on their peculiar privileges, it acquired unpleasant associations, and was used as a term of contempt. (nations). All the people who were not Jews were so called by them, being aliens from the worship, rites and privileges of Israel. The word was used contemptuously by them. In the New Testament it is used as equivalent to Greek.
God changed his name from Abram to Abraham, meaning father of many nations. Abraham was the father of Ishmael whose mother was an Egyptian, he became the father of the Arab nations. Abraham was fathrer of Isaac whose mother was Sarah. Isaac had twin sons, Esau and Jacob.whose mother was Rebekah. The first time the term Jew is used in the bible is in Esther 2:5, which was written a little over 400 years BC. The term Jew referred to those who were members or descendants of the Kingdom of Judah after the kingdom was divided in the days of Rehoboam, the son of Solomon.