Thylakoids are membrane-bound organelles found within chloroplasts  the thylakoid membrane, forms many flattened, fluid-filled tubules that enclose a single convoluted com … partment. These tubules tend to stack on top of each other to forma structure called a granum. One of the more common  hydrates is copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate, which contains 5 moles  of water per 1 mol of copper(II) sulfate, written as CuSO4Â·CUSO4â.  5h2o it is used as a catalytic, precursor, fungicide and as a source  of copper in chemical manufacturing. processes
The thylakoid membrane contains a number of integral membrane proteins to which are bound several important prosthetic groups and light-absorbing pigments, most notably chlorophyll. Carbohydrate synthesis occurs in the stroma, the soluble phase between the thylakoid membrane and the inner membrane. Chlorophyll a is the only light-absorbing pigment in reaction centers. Associated with each reaction center are multiple light-harvesting complexes (LHCs), which contain chlorophylls a and b, carotenoids, and other pigments that absorb light at multiple wavelengths.
In general, a thylakoid is a structure found inside the chloroplasts and cyanobacteria of plants, and ...[is] the site of the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis (Wi … kipedia Thylakoid 2007). For more detailed information about thylakoids, click on the related link below. One of the more common  hydrates is copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate, which contains 5 moles  of water per 1 mol of copper(II) sulfate, written as CuSO4Â·CUSO4â.  5h2o it is used as a catalytic, precursor, fungicide and as a source  of copper in chemical manufacturing. processes
Hydrates are crystalline solids that contain a fixed number of  water molecules as an integral part of their crystalline structure.  The number of water molecules bound per … metal ion is often  characteristic of that particular metal ion. One of the more common  hydrates is copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate, which contains 5 moles  of water per 1 mol of copper(II) sulfate, written as CuSO4Â·CUSO4â.  5h2o it is used as a catalytic, precursor, fungicide and as a source  of copper in chemical manufacturing. processes
A thylakoid is a membrane-bound compartment inside chloroplasts and cyanobacteria. They are the site of the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis. Thylakoids consist of a thylakoid membrane surrounding a thylakoid lumen. A granum (plural grana) is a stack of thylakoid discs. Chloroplasts can have from 10 to 100 grana. Grana are connected by stroma thylakoids, also called intergrana thylakoids or lamellae. Grana thylakoids and stroma thylakoids can be distinguished by their different protein composition.
Thylakoids are membrane-bound organelles found within chloroplasts  the thylakoid membrane, forms many flattened, fluid-filled tubules that enclose a single convoluted com … partment. These tubules tend to stack on top of each other to forma structure called a granum. 11 people found this useful. In general, a thylakoid is a structure found inside the chloroplasts and cyanobacteria of plants, and ...[is] the site of the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis (Wi … kipedia Thylakoid 2007).
In this way, carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil in a more disordered state are combined to form the more ordered sugar molecules. Inside the chloroplasts are stacks of discs called thylakoids. They are compared to stacks of coins within the walls of the chloroplast, and they act to trap the energy from sunlight. The stacks of thylakoids are called grana. They are connected with an extensive sytem of tubules. The thylakoid membranes contain chlorophyll and other pigments arranged in antenna arrays to capture light energy for two photosystems called Photosystem I and Photosystem II. The sketch of the chloroplast above was made from an electron micrograph of a chloroplast from a higher order plant (Levy). Plants use energy from the sun in tiny energy factories called chloroplasts.
In higher plants thylakoids are organized into a granum-stroma membrane assembly. A granum (plural grana) is a stack of thylakoid discs. Chloroplasts can have from 10 to 100 grana. Grana are connected by stroma thylakoids, also called intergrana thylakoids or lamellae. Grana thylakoids and stroma thylakoids can be distinguished by their different protein composition.
A membrane-bounded organelle with chlorophyll containing membranous  thylakoids where photosynthesis takes place is called chloroplast.  A green pigment that absorbs solar e … nergy and is important in algae  and plant photosynthesis is chlorophyll. One of the more common  hydrates is copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate, which contains 5 moles  of water per 1 mol of copper(II) sulfate, written as CuSO4Â·CUSO4â.  5h2o it is used as a catalytic, precursor, fungicide and as a source  of copper in chemical manufacturing. processes