View. comments. For years scientists have told us the bond between a pet and its owner goes no further than their need for food and security. But new research suggests what dog owners knew all along – that they do in fact experience feelings of love and affection. Scientists at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia, discovered that a part of the brain associated with positive emotions, was similar in dogs and humans. For years scientists have told us the bond between a pet and its owner goes no further than their need for food and security.
After years of looking at human rewards systems, Berns realized he could teach dogs to sit – or, more precisely, lay down – in an MRI machine to study their brain in real time and see what they really think about their human owners. But that is anthropomorphizing. There's a contingent of hardcore behaviorists who think that the things dogs do they do just for food and shelter. To me, there's no way from looking at a dog to tell the difference. You can infer it, but we're working to measure it.
The biggest mistake dog owners can make with their dogs is to treat them like humans. The human race is such a kind, compassionate species that we tend to look at our canine companions as little humans, when in reality, they are canines and have a very different thought process. 
The research builds on a previous study by the same group which found dogs use the same part of the brain as humans to 'feel'. Professor Berns, however, added that they can’t be sure whether it’s the person who activates this positive response, or the person’s actions, such as offering the dog food. Researchers have found key regions in a canine brain only light up when the animal is exposed to the smell of a human being that cares for it. These same regions fail to activate when exposed to other dogs-even familiar ones-according to researchers at Emory University in Georgia.
Dogs DO love their owners: Scans reveal that canine brains respond 'positively' to the scent of their owners. 1  Study trained 12 dogs to remain still without sedation in an MRI scanner. 2  It looked at brain region named the caudate which is linked to rewards. Researchers have found key regions in a canine brain only light up when the animal is exposed to the smell of a human being that cares for it. These same regions fail to activate when exposed to other dogs-even familiar ones-according to researchers at Emory University in Georgia.
But it did work. Next, the researchers can use canine MRI scans to answer more interesting questions. For example, Berns said, they might explore whether dogs have empathy for owners by showing the dogs pictures of their owners being poked with a pin and seeing whether that triggers a pain response in the dog's brain. They can see if dogs recognize their owners by sight or by smell. There are a million questions we can ask, if we can figure out the right way to ask them, said Berns. So far, Berns and his team have put two dogs into the MRI machine.
‘Not only did the dogs discriminate that scent from the others-they had a positive association with it,’ the researchers write. ‘This speaks to the power of the dog’s sense of smell, and it provides clues about the importance of humans in dogs’ lives.’. Researchers have found key regions in a canine brain only light up when the animal is exposed to the smell of a human being that cares for it. These same regions fail to activate when exposed to other dogs-even familiar ones-according to researchers at Emory University in Georgia.
The following statement is doing to the rounds across the social web : When a dog sees its owner, its brain secretes the same substances as ours when we are in love. It is usually accompanied by an image such as this one: One of the Twitter accounts tweeting this has ~1M followers and the tweet in question has received 1,624 retweets and 1,985 favourites as of this moment. When a dog sees its owner, its brain secretes the same substances as those secreted by an addict's brain when on a cocaine trip.