[ syll. a-ren, ar-en ] The baby boy name Aren is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is-RAHN †. Aren is largely used in the English and Spanish languages, and its origin is Hebrew and Old Norse. From Old Norse roots, its meaning is eagle, ruler-in this context, Aren can be used in the English language. This name originated from Norway and Denmark. In addition, Aren is an English and Spanish variant spelling of the name Aaron (English, German, Hebrew, and Polish)
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Aren in Armenian origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. In old Armenian, it means God-given from Ar meaning 'God' and en meaning 'from'. In the West, and due to its similar pronunciation with Aaron, many have come to think of it as a variation of Aaron and hence associating it with a Hebrew tradition.
Aren /aren/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Aren) is of Hebrew derivation, and the meaning of Aren is mountain of strength. Aren is an alternate spelling of Aaron (Hebrew): from the Hebrew har-on. Uren is a conventional last name. Kreatif forms: Arenah, Arenau, Auaren. 
May 16, 2012 Tamar Najarian Leave a comment. In Armenian, the name literally translates to “from God” or one depicting a divine gift. Most older Armenian names start with Ar, a symbol of our identity and the powers we worshiped long before Christianity. 
Armenian Male Names. From Armeniapedia.org. The names are given first in Western Armenian, then if there is an Eastern Armenian pronunciation, that is given. Popular alternative transliterations may be given, but generally the simple, phonetic transliteration will be used. See also Armenian Female Names, Armenian Last Names.
Meaning of Armen. Armenian name. In Armenian, the name Armen means-armenian. Other origins for the name Armen include-Armenian, Hebrew.The name Armen is most often used as a boy name or male name. Armenian Name Meaning-armenian.
Armenian names are used in the country of Armenia and Armenian communities throughout the world. 
German Meaning: The name Aren is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Aren is: Eagle. Danish Meaning: The name Aren is a Danish baby name. In Danish the meaning of the name Aren is: Esgle. Norse Meaning: The name Aren is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Aren is: Rule of the eagle.
AšXEN f Armenian. Feminine Armenian given name with a number of possible meanings and etymologies-firstly, from the Ossetian aeхсин æхсин meaning, lady, mistress or otherwise From Middle *median- , xšay meaning to shine or The ossetian aeхсид æхсид. meaning dawn 
It Could also mean Arnel Eyoutenen meaning (Arnel) Taken or Gift from (Eyoutenen) God or Creator. Aren is an Armenian name and has been used throughout centuries. In old Armenian, it means God-given from Ar meaning 'God' and en meaning 'from'. In the West, and due to its similar pronunciation with Aaron, many have come to think of it as a variation of Aaron and hence associating it with a Hebrew tradition.