The Corgi breed does shed, however, a light brushing twice a week for 20 minutes and a high-quality dog food will keep the shedding to a minimum. Adult Corgi's can adjust and adapt to a new home with minimal problems as long as the owners are dog-savvy and have done their research on the breed. If they are not papered then it is a fair price. If the dog is not papered or is a mixed breed, then the price of the dog should be around what it cost for the owner to get the puppies vaccinated (average is $100 - $300) plus what the price of a spay/neuter would cost (average $250), so $600.00 is pretty fair.
Pembrokes have an average life expectancy of 12–15 years. Pembroke Welsh Corgis are achondroplastic, meaning they are a true dwarf breed. As such, their stature and build can lead to certain non-inherited health conditions, but genetic issues should also be considered. It is one of two breeds known as Welsh Corgi: the other is the Cardigan Welsh Corgi. They descend from the line that is the northern spitz-type dog (examples include that of the Siberian Husky). The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is the younger of the two Corgi breeds and is a separate and distinct breed from the Cardigan. The corgi is one of the smallest dogs in the Herding Group. Pembroke Welsh Corgis are famed for being the preferred breed of Queen Elizabeth II, who has owned more than 30 during her reign
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi has been ranked at #11 in Stanley Coren 's The Intelligence of Dogs, and is thus considered an excellent working dog. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi was ranked as the 25th most popular dog in 2011. It is one of two breeds known as Welsh Corgi: the other is the Cardigan Welsh Corgi. They descend from the line that is the northern spitz-type dog (examples include that of the Siberian Husky). The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is the younger of the two Corgi breeds and is a separate and distinct breed from the Cardigan. The corgi is one of the smallest dogs in the Herding Group. Pembroke Welsh Corgis are famed for being the preferred breed of Queen Elizabeth II, who has owned more than 30 during her reign
Nemo the Pembroke Welsh Corgi at 1 year old. Find a Pembroke Welsh Corgi Breeder Place an Ad Rescue a Pembroke Welsh Corgi List Your Rescue Pronunciation PEM-bruuk-welsh-KOR-gee Description The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is a long (by its body compared to the legs), low to the ground dog. Its back is actually not longer than those of most dogs’; their legs are just very short in comparison. The skull is wide and flat between the ears. Description.
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is also highly popular with British royalty; Queen Elizabeth II reportedly has more than a dozen pet Pembrokes. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi has a shoulder height of 25-30 cm (10-12 in) and weighs up to 15 kg (30 lbs); it is almost twice as long as it is tall. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi has a long, thick, water-resistant outer coat consisting of hard straight hairs, and a short undercoat. It can be red, sable, fawn, or black and tan, all with possible white markings on the legs, chest, muzzle, or blaze (vertical line between the eyes).
Cardigan Welsh Corgi. The Cardigan Welsh Corgi is the older of the two Corgi dog breeds, with dogs of this type believed to have existed in Wales for more than 3,000 years. The Cardigan is distinguished by his long tail — like the sleeves of a cardigan sweater — and was used to drive cattle to market. 
The coat is shed twice a year. Origin The Cardigan Welsh Corgi is older than the Pembroke Welsh Corgi, with the Pembroke being bred out of the Cardigan. Both Corgi varieties may be a descendant of the Keeshond, Pomeranian, Schipperkes and the Swedish Vallhund. Some say the older Cardigan was from Cardiganshire brought there by the Celts in 1200 BC. Description. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is a long (by its body compared to the legs), low to the ground dog. Its back is actually not longer than those of most dogs’; their legs are just very short in comparison. The skull is wide and flat between the ears.
For years the two breeds, the Cardigan Welsh corgi and the Pembroke Welsh corgi, were shown as two varieties of a single breed. Since the two Corgi breeds developed in the Welsh hill country, in areas only a few miles apart, there is evidence of crossbreeding between the two that accounts for the similarities. The dog's undercoat is short, soft, and thick. The breed stands about 12 inches (30 cm) at the shoulder, and weighs about 30 pounds (14 kg). The Cardigan is sturdy, mobile, alert, active, intelligent, steady, and neither shy nor aggressive.
Pembroke Welsh corgi. There are two breeds of Welsh corgis, the Cardigan and the Pembroke, each named for the county in Wales where it originated. The two breeds were recognized as one breed until 1934 when the Kennel Club recognized them as Pembroke and Cardigan. The dog's undercoat is short, soft, and thick. The breed stands about 12 inches (30 cm) at the shoulder, and weighs about 30 pounds (14 kg). The Cardigan is sturdy, mobile, alert, active, intelligent, steady, and neither shy nor aggressive.