The Open Door Policy is a term in foreign affairs initially used to refer to the United States policy established in the late 19th century and the early 20th century, as enunciated in Secretary of State John Hay 's Open Door Note, dated September 6, 1899 and dispatched to the major European powers. 1 Sugita, Yoneyuki, The Rise of an American Principle in China: A Reinterpretation of the First Open Door Notes toward China in Richard J. Jensen, Jon Thares Davidann, and Yoneyuki Sugita, eds. 2  Trans-Pacific relations: America, Europe, and Asia in the twentieth century (Greenwood, 2003) pp 3–20 online.
...in 1897, at 6 am, over 100 people crowded onto the first train to travel through a tunnel under downtown Boston. More than 100,000 people would take the three-and-a-half minute trip that day. When the first subway car pulled out of Park Street Station, it may have seemed to Bostonians as though underground transit was the obvious solution to the city's growing traffic congestion. In fact, there were several other proposals, including streetcars using open trenches to access the Common. When the Boston Transit Commission determined that a subway system would be best, the legislature appropriated $5,000,000; construction began on March 28, 1895
As a theory, the United States' Open Door Policy originated with British commercial practice as reflected in treaties concluded with the Qing dynasty China after the First Opium War (1839–42). 1 Sugita, Yoneyuki, The Rise of an American Principle in China: A Reinterpretation of the First Open Door Notes toward China in Richard J. Jensen, Jon Thares Davidann, and Yoneyuki Sugita, eds. 2  Trans-Pacific relations: America, Europe, and Asia in the twentieth century (Greenwood, 2003) pp 3–20 online.
The Pit, formally named WisePies Arena (aka The Pit) , is an arena in Albuquerque, New Mexico serving primarily as the home venue of the University of New Mexico Lobo basketball teams. The facility opened in 1966 as University Arena, but soon gained the nickname The Pit due to its innovative subterranean design, with the playing floor 37 feet below street level.
Here's a commercial for Miller Lite-The First Lite Beer Open. Featuring John Madden, Rodney Dangerfield, Dick Butkus, Bob Uecker, and others (which I'm sure you'll help me name) :-). Has a Copyright of 1985. This aired on local Chicago TV on Sunday, January 12th 1986. Visit-http://www.FuzzyMemories.TV. 
The First Bank of the United States was needed because the government had a debt from the Revolutionary War, and each state had a different form of currency. It was built while Philadelphia was still the nation's capital. The First Bank's charter was drafted in 1791 by the Congress and signed by George Washington. In 1811, Congress voted to abandon the bank and its charter.
Construction began when the first cornerstone was laid in October of 1792. Although President Washington oversaw the construction of the house, he never lived in it. It was not until 1800, when the White House was nearly completed, that its first residents, President John Adams and his wife, Abigail, moved in. Since that time, each President has made his own changes and additions. The White House is, after all, the President's private home
Historically, it was in 1844 the first Seventh-day Adventists (known then as Millerites) started keeping the Sabbath, introduced to them by a Seventh-day Baptist named Joseph Bates, who convinced their Methodist minister that the Bible teaches us to keep the Sabbath. 