LCH in Children. Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is the most common of the histiocytic disorders and occurs when the body accumulates too many immature Langerhans cells, a subset of the larger family of cells known as histiocytes. Langerhans cells are a type of white blood cell that normally help the body fight infection. In LCH, too many Langerhans cells are produced and build up in certain parts of the body where they can form tumors or damage organs. The cause of this disease is unknown, although many possibilities have been explored, including viruses, exposure to toxins in the environment, family history and geography.
In the rare disease Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), an excess of cells similar to these cells are produced. However LCH cells stain positive to CD14 which is a monocyte marker and shows a different, hematopoietic origin for the disorder. LCH can cause damage to skin, bone and other organs. A portion of the Cell Ontology is shown with ovals corresponding to cell types defined in the ontology and arrows corresponding to relations between those cell types. Langerhans cell is represented by a yellow oval; blue arrows correspond to is_a relations, and orange arrows correspond to develops_from relations.
1 Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a type of cancer that can damage tissue or cause lesions to form in one or more places in the body. 2  Family history or having a parent who was exposed to certain chemicals may increase the risk of LCH. 3  The signs and symptoms of LCH depend on where it is in the body. Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare cancer that begins in LCH cells (a type of dendritic cell which fights infection). Sometimes there are mutations (changes) in LCH cells as they form. These include mutations of the BRAF gene.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a disorder in which excess immune system cells called Langerhans cells build up in the body. Langerhans cells, which help regulate the immune system, are normally found throughout the body, especially in the skin, lymph nodes, spleen, lungs, liver, and bone marrow. Other signs and symptoms that may occur in Langerhans cell histiocytosis, depending on which organs and tissues have Langerhans cell deposits, include swollen lymph nodes, abdominal pain, yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice), delayed puberty, protruding eyes, dizziness, irritability, and seizures.
In Langerhans cell histiocytosis, certain white blood cells, called Langerhans cells, grow out of control. In a healthy person, these cells help defend against infection. But in histiocytosis, the cells multiply so quickly that they build up and can damage the body instead of protect it. 
A Langerhans cell is a specific kind of white blood cell. Found largely in the epidermis, the outer layer of the skin, as well as in lymph nodes, Langerhans cells are an important element of the immune system. They are classified as dendritic cells because they grow projections called dendrites as they develop. 
Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a disorder in which the body makes too many dendritic cells. These cells play a role in the body’s immune system. Langerhans cells are a form of dendritic cell, or histiocyte, which is mostly found in the skin, lungs, stomach and intestines. In LCH, these cells build up in various tissues and cause damage
Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a type of cancer that can damage tissue or cause lesions to form in one or more places in the body. Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare cancer that begins in LCH cells (a type of dendritic cell which fights infection). Sometimes there are mutations (changes) in LCH cells as they form. These include mutations of the BRAF gene. These changes may make the LCH cells grow and multiply quickl
Langerhans cells are dendritic cells (antigen-presenting immune cells) of the skin and mucosa, and contain large organelles called Birbeck granules. They are present in all layers of the epidermis, but are most prominent in the stratum spinosum. A portion of the Cell Ontology is shown with ovals corresponding to cell types defined in the ontology and arrows corresponding to relations between those cell types. Langerhans cell is represented by a yellow oval; blue arrows correspond to is_a relations, and orange arrows correspond to develops_from relations.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare disease involving clonal proliferation of Langerhans cells, abnormal cells deriving from bone marrow and capable of migrating from skin to lymph nodes. Clinically, its manifestations range from isolated bone lesions to multisystem disease. 