Setting DIV width and height in JavaScript. up vote 28 down vote favorite. 8. I have a div with id div_register. I want to set its width dynamically in JavaScript. I am using this following code: but this line of code isn't working. I also tried using the units px like the following, still no luck: and. and. but none of this code is working for me. I don't know what's going wrong.
2. I wanted to set the div height of element to innerHeight of the browser. I dont want css or jQuery to take place here. It has to change its height dynamically with window resize. So i made this script and its not working as i thought. Here is my code: Can someone correct my code and make it work
Definition and Usage. The width property sets or returns the width an element. The width property has effect only on block-level elements or on elements with absolute or fixed position. The overflowing content can be manipulated with the overflow property. Tip: Use the height property to set or return the height of an element
I have a Div that has a height set in my CSS at 600px. I want to control that height dynamically so that it changes based on the viewport size when a user resizes his browser. I assume this can be done using jquery/JS but can not figure out how. Any help is appreciated. You will see how the slideshow has a defined height when what I really want is for it to adjust to the viewport size and fill the frame. The div the slideshow sits in is set at 600px in the CSS and I want it to be set dynamically based on the viewport size. GoldenRatio1618.
Last updated on: The width property in CSS specifies the width of the element's content 1 area. This content area is the portion inside the padding, border, and margin of an element (the box model). In the example above, elements that have a class name of .wrap will be 80% as wide as their parent element. 
in Using jQuery • 5 years ago. I would like to set the height of certain #div elements on a page based on the height of the user's current window state. It should draw the elements based on the size of the window at onLoad, and also respond to the onResize event. Re: Setting a div dimension based on window.height & .width. 5 years ago. I can't seem to get your code to work. Here is what I have based on your code above: The alert functions don't even fire after the page loads, and the div doesn't respond to the height.
You need to add code to the section and the tag. In this example, the window size has been set to 500 pixels wide and 300 pixels high. Experiment with different width/height pixel values to get the effect you want. 
Basically, I am having problems getting a div element to be 100% of the screen height. I want it to take up 100% of the viewable screen if there is less than a screen-full of content on the page, but 100% of the page document, if there is more than one screen-full of content. So I am looking at a JavaScript workaroung for this, and I can NEARLY manage it. I have also referred to this as the document height. For a page with little content, this may be, say 350 pixels high. For a page with much content, it may be, say, 1400px high. The variable windowheight is the height of the user's browser screen.
If there is a lot of content on the page, the div remains at 100% of the screen height (the amount of the page that the user can see when the page loads), but NOT 100% of the entire document height. I have also referred to this as the document height. For a page with little content, this may be, say 350 pixels high. For a page with much content, it may be, say, 1400px high. The variable windowheight is the height of the user's browser screen.