3D map of Kallstadt in Germany. You can also dive right into Kallstadt on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Kallstadt 3D map within your web browser. Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Kallstadt hotels (with best discount rates and up-to-date hotel deals) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed!
Kallstadt marks the northern end of Pfalz's prime vineyard area, in which it is joined by its southern neighbors Bad Durkheim, Forst, Deidesheim and Ruppertsberg. As evidenced by numerous archaeological finds, winemaking in this area dates back to Roman times, between roughly 100 B.C. and A.D. 400. The scenery here is classic Pfalz, the landscape undulating very gently north-to-south and sloping steadily eastwards down towards the Rhine. Kallstadt village itself lies just below the south-eastern edge of a low, rounded hill, which rises about 330ft (100m) above the village center.
Welcome to the Kallstadt google satellite map! This place is situated in Bad Durkheim, Rheinhessen-Pfalz, Rheinland-Pfalz, Germany, its geographical coordinates are 49° 29' 27 North, 8° 10' 34 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Kallstadt. See Kallstadt photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Kallstadt in Germany. Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Kallstadt hotels (with best discount rates and up-to-date hotel deals) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed!
Als je in de buurt bent, DOEN!! Jeroen, Netherlands. Offering a wine bar and terrace, Weinhaus Henninger mixes rustic charm with modern amenities. This stylish hotel is located in the town of Kallstadt, and provides free WiFi and daily newspapers. The soundproofed rooms here are spacious and elegantly decorated with contemporary furnishings. Each room features a seating area, flat-screen satellite TV, and a minibar with soft drinks included. Freinsheim Train Station is 1.7 miles from the hotel, and the A6 motorway is 8 minutes away by car. Free parking is available on site. We speak your language! Hotel Rooms: 13 This property has been on Booking.com since Oct 10, 2013. #1 out of 5 hotels in Kallstadt, based on 606 verified guest reviews.
Use the star rating to help choose your stay! Weinstrasse weinstraße, 93 67169, Kallstadt – Germany show. Map after, booking all of the’property s, details including telephone and, address are provided in your booking confirmation and your. account Freinsheim Train Station is 1.7 miles from the hotel, and the A6 motorway is 8 minutes away by car. Free parking is available on site. We speak your language! Hotel Rooms: 13 This property has been on Booking.com since Oct 10, 2013. #1 out of 5 hotels in Kallstadt, based on 606 verified guest reviews.
1 Johann Heinrich Heinz, father of American food industry entrepreneur Henry J. Heinz, founder of the H. J. Heinz Company. 2  Friedrich Drumpf, later changed (1892) to Trump (March 14, 1869, Kallstadt, Rheinland-Pfalz – March 30, 1918) — restaurateur and grandfather of real estate/entertainment magnate Donald Trump. On 15 January 1845, a coat of arms that might be described as “Azure an orb ensigned with a cross Or”, that is, a blue escutcheon bearing a golden globus cruciger with a cross on top, was granted as the municipality’s arms.
In 824, Kallstadt had its first documentary mention as Cagelenstat. Originally an Imperial Village, it later passed to the County of Pfeffingen (Homburg) and beginning in 1321 was held in fief first by the Knights Monfort, and then from 1451 until about 1551 by the House of Blicken von Lichtenberg. On 15 January 1845, a coat of arms that might be described as “Azure an orb ensigned with a cross Or”, that is, a blue escutcheon bearing a golden globus cruciger with a cross on top, was granted as the municipality’s arms.
The property is compared to the industry standard and scored based on price, facilities and services available. Weinstrasse weinstraße, 93 67169, Kallstadt – Germany show. Map after, booking all of the’property s, details including telephone and, address are provided in your booking confirmation and your. account Freinsheim Train Station is 1.7 miles from the hotel, and the A6 motorway is 8 minutes away by car. Free parking is available on site. We speak your language! Hotel Rooms: 13 This property has been on Booking.com since Oct 10, 2013. #1 out of 5 hotels in Kallstadt, based on 606 verified guest reviews.
Kallstadt Wine. Kallstadt is a village at the northern end of Germany's Pfalz wine region, located 12 miles (20km) south-west of the town of Worms. Its vineyards are effectively contiguous with those of Ungstein, its immediate southern neighbor. The scenery here is classic Pfalz, the landscape undulating very gently north-to-south and sloping steadily eastwards down towards the Rhine. Kallstadt village itself lies just below the south-eastern edge of a low, rounded hill, which rises about 330ft (100m) above the village center.
Kallstadt lies on the German Wine Route. It belongs to the Verbandsgemeinde of Freinsheim, whose seat is in the like-named town. On 15 January 1845, a coat of arms that might be described as “Azure an orb ensigned with a cross Or”, that is, a blue escutcheon bearing a golden globus cruciger with a cross on top, was granted as the municipality’s arms.