Directions for ITIL Foundation v3 Exam at PROMETRIC. Follow this simple guide to answer the most common question. How do I prepare and take my ITIL Foundation exam at a Prometric Test Centre. Read about the Downloadable Self Study course and then be ready to follow these easy steps towards arranging your own ITIL v3 Foundation Exam, at Prometric. You will next see a screen of text on EXIN exam policies at Prometric
1 Also valid for taking ITIL Foundation exam in person at a local testing center. 2  Take the ITIL Foundation exam from any country, regardless of location. 3  ITIL Foundation exam is fully accredited and proctored. 4  $249.00 (USD) - Purchase valid for single online. The ITIL Foundation exam covers material from all five ITIL core volumes. 1  There are 40 total multiple choice questions which make up the ITIL Foundation exam. 2  Individuals have 1 hour to complete the exam. 3  The exam is closed book and requires a passing score of 65% or greater.
If you choose to take the online ITIL Foundation exam, you may take your exam 7 days a week, between the hours of 8AM to 7PM (MST GMT-7 / UTC-7). There is no restriction on countries when you register for an ITIL exam. If you choose to take the exam in person, you can check here for a list of testing facilities in your country: CSME Testing Facilities Or you may elect to take the exam from your personal computer using a CSME online proctor (included in price).
Taking your ITIL Foundation Exam Online. Ideal for those test takers who do not live near an accredited ITIL Foundation testing center or who have schedules which make it difficult to take the ITIL Foundation exam in person. The online method is proctored by CSME, and can be taken from any computer with a webcam. The ITIL Foundation exam covers material from all five ITIL core volumes. 1  There are 40 total multiple choice questions which make up the ITIL Foundation exam. 2  Individuals have 1 hour to complete the exam. 3  The exam is closed book and requires a passing score of 65% or greater.
This page explains the benefits of online exams and explains how they operate in detail. If you have already purchased your exam voucher you can request it using our online exam form, and then go on to schedule your exam. If you have not purchased an exam, contact your training provider for information. In order to take a web based exam you will require at least a 640 X 480 pixel web cam with microphone. All web based exams are remotely proctored via your web cam. 
You will need to determine which organization's ITIL exam you'll want to take (EXIN or ISEB, among others); in addition to where you'll be taking it. You will then visit the testing center and take the ITIL exam via a monitored desktop computer. Other folks may decide that a multi-day course is the way to go for their ITIL Foundation certificate. Some courses will offer an in-class ITIL exam with a live proctor. Those of you who take an in-person course may also opt to take the Prometric exam as well.
Also valid for in-person exams. 1  Take the fully accredited ITIL Foundation exam, directly from your computer. 2  Also valid for taking ITIL Foundation exam in person at a local testing center. 3  Take the ITIL Foundation exam from any country, regardless of location. 4  ITIL Foundation exam is fully accredited and proctored. The ITIL Foundation exam covers material from all five ITIL core volumes. 1  There are 40 total multiple choice questions which make up the ITIL Foundation exam. 2  Individuals have 1 hour to complete the exam. 3  The exam is closed book and requires a passing score of 65% or greater.
Yes. When you register for your ITIL exam through ITIL Prime, you can elect to take the exam from one of thousands of CSME test centers. Once you register, you will be provided with instructions on how to take the exam online or at a test center. There is no restriction on countries when you register for an ITIL exam. If you choose to take the exam in person, you can check here for a list of testing facilities in your country: CSME Testing Facilities Or you may elect to take the exam from your personal computer using a CSME online proctor (included in price).