Single-tailed goldfish: (like shubunkins) 20 gallons for the first fish, 10 gal for each additional fish. Fancy goldfish: (like fantail) 15 gal for the first fish and 10 gal for each additional fish. If you’re in doubt, remember that it’s impossible to understock a tank.
Koi are very good companions of the shubunkin in ponds and they get along great. The shubunkins are happy eaters and will eat many food sources.You can feed your Shubunkin Goldfish pellets or flakes, as long as they are vegetable based because they need vegetables to do well.
The ideal setup for the Shubunkin is a pond of at least 180 gallons with a gravel substrate, rocks, and hearty plants. This fish will grow in proportion to the size of its surroundings. They like to eat the roots of plants and will dig to get to them, so provide large rocks around the base of the plants to protect them.
Because they share similar lineage, koi and large goldfish like the shubunkin get along well together in a shared environment. Both types of fish are community dwellers, eat similar foods and socialize well.
Best Answer: how big is the pond...do not get koi unless its over 1000 gallons..trust me they need that big space..they grow over 3 feet..
Best Answer: The Calico Goldfish also known as the Shubunkin Goldfish get about 1 foot long at the most. The Shubunkin Goldfish has become a very popular pond fish since it is one of the toughest goldfish types.
The Shubunkin Goldfish is usually kept in ponds, but you can keep a Shubunkin Goldfish in an aquarium as well as long as you can provide it with enough space. The Shubunkin Goldfish can grow very large and an adult Shubunkin Goldfish will need at least 30-40 gallons of water, while a juvenile requires around 15 gallons.
Obtain a fish tank that can hold 50 gallons (189.3 L) or more. Shubunkin Goldfish get very large, so a 50 gallon (189.3 L) tank is the smallest tank you can keep one in. Keep the live plants to a minimum; Shubunkins will uproot them.
Many varieties of passive fish will do well in a tank with shubunkin goldfish. Danios, tetras, barbs and red-tail sharks are all active swimmers with peaceful dispositions. If you prefer a larger fish, catfish also get along well with shubunkins.