Monatomic Ions Ions are atoms that have either lost or gained electrons. While atoms are neutral, ions are charged particles. OE ø a loss of electrons results in a positive ion or (cation “pronounced-cat-eye”). ON Oe ø a gain of electrons results in a negative ion (or “anion-pronounced-an”). eye on
Monatomic Ions. Ion Vocabulary An ion is an atom or group of atoms that have a charge. A monatomic ion is an atom with a charge. The charge on the atom is called an oxidation number. A polyatomic ion is a group of atoms with a charge. A cation is a positive ion. An anion is a negative ion. Types of monatomic ions and the rules for naming them The periodic table is useful in naming the monatomic i
A monatomic ion is an ion consisting of a single atom. If an ion contains more than one atom, even if these atoms are of the same element, it is called a polyatomic ion. For example, calcium carbonate consists of the monatomic ion Ca 2+ and the polyatomic ion CO 3 2− . A type I binary ionic compound contains a metal (cation) that forms only one type of ion. A type II ionic compound contains a metal that forms more than one type of ion, i.e., ions with different charges
A. Monatomic Ions In order to determine the charge of monatomic ions, you can use the periodic table as a guide: Group # (Column) Ion Charge Examples 1 +These elements lose one electron to form +1 ions. Na, Li + , K 2 2+These elements lose two electrons to form +2 ions. While atoms are neutral, ions are charged particles. OE ø a loss of electrons results in a positive ion or (cation “pronounced-cat-eye”). ON Oe ø a gain of electrons results in a negative ion (or “anion-pronounced-an”). eye on
· just now. Report Abuse. monatomic means there is only one atom. a monatomic ion is an ion that consists of one atom with either excess or a lack of electrons and it has either a negative or a positive charge. Some examples of monatomic ions are Cl(-) and Mg(2+). Thus, Na+ is a monatomic ion, whereas NH4+ is not. Anything with a charge (that is, anything that is not neutral or 0 charge) is an ion. Mg2+ is more charged than Na+. A molecule is diatomic if it has two atoms (which could be the same or different), triatomic if it has three atoms, and so on so forth.
Monoatomic ions are the elements that have either lost or gained electrons by bonding with another element. The Periodic Table helps us with all the monoatmoic ions in the A groups (the s and p-block), but it doesn't give us any information about the B group (the d-block). 
Monoatomic Ion Definition: A monatomic ion is an ion formed from a single atom. Examples: KCl dissociates in water into K + and Cl-ions. Both of these ions are monatomic ions. 
Mono means one, and atomic refers to an atom... so monatomic means that you have only one atom. Thus, Na+ is a monatomic ion, whereas NH4+ is not. Anything with a charge (that is, anything that is not neutral or 0 charge) is an ion. Mg2+ is more charged than Na+. A molecule is diatomic if it has two atoms (which could be the same or different), triatomic if it has three atoms, and so on so forth.
An ion that isnt monatomic is SO4(2-), since it consists of 5 atoms. Group 2 elements often have a charge of 2+ because the ions like to achieve a noble gas state, which it does when it loses 2 electrons. For the non metals, it is monatomic if there is only one atom in the ion. Thus, Na+ is a monatomic ion, whereas NH4+ is not. Anything with a charge (that is, anything that is not neutral or 0 charge) is an ion. Mg2+ is more charged than Na+. A molecule is diatomic if it has two atoms (which could be the same or different), triatomic if it has three atoms, and so on so forth.
Monatomic or monoatomic elements are elements that are stable as single atoms. Mon-or Mono-means one. In order for an element to be stable by itself, it needs to have a stable octet of valence electrons. The noble gases exist as monatomic elements: 1  helium. 2  neon. 3  argon. 4  krypton. 5  xenon. 6  radon. 