(vor`vôr) , tĕks mass of fluid in whirling or rotary. Motion to simplify the, analysis vortex motion usually describes motions in a frictionless. Fluid in such cases the absence of friction would make it impossible to create or to destroy vortex. motion To simplify the analysis, vortex motion usually describes motions in a frictionless fluid. In such cases the absence of friction would make it impossible to create or to destroy vortex motion.
vor·tex·es or vor·ti·ces (-tĭ-sēz′). 1. A whirling mass of water or air that sucks everything near it toward its center. 2. A place or situation regarded as drawing into its center all that surrounds it, and hence being inescapable or destructive: a vortex of political infighting; a vortex of despair. vortex. n, pl-texes or-tices (-tɪˌsiːz). 1. (General Physics) a whirling mass or rotary motion in a liquid, gas, flame, etc, such as the spiralling movement of water around a whirlpool. 2. any activity, situation, or way of life regarded as irresistibly engulfing.
a: a mass of fluid (as a liquid) with a whirling or circular motion that tends to form a cavity or vacuum in the center of the circle and to draw toward this cavity or vacuum bodies subject to its action; especially: whirlpool, eddy b: a region within a body of fluid in which the fluid elements have an angular velocity. 
vortexes, vortices. Etymology: L, whirl. a whirlpool effect produced by the whirling of a more or less cylindric mass of fluid (liquid or gas). The velocity of the motion increases as the radius of the circle described by the motion decreases; the velocity decreases as the radius increases. 
vor·tex. Plural vortexes or vortices (vor′vôr-tĭ′). Sēz a mass of whirling, fluid especially a whirling mass of water or air that sucks everything near it toward its. Center eddies and whirlpools are examples of. vortexes vortex. n, pl-texes or-tices (-tɪˌsiːz). 1. (General Physics) a whirling mass or rotary motion in a liquid, gas, flame, etc, such as the spiralling movement of water around a whirlpool. 2. any activity, situation, or way of life regarded as irresistibly engulfing.
Vortex created by the passage of an aircraft wing, revealed by colored smoke. Milk vortices in a cup of coffee. In fluid dynamics, a vortex is a region in a fluid medium in which the flow is mostly rotating around an axis line, the vortical flow that occurs either on a straight-axis or a curved-axis. The plural of vortex is either vortices or vortexes. The core of a vortex in air is sometimes visible because of a plume of water vapor caused by condensation in the low pressure and low temperature of the core; the spout of a tornado is an example.
By definition, the Vile Vortices would be miserable whirlers but actually they are twelve vertex points of a planetary grid (see Figure 1) originally plotted by Ivan T. Sanderson, a naturalist and paranormal investigator. 