If you are trying to keep squirrels away from bird feeders or flower beds, try this dry repellent. From your spice rack, gather a bottle of paprika, cayenne pepper and/or a bottle of crushed red pepper flakes. Sprinkle a mixture of these spices where you don’t want squirrels to dig or tread. You can even mix them in with your wild birdseed to keep the squirrels from eating it. Greasy Squirrel Repellent. Squirrels enjoy feeding at bird feeders just as much as the birds do. However, they can be destructive and even drive your birds away. To keep squirrels away, place the feeder on a tall metal pole coated with cooking grease, like Crisco.
1 Make a pepper spray by mixing 1 tsp. of mild liquid detergent, 1 gal. of water and 1 small bottle of hot pepper sauce. 2  Mix these ingredients in a gallon jug, then transfer to a spray bottle. 3  Spray this mixture on plants, the bird feeder or anything else you want to keep squirrels away from. 1 Shake some pepper on the ground around the plants as well. 2  Apply cayenne pepper in the dirt and on the bulbs and plants as you are planting them. 3 
I had heard something about people using hot pepper suet to keep squirrels away, and that it does not affect the birds. So I got a large jar of cayenne pepper and coated the entire holdup rope with it to try to discourage the squirrels. Squirrels/birds/hot pepper. Hi, I have a squirrel proof feeder that has been working well for several months. Today, however, I went out to fill it, and noticed that a squirrel or squirrels have clawed their way up the side of the house, and gnawed nearly clean through the nylon rope holding the feeder.
Did you know to keep squirrels from invading your bird feeders sprinkle cayenne pepper in the feeders. It won't harm the birds but it will keep away the squirrels. I don't mind the squirrels, I have 10 bird feeders around my house, so if the squirrels are at the feeders the birds can go to the other. 
1 Cut up several dried cayenne peppers, then add them to water in a squirt bottle with a squirt of dish soap to help the solution adhere to plant leaves. 2  This solution is useful if dusting alone doesn't keep squirrels away, and will also repel many types of undesirable insects. 1 This solution is useful if dusting alone doesn't keep squirrels away, and will also repel many types of undesirable insects. 2  Discount stores are a good place to buy bulk cayenne pepper flakes and powdered cayenne pepper seasoning.
Apply a thin layer of the pepper mixture along the stem of the plant at the base, and along garden borders or fences near the area to deter squirrels from even entering the garden. The petroleum jelly helps the dusted cayenne powder stay on the plants and surrounding areas rather than being washed away. 1 This solution is useful if dusting alone doesn't keep squirrels away, and will also repel many types of undesirable insects. 2  Discount stores are a good place to buy bulk cayenne pepper flakes and powdered cayenne pepper seasoning.
Sprinkle crushed cayenne pepper flakes around the plants that squirrels enjoy. Sow some of the pepper flakes into the soil with a garden trowel or your gloved hand, creating a barrier around the plants, bulbs and areas where squirrels dig. 1 This solution is useful if dusting alone doesn't keep squirrels away, and will also repel many types of undesirable insects. 2  Discount stores are a good place to buy bulk cayenne pepper flakes and powdered cayenne pepper seasoning.
1 Spray this mixture on plants, the bird feeder or anything else you want to keep squirrels away from. 2  Use a commercial hot pepper spray such as Hare-Less Hot Pepper Squirrel Repellent or Garden Naturals’ Hot Pepper Wax Animal Repellent. 1 Shake some pepper on the ground around the plants as well. 2  Apply cayenne pepper in the dirt and on the bulbs and plants as you are planting them. 3  Make a pepper spray by mixing 1 tsp. of mild liquid detergent, 1 gal. of water and 1 small bottle of hot pepper sauce.
However, you can probably find several natural squirrel repellants in your own kitchen. Typically, squirrels do not like the scent of spicy foods. Sprinkling hot spices, such as cayenne pepper or chili powder, over affected areas should keep squirrels away. These spices will not harm the squirrels or your plants, but they will prevent the critters from chewing on or digging up your greenery. Mothballs can also be used to repel squirrels. While mothballs are deadly for moths, they are only a nuisance for squirrels. Securing a few mothballs in wire mesh, or even an old pair of nylon stockings, and placing it near affected areas should keep squirrels away from any edible items in your yard.
Deter Squirrels with Hot Pepper! Squirrels have an extreme distaste for hot peppers. If there’s one thing that will heat up a meal, it’s hot peppers! Whether raw, cooked, chopped, seeds in or out, the variety of hot peppers and the heat and spice they add to foods and drinks is extensive. Except that cayenne isn’t very strong when it comes to hot pepper and the Scoville scale. The Scoville scale is the method used to rate the strength of hot peppers. Cayenne measures about 30,000 – 50,000 Scoville units, while pure pepper extracts (capsaicins) can measure between 15,000,000 and 16,000,000 units.