Animals produce gametes directly through meiosis in organs called gonads (testicle in males and ovary in females). Males and females of a species that reproduces sexually have different forms of gametogenesis. 1  spermatogenesis (male). 2  oogenesis (female). For example, plants produce gametes through mitosis in gametophytes. The gametophytes grow from haploid spores after sporic meiosis. The existence of a multicellular, haploid phase in the life cycle between meiosis and gametogenesis is also referred to as alternation of generations.
Answers. Best Answer: 1. The testes in males and the ovaries in females produce gametes 2. Testosterone 3. testosterone contributes to muscle building, deepening of the voice, hair growth on the face and chest. Basically all of the secondary sex characteristics you see in men
In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gamete—called an ovum (or egg)—and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like type—called a sperm. Dissimilarity [edit]. In contrast to a gamete, the diploid somatic cells of an individual contain one copy of the chromosome set from the sperm and one copy of the chromosome set from the egg cell; that is, the cells of the offspring have genes expressing characteristics of both the father and the mother.
Cells in the reproductive organs (testes testes: An organ that produces the male reproductive cells. and ovaries ovaries: A pair of organs in the female reproductive system where ova (eggs) and sex hormones are produced. in humans) divide to form gametes. Gametes are sex cells : Fertilisation is the joining or fusion of a male gamete and a female gamete. When fertilisation happens, a single body cell with new pairs of chromosomes chromosome: One of the rod shaped bodies found in the nucleus of cells that contain genetic information (DNA). is formed.
The primary function of the reproductive system is to produce male and female sex cells and to ensure the growth and development of offspring. The reproductive system is comprised of male and female reproductive organs and structures. The growth and activity of these organs and structures is regulated by hormones. 1 This organ is composed of erectile tissue, connective tissue, and skin. 2  The urethra extends through the length of the penis, allowing urine and sperm to pass. 3  Testes-Male primary reproductive structures that produce male gametes (sperm) and sex hormones. 4  Scrotum-External pouch of skin that contains the testes.
1 Testes-Male primary reproductive structures that produce male gametes (sperm) and sex hormones. 2  Scrotum-External pouch of skin that contains the testes. 3  Because the scrotum is located outside of the abdomen, it can reach temperatures that are lower than that of internal body structures. 1 This organ is composed of erectile tissue, connective tissue, and skin. 2  The urethra extends through the length of the penis, allowing urine and sperm to pass. 3  Testes-Male primary reproductive structures that produce male gametes (sperm) and sex hormones. 4
1 Answer. 0 votes. answered by Shubham bhagat. The male and female gamete producing organs are called primary sex organs. In male primary sex organ is TESTIS which is present in scrotum, it is a pair gland each present in each scrotal lobe. it produces male gamete called sperm. In female primary sex organ is OVERIES present in abdominal cavity it is also a pair ... 
Questions on The Male Reproductive System 1)Which organ (s) produce gametes? 2)What is the major hormone made in the testis? 3)How does the body respond to male hormones? THANKS. Best Answer: 1. The testes in males and the ovaries in females produce gametes 2. Testosterone 3. testosterone contributes to muscle building, deepening of the voice, hair growth on the face and chest. Basically all of the secondary sex characteristics you see in men
Gonads. Gonads are the male and female primary reproductive organs. The male gonads are the testes and the female gonads are the ovaries. These reproductive system organs are necessary for sexual reproduction as they are responsible for the production of male and female gametes. As a component of the endocrine system, both male and female gonads produce sex hormones. Male and female sex hormones are steroid hormones and as such, can pass through the cell membrane of their target cells to influence gene expression within cells.