Kron is a dictator of the herd and the secondary antagonist of Disney's 2000 CG film Dinosaur (the main antagonists being the Carnotaurs). Kron orders the herd to start climbing up the hill to which they do until Aladar returns, telling Kron to get the herd out of there because a Carnotaur is coming and that he knows a safer way to the Nesting Grounds. He also tells him that the herd can't get over the rocks because there's a sheer drop on the other side.
Kron (Dinosaur). 36,080 pages on this wiki. Kron is Neera's brother, a dictator of the herd and the secondary antagonist in Disney's 2000 CG film Dinosaur (the main antagonists being the Carnotaurs). He is the leader of the herd that he is taking to the Nesting Grounds. He is stubborn, imperialistic, selfish, and a bully. Kron is a hardline, no-nonsense leader. Believing heavily in survival of the fittest, he feels no pity for members of the herd who die along the way to the Nesting Grounds. The exception is his sister Neera whom he genuinely cares for; however, he often doesn't listen to her, and even ignores Neera's advice.
Kron is a hardline, no-nonsense leader. Believing heavily in survival of the fittest, he feels no pity for members of the herd who die along the way to the Nesting Grounds. The exception is his sister, whom he genuinely cares for; however, he often doesn't listen to her, and even ignores his sister's advice. Kron orders the herd to start climbing up the hill to which they do until Aladar returns, telling Kron to get the herd out of there because a Carnotaur is coming and that he knows a safer way to the Nesting Grounds. He also tells him that the herd can't get over the rocks because there's a sheer drop on the other side.
KRON. KRON or cron, derived from chronic and constantly said by facer; definition of marijuana or in better use, something good (new generation terms). KRON means superior, greater than average (not abram). KRON can be used in many ways, describing people, items and emotions. It is a very universal word, but saying it too much can cause KRONitis and get addicted to saying it too much. KRON can replace words eg. KRONfused, KRONsturbate, McKRONalds, KRONtinents and more
KRON-TV, virtual channel 4 (UHF digital channel 38), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station located in San Francisco, California, United States. The station is owned by Media General. KRON maintains studios in the KGO-TV building in the Financial District, and its transmitter is located atop Sutro Tower. Its signal is relayed on low-powered translator K41AF (channel 41) in Ukiah. KRON-TV became a MyNetworkTV affiliate when it debuted on September 5, 2006 (it is currently one of the largest MyNetworkTV-affiliated stations not to previously have been an affiliate of either The WB or UPN, second only to the network's Dallas O&O KDFI).
33,180 pages on this wiki. Kron is a dictator of the herd and the secondary antagonist of Disney's 2000 CG film Dinosaur (the main antagonists being the Carnotaurs). He is the leader of the herd that he is taking to the Nesting Grounds. Kron orders the herd to start climbing up the hill to which they do until Aladar returns, telling Kron to get the herd out of there because a Carnotaur is coming and that he knows a safer way to the Nesting Grounds. He also tells him that the herd can't get over the rocks because there's a sheer drop on the other side.
Kron drives the herd unmercifully across the hot sunny desert, losing a couple of members in the process, until they finally reach the lake. However, when Kron reaches the top, he and the rest of the herd are shocked to see that the lake is a dry bed caused by the fireball earlier in the film. Kron orders the herd to start climbing up the hill to which they do until Aladar returns, telling Kron to get the herd out of there because a Carnotaur is coming and that he knows a safer way to the Nesting Grounds. He also tells him that the herd can't get over the rocks because there's a sheer drop on the other side.
Kron is the leader of the herd that is heading to the Nesting Grounds in Disney's 2000 CG film Dinosaur. Kron is a hardline, no-nonsense leader. Believing heavily in survival of the fittest, he feels no pity for members of the herd who die along the way to the Nesting Grounds. The exception is his sister whom he genuinely cares for; however, he often doesn't listen to her, and even ignores his sister's advice