You'll just now have... January 11, 2013 OVER THE TOP!!!! (and a fun video with Bob Hurricane Hannah about John Penton) WE DID IT AND THANK YOU!!!!! As of this morning we went past the goal of $150,000 to $153,000 with more pledges coming in. 
Indian is an American brand of motorcycles originally produced from 1901 to 1953 in Springfield, Massachusetts, US. Hendee Manufacturing Company initially produced the motorcycles but the name was changed to The Indian Motocycle Manufacturing Company [ sic ] in 1928. The Indian factory team took the first three places in the 1911 Isle of Man Tourist Trophy. The first Indian motorcycles, having chain drives and streamlined styling, were sold to the public in 1902. In 1903, Indian's co-founder and chief engineer Oscar Hedstrom set the world motorcycle speed record of 56 mph. In 1904 the company introduced the deep red color that would become Indian's trademark.
The video unfolds with the evolution of Penton Motorcycles, from the “chicken coop” to representing KTM, Husqvarna, Ariel, Zundapp, Honda and others. John’s 1959 cross-country record sprint on a BMW R69 is chronicled and recreated in amusing fashion. Of course, the meat and potatoes here is the ultimate Penton involvement with the International Six Days’ Trial, the world’s toughest enduro. John first went to the ISDT in 1962 in Germany, riding a BWW 250. Here he learned the value of lightweight motorcycles.
John Penton was one of the most influential figures in the development of off-road motorcycle racing in America during the 1960s and ‘70s. A national champion rider, Penton went on to develop a legendary brand of off-road motorcycles that bore his name. Thousands of riders learned to ride on Pentons. He also founded Hi-Point, a boot and apparel company that for a time boasted over half the sales in the U.S. market. Penton was born on August 19, 1925. In the first year, more than 400 Pentons were sold. By the time Penton sold the distributorship to KTM, some 10 years later, more than 25,000 Penton motorcycles had been sold in America. Penton stepped up the level of professionalism in the sport of motocross and enduros.
The Penton Owners Group was formed to preserve and share the memories and equipment of a very special time in motorcycle history. It is the aim of the POG to be a source of information about the history of the Penton motorcycle, the Penton Company, and its many dealers, riders, and extended family. July, 1997, Al Buehner invites John Penton to attend Vintage Motorcycle Days at Mid-Ohio to sign autographs. The response of fans is so strong that Buehner, Paul Danik, Jack Penton, and Dane Leimbach begin to discuss the idea of forming a Penton Owners Group.
Penton was a brand of off-road motorcycle introduced in 1968 by John Penton, a noted enduro rider on the dirt bike competition circuit, who was inducted into the AMA Motorcycle Hall of Fame in 1998. Beginning in 1972 fiberglass gas tanks were introduced and all of the 175 cc and larger models used KTM engines. In 1974 longer travel gas forks with laid-down rear shocks for longer suspension travel, lightweight plastic fenders and frames of high grade chrome-moly steel were introduced.
Penton approached the KTM company, which at the time made bicycles and mopeds, to build a light-weight off-road motorcycle. The first Penton motorcycles used a modified small-capacity Sachs engine with improved suspension and details. Beginning in 1972 fiberglass gas tanks were introduced and all of the 175 cc and larger models used KTM engines. In 1974 longer travel gas forks with laid-down rear shocks for longer suspension travel, lightweight plastic fenders and frames of high grade chrome-moly steel were introduced.
Specifically, from the sale of the first Penton motorcycle in1968 to the sale of the last Penton motorcycle in 1977, and throughout a period of transition when similar motorcycles were branded KTM from 1978 through 1988. 
John agreed to pay KTM to build a prototype of the bike, and within only a few months, the first Penton motorcycle arrived in Ohio. Penton introduced the bike at the Stone Mountain Enduro near Atlanta in 1968. It was a 125 with Ceriani suspension, and it weighed 185 pounds. It had a flawed transmission and a restrictive airbox, but it demonstrated that John had the right idea. In the next few years, both Penton and Husqvarna grew, and John became one of the most important Americans in the off-road motorcycle business. There is a direct link between John and the bikes of today that goes way beyond the 10-year production run of Penton motorcycles. One of the motorcycles that influenced John’s dirt bike philosophy was the German-made NSU 175.