Though usually used for this purpose in combination with some sedative drug, Ketamine, developed by Parke-Davis in 1962, was eventually used as a recreational drug due to its capability to produce a dissociative state, characterized by a sense of detachment from one's physical body. Effects of Ketamine. What it does, the physical and mental effects while high, what happens in the brain, after-effects of using ketamine. Ketamine makes the user feel disassociated from their body and can cause hallucinations.
Ketamine is a dissociative anesthetic that is sometimes injected to produce a deep sleep. The drug was developed in 1963 as a replacement for the then commonly used drug PCP. Ketamine can also be injected though the majority of users snort in ingest it if using it on the streets. Because Ketamine is odorless and tasteless, it can be added to foods or drinks without being easily detected. Although it is not actually considered “the date rape drug” it is a date rape drug.
Google+1. Ketamine is a rapid acting anesthetic drug used mainly by veterinarians and sometimes in human surgery. It is also known as a dissociative anesthetic because it can make a person feel a sense of detachment, as if their mind is separated from their body. Commercial ketamine is a liquid. The street drug is usually sold as a powder.
Ketamine is manufactured as an injectable liquid that is clear. The drug is often evaporated to form a light colored powder that is then used on the streets. When ketamine is abused by users outside of the medical field, it is often found mixed with other substances such as in MDMA, in pills or in other drugs. Ketamine can also be injected though the majority of users snort in ingest it if using it on the streets. Because Ketamine is odorless and tasteless, it can be added to foods or drinks without being easily detected. Although it is not actually considered “the date rape drug” it is a date rape drug.
Ketamine is often found it its evaporated, powdery form. The method of Ketamine use depends on the user. Some prefer to snort the drug or inhale it into the nose while others prefer to ingest the drug. Ketamine can also be injected though the majority of users snort in ingest it if using it on the streets. Because Ketamine is odorless and tasteless, it can be added to foods or drinks without being easily detected. Although it is not actually considered “the date rape drug” it is a date rape drug.
Most of the time, Ketamine is used in veterinary medicine as an animal tranquilizer however it can also be used in human medicine as an anesthetic. When the drug is found on the street, it has typically been swiped from a veterinary office. Ketamine can also be injected though the majority of users snort in ingest it if using it on the streets. Because Ketamine is odorless and tasteless, it can be added to foods or drinks without being easily detected. Although it is not actually considered “the date rape drug” it is a date rape drug.
Ketamine (INN) is a medication used mainly for starting and maintaining anesthesia. Other uses include sedation in intensive care, as a pain killer, as treatment of bronchospasm, as a treatment for complex regional pain syndrome and as an antidepressant. Low-dose ketamine is sometimes used in the treatment of complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). A 2013 systematic review found only low-quality evidence to support the use of ketamine for CRPS.
Ketamine is used by medical practitioners and veterinarians as an anaesthetic. It is sometimes used illegally by people to get ‘high’. Ketamine can produce hallucinogenic effects, causing a person to see, hear, smell, feel or taste things that aren’t really there or are different from how they are in reality. It is also sometimes smoked with cannabis or tobacco. The effects of ketamine may be experienced within 30 seconds if injected, 5–10 minutes if snorted, and up to 20 minutes if swallowed. The effects of ketamine can last for approximately 45 to 90 minutes. 3.
Ketamine can be swallowed, snorted or injected. It is also sometimes smoked with cannabis or tobacco. The effects of ketamine may be experienced within 30 seconds if injected, 5–10 minutes if snorted, and up to 20 minutes if swallowed. The effects of ketamine can last for approximately 45 to 90 minutes. 3.
Pharmacologically, ketamine is classified as an NMDA receptor antagonist, but it also acts at numerous other sites (including opioid receptors and monoamine transporters). Like other drugs of the arylcyclohexylamine class, such as phencyclidine (PCP), ketamine is classified as a dissociative agent. Low-dose ketamine is sometimes used in the treatment of complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). A 2013 systematic review found only low-quality evidence to support the use of ketamine for CRPS.