ATP is a nucleotide that contains a large amount of chemical energy stored in its high-energy phosphate bonds. It releases energy when it is broken down (hydrolyzed) into ADP (or Adenosine Diphosphate). The energy is used for many metabolic processes. 
• ATP (noun). The noun ATP has 1 sense: 1. a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue; the major source of energy for cellular reactions. Familiarity information: ATP used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. A nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue; the major source of energy for cellular reactions. Classified under: Nouns denoting substances. Synonyms: adenosine triphosphate; ATP.
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-pyrophosphate, produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. adenosine monophosphate (AMP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-phosphate, involved in energy metabolism and nucleotide synthesis. Called also adenylic acid.
ATP stands for Adenosine triphosphate. ATP is a small molecule made from Adenine (a molecule used to build DNA), a Pentose molecule (a sugar molecule) and three phosphate groups. It is made of an adenine molecule attached to a ribose molecule attached to 3 phosphate groups. When it goes through hydrolysis, the bond is broken between the 2nd and 3rd phosphate group and it is used as free energy. Source(s): my biology textbook.
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP.
Definition. Adenosine triphosphate, or ATP for short, is the energy currency of life. ATP is a high-energy molecule found in every cell. Its job is to store and supply the cell with needed energy
Report Abuse. Adenosine triphosphate. It is made of an adenine molecule attached to a ribose molecule attached to 3 phosphate groups. When it goes through hydrolysis, the bond is broken between the 2nd and 3rd phosphate group and it is used as free energy. Source(s): my biology textbook.
adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) a term used to refer to the enzymatic activity of certain intercellular processes that split ATP to form ADP and inorganic phosphate, when the energy released is not used for the synthesis of chemical compounds. It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. adenosine monophosphate (AMP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-phosphate, involved in energy metabolism and nucleotide synthesis. Called also adenylic acid.