Use shortcut keys as an alternative to the mouse when working in Windows. You can open, close, and navigate the Start menu, desktop, menus, dialog boxes, and Web pages using keyboard shortcuts. Keyboard shortcuts may also make it easier for you to interact with your computer.
To access toolbar buttons using a keyboard. 1  In the navigation pane, tab to the category that contains the items you want to add to or edit, and then press ENTER. 2  Tab to the name of the module you want to work with, and then press ENTER. 3  Tab to the toolbar button that you want to use
1 CTRL+ESC: Opens the Start menu (use the ARROW keys to select an item). 2  CTRL+ESC or ESC: Selects the Start button (press TAB to select the taskbar, or press SHIFT+F10 for a context menu). 3  CTRL+SHIFT+ESC: Opens Windows Task Manager.
To open item properties using a keyboard. 1  In the navigation pane, tab to the category that contains the items you want to work with, and then press ENTER. 2  Tab to the module you want to work with, and then press ENTER. 3  The module you selected opens.
Keyboard shortcuts don't replace my mousing; they complement it. Keyboard shortcuts are the easiest way to do things faster, but with the wide variety of software we all use it's hard to remember all the different shortcuts. In turn, even though we all know shortcuts are useful, few of us bother using them.
1 SHIFT+F10 Opens a shortcut menu for the selected item (this is the same as right-clicking an object. 2  CTRL+ESC: Opens the Start menu (use the ARROW keys to select an item). 3  CTRL+ESC or ESC: Selects the Start button (press TAB to select the taskbar, or press SHIFT+F10 for a context menu).
ALT+W. Press DOWN ARROW to move into the ribbon tab that you selected, and then use ARROW keys to move to the command you want. Use TAB or arrow keys to move to different commands in that ribbon tab. Some commands cannot be accessed with an arrow key.
To use a keyboard shortcut, hold down one or more modifier keys while pressing the last key of the shortcut. For example, to use the shortcut Command-C (copy), hold down Command, press C, then release both keys. Mac menus and keyboards often use symbols for certain keys, including the modifier keys: 1  Command ⌘.