Age for a CHILD to have a credit card? Are you all nuts?? You get a credit card when you can apply for it yourself as an adult with no co-signer, have your own income to spend and understand the perils of plastic. Only Tracey Jackson seems to be grounded in an attempt at parenting. This article is sheer insanity.
1 If your child has no credit history, he or she can be approved for a secured credit card if you make a savings deposit equal to his or her credit line. 2  He or she draws against this credit line with every charge. It is still possible to help your child get a Visa credit card, but some strategies can take a bit longer than securing one for yourself. Helping your child develop his or her own credit history can ease the process.
Getting that first credit card is a big step for your child; one that can have serious negative consequences for years to come. Credit scores, which are based on a person’s credit history, will determine their ability to get credit in the future and what price they will pay for it. He calls it “a credit card with training wheels.”. “This allows your child to have a credit card with their name printed on the front of it, but as the primary cardholder you maintain all the control,” he explained. “You can essentially manage your kid’s use of the card, almost in real time, and kick them off the card if they start to abuse it.”
1 If your child is able to establish a good credit history with a secured credit card, he or she can request that the card account be upgraded to an unsecured status. 2  He or she then qualifies for a lower interest rate and an increased credit limit. It is still possible to help your child get a Visa credit card, but some strategies can take a bit longer than securing one for yourself. Helping your child develop his or her own credit history can ease the process.
A retail credit card is another solo credit card option that your child can explore. These limited purpose cards are known for approving applicants with little or no credit history. Credit limits are typically low, around $300 or $500. However, retail credit cards do have high interest rates. If your child doesn't pay off the balance in full each month, they'll be paying high finance charges. Additionally, a retail credit card at your child's favorite store can lure them into going on shopping sprees. 
What does that mean in terms of credit cards? Just because you have a credit card, that doesn’t mean you should be using it at the drop of a hat. While it may be difficult to fathom at 18, 19, and 20 years old, the time will come when your good credit is going to have major value (buying a home or a car). If you are under 18 you may have to wait a while. Unless you have an adult willing to cosign a card for you, or add you to their existing credit card account, you will be unable to legally enter a contract until you are eighteen years old (a legal adult); therefore, you will be unable to get your own credit card. So yes, you can get on, but you can’t do it alone