Butorphanol (AAN, BAN, INN and USAN) is a morphinan-type synthetic opioid analgesic developed by Bristol-Myers. Brand name Stadol was recently discontinued by the manufacturer. It is now only available in its generic formulations, manufactured by Novex, Mylan, Apotex and Ben Venue Laboratories. Butorphanol is most closely structurally related to levorphanol. Butorphanol is available as the tartrate salt in injectable, tablet, and intranasal spray formulations.
TORBUGESIC (butorphanol tartrate) is a totally synthetic, centrally acting, narcotic agonist-antagonist analgesic with potent antitussive activity. It is a member of the phenanthrene series. The chemical name is Morphinan-3, 14-diol, 17-(cyclobutylmethyl)-,(-)-, (S-(R*,R*))-2,3-dihydroxybutanedioate (1:1) (salt). Each mL of TORBUGESIC contains 10 mg butorphanol base (as butorphanol tartrate, USP), 3.3 mg citric acid, USP, 6.4 mg sodium citrate, USP, 4.7 mg sodium chloride, USP, and 0.1 mg benzethonium chloride, USP, q.s. with water for injection, USP.
Indications TORBUGESIC (butorphanol tartrate) is indicated for the relief of pain associated with colic in adult horses and yearlings. Clinical studies in the horse have shown that TORBUGESIC alleviates abdominal pain associated with torsion, impaction, intussusception, spasmodic and tympanic colic and postpartum pain. Each mL of TORBUGESIC contains 10 mg butorphanol base (as butorphanol tartrate, USP), 3.3 mg citric acid, USP, 6.4 mg sodium citrate, USP, 4.7 mg sodium chloride, USP, and 0.1 mg benzethonium chloride, USP, q.s. with water for injection, USP.
Generic name for Torbugesic is butorphanol. It is used primarily as a pain medication and also sometimes as an anti-cough medication in dogs and cats. It is an opiate type of medication and generally is quite safe. 
Uses Butorphanol is used as a pain reliever and cough suppressant in multiple species including dogs, cats, ferrets, rabbits, birds, and horses. It may also be used to prevent vomiting in animals undergoing chemotherapy. Dose and Administration Always follow the dosage instructions provided by your veterinarian.
1 Butorphanol Tartate, commonly known as Torbugesic®, Torbutrol® or Dolorex®, is primarily used in dogs and cats for pain relief and for coughing. 2  Pain control is increasingly important in veterinary medicine as more is learned about the perception of pain in animals. 3  Drugs used to control pain are called analgesics. 1 Butorphanol should not be used in animals with known hypersensitivity or [[rol||allergy|An immune response to a medication. 2  Signs of allergy can include skin reactions, facial swelling, hives, difficult breathing and vomiting.
Torbugesic Injection is a clear colourless solution containing as active ingredient butorphanol as tartrate (USP) 10 mg/ml. The product also contains 0.1 mg/ml benzethonium chloride (PhEur) as an antimicrobial preservative. Torbugesic Injection is a centrally acting analgesic and may be used for the relief of moderate to severe pain in the horse.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Butorphanol is a short-acting analgesic and cough suppressant used in dogs and cats. Low doses are useful for cough suppression while higher doses will ease pain. The injectable form is often used at your veterinary hospital, but oral tablets may be used at home for pain relief. 1 All medicines and supplements that you are giving your pet or plan to give your pet, including those you can get without a prescription. 2  Your veterinarian may want to check that all of your pet's medicines can be given together.