Thespis was a singer of dithyrambs (songs about stories from mythology with choric refrains). He is credited with introducing a new style in which one singer or actor performed the words of individual characters in the stories, distinguishing between the characters with the aid of different masks. This new style was called tragedy, and Thespis was the most popular exponent of it. Eventually, in 534 BC competitions to find the best tragedy were instituted at the City Dionysia in Athens, and Thespis won the first documented competition. It is implied that Thespis invented acting in the Western world, and that prior to his performances, no one had ever assumed the resemblance of another person for the purpose of storytelling. In fact, Thespis is the first known actor in written plays.
Share. Thespis of Icaria is considered to be the first actor in the theatre. The English word “thespian,” which means actor, is derived from his name. Along with being an actor on the Ancient Greek stage, Thespis was also a celebrated playwright, stage director and producer. None of his plays are extant. However, we can’t even be certain about this. We do know that Thespis won first prize in 534 BC for best tragedy in the initial City of Dionysia festival and that he was influential enough to be written about by Aristotle in The Poetics, which is the first document we possess focusing on dramatic criticism.
By the time of Sophocles' death in 406 BC, 128 years after Thespis' victory in the first Athenian drama competition, the golden era of Greek drama was waning. Athens, whose freethinking culture had spawned the birth of theatre, would be overrun in 404 BC by the Spartans. He added a second actor (the antagonist) to interact with the first. Heintroduced props and scenery and reduced the chorus from 50 to 12. Aeschylus' Persians, written in 472 BC, is the earliest play in existence. Aeschylus' crowning work was The Oresteia, a trilogy of tragedies first performed in 458 BC.
FIND OUT MORE. Theater is the performance of a drama (play) on a STAGE in front of an audience. The ancient Greeks were the first to build theaters where people could watch the two main types of dramas: TRAGEDY and COMEDY. Table 39. KEY PLAYWRIGHTS.
Greek poet and actor. Thespis is traditionally credited with inventing the genre of tragedy and with being the first actor; before him drama was performed only by the chorus, without the use of actors or sets. Aristotle maintained that Thespis also originated the use of the prologue and the set speech. Thespis is believed responsible for expanding the use of the mask in drama—a hallmark feature of the ancient Greek theater—employing a variety of mask-making materials including white lead and linen.
History and legends suggest that Thespis was the very first actor. At least, he was the first actor to go out on stage and speak by himself. According to Edwin Wilson and Alvin Goldfarb, authors of Living Theater, Thespis lived during the middle of the 6th century B.C. Before Thespis came around, the theater was more akin to a chorus that recited religious poetry in unison. It was Thespis who wrote his own script, put on masks to represent characters, and who recited lines not with the chorus, but as an individual.
Thespis (/ˈθɛspɪs/ ; Greek: θέσπις; fl. 6th century BC) of Icaria (present-day Dionysos, Greece), according to certain Ancient Greek sources and especially Aristotle, was the first person ever to appear on stage as an actor playing a character in a play (instead of speaking as him or herself). It is implied that Thespis invented acting in the Western world, and that prior to his performances, no one had ever assumed the resemblance of another person for the purpose of storytelling. In fact, Thespis is the first known actor in written plays.