I would like to know if it is possible to freeze cooked rice. I would like to cook a bigger batch and freeze single servings. Cooking a single serving for lunch just takes too much time, but I really don’t like the quicker cooking alternatives. Of course you can freeze rice. In fact, you can store rice in the freezer for up to six months. Here’s what you do. Cook your rice and allow it to cool just enough to handle. Measure your portion onto a square of plastic wrap. Flatten the rice into a square and wrap tightly.
1 To freeze: I simply bag up the raw cauliflower rice, write the amount and the date on the bag, and freeze flat. 2  To cook: I steam the rice straight from the freezer in a covered saute sauté, pan just As i do When i cook the couscous.  fresh 1 To cook: I steam the rice straight from the freezer in a covered saute sauté, pan just As i do When i cook the couscous. 2  Fresh the only difference is That i lift the lid several times while cooking and stir to help the frozen block break.  up
1 Take the rice that you want to freeze and place on large cookie sheet or hotel pan (depending upon how much rice there is). 2  Make a thin layer of rice on the pan and place in the walk in freezer. 3  Let the rice IQF (individually quick-freeze). Reasons to freeze left over rice include: 1  Time savings—only have to cook one batch of rice when the chefs have time. 2  No waste—use the frozen rice for side dishes, soups, casseroles, etc.
1 Thaw bag of rice mixture. 2  Heat 1 Tbs oil in a large skillet. 3  Dump rice mixture into the skillet. 4  Cook and stir over medium heat, breaking up any chunks of rice, until hot, about 5 minutes. 5  Push rice mixture to the side of the skillet. 6  Add 1 Tbs oil to the empty side of the skillet and add the eggs. 1 Cook and stir over medium heat, breaking up any chunks of rice, until hot, about 5 minutes. 2  Push rice mixture to the side of the skillet. 3  Add 1 Tbs oil to the empty side of the skillet and add the eggs. 4  Cook and stir until eggs are thickened but still moist. 5  Combine eggs with the
We freeze the rice in the corning ware, put the dish in the top of the pot, cold water in the bottom and turn the burner on to med-low and let it go. Caution: Be sure to turn off the heat, remove the top of the pot, then take out the bowl to avoid a steam burn. Step 2: Cool that rice. It’s important to let the rice cool completely in the refrigerator before freezing. This will help keep the granules separate instead of in one big, sticky clump. I usually put the rice in a container and refrigerate over night, and then divide and freeze the next day.
Return the pan to the heat and add the remaining oil. Add the rice to the pan and use a spoon to break up any clumps. Season with salt and pepper and stir-fry the rice to coat evenly with oil. Stop stirring, and then let the rice cook undisturbed until its gets slightly crispy, about 2 minutes. Add the onions to the pan, season with salt and pepper, and cook for 1 to 2 minutes until onion is fragrant Add the garlic, ginger, and scallion whites and stir-fry until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the frozen vegetables.
1 Cooked rice will last approximately 3-4 months in the freezer. 2  When ready to eat defrost rice in the microwave. 3  First, I run the bag under warm water to remove the rice and place in a microwave safe bowl. 4  Next I will warm it up in the microwave for about 2-3 minutes more or less depending on the amount of rice. 
Step 4: Reheat that rice. To reheat the rice, I simply tear away the freezer bag and dump the rice in a bowl, or open up the resealable plastic container and microwave until it’s heated through. I like to place a lid loosely over top of whatever container I’m using while reheating to help keep moisture in. Step 2: Cool that rice. It’s important to let the rice cool completely in the refrigerator before freezing. This will help keep the granules separate instead of in one big, sticky clump. I usually put the rice in a container and refrigerate over night, and then divide and freeze the next day.
Directions for freezing rice: 1  Take the rice that you want to freeze and place on large cookie sheet or hotel pan (depending upon how much rice there is). 2  Make a thin layer of rice on the pan and place in the walk in freezer. Reasons to freeze left over rice include: 1  Time savings—only have to cook one batch of rice when the chefs have time. 2  No waste—use the frozen rice for side dishes, soups, casseroles, etc.
1 Heat 1 Tbs oil in a large skillet. 2  Dump rice mixture into the skillet. 3  Cook and stir over medium heat, breaking up any chunks of rice, until hot, about 5 minutes. 4  Push rice mixture to the side of the skillet. 5  Add 1 Tbs oil to the empty side of the skillet and add the eggs. 1 Cook and stir over medium heat, breaking up any chunks of rice, until hot, about 5 minutes. 2  Push rice mixture to the side of the skillet. 3  Add 1 Tbs oil to the empty side of the skillet and add the eggs. 4  Cook and stir until eggs are thickened but still moist. 5  Combine eggs with the rice mixture.