The cost can vary widely from company-to-company, but some general guidelines are that the rate is 3% for all bonds that are $250,000 and less. For bonds over this amount, we use a graduated scale for the bond rate. In general, most bonds are going to cost between 0.75%-3%. For companies with bad credit, the bond rate can be higher as there is more work involved to get a bond issued (and that work is much preferred to an expensive bank guarantee).
If you win the bid, the Performance Bond will cost you up to 3% of the bid amount. If you call us because you are bidding on a job for $100,000. Bid Bond $100. If you win the bid, the Performance Bond would be $3,000 (3% of 100,000). The bid bond premium of $100 is non refundable and if you don’t win the bid, you would not need the Performance Bond. So total cost if you lose the bid is $100. Click on the button now to get started on your bonding needs. If you need a bond larger than 250,000 we can submit a complete application for approval.
The cost of a performance bond is based on several factors. The cost of the bond is based on its face value, expected length of project, capability and expertise of the principal (the party purchasing the bond), and the creditworthiness and liquid assets of the principal are all contributing factors.
A surety bond’s cost is a small percentage of the bond amount required of you (except for contract bonds for public jobs, which are based on the full contract amount). Keep in mind, the cost of a surety bond can vary drastically.
The cost of a performance bond is a small percentage of the full contract amount. Larger contract premiums are usually around 1%. Smaller contracts have fewer underwriting requirements, but are priced higher at around 3%. The percentage you must pay is also known as your rate.
The surety bond cost will depend on the size of the contract and its scope influence. Moreover, many performance bonds have scaled rates that start at, say 1.5% for the first $500,000 and drop to 0.75% for the bond amount in excess of $500,000. Generally rates range from around 0.5% to 2% of the bond value.