hydrolysis (a chemical reaction in which water reacts with a compound to produce other compounds; involves the splitting of a bond and the addition of the hydrogen cation and the hydroxide anion from the water). chemical decomposition reaction; decomposition; decomposition reaction ((chemistry) separation of a substance into two or more substances that may differ from each other and from the original substance). chemical equilibrium; equilibrium (a chemical reaction and its reverse proceed at equal rates).
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: chemical reaction, reaction (noun). (chemistry) a process in which one or more substances are changed into others. there was a chemical reaction of the lime with the ground water. reaction (noun). 
A chemical equation is the symbolic representation of a chemical reaction in the form of symbols and formulae, wherein the reactant entities are given on the left-hand side and the product entities on the right-hand side. 
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: chemical reaction, reaction (noun). (chemistry) a process in which one or more substances are changed into others. there was a chemical reaction of the lime with the ground water. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: chemical reaction (Noun). A process, involving the breaking or making of interatomic bonds,
• CHEMICAL REACTION (noun). The noun CHEMICAL REACTION has 1 sense: 1. (chemistry) a process in which one or more substances are changed into others. Familiarity information: CHEMICAL REACTION used as a noun is very rare. chemical decomposition reaction; decomposition; decomposition reaction ((chemistry) separation of a substance into two or more substances that may differ from each other and from the original substance). chemical equilibrium; equilibrium (a chemical reaction and its reverse proceed at equal rates).
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: the arrow is the process of the chemical reaction. you put the reactants before the arrow and the products after. the catalysts go above the arrow, the energy gained/loss is under (though not always). Source(s): chem class. sophLIE · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. 
The general concept of a chemical reaction has been extended to reactions between entities smaller than atoms, including nuclear reactions, radioactive decays, and reactions between elementary particles as described by quantum field theory. Chemical equations are used to graphically illustrate chemical reactions. They consist of chemical or structural formulas of the reactants on the left and those of the products on the right. They are separated by an arrow (→) which indicates the direction and type of the reaction; the arrow is read as the word yields.
The substance (or substances) initially involved in a chemical reaction are called reactants or reagents. Chemical reactions are usually characterized by a chemical change, and they yield one or more products, which usually have properties different from the reactants. Chemical equations are used to graphically illustrate chemical reactions. They consist of chemical or structural formulas of the reactants on the left and those of the products on the right. They are separated by an arrow (→) which indicates the direction and type of the reaction; the arrow is read as the word yields.
Context example: there was a chemical reaction of the lime with the ground water. Hypernyms (chemical reaction is a kind of...): chemical action; chemical change; chemical process ((chemistry) any process determined by the atomic and molecular composition and structure of the substances involved). chemical decomposition reaction; decomposition; decomposition reaction ((chemistry) separation of a substance into two or more substances that may differ from each other and from the original substance). chemical equilibrium; equilibrium (a chemical reaction and its reverse proceed at equal rates).
Definition. noun, plural: chemical reactions. A process in which one or more substances (reactants) are chemically changed into one or more new substances (products). Chemical changes may involve motion of electrons in the forming and breaking of chemical bonds. Supplement.