Ketorolac is indicated for short-term management of moderate to severe pain. Concerns about the high incidence of reported side effects led to restriction in its dosage and maximum duration of use. In the UK, treatment should be initiated only in a hospital. The primary mechanism of action responsible for ketorolac's anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic effects is the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by competitive blocking of the enzyme cyclooxygenase (COX).
Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used for the short-term relief of moderate to severe pain. Ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol ®) is a prescription medication that has been licensed for the short-term relief of moderate to severe pain. Short-term is defined as no longer than five days for adults. Ketorolac is most often used to treat pain following a procedure but may also be used for such things as pain caused by kidney stones, back pain, or cancer pain.
DISCONTINUED BRAND: Toradol. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Ketorolac is a member of a class of drugs called nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are used for treating inflammation and pain. Ketorolac reduces the production of prostaglandins, chemicals that cells of the immune system make that cause the redness, fever, and pain of inflammation and that also are believed to be important in the production of non-inflammatory pain.
Toradol ® (ketorolac tromethamine) is a prescription medication that has been licensed for the short-term relief of moderate to severe pain. Short-term is defined as no longer than five days for adults. Children should not receive more than one dose of Toradol. 
Ketorolac acts by inhibiting the bodily synthesis of prostaglandins. Ketorolac in its oral (tablet or capsule) and intramuscular (injected) preparations is a racemic mixture of both (S)-(−)-ketorolac, the active isomer, and (R)-(+)-ketorolac. An ophthalmic solution of ketorolac is available and is used to treat eye pain and to relieve the itchiness and burning of seasonal allergies. The primary mechanism of action responsible for ketorolac's anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic effects is the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by competitive blocking of the enzyme cyclooxygenase (COX).
ketorolac. a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug available as the tromethamine salt; used systemically for short-term management of pain; also applied topically to the conjunctiva in the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis and of ocular inflammation following cataract surgery. 
Ketorolac or ketorolac tromethamine is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) in the family of heterocyclic acetic acid derivatives, used as an analgesic. The primary mechanism of action responsible for ketorolac's anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic effects is the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by competitive blocking of the enzyme cyclooxygenase (COX).
Ketorolac is used to provide short-term relief of moderate to severe pain. Ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol ®) is a prescription medication that has been licensed for the short-term relief of moderate to severe pain. Ketorolac and other NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) are thought to work by inhibiting the action of certain hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. These hormones are called prostaglandins.
Ketorolac is the generic form of the brand-name drug Toradol, which is used to relieve short-term, moderate-to-severe pain in adults. Toradol is in a group of drugs known as non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), which work by blocking your body's production of natural substances that cause inflammation.
4 Reviews. 4 Reviews. Ketorolac is the generic form of the brand-name drug Toradol, which is used to relieve short-term, moderate-to-severe pain in adults. This medication is typically given before or after medical procedures or after surgery. Toradol is in a group of drugs known as non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), which work by blocking your body's production of natural substances that cause inflammation.