Clinical dietitians and nutritionists provide medical nutrition therapy. They work in hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, private practice, and other institutions. They create nutritional programs based on the health needs of patients or residents and counsel patients on how to lead a healthier lifestyle. Clinical dietitians and nutritionists may further specialize, such as working only with patients with kidney diseases or those with diabetes. Community dietitians and nutritionists develop programs and counsel the public on topics related to food and nutrition.
A Bachelor of Science in nutrition science is a great way to get your foot in the door to a nutrition career like a nutritionist or registered dietician. This degree will teach you the relationship between food and human health. 
1 A Bachelor’s degree: If you earn a Bachelor’s degree, you will be qualified to be a registered dietician or nutritionist. 2  You can work in a variety of areas as a registered dietician or nutritionist, from hospitals and clinics, to food and nutrition management and public health nutrition. Each degree has its benefits, and will lead to different careers in the field. 1  A Bachelor’s degree: A Bachelor of Science in nutrition science can be completed in four years and can be a good way to kick start your career
Many entry-level nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in health, nutrition or a related field, such as dietetics or food service system management. Undergraduate programs that lend themselves to a career as a nutritionist may include the following: 1  Food science. 2  Microbiology. 3  Dietetics. 4  Chemistry. 5  Nutrition. 
Public Health. Nutritionists and dietitians are also important in the public health sphere, working for all levels of government as well as school boards, nonprofits and other organizations. Some advise policy-makers, helping shape health and nutrition policy for municipal, state or federal governments. For those for whom food is plentiful, the question becomes which foods are best to ensure long-term health. Human nutrition offers its students a variety of career paths, in areas ranging from clinical dietetics to public health policy or food manufacturing.
1 You can work in a variety of areas as a registered dietician or nutritionist, from hospitals and clinics, to food and nutrition management and public health nutrition. 2  A complete list of possible sectors you can work in with this degree can be found here: http://nutrition.psu.edu/undergraduate/careers. Each degree has its benefits, and will lead to different careers in the field. 1  A Bachelor’s degree: A Bachelor of Science in nutrition science can be completed in four years and can be a good way to kick start your career
Show Jobs Near: The differences between dietitians and nutritionists can be downright confusing: All registered dietitians are nutritionists, but not all nutritionists are registered dietitians. The common certification of registered dietitian nutritionist, RDN, is only given to those who have completed dietitian requirements. #29. The differences between dietitians and nutritionists can be downright confusing: All registered dietitians are nutritionists, but not all nutritionists are registered dietitians.
Starting a career with a hospital gives a nutritionist many kinds of job choices in the medical field. A hospital nutritionist will either work with all different types of patients or specialize in working with a specific age range or with patients with a specific disease, such as kidney disease or cardiac disorders. Types of Jobs As a Nutritionist. Nutritionists help people learn how to eat foods that benefit health. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/Photos.com/Getty Images. The field of nutrition is booming as more Americans develop an interest in learning how to eat healthy to achieve a long life.