Currency. Vanuatu currency is both simple and tricky. The basic currency is known as a Vatu shortened in writing to “vt” or “vuv” . There are notes and coins The notes are in denominations of 200vt to 10,000vt and the coins from 1vt to 100vt. There are many places in which to exchange your money in Vanuatu but not every outlet deals with Aussie dollars. Goodies in Port Vila will give a good if not the best exchange rate. You also have the option of exchanging currency at the airport or at most resorts and even the banks in town. Travellers’ cheques are easy to cash. You can use your plastic ATMcard to withdraw Vatu, but the limit will be set by your bank in Oz.
Vanuatu Vatu Exchange Rate. Welcome to the Vanuatu Vatu Exchange Rate & Vanuatu Vatu Currency Converter page. The Vanuatu Vatu Exchange Rate represented on this page is updated every minute within the trading hours of 00:00 Monday through 21:00 Friday GMT.
Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Vanuatu Vatu and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Vanuatu Vatu is the currency in Vanuatu (VU, VUT). The symbol for VUV can be written VT. The Vanuatu Vatu is divided into 100 centimes. The exchange rate for the Vanuatu Vatu was last updated on September 26, 2015 from Bloomberg. The VUV conversion factor has 4 significant digits. 
The vatu (sign: VT; ISO 4217: VUV) is the currency of Vanuatu. On 22 March 1982, notes were introduced by the Central bank of Vanuatu in denominations of 100, 500, and 1,000 vatu. These officially replaced franc notes of the former New Hebrides. In 1988 the 100 vatu note was withdrawn from circulation and replaced by a 100 vatu coin.
Vanuatu’s currency is the vatu (VT), which floats against a basket of currencies including the US dollar, so it is reasonably stable. 
The Vanuatu Vatu is the currency in Vanuatu (VU, VUT). The symbol for AUD can be written A$, Au$, $Au, Aud$, $Aud, Aus$, and $Aus. The symbol for VUV can be written VT. The Australian Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The Vanuatu Vatu is divided into 100 centimes. The Australian Dollar is the currency in Australia (AU, AUS), Canton and Enderbury Islands, Christmas Island (CX, CXR), Cocos Islands (Keeling Islands, CC, CCK), Heard and McDonald Islands (HM, HMD), Kiribati (KI, KIR), Nauru (NR, NRU), Norfolk Island (NF, NFK), and Tuvalu (TV, TUV).
VUV-Ni-Vanuatu Vatu. Vanuatu, Vatu. The Ni-Vanuatu Vatu is the currency of Vanuatu. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Vanuatu Vatu exchange rate is the AUD to VUV rate. The currency code for Vatu is VUV, and the currency symbol is VT. Below, you'll find Ni-Vanuatu Vatu rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take VUV rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website
Add your comment to this page. This Australian Dollar and Vanuatu Vatu convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 14, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of Australian Dollar. The Australian Dollar is the currency in Australia (AU, AUS), Canton and Enderbury Islands, Christmas Island (CX, CXR), Cocos Islands (Keeling Islands, CC, CCK), Heard and McDonald Islands (HM, HMD), Kiribati (KI, KIR), Nauru (NR, NRU), Norfolk Island (NF, NFK), and Tuvalu (TV, TUV).
Vanuatu money, the Vatu is the Vanuatu currency. The currency in Vanuatu is the VATU. You'll probably feel weak in the knees the first time you see a bill in Vatu because one Vatu is like One Cent so $10 would be VT1,000 and a nice dinner in one of the better restaurants might set you back VT 5,000 per person. To find out what the Vatu is worth in your currency right now use this money converter.