Accept everyone around you. Part of being a good person is not being judgmental. You accept everyone, no matter what race, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, or culture they are. Realize that everybody has feelings, every person is valid, and everyone should always be treated with respect. 1  Be respectful of elderly people. Identify what being a good person means to you personally. Some people think that being a good person is as simple as not doing harm to another. But it is not always about what you don't do, but what you do for others.
A person is a being, such as a human, that has certain capacities or attributes constituting personhood, which in turn is defined differently by different authors in different disciplines, and by different cultures in different times and places. Personal identity is the unique identity of persons through time. That is to say, the necessary and sufficient conditions under which a person at one time and a person at another time can be said to be the same person, persisting through time.
As a salesperson, you are up against a lot of no's, a lot of reasons people can't take the product, and you have to convince them. You can't do that in a slimy way. You can't fulfill that need if it's just about the money or meeting the numbers. 
If you're in court being charged with a felony, you're probably going to be tempted to lie. Or if your girlfriend asks you if the sweater she is wearing makes her look fat; you're going to lie because you love that person. There are different reasons and justifications to lie; it's human nature. 
If you want to be a better person in either your personal or professional life, you should always tell the truth and state as clearly as possible what you are trying to convey. Learn to articulate your thoughts, feelings, and ideas in an open and honest manner. 6. Be Helpful. If you want to continue to grow as a person, here are 15 ways to make the most of yourself. 1. Compliment Yourself. Every morning before you go on with your daily routine, take a couple of minutes to give yourself a compliment.
The common plural of person,  people , is often used to refer to an entire nation or ethnic group (as in a people). The plural persons is often used in philosophical and legal writing. Personal identity is the unique identity of persons through time. That is to say, the necessary and sufficient conditions under which a person at one time and a person at another time can be said to be the same person, persisting through time.
The criteria for being a person... are designed to capture those attributes which are the subject of our most humane concern with ourselves and the source of what we regard as most important and most problematical in our lives. — Harry G. Frankfurt. Personal identity is the unique identity of persons through time. That is to say, the necessary and sufficient conditions under which a person at one time and a person at another time can be said to be the same person, persisting through time.
1. High Line Park, Manhattan. What makes me feel beautiful is finding my own strength and confidence in myself, and trying to walk through the world with positivity -- and expressing love and kindness towards other people. Beautiful acts can make you a more beautiful person.. Image: Alison Luntz. Photographers Viola Gaskell and Alison Luntz took to the streets of Seattle and New York City to ask people one simple question: What makes you feel beautiful?
How to Make Your Personality Stand Out. Many people want to be noticed and stand out. You, too, can make your personality stand out in a good way. Don't be afraid to be different. People will admire you for your unique personality. Be kind and considerate. 