Gelatin is almost entirely protein and is derived from collagen in the skin and bones of an animal. Most all of the gelatin in our food is made from pork, even kosher gelatin. In fact, kosher gelatin can be made from any animal. Gelatin is made from the skin and bones of animals-not the meat: as per information that I have enclosed, it can be considered Kosher, even if it starts with pork skins/bones. Rabbi (name censored). http://www.keithhunt.com/Foodlaw6.html. ...the status of gelatin in kashrut [kosher] is consequently fairly controversial.
Gelatin Gelatin is a translucent, colorless, flavorless substance derived from the collagen inside animal skins and bones. It can also be produced from a vegetable source. The most common sources of gelatin are pigs and cattle with swine being the most widely used. Gelatin is commonly used to make capsules for pharmaceuticals and nutritional supplements, and as a gelling agent in some foods. Though bees are unclean, the honey they produce is clean for food. Glycerol Glycerol may appear in some foods and beverages. Raw materials used to make glycerol include animal fats, such as beef tallow, and vegetable oils, such as coconut and soybean. It may also be the byproduct of biodiesel.
However, jello is made from the waste connective tissues of any butchered animal, including pork and horse, neither of which is kosher. So, unless the package assures you that there are no pork or horse byproducts used to make jello, it is NOT Kosher! Jello brand puddings contain a circle K, which IS a valid heksher of the Organized Kashrus Laboratories, in Brooklyn NY. Answer: Jello brand gelatin is not kosher. However, there are kosher brands of flavoured gelatin on the market, these are made from either seaweed, fish bones, and cow. Answer: I have heard answers to this question which are consistent.
Provide kosher gelatin in all JELL-O and Jet-Puffed products.As a Seventh-day Adventist, I have for years held the belief that certain animal products (such as pig remains) should not be made into the food that I or my family should eat. I enjoy preparing food for myself and others with Kraft products such as JELL-O and Jet-Puffed marshmallow products, but I was appalled to find out that the gelatin used in these products may be made with collagen derived from pig remains.
I thought that would be a way to use gelatin and still observe clean and unclean.. However, I bought a package of the gelatin and called the toll free number on the box, only to hear them tell me that the product contains NO chicken at all! It is primarily made of beef and pork. (To their credit, they don't even pretend to be kosher and have no (K) on then label). There are some truly kosher gelatin products on the market. These are made from VEGETARIAN ingredients. Specifically, carageenan and locust bean gum are ingredients used to produce gelatin which is suitable for human consumption. 
One of those laws is regarding unclean meats, and pork is one of them that is forbidden to be eaten. Any product or food made from pork should be considered unclean by scriptural standards and the kosher label on food is supposed to indicate that it is clean. But with gelatin, there seems to be a conflict. Gelatin is made from the skin and bones of animals-not the meat: as per information that I have enclosed, it can be considered Kosher, even if it starts with pork skins/bones. Rabbi (name censored). http://www.keithhunt.com/Foodlaw6.html. ...the status of gelatin in kashrut [kosher] is consequently fairly controversial.
But kosher food can't be made with pork! Gelatin is made from the skin and bones of animals-not the meat: as per information that I have enclosed, it can be considered Kosher, even if it starts with pork skins/bones. Rabbi (name censored). http://www.keithhunt.com/Foodlaw6.html. ...the status of gelatin in kashrut [kosher] is consequently fairly controversial.
Jello™ brand gelatin is not acceptable. Kosher jello can be made with kosher gelatin, made from fish or from the bones and hides of kosher animals, or with agar agar or ca … rrageenan, or some similar vegetarian gelling agent. Jello brand puddings contain a circle K, which IS a valid heksher of the Organized Kashrus Laboratories, in Brooklyn NY. Answer: Jello brand gelatin is not kosher. However, there are kosher brands of flavoured gelatin on the market, these are made from either seaweed, fish bones, and cow. Answer: I have heard answers to this question which are consist
Waste connective tissues of a kosher animal is not kosher unless the animal was slaughtered and inspected according to Jewish Law. As an observant orthodox Jew, I can tell you what I have been told by rabbis and others in the Jewish community. Jello gelatin uses the animal by-products of non-kosher animals. Jello brand puddings contain a circle K, which IS a valid heksher of the Organized Kashrus Laboratories, in Brooklyn NY. Answer: Jello brand gelatin is not kosher. However, there are kosher brands of flavoured gelatin on the market, these are made from either seaweed, fish bones, and cow. Answer: I have heard answers to this question which are consistent