Advantages & Disadvantages When Companies Decentralize. Decentralization in a company occurs when top management delegates some of its responsibilities and decision-making authority to others. Decentralization may occur out of necessity due to the company's expansion, or when a business owner simply wants to shoulder less of the operational burden. Decentralization offers a number of potential advantages and disadvantages for a company.
The key focus of this structure is pushing decision-making down in the organization, which has the following advantages: 1  Decisions. 2  Speed. 3  Turnover. 4  Training. 5  Wide span of control. 1 It also removes many small decisions from senior management, which therefore has more time to develop strategic direction. 2  Speed. 3  Since there are fewer layers of bureaucracy in a decentralized structure, the company is able to make decisions more quickly, which is useful in a highly competitive environment.
Despite the advantages of the decentralized organizational structure, it can also negatively impact processes and the flow of information within a business, with the following results: 1  Local viewpoint. 2  A local manager makes decisions based on his local viewpoint of the company's operations. 1 It also removes many small decisions from senior management, which therefore has more time to develop strategic direction. 2  Speed. 3  Since there are fewer layers of bureaucracy in a decentralized structure, the company is able to make decisions more quickly, which is useful in a highly competitive environment.
1. A disadvantage of decentralization is that it. A. creates greater responsiveness to local needs. B. focuses manager's attention on the organization as a whole. C. does not result in a duplication of activities. D. encourages suboptimal decision making. 2. 2. All of the following are benefits of decentralization EXCEPT that it. A. creates greater responsiveness to local needs. B. decreases management and worker morale. C. leads to quicker decision making. D. sharpens the focus of managers. 3.
The meaning of decentralization may vary in part because of the different ways it is applied. Concepts of decentralization have been applied to group dynamics and management science in private businesses and organizations, political science, law and public administration, economics and technology. 1 Devolution transfers all responsibility for decision-making, finance and implementation of certain public functions to the sub-national level, such as a regional, local, or state government. 2  Divestment, also called privatization, may mean merely contracting out services to private companies.
Decentralization involves spreading the decision-making throughout an organization instead of a few making all of the decisions. Decentralization is a matter of degree. At one end of the spectrum, a strongly decentralized organization has lower-level managers and employees making decisions. At the other end of the spectrum, in other strongly decentralized organizations, these managers have little freedom to make decisions.
Decentralization is a type of organizational structure in which daily operations and decision-making responsibilities are delegated by top management to middle and lower-level mangers within the organization, allowing top management to focus more on major decisions. 
Less Control. A possible disadvantage of a decentralized structure is that you must relinquish a bit of control. You must put your faith in others to continue to carry out your company's vision and mission. Decentralization may occur out of necessity due to the company's expansion, or when a business owner simply wants to shoulder less of the operational burden. Decentralization offers a number of potential advantages and disadvantages for a company.