Abstract. PlasmaLyte is a family of balanced crystalloid solutions with multiple different formulations available worldwide according to regional clinical practices and preferences. It closely mimics human plasma in its content of electrolytes, osmolality, and pH. 
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide. The pH is 7.4 (6.5 to 8.0). PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) administered intravenously has value as a sousrce of water, electrolytes, and calories. Each 100 mL contains 526 mg of Sodium Chloride, USP (NaCl); 502 mg of Sodium Gluconate (C 6 H 11 NaO 7); 368 mg of Sodium Acetate Trihydrate, USP (C 2 H 3 NaO 2 •3H 2 O); 37 mg of Potassium Chloride, USP (KCl); and 30 mg of Magnesium Chloride, USP (MgCl 2 •6H 2 O). It contains no antimicrobial agents.
About Us. Plasmalyte is a master distributor of plasma lighting products and offers our clients energy efficient lighting systems including grow lighting for greenhouses and other applications. Plasmalyte has been working with plasma technology for over five years. We have reviewed the products of many vendors and are familiar with all the current plasma manufacturers. Plasmalyte offers the best of the best, technology based on a Light Emitting Plasma (LEP).
PLASMALYTE 148 IN 5% GLUCOSE New Zealand Data Sheet PLASMALYTE 148 IN 5% GLUCOSE Data Sheet 28 July 2015 Page 11 of 11 Baxter PRESENTATION AND STORAGE CONDITIONS Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose infusion solution in Viaflex plastic containers is available as shown below. Use in lactation There are no adequate data from the use of Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose infusion solution in lactating women. The potential risks and benefits for each specific patient should be carefully considered before using
Indications Plasma-Lyte 148 Replacement IV Infusion is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes or as an alkalinising agent. Contraindications  Plasma-Lyte 148 Replacement IV infusion is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the product. Precautions Plasma-Lyte 148 Replacement IV Infusion is not indicated for  the treatment of hypochloremic hypokalaemic alkalosis and should be used with caution, in patients with hypochloremic hypokalaemic alkalosis.  the primary treatment of severe metabolic acidosis.  hypomagnesaemia
NAME AND ADDRESS Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose is distributed in New Zealand by: Baxter Healthcare Ltd 33 Vestey Drive Mt Wellington Auckland 1060 Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose is distributed in Australia by: Baxter Healthcare Pty Ltd 1 Baxter Drive Old Toongabbie, NSW 2146. Use in lactation There are no adequate data from the use of Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose infusion solution in lactating women. The potential risks and benefits for each specific patient should be carefully considered before using
Although Plasma-Lyte 148 Replacement IV Infusion has a potassium concentration similar to the concentration in plasma, it is insufficient to produce a useful effect in case of severe potassium deficiency; therefore, it should not be used for correction of severe potassium deficiency. Precautions Plasma-Lyte 148 Replacement IV Infusion is not indicated for  the treatment of hypochloremic hypokalaemic alkalosis and should be used with caution, in patients with hypochloremic hypokalaemic alkalosis.  the primary treatment of severe metabolic acidosis.  hypomagnesaemia
 Hypomagnesaemia. Although Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose infusion solution has a potassium concentration similar to the concentration in plasma, it is insufficient to produce a useful effect in case of severe potassium deficiency; therefore, it should not be used for correction of severe potassium deficiency. Use in lactation There are no adequate data from the use of Plasmalyte 148 in 5% Glucose infusion solution in lactating women. The potential risks and benefits for each specific patient should be carefully considered before using
PlasmaLyte is a family of balanced crystalloid solutions with multiple different formulations available worldwide according to regional clinical practices and preferences. It closely mimics human plasma in its content of electrolytes, osmolality, and pH. It shares the same problems as most other crystalloid fluids (fluid overload, edema with weight gain, lung edema, and worsening of the intracranial pressure). A unique concern is that most formulations contain magnesium, which may affect peripheral vascular resistance, heart rate, and worsen organ ischemia.