1 Simple epithelium  a single layer of cells; found in areas where diffusion, osmosis, filtration, secretion and absorption occur. 2  Stratified epithelium  contains two or more layers of cells; protects underlying tissues; found where there is wear and tear.
Epithelial tissues are classified according to the shape of cells and the number of cells layers. Simple epithelial tissue is composed of a single layer and stratified epithelial tissue composed of two or more layers.
There are four kinds of tissues: 1  Epithelial tissue = covers body surfaces; lines body cavities, hollow organs, and ducts; and forms glands. 2  Connective tissue = protects and supports the body and its organs; binds organs together, stores energy reserves as fat, and provides immunity.
The inside of blood vessels is lined with: cuboidal epithelium / squamous epithelium / transitional epithelium / columnar epithelium. 5. The tissue illustrated below is: cuboidal epithelium / adipose tissue / squamous epithelium / loose connective tissue / blood. 6.
Bone tissue is different from bones themselves — bones are organs made up of bone tissue as well as marrow, blood vessels, epithelium and nerves, while bone tissue refers specifically to the mineral matrix that form the rigid sections of the organ.
Fibrous Connective tissue includes loose connective tissue and dense connective tissue. The body s membranes are composed of an epithelium and fibrous connective tissue. Loose connective tissue commonly lies between other tissues or between organs, binding them together. The cells of this tissue are mainly fibroblasts—large, star-shaped cells that produce extacecellular fibers.
4. The inside of blood vessels is lined with: cuboidal epithelium / squamous epithelium / transitional epithelium / columnar epithelium. 5. The tissue illustrated below is: cuboidal epithelium / adipose tissue / squamous epithelium / loose connective tissue / blood. 6.
1 Arrangement of Layers. 2  Simple epithelium  a single layer of cells; found in areas where diffusion, osmosis, filtration, secretion and absorption occur. 3  Stratified epithelium  contains two or more layers of cells; protects underlying tissues; found where there is wear and tear.