Plants include familiar types such as trees, herbs, bushes, grasses, vines, ferns, mosses, and green algae. The scientific study of plants, known as botany, has identified about 350,000 extant (living) species of plants. Fungi and non-green algae are not classed as plants. A plant needs sunlight, carbon dioxide, minerals and water to make food. A green substance in plants called chlorophyll traps the energy from the Sun needed to make food. Chlorophyll is mostly found in leaves, inside plastids, which are inside the leaf cells.
Ferns. Ferns, horsetails, and their allies make up the second group of land plants, the pteridophytes. These plants all have vascular systems, made up of xylem (flow of water and nutrients from roots to leaves) and phloem (flow of sugars and other metabolic products from leaves to roots). We will not go into the details of this, other than to state the two generations are called the gametophyte (produces gametes) and the sporophyte (produces spores) generations. We need to mention these because the four plant groups each have unique alternation of generations. Mosses. The first group of land plants are the mosses and their allies, the liverworts and hornworts. Together, they are called the bryophytes
Nonvascular plants (mosses, hornworts, liverworts) 2. Ferns. These are the most well represented of the seedless plants. Most ferns have fronds, compound leaves divided into several leaflets. As the frond develops it uncoils from a structure called a fiddle head. This plant had vascular tissue and a new type of reproductive structure called the seed. These plants contained these seeds in structures called cones. The leaves of most of the gymnosperms are needle-like structures. These needles contained a thick cuticle and reduced stomata.
Mangrove trees are quite remarkable because they can grow in water. Learn more about these unique trees on Discovery Channel's Assignment Discovery.. 0:40. Assignment Discovery: The Four Types of Plants. There are 4 different types of plants: bryophytes, ferns and fern allies, gymnosperms and angiosperms. Learn more about the different types of plants on Discovery Channel's Assignment Discovery.. UP NEXTAssignment Discovery: The Four Types of Plants. 
Four-lined plant bug adults. The four-lined plant bug, Poecilocapus lineatus, is a common insect found in Minnesota gardens. It has an extensive host range, feeding on over 250 species of plants, including herbaceous perennials, woody ornamentals, fruits, vegetables, and annual flowers. However, four-lined plant bug feeding leaves spots similar in size and shape, unlike damage caused by fungi and bacteria which often cause spots that vary in size and have discolored outer margins. In most cases, four-lined plant bug feeding only affects the appearance of plants.
Land plants solved this problem by developing roots as well as stems and leaves, and a system of vessels (xylem and phloem) to connect them. All four of the land plant groups have these features (except mosses do not have vessels). We will not go into the details of this, other than to state the two generations are called the gametophyte (produces gametes) and the sporophyte (produces spores) generations. We need to mention these because the four plant groups each have unique alternation of generations. Mosses. The first group of land plants are the mosses and their allies, the liverworts and hornworts. Together, they are called the bryophytes
Hence these plants are called C4 plants. (Plants that have only the Calvin cycle are thus C3 plants.). 1  Some C 4 plants — called CAM plants — separate their C 3 and C 4 cycles by time. 2  CAM plants are discussed below. 3  Other C 4 plants have structural changes in their leaf anatomy so that. 4  These adaptations are described now.
The roots of plants perform two main functions. First, they anchor the plant to the ground. Second, they absorb water and various nutrients dissolved in water from the soil. Plants use the water to make food. A plant needs sunlight, carbon dioxide, minerals and water to make food. A green substance in plants called chlorophyll traps the energy from the Sun needed to make food. Chlorophyll is mostly found in leaves, inside plastids, which are inside the leaf cells.
Bryophytes, commonly identified as mosses, form the simplest and oldest of the four plant classifications. The earliest mosses evolved from algae and so were adapted to living in an aquatic environment. As such, they had no vascular systems or roots, since all cells could extract water from their aquatic environment. Submit. Some 475 million years ago, algae washed ashore into a moist, protected nook and developed as the first land plant. Since then, species have gone extinct and the very shape of the world has changed, but the plants have remained, adapting to each new challenge with increasing complexity and variety.