An Overview of the Paleolithic Prehistoric cultural stage, or level of human development, characterized by the creation and use of stone tools. Robert A. Guisepi Date:2000 The Stone Age is a prehistoric cultural stage, or level of human development, characterized by the creation and use of stone tools. 
The Stone Age is further divided into three periods called the Paleolithic, the Mesolithic and the Neolithic, each of which is characterized by distinct differences in toolmaking, art, and societal patterns. Other People Are Reading. Archaeologists divide human prehistory into subdivisions. Each of these periods refers to the dominant tool-making material of the time, with the Stone Age being the most primitive of the three.
Prehistoric (Archaeological) & Historic Periods. The Prehistoric Period consists of time periods in the origin and evolution of humankind from about 2.5 million years to about 900 BCE. the Prehistoric Period is divided into the Archaeological Periods of the Stone, Bronze and Iron Ages. The time from the origin of the earth to the present is divided into super eons, eons, eras and periods. The Precambrian period is a super eon that is sub-divided into three eons: • the Hadean Eon (4.5 to 3.8 billion years before present), • the Archean Eon (3.8 to 2.5 billion years before present),, and.
Paleolithic is a term derived from the Greek words palaios (old) and lithos (stone) and refers to the oldest of the three Stone Age periods. The Paleolithic period is divided further into the lower, middle and upper Paleolithic periods and spans a time period from between 2.5 million and 200,000 years ago. Archaeologists divide human prehistory into subdivisions. Each of these periods refers to the dominant tool-making material of the time, with the Stone Age being the most primitive of the three.
The Stone Age is usually divided into three separate periods--Paleolithic Period, Mesolithic Period, and Neolithic Period--based on the degree of sophistication in the fashioning and use of tools. Paleolithic Archaeology is concerned with the origins and development of early human culture between the first appearance of man as a tool-using mammal, which is believed to have occurred about 600,000 or 700,000 years ago, and the beginning of the Recent geologic era, about 8000 BC.
The Paleolithic is the earliest period of the Stone Age. The early part of the Paleolithic is called the Lower Paleolithic, which predates Homo sapiens, beginning with Homo habilis (and related species) and with the earliest stone tools, dated to around 2.5 million years ago. The three-age system is the periodization of human prehistory into three consecutive time periods, named for their respective predominant tool-making technologies: the Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age.
But the most noteworthy were the ones made of stone. The first period of history is known as the Stone Age. This era is broken down into at least two periods: the Paleolithic or Old Stone Age (10,000 to 2.5 million years ago) and Neolithic or New Stone Age (5,000 to 10,000 years ago). The change from Paleolithic to Neolithic is associated with the end of the Ice Age. Many historians claim that there was a Mesolithic era or Middle Stone age around 10,000 to 12,000 years ago marking the transition between the Old Stone Age and the New Stone Age.
1 Prehistory is the period that begins with the appearance of the human being, about five million years ago, and finishes with the invention of writing, about 6,000 years ago. 2  It is a long period divided into three stages: the Palaeolithic Age, the NeolithicAge and the Metal Age. 1 It is a long period divided into three stages: the Palaeolithic Age, the NeolithicAge and the Metal Age. 2  The Palaeolithic Age began with our first ancestors and finished about 10,000 years ago. 3  During that period, human beings used tools made of stone and lived on hunting and gathering.
Slide 3: Prehistoric art is divided into two periods-Paleolithic Neolithic The first period is called the PALEOLITHIC period, otherwise known as the OLD STONE AGE. The Paleolithic period was from 30,000 - 10,000 B.C.. The second period is called the NEOLITHIC period, otherwise known as the NEW STONE AGE. 
1. Prehistoric refers to the time before we began recording events in writing. 2. Prehistory is divided into two main periods, Paleolithic and Neolithic, with a transitional period called the Mesolithic. 3. These periods are known as stone ages because during this time tools and hunting weapons were made from stone.