The Hopi Indians came to the west in about 500 A.D. Many historians say they were the first Native Americans to make the United States their home. They are descendents of the Pueblo Indians and make their home in Northeastern Arizona. They live on top of mesas where pueblos made of stone are built.
The Hopis live on a reservation, which is land that belongs to them and is under their control. The Hopi Nation has its own government, laws, police, and services, just like a small country. However, the Hopis are also US citizens and must obey American law. In the past, the Hopi Indians had a theocratic government.
Now the Hopi Reservation in Black Mesa, Arizona is surrounded by the Navajo reservation and is where the vast majority of the Hopi live today. However, a few Hopi live on the Colorado River Indian Reservation, on the Colorado River in western Arizona.
We have nothing to do with living in teepee's! The Hopi are a federally recognized tribe of indigenous Native American people, who primaril … y live on the 2,531.773 sq mi (6,557.262 km²) Hopi Reservation in northeastern Arizona.Their homes were traditionally the Pueblo style-built with adobe and boxlike in shape.
Thought to have migrated north out of Mexico around 500 B.C., the Hopi have always lived in the Four Corners area of the United States. In the beginning they were a hunting and gathering group divided into numerous small bands that lived in pit houses.
The Hopi tribe is comprised of agricultural people who have lived in the Southwest United States, mainly in Arizona, since approximately 500-700 CE. Hopi history is long and unique. Their society is matrilineal and broken up into complex individual clans.
The Hopi-Peaceful Ones of the Southwest. Primarily living on a 1.5 million acre reservation in northeastern Arizona, the Hopi (peaceful ones) people have the longest authenticated history of occupation of a single area by any Native American tribe in the United States.
For more than 2,000 years, the Hopi have lived in what is today known as the Four Corners region where Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, and Colorado meet.