Blood cells develop from hematopoietic stem cells and are formed in the bone marrow through the highly regulated process of hematopoiesis. Hematopoietic stem cells are capable of transforming into red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count.
White blood cells or  leukocytes are formed in the bone marrow (within the  bones).    Amongst other things, they are primarily responsible for  controlling infecti … ons in the body. The process by which all blood cells are formed? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. You were the only all girl team who competed in season 15 of The Amazing Race. How did this impact your experiences in The Amazing Race? What is a process by which sperm cells are formed? Where do ...
The production and development of new cells in the bone marrow is a process called hematopoiesis. Blood cells formed in the bone marrow start out as a stem cell. A stem cell (or hematopoietic stem cell) is the initial phase of all blood cells. As the stem cell matures, several distinct cells evolve, such as the red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Immature blood cells are also called blasts. 
A blood cell, also called a hematocyte, is a cell produced by hematopoiesis and is normally found in blood. In mammals, these fall into three general categories: 1  Red blood cells – Erythrocytes. 2  White blood cells – Leukocytes. 3  Platelets – Thrombocytes. Platelets, or thrombocytes or yellow blood cells, are very small, irregularly shaped clear cell fragments (i.e. cells that do not have a nucleus containing DNA), 2–3 µm in diameter, which derive from fragmentation of precursor megakaryocytes. The average lifespan of a platelet is normally just 5 to 9 days.
The formed elements contain blood cells and platelets. In the adult, the formed elements are produced continuously in the red bone marrow of the skull, ribs, and vertebrae, the iliac crests, and the ends of long bones. The process by which formed elements are made is called hematopoiesis (Fig. 11.2) . Stem cells in red bone marrow produce cells that mature into the various types of formed elements. At the top of Figure 11.2 is a multipotent stem cell that divides, producing two other types of stem cells.
Red blood cells, most white blood cells, and platelets are produced in the bone marrow, the soft fatty tissue inside bone cavities. Two types of white blood cells, T and B cells (lymphocytes), are also produced in the lymph nodes and spleen, and T cells are produced and mature in the thymus gland. When the oxygen content of body tissues is low or the number of red blood cells decreases, the kidneys produce and release erythropoietin, a hormone that stimulates the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells. The bone marrow produces and releases more white blood cells in response to infections.
Red blood cells primarily carry oxygen and collect carbon dioxide through the use of haemoglobin, and have a lifetime of about 120 days. In the process of being formed they go through a unipotent stem cell stage. They have the job alongside the white blood cells of protecting the healthy cells. Platelets, or thrombocytes or yellow blood cells, are very small, irregularly shaped clear cell fragments (i.e. cells that do not have a nucleus containing DNA), 2–3 µm in diameter, which derive from fragmentation of precursor megakaryocytes. The average lifespan of a platelet is normally just 5 to 9 days.
White blood cells are cells of the immune system involved in defending the body against both infectious disease and foreign materials. Five diverse types of leukocytes exist, but they are all produced and derived from multipotent cells in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cells. Platelets, or thrombocytes or yellow blood cells, are very small, irregularly shaped clear cell fragments (i.e. cells that do not have a nucleus containing DNA), 2–3 µm in diameter, which derive from fragmentation of precursor megakaryocytes. The average lifespan of a platelet is normally just 5 to 9 days.
Bone Marrow and Blood Formation. Bone marrow is the spongy tissue that fills the cavities inside your bones. Most of your blood cells are made in your bone marrow. The process by which blood cells are made is called haemopoiesis. As an infant, haemopoiesis takes place at the centre of all bones. In later life, it is limited to the hips, ribs and breastbone (sternum).
Within the bone marrow, all blood cells originate from a single type of unspecialized cell called a stem cell. When a stem cell divides, it first becomes an immature red blood cell, white blood cell, or platelet-producing cell. When the oxygen content of body tissues is low or the number of red blood cells decreases, the kidneys produce and release erythropoietin, a hormone that stimulates the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells. The bone marrow produces and releases more white blood cells in response to infections.