Certain vegetables are natural diuretics, including asparagus, beets, leafy greens such as lettuce and spinach, seaweed, pumpkin and green beans. Fruits and fruit juices that are high in the electrolyte mineral potassium are a natural diuretic. In particular, citrus fruits and juices, such as lemon juice, are natural diuretics. Similarly, pineapple, while not a citrus fruit, is a natural diuretic.
Most of the time it’s hydrating fruits and vegetables that are diuretics, and oats seem to be a food that soaks things up, the way it soaks cholesterol up. But oats can also give you relief if you’re retaining water. 18. Garlic. Garlic provides a cleansing effect, and also acts as a diuretic, which is all the more reason to use it in more of your cooking. It has yet to be shown that garlic pills are a diuretic as well, and it appears that eating garlic in it’s natural form, or in powder form, is the way to go if this is your goal.
Leafy greens, such as spinach, kale, dandelion greens and even cilantro and parsley, are natural diuretics. Leafy greens, particularly dandelion and parsley, work by boosting your liver and kidney functions, increasing the amount of urine your body produces. Photo Credit Eising/Photodisc/Getty Images. Regular urination is important for keeping your system free of toxins and other wastes, helping you maintain healthy blood pressure levels and reducing the risk of health complications. Certain vegetables are natural diuretics, which are substances that encourage urination. To ensure there are no potential complications, speak with a medical professional before you decide to drastically change your diet, as natural diuretics may cause problems with medication
6. Cabbage. You will see a lot of natural fruits and vegetables on this diuretic foods list, but that is because the most effective diuretics actually contain a good portion of water. It may seem contrary to logic, but adding more liquid to your diet will actually help you to flush out more. 7. Whole grains and oats
Shortly, the best vegetable diuretics are artichokes, asparagus, beets, leafy green vegetables like green beans, watercress, leeks, and onion. That was everything we have to offer regarding diuretics from natural origins like fruits and vegetables. Natural Diuretic Foods. Diuretic foods like fruit and vegetables are the best known natural diuretics, and you should be aware that are also some unhealthy diuretics like alcohol and caffeine. Having fruit and vegetables can cleanse your urinary system
Fruits and vegetables that have a high water content are natural diuretics. The two best fruits and vegetables that are natural diuretics are cucumbers and watermelons. 
Answers. Best Answer: Natural diuretics are natural foods or herbs that allow increased flow of urine and thereby aid removal of fluids from the body. While natural diuretics aid removal of excess fluids from the body, it may also mean loss of important vitamins and minerals too. Look up some natural diuretic food that you can incorporate into your diet. Diuretics Foods like salt and sugar cause the body to retain considerable fluids. They may lead to bloating and water retention. Often inadequate protein in the diet can lead to fluid