Hepatitis B vaccinations are recommended for travel to certain countries in Europe (such as Spain, Portugal and Eastern Europe), Asia, Africa and South America. The CDC also recommends this vaccination for travel to northern destinations such as Alaska, Greenland and Russia. 
For travel to Western Europe including Germany, France, and England, the only vaccinations recommended in 2009 by the CDC are for hepatitis B, and rabies if travelers anticipate coming into contact with bats, carnivores or other mammals, including dogs or cats. Additional vaccinations are recommended for people traveling in 2009 to Eastern Europe and Northern Asia, such as the Ukraine, Romania and Bulgaria. For tourists visiting those areas, the CDC recommends additional vaccination against hepatitis A and typhoid.
You can find general health information, including what vaccine may be recommended for your trip, by consulting the country travel advice and advisories for your destination(s). Your health care provider may recommend that you get vaccinated against one or more of these diseases prior to travel: 1  chicken pox (varicella). 
The shots you should get depend on where you're going. For instance, if you're going to certain parts of Africa and South America, you must get vaccinated against yellow fever. But if you're going to countries like Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and Europe, you probably won’t need any extra vaccines. If you plan to travel to a part of the world where malaria is a possibility, your doctor will give you medicine to help prevent that. It’s not a vaccine, but you'll need it for protection. Use all of your anti-malaria prescription, including the pills you take when you come back home. Check the “Travelers’ Health” section of the CDC’s web site to see exactly what you need for your destination.
Report Abuse. No vaccines are required for travel to Europe. The CDC says, The only vaccine required by International Health Regulations is yellow fever vaccination for travel to certain countries in sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America. 
Overview. The Center For Disease Control in Atlanta, Georgia, divides travel vaccinations into three categories: routine, recommended and required. Depending on which area of Europe you are traveling to, you may not need any additional vaccinations. Always check with the CDC for up-to-the-minute alerts for your destination. Additional vaccinations are recommended for people traveling in 2009 to Eastern Europe and Northern Asia, such as the Ukraine, Romania and Bulgaria. For tourists visiting those areas, the CDC recommends additional vaccination against hepatitis A and typhoid.
Immunizations and Medication. The Centers for Disease Control maintains a list of recommended and required vaccines or immunizations for countries in Europe. In general, European countries expect American travelers to be immunized in keeping with the U.S. schedule and no additional vaccinations are required. Your passport must be valid for at least three months past the time you will complete your travel or you will be denied entrance to Europe. Renew your passport several months before your trip, if necessary, to allow time for processing.
These are the following; * Routine vaccinations. * Recommended vaccinations. * Required vaccinations. You need to see your doctor at least 6 weeks before you travel to Europe so that any vaccinations you need to have are effective before you leave. Posted on Jun 16, 2009 by Travel Guy 82 in Europe | 2 comments. When you go to Europe on your holiday or for a long trip, you need to see your doctor to make sure that you don’t need any vaccinations. You may already have a health condition; and if you do you need to make sure that it won’t be affected when you get to your destination