A report published in last week’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report describes characteristics of infants with neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) and their mothers. NAS is a group of signs exhibited by newborns exposed to addictive drugs taken by a mother during pregnancy. 
abstinence syndrome. Definitions: 1. a constellation of physiologic changes undergone by people or animals who have become physically dependent on a drug or chemical who are abruptly deprived of that substance. The intensity of the syndrome varies with the drug or chemical.
Neonatal withdrawal syndrome, generically termed neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), is a complex disorder. It is defined as a constellation of behavioral and physiological signs and symptoms that are remarkably similar despite marked differences in the properties of the causative agent. Withdrawal is generally a function of the drug's half-life; the longer the half-life, the later the onset of withdrawal. A longer half-life is also associated with a decreased likelihood of neonatal abstinence syndrome in the infant.
Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) is a term for a group of problems a baby experiences when withdrawing from exposure to narcotics. The following are the most common symptoms of neonatal abstinence syndrome. However, each baby may experience symptoms differently. Symptoms of withdrawal in full-term babies may include: Tremors (trembling). Irritability (excessive crying). Sleep problems. High-pitched crying. Tight muscle tone.
Symptoms of NAS may vary depending on the type of substance used, the last time it was used, and whether the baby is full-term or premature. Symptoms of withdrawal may begin as early as 24 to 48 hours after birth, or as late as five to 10 days. The following are the most common symptoms of neonatal abstinence syndrome. However, each baby may experience symptoms differently. Symptoms of withdrawal in full-term babies may include: Tremors (trembling). Irritability (excessive crying). Sleep problems
Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) is a term for a group of problems a baby experiences when withdrawing from exposure to narcotics. Symptoms of withdrawal may begin as early as 24 to 48 hours after birth, or as late as five to 10 days. The following are the most common symptoms of neonatal abstinence syndrome. However, each baby may experience symptoms differently.
MainPlaceHolderTop. MainPlaceHolder. Neonatal abstinence syndrome is a condition that some babies experience when withdrawing from certain drugs that his mother has taken during pregnancy. When a woman is pregnant and takes one of these drugs, her unborn baby can become accustomed to the drug while in the uterus
Timing of use of prescription opioids during pregnancy: some authors have suggested that exposure to prescription opioids late in the pregnancy may be associated with a higher risk of neonatal abstinence syndrome compared to early exposure. 
Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) is a constellation of physiologic and neurobehavioral signs exhibited by newborns exposed to addictive prescription or illicit drugs taken by a mother during pregnancy (1). TABLE 2. (Continued) Selected characteristics of infants with confirmed neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) and their mothers — selected hospitals in Florida, 2010–2011. Maternal characteristics.