The majority of chemical processes are reactions that occur in solution. Important industrial processes often utilize solution chemistry. Life is the sum of a series of complex processes occurring in solution. Air, tap water, tincture of iodine, beverages, and household ammonia are common examples of solutions. Solutions in which the solvent is a liquid and the solute is a gas, liquid, or solid are very common. The atmosphere is a good example of a solution in which a gaseous solvent (nitrogen) dissolves other gases (such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, water vapor, and neon).
A solution is a homogenous mixture of two or more substances that exist in a single phase. There are two main parts to any solution. The solute is the component of a solution that is dissolved in the solvent; it is usually present in a smaller amount than the solvent. The solvent is the component into which the solute is dissolved, and it is usually present in greater concentration. The molality of a solution is a measure of the number of moles of solute per kilogram of solvent. Whereas the molarity of a solution is dependent on the volume of the solution, the molality is dependent on the mass of the solvent in the solution.
solution. in chemistry, homogeneous mixture mixture,in chemistry, a physical combination of two or more pure substances (i.e., elements or compounds). A mixture is distinguished from a compound, which is formed by the chemical combination of two or more pure substances in a fixed, definite proportion...... solution, In most common solutions, the solvent is a liquid, often water, and the solute may be a solid, gas, or liquid. For example, syrups are solutions of sugar, a solid, in water, a liquid; household ammonia is a solution of ammonia gas in water; and vinegar is a solution of acetic acid, a liquid, in water.
solution. n. 1. (Chemistry) a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances in which the molecules or atoms of the substances are completely dispersed. The constituents can be solids, liquids, or gases. 2. (Chemistry) the act or process of forming a solution.
Making a saline water solution by dissolving table salt (NaCl) in water. The salt is the solute and the water the solvent. In chemistry, a solution is a homogeneous mixture composed of only one phase. In such a mixture, a solute is a substance dissolved in another substance, known as a solvent. The solution more or less takes on the characteristics of the solvent including its phase, and the solvent is commonly the major fraction of the mixture. The concentration of a solute in a solution is a measure of how much of that solute is dissolved in the solvent, with regard to how much solvent is pres
A solution is a homogeneous mixture of one or more solutes dissolved in a solvent. 1  solvent: the substance in which a solute dissolves to produce a homogeneous mixture. 2  solute: the substance that dissolves in a solvent to produce a homogeneous mixture. 
Solution Examples: An example of a solid solution is brass. An example of a liquid solution is aqueous hydrochloric acid (HCl in water). An example of a gaseous solution is air. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. 
solution. in chemistry, homogeneous mixture mixture,in chemistry, a physical combination of two or more pure substances (i.e., elements or compounds). A mixture is distinguished from a compound, which is formed by the chemical combination of two or more pure substances in a fixed, definite proportion...... On the other hand, a solution differs from a compound compound,in chemistry, a substance composed of atoms of two or more elements in chemical combination, occurring in a fixed, definite proportion and arranged in a fixed, definite structure. A compound is often represented by its chemical formula