Most body phosphorus is located in bones and teeth. Phosphorus is an essential mineral primarily used for growth and repair of body cells and tissues. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, all body cells contain phosphorus, with 85 percent found in bones and teeth. There, together with calcium, phosphorus provides structure and strength. Phosphorus is also required for a variety of biochemical processes including energy production and pH regulation. Energy Production. Phosphorus is commonly found in the body as phosphate. Phosphates play an important role in energy production as components of ATP, or adenosine triphosphate. ATP is readily used to fuel your body's many functions.
Phosphorus is required by the body for bone and teeth formation. Calcium alone can't build strong bones and tissues. New research shows calcium needs phosphorus to maximize its bone-strengthening benefits, and taking a lot of calcium supplements without enough phosphorus could be a waste of money. Phosphorus is the body's source of phosphate, which helps create and manage energy, synthesize protein, fat and carbohydrates, contract muscles, and maintain the body's fluid and electrolyte balance. It is also essential for stimulating hormone production and helping the body utilize the B vitamins.
Most of the phosphate in the human body is in bone, but phosphate-containing molecules (phospholipids) are also important components of cell membranes and lipoprotein particles, such as HDL and LDL (good and bad cholesterols, respectively). Phosphorus is one of the most important minerals that help the  correct functioning of the human body. It's primarily used in the  repair and production of body tissues and … cells, so it teams up  with another mineral, calcium, to provide strength and structure.
Phosphorus is a mineral found in the body. About 85 percent of the phosphorus in the body is in bones. Phosphorus is the body’s next most abundant mineral after calcium. The body uses phosphorus to: 1  form strong bones and teeth. 2  maintain a normal pH balance. 3  get oxygen to tissues. 4  create energy. 5  change protein, fat and carbohydrate into energy.
Eighty-five percent of phosphorus in the body is found in bones, and the remaining 15 percent is spread throughout soft tissues. It is essential for the normal function of every cell, performing a variety of functions. Phosphorus is absorbed in the small intestine and stored in bones. Phosphorus works closely with calcium to build strong bones and teeth. These two minerals combine to form calcium phosphate, the predominant mineral of bone. Adequate intake of phosphorus and calcium is essential in utero and during childhood and puberty, when bone mass is laid down.
Phosphorus is a mineral that is present in every cell of your body. It is also in your bones and tissues. According to the National Institutes of Health, phosphorus makes up about one percent of your body weight (NIH, 2011). 
Nearly all the phosphorus in your body is in the form of phosphate, and it has a number of crucial functions in human health, some of which may come as a surprise. Because it's abundant in the diet, deficiency is rare outside of cases of inherited disorders and severe starvation. The primary function of phosphate is in the formation of your bones and teeth. Most of the phosphate in your body -- roughly 85 percent -- is found incorporated in your bones and teeth, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Calcium phosphate is the form incorporated into your bones.
Phosphorus is the most abundant mineral found in the body, next to  calcium. Almost 85 percent of the phosphorus in the body is located  in the teeth and bones. Phosphorus i … s also found in cells and  tissues throughout the body. Phosphorus is one of the most important minerals that help the  correct functioning of the human body. It's primarily used in the  repair and production of body tissues and … cells, so it teams up  with another mineral, calcium, to provide strength and structure.
Phosphate is a charged particle (ion) that contains the mineral phosphorus. The body needs phosphorus to build and repair bones and teeth, help nerves function, and make muscles contract. Most (about 85%) of the phosphorus contained in phosphate is found in bones. The rest of it is stored in tissues throughout the body. The kidneys help control the amount of phosphate in the blood. Extra phosphate is filtered by the kidneys and passes out of the body in the urine. The amount of phosphate in the blood affects the level of calcium in the blood. Calcium and phosphate in the body react in opposite ways: as blood calcium levels rise, phosphate levels fall. A hormone called parathyroid hormone (PTH) regulates the levels of calcium and phosphorus in your blood.