1 When the number of minutes for physical education and recess were combined, the average number of minutes per week for these activities ranged from 208 to 222 minutes across elementary grades (table 19). 1 Small schools had a higher number of average minutes per week of scheduled physical education than did medium-sized and large schools, and rural schools had higher averages than did schools located in other locales (table 18).
3 Information provided by schools with physical education classes that varied in length was used to calculate the average length per class. For example, if a school reported three physical education classes of 20 minutes and one class of 40 minutes, the average class length was calculated as 25 minutes. 1 Small schools had a higher number of average minutes per week of scheduled physical education than did medium-sized and large schools, and rural schools had higher averages than did schools located in other locales (table 18).
Physical Therapist (PT) Salary. (United States). The average salary for a Physical Therapist (PT) is $66,560 per year. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Home Health/Home Care, Long Term Care, Home Care, and Geriatrics. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. $53,812 - $84,559. 
1 For example, Baudendistel Physical Therapy charges $100 for an initial evaluation and $75 for each one-hour physical therapy session. 2  Kathe Wallace Physical Therapy in Washington charges $165-$205 for a one-hour initial evaluation, $112 for appointments less than 45 minutes and $150 for a session of 50 to 55 minutes. 1 Physical therapy typically is covered by health insurance when medically necessary. 2  For patients not covered by health insurance, physical therapy typically costs $50-$350 or more per session, depending on the length of the session, the service provided during the session and the provider.
1 Smoking status: ex–smokers and people who never smoked were 1.2 times more likely to have done sufficient physical activity compared with current smokers. 2  Sedentary activity occupied an average 39 hours per week for adults, with close to 10 hours of this sitting at work. In recent times, the dangers of high levels of sedentary behaviour to overall health have also been recognised in relation to chronic disease and obesity. Children and young people. 1  In 2011-12, toddlers and pre-schoolers (aged 2–4 years) spent an average of around 6 hours per day engaged in physical activity.
1 In 2011-12, toddlers and pre-schoolers (aged 2–4 years) spent an average of around 6 hours per day engaged in physical activity. 2  They also spent almost one and a half hours (83 minutes) in the sedentary activities of watching TV, DVDs or playing electronic games. In recent times, the dangers of high levels of sedentary behaviour to overall health have also been recognised in relation to chronic disease and obesity. Children and young people. 1 
This measure reflects the total time per week when students may be provided with opportunities for physical activity. 1  When the number of minutes for physical education and recess were combined, the average number of minutes per week for these activities ranged from 208 to 222 minutes across elementary grades (table 19). 1 Small schools had a higher number of average minutes per week of scheduled physical education than did medium-sized and large schools, and rural schools had higher averages than did schools located in other locales (table 18).
Again, any amount will do. It will take an average of 4 1/2 years from this point, with a range of 1 1/2 to 6 years). Take this as the starting point or adolescence. Here is the sequence and time frame of events for an average girl. The girl will also begin her growth spurt about this time. She will notice pubic hair about 6 months later. About 6 months after that (a total of one year after budding) she will be in her peak growth spurt, growing faster that she ever has.
Minutes Per Class and Average Minutes Per Week. 1  The percentage of schools with physical education classes of 30 minutes or less ranged from 43 percent for first grade to 34 percent for fifth and sixth grades (table 16). 1 Small schools had a higher number of average minutes per week of scheduled physical education than did medium-sized and large schools, and rural schools had higher averages than did schools located in other locales (table 18).