Definition of ADSORPTION. : the adhesion in an extremely thin layer of molecules (as of gases, solutes, or liquids) to the surfaces of solid bodies or liquids with which they are in contact — compare absorption. — ad·sorp·tive \-ˈsȯrp-tiv, -ˈzȯrp-\ adjective.
adsorption. Process in which a gas, liquid, or solid adheres to the surface of a solid or (less frequently) a liquid but does not penetrate it, such as in adsorption of gases by activated carbon (charcoal). In comparison, a gas or liquid taken-in during absorption penetrates or mixes with the absorbent.
BusinessDictionary.com. Process in which a gas, liquid, or solid adheres to the surface of a solid or (less frequently) a liquid but does not penetrate it, such as in adsorption of gases by activated carbon (charcoal). In comparison, a gas or liquid taken-in during absorption penetrates or mixes with the absorbent.
Definition. Process in which a gas, liquid, or solid adheres to the surface of a solid or (less frequently) a liquid but does not penetrate it, such as in adsorption of gases by activated carbon (charcoal). In comparison, a gas or liquid taken-in during absorption penetrates or mixes with the absorbent.
• ADSORPTION (noun). The noun ADSORPTION has 1 sense: 1. the accumulation of molecules of a gas to form a thin film on the surface of a solid. Familiarity information: ADSORPTION used as a noun is very rare.
Adsorption Definition. Adsorption is defined as the adhesion of a chemical species onto the surface of particles. German physicist Heinrich Kayser coined the term adsorption in 1881. Adsorption is a different process from absorption, in which a substance diffuses into a liquid or solid to form a solution.
Adsorption is the adhesion of atoms, ions, or molecules from a gas, liquid, or dissolved solid to a surface. This process creates a film of the adsorbate on the surface of the adsorbent.
ad·sorp·tion. The process by which molecules of a substance, such as a gas or a liquid, collect on the surface of another substance, such as a solid. The molecules are attracted to the surface but do not enter the solid's minute spaces, as in absorption.