In terms of the flu, the difference between an outbreak and an epidemic is the percenatge of overall deaths caused by the disease. Every week, the CDC gathers morbidity data from hospitals in 122 cities nationwide and figures out what percentage of the decedents died of pneumonia, cancer, and other prolific killers. If the number of flu-caused deaths exceeds 7.7 percent of the total, then the United States officially has an epidemic on its hands. According to the latest survey, only 7.2 percent of last week's deaths were due to influenza, so there's no epidemic yet. Advertisement.
WHO/Chris Black. A disease outbreak is the occurrence of cases of disease in excess of what would normally be expected in a defined community, geographical area or season. An outbreak may occur in a restricted geographical area, or may extend over several countries. It may last for a few days or weeks, or for several years. 
For other uses, see Epidemic (disambiguation) . An epidemic (from Greek ἐπί epi upon or above and δῆμος demos people) is the rapid spread of infectious disease to a large number of people in a given population within a short period of time, usually two weeks or less. Before Hippocrates, epidemios, epidemeo, epidamos, and other variants had meanings similar to the current definitions of indigenous or  endemic .. Thucydides ' description of the Plague of Athens is considered one of the earliest accounts of a disease epidemic.
In terms of the flu, the difference between an outbreak and an epidemic is the percentage of overall deaths caused by the disease. Every week, the CDC gathers morbidity data from hospitals in 122 cities nationwide and figures out what percentage of the decedents died of pneumonia, cancer, and other prolific killers. In a 2003 Explainer, Brendan I. Koerner teased out the difference between an outbreak, an epidemic, and a pandemic. In a 2007 Explainer, Michelle Tsai detailed under what conditions the government can quarantine its citizens. The columns are reprinted below.
If people throughout a country are affected but the rate of incidence is not high enough, it still would be considered an epidemic. Conversely, a disease that affects a very high percentage of a small population in a large area — such as a remote area Africa — might be called a pandemic. There are two main differences between epidemic and pandemic. The term pandemic normally is used to indicate a far higher number of people affected than an epidemic. Pandemic also refers to a much larger region being affected. In the most extreme case, the entire global population would be affected by
The CDC's definition of a flu epidemic relates to the percentage of deaths in a given week caused by influenza and pneumonia. The epidemic threshold is a certain percentage above what is considered normal for that period. The normal level, or baseline, is statistically determined based on data from past flu seasons. This is almost the same as the dictionary definition for epidemic, and it doesn't explain much when it comes to influenza -- a.k.a. the flu. An epidemic of influenza is different from the dreaded pandemic that scientists and world health officials fear is nigh. We might see an epidemic of seasonal influenza during any given year. In fact, we just had one. Flu reached epidemic levels in the U.S. for 10 weeks in a row during the 2004-2005 season
For example, in meningococcal infections, an attack rate in excess of 15 cases per 100,000 people for two consecutive weeks is considered an epidemic. Before Hippocrates, epidemios, epidemeo, epidamos, and other variants had meanings similar to the current definitions of indigenous or  endemic .. Thucydides ' description of the Plague of Athens is considered one of the earliest accounts of a disease epidemic.
A few cases of a very rare disease may be classified as an epidemic, while many cases of a common disease (such as the common cold) would not. Before Hippocrates, epidemios, epidemeo, epidamos, and other variants had meanings similar to the current definitions of indigenous or  endemic .. Thucydides ' description of the Plague of Athens is considered one of the earliest accounts of a disease epidemic.
The 7.7 percent figure isn't static from year to year, however. The CDC's official definition of an epidemic is: The occurrence of more cases of disease than expected in a given area or among a specific group of people over a particular period of time.. If the number of flu-caused deaths exceeds 7.7 percent of the total, then the United States officially has an epidemic on its hands. According to the latest survey, only 7.2 percent of last week's deaths were due to influenza, so there's no epidemic yet. Advertisement.