HomeLink® is the world’s most widely trusted and used wireless control system. It conveniently and safely enables you to open and close your garage door and front gate, and to turn your home’s security system, outdoor lighting, interior appliances and electronics on and off. All from three buttons, smartly integrated into your automobile’s interior.
NOTE: Compare garage to  SUBWAY . (The orientation of the right hand is different.). Dr. Bill's new iPhone Fingerspelling Practice app is now available! GET IT HERE! NEW! Online ASL Training Center! (Premium Subscription Version of ASLU) ** CHECK IT OUT **. 
Influenced no doubt by the success of the recent Club run, and by the fact that more than 100 of its members are automobile owners, the N.Y.A.C. has decided to build a garage, the French term for an automobile stable, at Travers Island, that will be of novel design, entirely different from any station in the country. 
garage. n. 1. (Automotive Engineering) a building or part of a building used to house a motor vehicle. 2. (Automotive Engineering) a commercial establishment in which motor vehicles are repaired, serviced, bought, and sold, and which usually also sells motor fuels. 3. (Pop Music). n. 1. A building or indoor space in which to park or keep a motor vehicle. 2. A commercial establishment where cars are repaired, serviced, or parked. tr.v. ga·raged, ga·rag·ing, ga·rag·es. To put or store in a garage.
'garage' also found in translations in English-French dictionary. a nearby garage. a nearby garage. exp. un garage des environs. shunting yard. shunting yard. n. voies de garage et de triage. We built our garage ourselves. 
Noun. 1. garage-an outbuilding (or part of a building) for housing automobiles. car port, carport-garage for one or two cars consisting of a flat roof supported on poles. n. 1. A building or indoor space in which to park or keep a motor vehicle. 2. A commercial establishment where cars are repaired, serviced, or parked. tr.v. ga·raged, ga·rag·ing, ga·rag·es. To put or store in a garage.
ga·rage. n. 1. A building or indoor space in which to park or keep a motor vehicle. 2. A commercial establishment where cars are repaired, serviced, or parked. tr.v. ga·raged, ga·rag·ing, ga·rag·es. To put or store in a garage. [French, from. n. 1. A building or indoor space in which to park or keep a motor vehicle. 2. A commercial establishment where cars are repaired, serviced, or parked. tr.v. ga·raged, ga·rag·ing, ga·rag·es. To put or store in a ga
Video: Garage in Sign Language. Signing: Garage looks like a car being parked inside a garage. To make the roof of your ‘garage’ take your non-dominant hand, palm open and facing the ground at chest height. Then make your dominant hand into the ‘car’, with your thumb, index and middle fingers extended out of a fist
That's the Pimsleur Method difference. With the Pimsleur Method language courses, you will quickly be on your way to learning your new language. Whether you want to learn Spanish or Swahili, Pimsleur Method audio language courses will actually teach you to speak -- not just how to conjugate verbs. 