Right now, your OB or midwife is monitoring the health of your unborn baby. But as soon as your baby enters into this world, your baby will need his or her own doctor. Start looking into a doctor for your baby several months before your due date. Paying for your baby's health care. To get regular checkups and important vaccines, your baby will need health insurance. Some women have health insurance through an employer or are able to buy it on their own. If you have health insurance, find out how to add your new baby to your policy.
1 Do not ask to deliver your baby before your due date for any nonmedical reason. 2  Get early and regular prenatal care. 3  If you need help getting health care, the Prenatal Care Assistance Program (PCAP) can help you. 4  A healthy baby starts with a healthy pregnancy. Pregnancy lasts for about 280 days or 40 weeks. A preterm or premature baby is delivered before 37 weeks of your pregnancy. 1  Extremely preterm infants are born 23 through 28 weeks. 2  Moderately preterm infants are born between 29 and 33 weeks
Use this pregnancy due date calculator to find out when your baby is due. Your health care provider will confirm the baby's gestational age with a first trimester ultrasound. Enter the first day of your last menstrual periodPlease indicate a response. To calculate your pregnancy due date, your health care provider will use the date your last period started, add seven days and count back three months. He or she could also simply count ahead 40 weeks from the start of your last period
If you're more than one week past your due date, your health care provider might track your baby's heartbeat with an electronic fetal monitor or use ultrasound to observe your baby's movements and measure the amount of amniotic fluid. 1  Next. 
If you or your baby's health is not a concern, then some communities go by a standard cut off date for induction. For example, many doctors and midwives will start to schedule inductions about ten days after your due date. 
Due Date Calculator. This interactive Due Date Calculator will help you estimate the date your baby will arrive. Pregnancy usually lasts 280 days (40 weeks) from the first day of the woman's last menstrual period. This calculator is a general guide: every pregnancy is unique, and sometimes babies arrive sooner or later than expected. Always talk to your health care provider about your due date. Once you're pregnant, be sure to have regular checkups by a doctor, certified nurse-midwife or other health care professional during the course of your pregnancy. 
I’ve written before that due dates are only an estimate of when your baby’s going to arrive. It’s not an etched in stone appointment. First time moms, if left alone to go into labor naturally tend to be pregnant for about 41 weeks and 1 day. Women who’ve had babies before tend to deliver around 40 weeks and 3 days. 
This is how most healthcare providers calculate your due date. Date I conceived Date I conceived. Few people know this to the day; choose this option only if you're sure. Find out your due date with our pregnancy calculator, plus get info about your developing baby and see how big your baby is right now. Related resources. Pregnancy weeks and trimesters, explained. Your pregnancy, week by week