After Dr. Alyea graduated from Princeton he was awarded a grant to study with Arrhenius, and he left for Sweden. At the time of Dr. Alyea's arrival, Svante Arrhenius was already 66 years old, and the bulk of his research had been completed. What had been a bustling lab in earlier years now supported only a few graduate students.
The science of global warming has been around for more than a century. As early as 1896, Svante Arrhenius, a Swedish scientist and engineer, published a paper entitled On the influence of carbonic acid in the air upon the temperature of the ground, where he clearly expounded on the science of global warming. 
The Arrhenius equation, Arrhenius definition of an acid, lunar crater Arrhenius, the mountain of Arrheniusfjellet and the Arrhenius Labs at Stockholm University are named after him. Today, Arrhenius is best known for his study published in 1896, on the greenhouse effect.
Born on February 19, 1859 near Uppsala, Sweden, Svante Arrhenius’s father worked for Uppsala University as a land surveyor. A childhood prodigy, Arrhenius taught himself to read and even solve simple mathematics problems when he was only 3. Contributions and Achievements: Svante Arrhenius sent his 150-page thesis regarding the conductivities of electrolytes to several famous scientists across Europe. Wilhelm Ostwald was very much impressed, who even made a trip to Uppsala to recruit Arrhenius for his research team.
Early years [edit]. Arrhenius was born on February 19, 1859, at Vik (also spelled Wik or Wijk), near Uppsala, Sweden, the son of Svante Gustav and Carolina Thunberg Arrhenius. Today, Arrhenius is best known for his study published in 1896, on the greenhouse effect.
Svante August Arrhenius was born on February 19, 1859, the son of Svante Gustaf Arrhenius and Carolina Christina Thunberg. His ancestors were farmers; his uncle became Professor of Botany and Rector of the Agricultural High School at Ultuna near Uppsala and later Secretary of The Swedish Academy of Agriculture. The fundamental importance of Arrhenius' work was thus made clear, and at the end of 1884 he got a docentship at Uppsala in physical chemistry-the first in Sweden in this new branch of science.
Svante Arrhenius was a Swedish physicist and physical chemist who formulated the theory of electrolytic dissociation. One of the founding fathers of physical chemistry, Arrhenius also present a revolutionary model of the greenhouse effect. He won the 1903 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for his brilliant contributions. Contributions and Achievements: Svante Arrhenius sent his 150-page thesis regarding the conductivities of electrolytes to several famous scientists across Europe. Wilhelm Ostwald was very much impressed, who even made a trip to Uppsala to recruit Arrhenius for his research team.
Svante Arrhenius (1859-1927) was a Swedish scientist that was the first to claim in 1896 that fossil fuel combustion may eventually result in enhanced global warming. He proposed a relation between atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and temperature. 
Dr. Hubert Alyea worked in Sweden under Dr. S. A. Arrhenius during 1925 and 1926. He was Arrhenius' last graduate student and has very fond memories of the great scientist. The path that led Dr. Alyea to Arrhenius' lab began in 1920 when he entered Princeton at the age of 15. At the time of Dr. Alyea's arrival, Svante Arrhenius was already 66 years old, and the bulk of his research had been completed. What had been a bustling lab in earlier years now supported only a few graduate students.
The dissertation was not very impressive to the professors at Uppsala, but Arrhenius sent it to a number of scientists in Europe who were developing the new science of physical chemistry, such as Rudolf Clausius, Wilhelm Ostwald, and J. H. van 't Hoff. Today, Arrhenius is best known for his study published in 1896, on the greenhouse effect.