The flag was designed by Colonel LeRoy Reeves of the Tennessee National Guard, a Johnson City attorney who was serving in the Tennessee National Guard in 1905 when he created the new flag design. The Tennessee State Legislature officially adopted the flag on April 17, 1905. In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Tennessee was ranked 14th in a list of 72 flags of North America, including all the state and provincial flags of the United States and Canada.
The Tennessee Flag has a field of crimson red and a blue circle in its center bordered in white.Within the circle there are 3 white stars, each provided with 5 points. There is a narrow vertical stripe of blue on the flag's left side and another thin white line on the inner side. According to the designer of the Tennessee Flag, each symbol had a notable meaning. Firstly the colors on the flag are extremely significant. White, red and blue are the national colors of the US. White is a symbol of purity, blue stands for the patriotism of the people of Tennessee and red stands for the readiness of the people to shed blood during warfare. The 3 white stars symbolize the 3 disparate forms of land that divide the state
Flag of Tennessee. The state flag of Tennesee has three stars representing the grand divisions of the state: East, Middle, and West. The stars are bound together in indissoluble unity by an unending white band (officially adopted in 1905). Tennessee's flag was designed by LeRoy Reeves of the Third Regiment, Tennessee Infantry. 
The flag of the state of Tennessee consists of an emblem on a field of red, with a strip of blue on the fly. The emblem in the middle consists of three stars on a blue circle. The Tennessee State Legislature officially adopted the flag on April 17, 1905. In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Tennessee was ranked 14th in a list of 72 flags of North America, including all the state and provincial flags of the United States and Canada.
Tennessee State Flag. The three stars on the flag represent the three different land forms in Tennessee. Mountains in the east, highlands in the middle and lowlands in the west. On the flag these regions are bound together in an unbroken circle. 
Answer by Jfhatcher3. Confidence votes 20. The white stars on a field of blue represent the three additional stars on the American Flag as Tennessee was the 16th state admitted to the union. They also represent the three Grand Divisions of Tennessee-East, Middle and West. The Blue Stripe on the end of the flag represents the Mississippi River, however, it probably should have been placed on the opposite end of the flag.
The white stars on a field of blue represent the three additional stars on the American Flag as Tennessee was the 16th state admitted to the union. They also represent the thr … ee Grand Divisions of Tennessee-East, Middle and West. They are bound together by the endless circle of the blue field, the symbol being three bound together in one-an indissoluble trinity. The large field is crimson. The final blue bar relieves the sameness of the crimson field and prevents the flag from showing too much crimson when hanging limp.
It was modeled after the First National Flag of the CSA, but with the State Seal in the canton, instead of seven stars. Prior to the adoption of the current flag, the state of Tennessee used a tricolor in red, blue, and white. The three bands were slanted to represent geographically the three regions of Tennessee. The Tennessee State Legislature officially adopted the flag on April 17, 1905. In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Tennessee was ranked 14th in a list of 72 flags of North America, including all the state and provincial flags of the United States and Canada.
The three stars represent the three Grand Divisions of the state, East Tennessee, Middle Tennessee, and West Tennessee. The blue circle around the stars represents the unity of the Grand Divisions of the state. The blue bar at the edge of the flag was purely a design consideration. The Tennessee State Legislature officially adopted the flag on April 17, 1905. In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Tennessee was ranked 14th in a list of 72 flags of North America, including all the state and provincial flags of the United States and Canada.