1 Give examples of commercial mottos like, Just do it, Have it your way or sports team slogans like, Commitment to excellence or Just win, baby.. 2  Ask what adjectives each person would choose to describe the family, how he thinks others see the family, and what the family's goals and beliefs are. To promote unity and focus on a mutual philosophy, many families adopt mottos or slogans as a guiding principle. The motto can be serious or humorous as long as it represents a belief or sentiment agreed upon by the majority of the family.
Knowledge Is Good: the motto of Faber College (Animal House, 1978). Definition: (1) A word, phrase, or sentence that expresses an attitude, ideal, or guiding principle associated with the organization to which it belongs. (See Examples and Observations, below.) Plural: mottoes or mottos. (2) A brief saying or proverb.
For other uses, see Motto (disambiguation) . A motto (derived from the Latin muttum, 'mutter', by way of Italian motto, 'word', 'sentence') is a maxim, a phrase meant to formally summarize the general motivation or intention of an individual, family, social group or organization. Examples of unusual choices in motto language include: 1  County of Somerset, Sumorsaete ealle (All men of Somerset), Anglo-Saxon; 2  South Cambridgeshire in the English Fens, Niet Zonder Arbyt (Not Without Labour), Dutch 3  : South Africa, ǃke e: ǀxarra ǁke (Unity in diversity}, ǀXam.
Whether you are looking for company, business, product or a green environmental slogan, a slogan development company can create a tagline which fits your company perfectly. However make sure to do your homework first before ordering a package. It is important to tell the slogan company what tone you want your slogan to be (serious, funny, and lighthearted). You should also give a brief background about your company or project and what you want your slogan to convey.
A slogan is an advertising tag-line or phrase that advertisers create to visually expresses the importance and benefits of their product. By and large, it’s a theme to a campaign that usually have a genuine role in people’s lives. 
1. : a sentence, phrase, or word inscribed on something as appropriate to or indicative of its character or use. 2. : a short expression of a guiding principle. See motto defined for English-language learners. 
A motto is a succinct statement of beliefs or ideals and may either be a sentence or a short phrase. An individual may have a personal motto, and an organization or business may have one that doubles as an advertising slogan. In addition to keeping a candidate’s name in the public eye and in the public’s ear, campaign slogan can be a motto, expressing the public relations version of the ideals or beliefs of the candidate or the party, as these examples show:  1 Prosperity and Progress: Al Gore, 2000.
Mottos to Live By-Life Mottos. A motto is a short phrase that is intended to capture the essence of the beliefs and purpose of a government, group, company or individual. The scouting movement's famous motto Be Prepared is a classic and effective example, as is the New Hampshire state motto Live Free or Die. The Charles Swindoll quote above might well be chosen as someone's personal motto to live by. Perhaps you can find a quote on this page that creates a statement of what your life is about. Better yet, be inspired to consider your beliefs and life purpose, and craft your own life motto. Attitude is everything.
This list contains the mottos of organizations, institutions, municipalities and authorities. 