Seed that is sown in the spring is almost certain to fail, according to the University of Missouri Extension. Air temperatures for cool-season grasses should be between 60 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit, with soil temperatures between 50 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Before you purchase seeds and prepare your lawn for planting, research the best seed varieties for your particular climate zone and time of the year, and keep in mind that some varieties may do better when planted with plugs or sod.
Light and Oxygen it is important that grass seed is not planted. It needs to be spread on open soil and lightly raked to allow sufficient light and oxygen to get to the seeds. These are the necessary conditions for effective grass seed germination. Click here for our page on preparing a seed bed for a grass seed lawn. Soil temperature the ideal soil temperature for grass seed is around 9-13⁰C which in the UK is usually achieved from the beginning of March until the beginning of October, but this season can be extended or reduced dependent on weather.
1 Third a key factor in getting seeds to germinate is that the temperatures (and season) must be right for the particular type of grass seeds (see when to plant grass seed) planted. 2  Also there must be adequate soil moisture for the seeds to germinate. 
The perfect air temperature for spreading cool season grass seed is 60-70 degrees (F). A helpful tip: When choosing your grass seed look for the germination rate on the label. This is the percentage of seeds that germinated in lab tests. The higher the better. The perfect air temperature for spreading warm season grass seed is right around 80-85
Too much moisture and the seed can rot. Read the article Watering New Grass Seed for guidelines. WarmthSoil temperatures should be in the appropriate range for the variety of grass. Cool season grass requires a minimum range of 45 - 55 degrees. 1 Bedding straw is a good option for large areas, but don’t use hay that has seeds in it. 2  Sow grass seed at the ideal time if possible. 3  Cool season grasses will not do as well in higher temperatures. 4  Warm season grasses will not do as well in cool
PLANT WHEN DAYTIME TEMPERATURES ARE BETWEEN 60 & 75 DEGREES: Cool season grasses grow best when the soil temperatures are between 50 and 65 degrees F. These temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees. High temperatures of summer can cause these plants to go dormant and thus planting during summer is asking for problems. Thus start planting your cool season grass seeds when the temperatures reach 75 and are dropping as fall / winter approaches. 
Usually planted in the early fall, cool-season grass seeds prefer daytime temperatures ranging from 60 to 75 F. With this temperature range, the soil itself is usually between 50 and 65 F -- the right environment for germination. If you have warm nights near 70 F, your soil is typically around that same temperature, making it perfect for seeding in the spring. Be aware that a particularly cool spring and summer may result in dormant grass and germination failure.
Keep in mind that some warm-season grasses, including some cultivars of bermudagrass and St. Augustine grass, don't do well when planted from seed. The soil temperature range for most warm-season grasses is between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit and sometimes higher. Optimal air temperatures for warm-season grasses are 80 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit. Before you purchase seeds and prepare your lawn for planting, research the best seed varieties for your particular climate zone and time of the year, and keep in mind that some varieties may do better when planted with plugs or sod.
Grass seeds have an outer shell (the hull) that prevents germination until conditions are right. Proper soil temperature is a big factor in the success you’ll have. For cool season grass, the ideal soil temperature is a minimum of 45-55 degrees (F). The perfect air temperature for spreading warm season grass seed is right around 80-85 degrees (F). A helpful tip: When choosing your grass seed look for the germination rate on the label. This is the percentage of seeds that germinated in lab tests. The higher the better.