Homo sapiens (Latin : wise person) is the binomial nomenclature (also known as the scientific name) for the human species. Homo is the human genus, which also includes Neanderthals and many other extinct species of hominid; H. sapiens is the only surviving species of the genus Homo. Modern humans are the subspecies Homo sapiens sapiens, which differentiates them from what has been argued to be their direct ancestor, Homo sapiens idaltu
Homosapien is a combination of two Latin words homo meaning man and sapien meaning being and not knowledge as some people believe the case to be. All it is saying is that man has the ability to feel or perceive subjectively. Hope that helps. Dragon Prince · 8 years ago. Best Answer: Humans, or human beings, are bipedal primates belonging to the mammalian species Homo sapiens (Latin: wise man or knowing man). Source(s): Juventina
1 the specific name of modern man; the only extant species of the genus Homo. 2  This species also includes extinct types of primitive man such as Cro-Magnon man. 3  See also man (sense 5. noun. 1 
Hypernyms (Homo sapiens is a kind of...): homo; human; human being; man (any living or extinct member of the family Hominidae characterized by superior intelligence, articulate speech, and erect carriage). The noun HOMO SAPIENS has 1 sense: 1. the only surviving hominid; species to which modern man belongs; bipedal primate having language and ability to make and use complex tools; brain volume at least 1400 cc. Familiarity information: HOMO SAPIENS used as a noun is very rare
For example: As an abbreviation in English, homo means homosexual. This is an offensive term to many people. The word homo is Latin, in the original sense of human being, or man (in the gender-neutral sense). 1  A homogeneous solution is one that has the same consistency throughout. 2  Homosexual means you like the same sex.
• HOMO SAPIENS (noun). The noun HOMO SAPIENS has 1 sense: 1. the only surviving hominid; species to which modern man belongs; bipedal primate having language and ability to make and use complex tools; brain volume at least 1400 cc. Familiarity information: HOMO SAPIENS used as a noun is very rare
Synonyms: Homo sapiens sapiens; modern man. Hypernyms (Homo sapiens sapiens is a kind of...): Homo sapiens (the only surviving hominid; species to which modern man belongs; bipedal primate having language and ability to make and use complex tools; brain volume at least 1400 cc). 
Homo sapiens. n. 1. (Animals) the specific name of modern man; the only extant species of the genus Homo. This species also includes extinct types of primitive man such as Cro-Magnon man. 
Homo sapiens means wise man, thinking man, rational man, knowing man. It is the species name for us, humans, sometimes referred to as anatomically modern humans or AMH. Our trinomial name is homo sapiens sapiens. The skeleton taxonomy is :-. The Neanderthals lived over 10,000 years ago.  …    Homo sapiens is the scientific name for the species of primate known as humans.   homo sapiens are early people who have lived from about 400,000 B.C. to the present.