1 [I]n the tricolon joke, the narrative is repeated so that it becomes a script or 'acquired information,' and this repetition sets up expectations about the series, the model being followed. 2  The third part of the tricolon is then employed to upset these expectations in some way. 1 The third part of the tricolon is then employed to upset these expectations in some way. 2  Here is [a] tricolon joke: There are three Irishmen stranded on an island. 3  Suddenly a fairy appears and offers to grant each one of them one wish.
A tricolon is a more specific use of the rule of three where three words or phrases are equal in length and grammatical form. A hendiatris is a figure of speech where three successive words are used to express a single central idea. As a slogan or motto, this is known as a tripartite motto. 
Origin of TRICOLON. Greek trikōlon, neuter of trikōlos 3-limbed, from tri-three + kōlon limb, part of a strophe — more at tri- , calk. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
Tricolon refers to poetic verses that are organized in three similar-sounding phrases. Perhaps one of the more famous examples is the Latin expression  veni, vidi, vici  by Julius Caesar, or I came, I saw, I conquered.. When just repeating words are used, the tricolon is called a hendiatris. Many famous phrases throughout history have utilized a tricolon approach, which is the most basic illustration of the ancient rule of three.
Isocolon. Isocolon is a figure of speech in which parallelism is reinforced by members that are of the same length. A well-known example of this is Julius Caesar's Veni, vidi, vici, which also illustrates that a common form of isocolon is tricolon, or the use of three parallel members. It is derived from the Greek ἴσος, equal and κῶλον, member, clause. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: isocolon (Noun). A figure of speech in which parallelism is reinforced by members that are of the same length. Origin: From ἰσόκωλον, composed of ἴσος and κῶλον.
1 The Tricolonic Joke. [ 2 I]n the tricolon joke, the narrative is repeated so that it becomes a script or 'acquired information,' and this repetition sets up expectations about the series, the model being followed. 3  The third part of the tricolon is then employed to upset these expectations in some way. 1 The third part of the tricolon is then employed to upset these expectations in some way. 2  Here is [a] tricolon joke: There are three Irishmen stranded on an island. 3  Suddenly a fairy appears and offers to grant each one of them one wish.
Isocolon is a figure of speech in which a sentence is composed by two or more parts (cola) perfectly equivalent in structure, length and rhythm: it is called bicolon, tricolon, or tetracolon depending on whether they are two, three, or four. A well-known example of tricolon is Julius Caesar 's  Veni, vidi, vici  (I came; I saw; I conquered). The term is derived from the Greek ἴσος (isos), ísos equal and (κῶλον), kolon, kôlon. Member clause the '-plural' is cola But in english may '-also'. be colons
Definition of Isocolon. An isocolon is a rhetorical device that comes from the Greek “isos”, meaning equal, and “kolon”, meaning member or clause. An isocolon is a sentence or series of sentences composed of two or more phrases of similar structure and length. The most famous isocolon is probably that triad of Latin words attributed to Julius Caesar: Veni, vidi, vici. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tricolon (Noun). A sentence with three clearly defined parts of equal length, usually independent clauses. tricolon (Noun). The symbol u205D, a colon with three dots instead of two. 
As defined in our Glossary of Grammatical and Rhetorical Terms, a tricolon is a series of three parallel words, phrases, or clauses. It's a simple enough structure, yet potentially a powerful one. Consider these familiar examples: It takes the magic number three: a tricolon. In fact, each of the well-known passages above contains two tricolons (though it could be argued that Lincoln slipped in a series of four, known as a tetracolon climax). But you don't have to be an American president to use tricolons effectively.