Umami is how your tongue tastes nucleotides and glutamates. Umami is created by foods that contain an amino acid called glutamate, and/or two nucleotides, guanylate and and inosinate. Umami comes in many different types because of the multiple combinations of these chemicals. Humans crave umami flavors. Umami is mouthwatering (think steak or stuffed mushrooms) — as we said before, savory. It coats your tongue and is typically rather mild. It's unlikely you'd like umami by itself (unless a straight shot of soy sauce appeals to you). It's best served with other flavors. To understand umami, think about soy sauce.
Umami Burger is an American restaurant chain that specializes in serving hamburgers. The name refers to umami (savory) flavor, which is outside of the traditionally accepted tastes of salty, sweet, bitter, and sour. The restaurant was founded by Adam Fleischman, and is part of the Umami Restaurant Group. 
Across the ocean, in Japan, that same fifth taste was also being noted. Umami, which is Japanese for pleasant savory taste or yummy , was pinpointed by Japanese chemist and food lover Kikunae Ikeda in the 1900s. Ikeda noticed when eating a bowl of dashi (seaweed soup) that he was tasting something delicious that could not be described by one of the four taste categories. 
In Japanese, Umami translates roughly to “Good Flavor” or “Good Taste.” That seems like as good a definition as you can get for it… it’s the flavor of goodness! Umami is the savory flavor that makes your mouth water. It’s usually a mild taste (unlike bitter or sour foods), but the flavor is long-lasting. Umami is almost never good except when combined with other flavors.
Umami (/uˈmɑːmi/), a savory taste, is one of the five basic tastes (together with sweetness, sourness, bitterness, and saltiness). A loanword from the Japanese (うま味) , umami can be translated as pleasant savory taste. This particular writing was chosen by Professor Kikunae Ikeda from umai (うまい) delicious and mi (味) taste. The kanji 旨味 are used for a more general sense of a food as delicious. Umami enhances the palatability of a wide variety of foods. Glutamate in acid form (glutamic acid) imparts little umami taste, whereas the salts of glutamic acid, known as glutamates, can easily ionize and give the characteristic umami taste. GMP and IMP amplify the taste intensity of glutamate.
Umami is considered a savory taste sensation and is often confused with saltiness. Because our tongues have specific taste receptors for L-glutamate, one of the compounds responsible for umami flavor, it is considered a distinctly different taste than saltiness. Umami is subtle and can be hard to recognize, but it has a great impact on the sensory experience of eating. Because umami can be so difficult to distinguish, it wasn't fully recognized as the fifth taste sensation by the scientific community until 1985.
Umami Rich Foods. Glutamates and nucleotides are primarily responsible for umami flavor and can be found in both meat and vegetables. Foods rich in L-glutamate tend to produce the most umami flavor, most notably meat, fish, cheese, cured foods, and soy sauce. Other foods such as mushrooms, tomatoes, spinach, and even green tea can provide a light umami flavor. Umami is subtle and can be hard to recognize, but it has a great impact on the sensory experience of eating. Because umami can be so difficult to distinguish, it wasn't fully recognized as the fifth taste sensation by the scientific community until 1985.
Definition of UMAMI. : a taste sensation that is meaty or savory and is produced by several amino acids and nucleotides (as glutamate and aspartate). ADVERTISEMENT. Japanese, savoriness, flavor. First Known Use: 1979. Medical Definition of UMAMI. : a taste sensation that is meaty or savory and is produced by several amino acids and nucleotides (as aspartate, inosinate, and glutamate). — umami adjective.