Centrioles are only found in animal cells. All centrioles are made of protein strands called microtubules. Centrioles are made of nine triplets of microtubules arranged in a cylinder. Think of each microtubule like a plastic PVC pipe. In summary, centrioles are an organelle inside animal cells that are made of microtubules and are involved in cilia, flagella and cell division. Centrosomes are made of a pair of centrioles and other proteins.
Structure. A centriole is composed of short lengths of microtubules arranged in the form of an open-ended cylinder about 500nm long and 200nm in diameter. The microtubules forming the wall of the cylinder are grouped into nine sets of bundles of three microtubules each
Centrioles are cylindrical structures that are composed of groupings of microtubules arranged in a 9 + 3 pattern. The pattern is so named because a ring of nine microtubule triplets are arranged at right angles to one another. Centrioles are found in animal cells and help to organize the assembly of microtubules during cell division.
Centrioles are a cell organelle which are located in animal cells. They are made of 9 sets of microtubules, which are in groups of 3. There are two centrioles in each cell, an … d together with dense matter they create a centrosome. The centrioles are perpendicular to each other. 
In cell biology a centriole (centri- + -ole) is a cylindrical cell structure composed mainly of a protein called tubulin that is found in most eukaryotic cells. In organisms with flagella and cilia, the position of these organelles is determined by the mother centriole, which becomes the basal body. An inability of cells to use centrioles to make functional cilia and flagella has been linked to a number of genetic and developmental diseases.
Centrioles are built from a cylindrical array of 9 microtubules, each of which has attached to it 2 partial microtubules. The photo (courtesy of E. deHarven) is an electron micrograph showing a cross section of a centriole with its array of nine triplets of microtubules. 
Most centrioles are made up of nine sets of microtubule triplets, arranged in a cylinder. Deviations from this structure include crabs and Drosophila melanogaster embryos, with nine doublets, and Caenorhabditis elegans sperm cells and early embryos, with nine singlets. In organisms with flagella and cilia, the position of these organelles is determined by the mother centriole, which becomes the basal body. An inability of cells to use centrioles to make functional cilia and flagella has been linked to a number of genetic and developmental diseases.
Centrioles are made of nine bundles of microtubules, that are arranged in a ring. The centrioles play a major role in cell division. In animal cells the centrioles play a major role in cell division but the plant cells have the ability to reproduce even without the centrioles. They are found in most of the eukaryotic cells. The centrioles are made of groups of microtubules,these microtubules are arranged in a pattern of 9+3. The pattern of the microtubules for a ring of 9 microtubules known as triplets and the microtubules are arranged at right angles to one another.
Quick look: Found only in animal cells and some lower plants, a centriole is composed of short lengths of microtubules lying parallel to one another and arranged around a central cavity to form a cylinder. A centriole is composed of short lengths of microtubules arranged in the form of an open-ended cylinder about 500nm long and 200nm in diameter.
Centriole structure. Like Cilia and Flagella, Centrioles are also made of microtubules. The difference is that they contain 9 sets of triplets and no doublet in the center. How the triplets in the basal body turn into the cilium doublet remains a mystery. Centrioles come in pairs, each organized at right angles to the other. Cilia, flagella, and centrioles. Cilia and flagella are projections from the cell. They are made up of microtubules, as shown in this cartoon and are covered by an extension of the plasma membrane.