Home » Opiate Addiction, Dependence and Treatment. Opiate dependence is caused by persistent use of opiates and is thought to be a disorder of the central nervous system. Opiates are powerful painkillers that cause sedation and euphoria and are commonly abused. These include oxycodone, Suboxone, Fentanyl, Dilaudid, heroin, Norco, hydrocodone, methadone, and Vicodin. Once opiate addiction sets in, many users feel completely powerless and continue to use despite potentially dangerous or life-threatening consequences. Unlike some drugs, which can elicit one or the other, opiates can cause both addiction and physical dependence.
Opiate addiction is commonly described as a disorder cause by an untreated opiate dependence, with a strong potential for relapse. This means opiate users who are trying to get well, may fall back into old patterns of drug use and abuse. Because opiates are so potent, they have a particularly high relapse rate. Once opiate addiction sets in, many users feel completely powerless and continue to use despite potentially dangerous or life-threatening consequences. Unlike some drugs, which can elicit one or the other, opiates can cause both addiction and physical dependence.
Types of Opiate Addiction. When talking about causes and factors leading to Opiate addiction, it is necessary to take a moment and look at the various types of drugs. As we mentioned before, these all have their characteristics. Cannabis Compounds: The most common Opiate in this category is marijuana, which produces a high for the user. Opiate addiction is a human problem and crosses all boundaries. Opiate addiction causes do not include race. Loneliness, Depression. We want to feel good physically and emotionally. Sometimes drugs are the substitution for a healthy life experience. The person in pain and they want to numb the pain.
It is common that an opiate addiction can be co-occurring with other disorders or diseases, such as an eating disorder, alcoholism, mood disorders, or the abuse of other substances. If you or a loved one is struggling with an opiate addiction, there may have been several factors involved that led to this point. All opiate medications are prescribed by a doctor, usually with intentions of managing pain or for pain relieving effects. Because the effects from opiates are short term, an addiction can easily develop in attempt to continuously experience the side effects.
Opiate Treatment and Help. An opiate addiction does not have to take control of your life. In fact, you have the ability to make the decision to seek the help you need to overcome the detrimental opiate addiction cycle with a rehab or treatment center and live your life in freedom and peace. All opiate medications are prescribed by a doctor, usually with intentions of managing pain or for pain relieving effects. Because the effects from opiates are short term, an addiction can easily develop in attempt to continuously experience the side effects.
Opiate Addiction Symptoms. Many of the signs and symptoms of opiate addiction can be difficult to spot because you can’t see some of the obvious signs right away. Often time, the user will mask the signs of their addiction in a way that will prevent others from gaining insight too. Most of the time, opiate withdrawal symptoms are non-life threatening but in rare cases, based on the severity of the opiate addiction and the length of time that the individual has been addicted, there is a risk of some dangerous opiate withdrawal symptoms occurring.
The use of opiates such as heroin, Morphine, opium or Oxycodone can lead to a central nervous system disorder that results in physical dependence and addiction. Opiate addiction is not only a dangerous condition, it could prove to be deadly if left undiagnosed or untreated. People who abuse opiates are at an increased risk of becoming physically dependent on these drugs and continued use of opiates is likely to lead to tolerance and subsequent addiction. Opiate addiction can be caused either by the recreational use of opiate based drugs or it may be caused by prescribed use of the drugs.
Opiates elicit their powerful effects by activating opiate receptors that are widely distributed throughout the brain and body. Once an opiate reaches the brain, it quickly activates the opiate receptors that are found in many brain regions and produces an effect that correlates with the area of the brain involved. Two important effects produced by opiates, such as morphine, are pleasure (or reward) and pain relief. The brain itself also produces substances known as endorphins that activate the opiate receptors.
Opiate addiction causes the pathways inside the brain to be altered. Physical changes in the nerve cells are brought on by the drug. These cells (neurons) communicate with each other releasing neurotransmitters into the gaps or synapses between the nerve cells. This makes some drugs are more addictive than others. Opiate addiction is a human problem and crosses all boundaries. Opiate addiction causes do not include race. Loneliness, Depression. We want to feel good physically and emotionally. Sometimes drugs are the substitution for a healthy life experience. The person in pain and they want to numb the pain.
Opiate addiction is a dangerous and potentially deadly condition that requires long term treatment and care in order to promote recovery. It is recognized as a brain disorder that is caused by the use of opiate based drugs such as Oxycontin, morphine, oxycodone, opium, heroin and others. Most of the time, opiate withdrawal symptoms are non-life threatening but in rare cases, based on the severity of the opiate addiction and the length of time that the individual has been addicted, there is a risk of some dangerous opiate withdrawal symptoms occurring.