Report Abuse. Inc. means Corporation or Incorporated LLC means Limited Liability Company Pvt. Ltd. means Private Limited company and it is not always recognized in all states. Source(s): http://www.incorporatefast.com.
Meaning of Inc. (abbreviation, acronym) incorporated legally established as a corporation LLC means Limited Liability Company Meaning of Ltd. (abbreviation, acronym) Limited (Ld., ld) firm, company that is organized in such a way as to give its owners limited liability What is the difference between ltd and pvt ltd? Inc. means Corporation or Incorporated LLC means Limited Liability Company Pvt. Ltd. means Private Limited company and it is not always recognized in all states. Source(s): http://www.incorporatefast.com.
A corporation is a type of business organization viewed as a separate legal entity under state law. This allows the corporation to do things a person can do, such as pay taxes, initiate litigation and be sued by others. When a business becomes incorporated, it has completed the process of becoming a corporation, as recognized by state law. Incorporation provides the owners with many advantages, but the primary benefit is the business will be viewed as a separate entity from its owners.
Report Abuse. To be formed or united into a whole. A business is incorporated when it has been granted a charter legally recognizing it as a separate entity having its own privileges, rights, and liabilities distinct from other businesses and persons. Incorporated or Inc. is much the same as Limited but it's the American equivalent. It means that there are shares issued and it's not a sole trader. See the link.
A business becomes incorporated when the company's organizers file incorporation paperwork with the state. For example, corporations in Texas must file a certificate of formation with the Texas Secretary of State's office, as a condition of formation. When a business becomes incorporated, a separate and distinct legal entity is created. An incorporated business acts independently of its business owners.
When creating a new business, the owner can structure the business in a number of ways that best suit his preferences as well as the type of business he is creating. When a business becomes incorporated, it has completed the process of becoming a corporation, as recognized by state law. Incorporation provides the owners with many advantages, but the primary benefit is the business will be viewed as a separate entity from its owners.
(October 2014). Incorporation is the forming of a new corporation (a corporation being a legal entity that is effectively recognized as a person under the law). The corporation may be a business, a non-profit organization, sports club, or a government of a new city or town. 
India Inc. means 'India Incorporated'. There is nothing called India Incorporated because India is a sovereign country which does not require incorporation under The Companies … Act or any other Act. Only the companies, either Public or Private Limited, require incorporation under the law. incorporated INC stand for Incorporated. This means a company is legally in business and their are specific stipulations in regards to protection of the owners,CEO and or bo … ard members. In a corporation, stockholders, directors and officers typically are not liable for their company's debts and obligations.
Inc. Inc. is the abbreviation for incorporated. A corporation is a separate legal entity from the person or people forming it. Directors and officers purchase shares in the business and have responsibility for its operation. Incorporation limits an individual's liability in case of a lawsuit.
INC is short for incorporated. Incorporated means that the business is formed into a legal corporation. A corporation is an association of individuals created under authorit … y of law, having a continuous existence independent of the existences of its members. (dictionary.com). incorporated INC stand for Incorporated. This means a company is legally in business and their are specific stipulations in regards to protection of the owners,CEO and or bo … ard members. In a corporation, stockholders, directors and officers typically are not liable for their company's debts and obligations.