The Young Master. Parker Schnabel is a miner and member of the Schnabel family. Parker's net-worth is about 10,000,000.00 $US. Parker is the spitting image of someone who is strikingly similar in appearance to his grandfather when his grandpa was a teen. In season 2. He has worked at the Big Nugget Mine for many years, under the direction and order of his grandfather, John Schnabel. During the Hoffman's second season, Parker was given the mine when John decided to step down.
Big Nugget Mine Edit. 91 year old John had been the boss of the mine, when in 2011 (season 2), he gave it to his 17 year old grandson Parker Schnabel. John was around to help his grandson with the mine. In season 4, John resumed running the mine. John found over 50 ounces of gold and very large nuggets in one day on McKilrevie Bench. Early life Edit. John was born in 1920. He lived in Kansas, the son of a wheat farmer. When he became a teen, the country was mired in the Great Depression, and the family had lost the farm. He was raised in southern Oregon. At the age of 17, John chopped off his big toe while he was logging.
John Richard Schneider was born April 8, 1960, in Mt. Kisco, New York, to Shirley and John Schneider III, a pilot and U.S. Air Force veteran. His parents divorced when he was two. John began acting at the age of eight. He was in many plays in New York. He and his mother moved to Atlanta, Georgia, when he was fourteen. 
A force to be reckoned with, this year Tony has an audacious plan to resurrect a 75-year-old gold-mining dredge and drag it clanking and screeching into the 21st century. Tony has spent one million dollars buying the dredge and believes it has the potential to mine up to $1.5m in gold in just one season. 
HOMETOWN: Haines, AK. Gold fever is in Parker's blood. Ever since he can remember, Parker's beloved Grandpa Schnabel has been running the family gold mine, Big Nugget. Since Parker's feet could reach the pedals, he's been operating heavy machinery and learning the trade.
By season Edit. In season 2. He has worked at the Big Nugget Mine for many years, under the direction and order of his grandfather, John Schnabel. During the Hoffman's second season, Parker was given the mine when John decided to step down.
Schnabel is a German surname meaning  beak . Notable people with the surname include: 1  Artur Schnabel (1882–1951), Polish-Austrian classical pianist and composer, husband of Therese Schnabel. 2  Charles Schnabel (1895–1974), American agricultural chemist. 3  Enrico Schnabel (born 1974), German rower. 1 Artur Schnabel (1882–1951), Polish-Austrian classical pianist and composer, husband of Therese Schnabel. 2  Charles Schnabel (1895–1974), American agricultural chemist.
$5 Million. Tony Beets net worth and salary: Tony Beets is an Dutch-Canadian miner and reality telvison personality who has a net worth of $5 million dollars. Born in Wijdenes, Netherlands, Tony Beets worked for his family for many years, and then relocated to Canada to seek better career opportunities. 