Permafrost is any soil or rock that remains frozen—below 32°F—throughout the year. For a soil to be considered permafrost, it must be frozen for at least two consecutive years or longer. Permafrost can be found in cold climates where the mean annual temperature is less than the freezing point of water. Such climates are found near the North and South poles and in some alpine regions. Some soils in areas that experience warmer temperatures thaw for a short time during warmer months. The thawing is restricted to the top layer of soil and a permafrost layer remains frozen several inches below the surface.
Pingo soil formations form when the permafrost layer traps a large amount of water in the soil. When the water freezes, it expands and pushes the saturated earth upward into a large mound or pingo. Solifluction is a soil formation process that occurs when thawed soils slide down a slope over the permafrost layer. Some soils in areas that experience warmer temperatures thaw for a short time during warmer months. The thawing is restricted to the top layer of soil and a permafrost layer remains frozen several inches below the surface.
Permafrost is soil, rock or sediment that is frozen more than two consecutive years. In areas not overlain by ice, it exists beneath a layer of soil, rock or sediment, which freezes and thaws annually and is called the active layer. Exceptions occur in un-glaciated Siberia and Alaska where the present depth of permafrost is a relic of climatic conditions during glacial ages where winters were up to 11 °C (20 °F) colder than those of today.
Full Definition of PERMAFROST. : a permanently frozen layer at variable depth below the surface in frigid regions of a planet (as earth). See permafrost defined for English-language learners. See permafrost defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Noun. 1. permafrost-ground that is permanently frozen. land, soil, ground-material in the top layer of the surface of the earth in which plants can grow (especially with reference to its quality or use); the land had never been plowed; good agricultural soil. Translations. 
In geology, permafrost or cryotic soil is soil at or below the freezing point of water 0 °C (32 °F) for two or more years. Exceptions occur in un-glaciated Siberia and Alaska where the present depth of permafrost is a relic of climatic conditions during glacial ages where winters were up to 11 °C (20 °F) colder than those of today.
Kevin Schaefer is a permafrost scientist at NSIDC. He studies the carbon cycle, or the processes by which the Earth's carbon moves around: from the air into plants, from plants into the ground, and then back into the air (Figure 2). Dr. Schaefer studies the carbon that is frozen deep in Arctic permafrost. 
Permafrost is perennially frozen ground that remains at or below zero degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit) for two or more years and forms in regions where the mean annual temperature is colder than zero degrees Celsius. 
By definition, permafrost is ground that remains frozen for two or more years. Since frozen soil, including permafrost, comprises a large percentage of substrate materials other than ice, it thaws rather than melts even as any ice content melts. Exceptions occur in un-glaciated Siberia and Alaska where the present depth of permafrost is a relic of climatic conditions during glacial ages where winters were up to 11 °C (20 °F) colder than those of today.
One of Alaska’s natural wonders is found underfoot. It is permafrost, ground that remains frozen year after year. Made up of soil and rocks as well as frozen water, permafrost forms when the depth of winter freezing exceeds the depth of summer thawing. Permafrost is thickest in arctic Alaska north of the Brooks Range, but it is found to some extent beneath nearly 85 percent of Alaska. On the arctic coastal plain it extends as much as 2,000 feet below the surface and is found virtually everywhere.