New window. An effective equine vaccination program always begins with a discussion with your veterinarian. However, with rapid developments in vaccine technology and a seemingly endless array of products on the market, it's often hard for horse owners to know how to launch the discussion. A rabies-infected horse can transmit the disease to a human. Common carriers of rabies in the United States include: dogs, cats, opossums, skunks, bats, raccoons, and foxes. However, any mammal may become infected with and thus transmit rabies. All horses are at risk.
Yes. The most common carriers and transmitters of rabies are the carnivorous animals, however, horses like people, can be bitten by a dog, raccoon, fox or other animal with rabies and develop this viral disease. A preventive vaccine for horses is available, one initial vaccination must be followed by yearly boosts. Horses generally require vaccines of some type at least yearly.   Horse owners should consult their veterinarian and discuss the specifics of their horse's care and use to determine what vaccinations are appropriate and how often they should be given.
Vaccination of horses has become a hot topic among equine veterinarians. There is not one vaccination program that is appropriate for every horse, every time. There is limited research regarding long term efficacy of many of the vaccines we use (due to lack of economic funding and incentive). Therefore, we vaccinate yearly and sometimes more often, as discussed below.
1 Equine rabies cases are invariably fatal. 2  Vaccination of horses against rabies is safe and generally highly protective. 3  In some states if a horse is found to have rabies all humans who have come in contact with that horse have to receive rabies shots. 4  They can be quite painful and carry risks as well. 1 An annual re-vaccination is given thereafter. 2  If vaccinated properly and at the correct time of year, the vaccine will protect your horse for the season. 3  Rabies-This vaccine contains a killed virus to protect against this rabies.
Tetanus vaccine should be given at least once a year but can be given more often. Encephalitis vaccine is best given spring and fall, but in northern regions (with short mosquito seasons), a spring vaccination will suffice. EQUINE INFLUENZA is common and can range from mild to severe. Rabies vaccination should be done yearly, and because this is a very inexpensive vaccine against a 100-percent fatal disease, there is no reason not to vaccinate. POTOMAC HORSE FEVER is a disease that was first diagnosed in the Potomac River Valley of Virginia and Maryland.
RABIES has increased dramatically in the United States over the past eight years; and cases of rabies in horses are being reported more frequently. Rabies vaccination should be done yearly, and because this is a very inexpensive vaccine against a 100-percent fatal disease, there is no reason not to vaccinate. POTOMAC HORSE FEVER is a disease that was first diagnosed in the Potomac River Valley of Virginia and Maryland.
A vaccinated horse that is bitten by or exposed to a rabid animal should be given a rabies booster and observed for 45 days for any signs of rabies. Several rabies vaccines are available for horses; these appear to be both safe and effective in preventing rabies. In horses, the virus can be in the body for 2 to 9 weeks before signs develop. The signs of rabies can vary. There are 2 major forms of the disease. The furious form of rabies is the classic “mad-dog” syndrome; it is not common in horses.
Rabies-Once Yearly. “Fortunately, rabies is an uncommon disease in the horse. However, in any areas where rabies is endemic in the wildlife population, horses can be exposed through a bite from an infected animal. Rabies results in progressive neurological disease and is fatal in all cases. The death rate is 70-90% for horses with EEE (Eastern Equine Encephalomyelitis), and about 50% for horses with WEE (Western Equine Encephalomyelitis). The mortality rate in cases with EEE is generally higher than 90%. All horses should be vaccinated for EEE/WEE in the spring, prior to mosquito season
The death rate for infected horses is about 33%. Multiple vaccines are available for use, and horses should be vaccinated annually.” Due to our heavy mosquito population in Florida, we recommend WNV vaccinations 2-3 times a year along with the EWT. The death rate is 70-90% for horses with EEE (Eastern Equine Encephalomyelitis), and about 50% for horses with WEE (Western Equine Encephalomyelitis). The mortality rate in cases with EEE is generally higher than 90%. All horses should be vaccinated for EEE/WEE in the spring, prior to mosquito season