Clinical History. The typical case of rheumatoid arthritis begins insidiously, with the slow development of signs and symptoms over weeks to months. Often the patient first notices stiffness in one or more joints, usually accompanied by pain on movement and by tenderness in the joint.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it.
Common Rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory medical condition which will primarily affect the joints of the body. The smaller joints of the hand and the feet are usually at the highest risk of having issues due to the rheumatoid arthritis.
Introduction. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of function. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system attacks joints and other tissues. The pattern of joints affected is usually symmetrical, involves the hands and other joints, and is worse in the morning.
While early signs and symptoms of RA can be mimicked by other diseases, the symptoms and signs are very characteristic of rheumatoid disease. The 12 rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs discussed in this article include the following: Continue Reading. 1  Fatigue. 2  Joint pain.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that causes pain, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. In some people, it can also cause the joints to become damaged and deformed.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes premature mortality, disability and compromised quality of life in the industrialized and developing world (1). Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic inflammatory disease which manifests itself in multiple joints of the body.