The lung are the organ that do the breathing. The lungs are in a kind of airtight container inside your ribcage. The only way air can get in or out is through your mouth and trachea. When air is inhaled into your lungs, the oxygen in the air is transferred to your blood stream through caplilaries (think of very thin veins). The oxygen is then transferred to the cells through blood.
Report Abuse. The lung are the organ that do the breathing. The lungs are in a kind of airtight container inside your ribcage. The only way air can get in or out is through your mouth and trachea. At the bottom of this air tight container is a layer of muscle called the diaphragm. When air is inhaled into your lungs, the oxygen in the air is transferred to your blood stream through caplilaries (think of very thin veins). The oxygen is then transferred to the cells through blood.
They also help remove carbon dioxide (a waste gas that can be toxic) from your body. The lungs' intake of oxygen and removal of carbon dioxide is called gas exchange. Gas exchange is part of breathing. Breathing is a vital function of life; it helps your body work properly. Other organs and tissues also help make breathing possible. 
All lung cancer damages lungs by clotting them and not allowing you to take in a proper amount of air when you breath.this enables you in that you cant do athletic activity's …   Lung cancer affects the lungs. In the lungs there is a tumor. The lungs provide a surface for gas exchange in mammals. Inside the lungs are the alveoli, in which oxygen dissolves into the blood. Is is basically a gas exchange. The lungs filter the heart with fresh oxygen and get it in the blood and pumped into the rest of the body until you breath out, which makes carbon dioxide!
The bronchioles end in tiny balloon-like air sacs called alveoli. Your body has over 300 million alveoli. The alveoli are surrounded by a mesh of tiny blood vessels called capillaries. Here, oxygen from the inhaled air passes through the alveoli walls and into the blood. After absorbing oxygen, the blood leaves the lungs and is carried to your heart. Your heart then pumps it through your body to provide oxygen to the cells of your tissues and organs. As the cells use the oxygen, carbon dioxide is produced and absorbed into the blood
Here, oxygen travels from the tiny air sacs in the lungs, through the walls of the capillaries, into the blood. At the same time, carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism, passes from the blood into the air sacs. Carbon dioxide leaves the body when you exhale. The lungs provide a surface for gas exchange in mammals. Inside the lungs are the alveoli, in which oxygen dissolves into the blood. Is is basically a gas exchange. The lungs filter the heart with fresh oxygen and get it in the blood and pumped into the rest of the body until you breath out, which makes carbon dioxide!
Your lungs are a pair of large organs in your chest and are part of your respiratory system. When you breathe, air enters your body through your nose or mouth. It next passes through your windpipe (trachea) and through each bronchus, and finally goes into your lungs. When you breathe in, your lungs expand with air. This is how your body gets oxygen. When you breathe out, air goes out of your lungs. This is how your body gets rid of carbon dioxide.
See what healthy lungs can do for you. Every cell in your body needs oxygen in order to live. The air we breathe contains oxygen and other gases. Once in the lungs, oxygen is moved into the bloodstream and carried through your body. At each cell in your body, oxygen is exchanged for a waste gas called carbon dioxide. Your bloodstream then carries this waste gas back to the lungs where it is removed from the blood stream and then exhaled.
You breathe so regularly that it is easy to take your lungs for granted. You can't even stop yourself from breathing if you try! Your lungs are complex organs, but what they do is take a gas that your body needs to get rid of (carbon dioxide) and exchange it for a gas that your body can use (oxygen). ­In this article, we will take a close look at how your lungs work and how they keep your body's cells supplied with oxygen and get rid of the carbon dioxide waste. We will explain some of the conditions and diseases that make breathing harder and cause the lungs.