Pasta is another Italian food that offers a wealth of options bringing it such a variety of dishes, many of which are famous in different areas of the country. Northern Italy is fond of its pesto and Bolognese versions whilst central Italy prefer their tomato and carbonara pasta dishes.
Food is not only an important component of Italy's culture, but also a vital element in the country's economy--agriculture is the second largest sector after manufacturing, according to the Italian Trade Commission (ITC).
Another popular Italian food ingredient is rice. By far the most popular use for this ingredient is in the signature Italian food dish of risotto. Here rice is mixed with broth, vegetables and spices to make a very creamy and flavorful dish. The broth may be meat-based, fish-based, or vegetable-based; many kinds include parmesan cheese, butter, and onion.
A very popular Italian dish is the minestrone soup. This soup makes excellent use of one of the most popular ingredients in Italian food – beans. Beans are widely used in Italian food and are the feature ingredient in many soups, not just the minestrone. Together with beans, nuts are another popular ingredient.
It was originated in Ancient Greece. The most well known food developed and originated from Italy is Lasagna, or a … ncient pasta. [Note: Spaghetti was NOT originated in Italy, but most other pasta was.].
Other sweet foods Last, but not least, there is also the famous Italian gelato and the delicious pasterelle (sfogliatelle, maritozzi, aragoste) and pasticini (pastries). Ossobuco. Shin of veal with marrow bone in a tomato and wine sauce.
See: types of pasta and 10 most famous pasta dishes of Italy. A variety of thick soups made with vegetables, beans and pasta, rice or potatoes. Common ingredients include beans, onions, celery, carrots, stock, and tomatoes. It is served as a primo as an alternative to a pasta or risotto plate.
There are many food ingredients worth mentioning that Italy has become famous for such as olive oil, breads and pastries. Breads serve an important role in Italian food. They can be used as appetizers, sides to a meal, and desserts. The most popular breads are flavored with herbs, cheeses, and sun-dried tomatoes.