Fill out HCFA-1500 (CMS 1500) forms on your computer, print and mail the completed claims. To download our HCFA-1500 Fill Print, please click here. 1  Simple interface with boxes for ease of use and learning that act as a Tutorial. 2  Save & load claims from your hard drive or network. Therefore, hospitals, hospice care centers, and drug rehabilitation centers are all examples of healthcare providers that have to use the UB04 form, also called the CMS 1450, instead of the HCFA 1500. The HCFA 1500 is also known as the CMS 1500.
1 As a Michigan-licensed third party administrator, the Health Insurance Claims Assessment (HICA) is levied against you directly, rather than against the employer plans that you provide services to. 2  HICA applies to all paid claims of third party administrators. 1 The assessment levied under HICA is on paid claims, which is defined as actual payments, net of recoveries, made to a health and medical services provider or reimbursed to an individual by a carrier, third party administrator, or excess loss or stop loss carrier.. 2  Section 2(s).
The active ingredient in HICA-Max™ is L-α-hydroxyisocaproic acid, abbreviated to HICA. Chemical nomenclature, (the system that defines proper naming of chemicals) recognizes other names for HICA, including 2-Hydroxy-4-methylpentanoic acid, 2-Hydroxy-4-methylvaleric acid, and leucic acid. Remember, HICA is leucine that has had the NH2 replaced with an OH. Thankfully, that is not an irreversible process. Transaminase and reaminase enzymes can attach an NH2 in place of the OH, creating leucine.
1 To make HICA payments by EFT, complete and submit Form 4926, Electronic Funds Transfer Application-Health Insurance Claims Assessment to Treasury. 2  Please allow at least four weeks for processing your EFT application. 3  For more information on the EFT process, please visit our Web site, www.michigan.gov/biztaxpayments. 1 The assessment levied under HICA is on paid claims, which is defined as actual payments, net of recoveries, made to a health and medical services provider or reimbursed to an individual by a carrier, third party administrator, or excess loss or stop loss carrier.. 2  Section 2(s).
HICA-MAX is a powerful, non-hormonal, natural stimulator of muscle growth. Its chewables contain 100% pharmaceutical-grade leucic acid, also known as alpha-hydroxy-isocaproic acid (HICA) a natural metabolite of the branched chain amino acid, leucine. HICA-Max is one of the newest additions to the Labrada Nutrition line, and presents a new pathway to supporting muscle growth for everyone, male and female, pushing muscle to the point of breakdown during vigorous weight lifting session or power workouts. HICA-Max is designed to work in a catabolic environment.
HICA Overview (cont.)  Who does the HICA Act apply to?  The HICA Act applies to certain insurance carriers, third party administrators, and self-insured entities that pay health insurance claims for Michigan residents, for health-related services performed in Michigan. The assessment is levied upon the “paid claims” of those entities. HICA Overview (cont.)  Who is a Michigan resident for purposes of the HICA Act?  For purposes of the HICA Act, Treasury will consider a Michigan resident to be a person who is domiciled in the State of Michigan on the date that the service in question is performed.
Important Information Assessment Rate For the majority of filers, the HICA is levied at the rate of 1 percent (1.0%) of the “paid claims” of the covered carrier, third party administrator, or self-insured entity, for dates of service beginning on or after January 1, 2012 and ending on June 30, 2014. Organization Type Line 1. Check the box indicating your organization type. If your company is both a third party administrator and a carrier, please select either box. For definitions of “carrier” and “third party administrator,” see MCL 550.1732.
The HICA Act imposes an assessment of 1 percent on the paid claims of a carrier or third)party administrator (TPA) for health and medical services. 1 The HICA potentially can apply to any employer that has a self)insured plan. 2  If a TPA is administering that plan, the TPA could be considered to be the entity subject to the assessment, but hierarchy requirements in the HICA could apply to determine which entity would be subject to the assessment. 3  9.
For that reason, here are some tips and a sample form to assist you. Please note that the lettered items on this page refer to letters printed on the sample form.A. Printed in the upper left-hand corner of your HCFA 1500 claim form are the name and address of your supplemental insurance company. When you receive your Explanation of Medicare Beneﬁts papers, attach copies to your HCFA 1500 claim forms. Please mail them to the name and address listed here