Sometimes, the cause of blurry eyes is simply due to the fact that your eye glasses need to be upped in their strength or you have residue on your contact lenses.
You can also scratch or cause other trauma to the surface of your eye by rubbing the itch. Itchy eyes can be caused by various eye conditions too. Dry eyes are known to cause discomfort and irritation. Blepharitis, a non-contagious eye disorder caused by bacterial or skin conditions, also causes itchy eyes.
Some common reasons for your vision to be blurry, cloudy, or hazy in your contacts are: 1. Deposits on the contact lens. 2. Dryness of the contact or the eyes. 3. Movement or rotation of the contact lens. 4. A change in your prescription. 5.
Itchy eyes are often a symptom of allergies, or allergic conjunctivitis. Allergic conjunctivitis is more common in adults than in children, but it can develop at any age. It can be acute or chronic, and depending on the severity, you may develop additional symptoms such as a swollen eyelid or blurred vision.
Dry Eyes. One of the most common reasons for blurry vision while wearing contacts is that your eyes are dry. Some people have a medical condition that causes dry eyes, called dry eye syndrome, but others' eyes are irritated by the contacts themselves.
If the lens is moving around on the eye, your vision will probably be blurry, especially for those fine folks with an astigmatism. If you feel like your lenses are moving or rotating, your doctor may need to adjust the fit of the contact lens, or switch you to a different one.
A less serious cause of blurred vision is dry eyes. Your eyes need to produce tears in order to stay hydrated. However, sometimes eyes don’t produce enough tears or the tears that they do produce are not of very good quality. Along with blurred vision, you can also experience uncomfortable dryness and itching, too.
Whether they entail loss of vision or irritation of the eye, vision problems have a variety of symptoms. The pain and diminished function, while uncomfortable and sometimes even debilitating, are important in helping you and your doctor determine what precisely is wrong with your eye and how you can fix it.