Epiretinal Membrane. An epiretinal membrane (ERM) is a layer of scar tissue that forms on the surface of the retina. It arises from a variety of ocular conditions including aging.
Posterior vitreous detachment is a significant cause of epiretinal membrane, seen in 75% to 93% of cases.1 When the vitreous breaks free of the back of the eye, it can leave behind fibroglial cells that can attach to the retina and proliferate, forming sheets of membranes over the retinal surface. If a patient has a retinal tear, the liberated cells can land on the surface of the macula or the retina, where they proliferate. Epiretinal membrane occurs in 3% to 8.5% of eyes after retinal detachment surgery.
The macula is the special area at the center of the retina, which is responsible for clear, detailed vision. The macula normally lies flat against the back of the eye, like film lining the back of a camera. An epiretinal membrane is a condition where a thin sheet of scar tissue grows on the surface of the retina. This scar tissue can contract causing the macula to become wrinkled and may result in swelling of the retina and vision changes. If this scar-like tissue contracts, it can causes the retina to wrinkle or pucker. Many other eye conditions can be associated with the formation of an epiretinal membrane including trauma, diabetic retinopathy, retinal tears, prior retinal detachment, and ocular inflammation (uveitis).
Courtesy of JirehDesign.com (Mark Erickson). An epiretinal membrane (ERM), or macular pucker, is a thin layer of tissue that grows on the surface of the macula. It is found in normal, healthy eyes and may cause decreased vision and/or distortion. Epiretinal membranes are not related to macular degeneration. ERM = Macular Pucker = Cellophane Maculopathy = Wrinkle
In some people, the visual problems are mild and nonprogressive. Usually, no treatment is needed in such cases. In other people, macular pucker causes a significant and progressive loss of vision. In these cases, the only treatment is surgery to remove the scar tissue. This operation is called a vitrectomy with epiretinal membrane removal. The chance of a spontaneous separation of the scar tissue from the retina without surgery is less than 10%. However if a spontaneous separation does occur, the vision can be as good as with surgery. 
Epiretinal membrane is a disease of the eye in response to changes in the vitreous humor or more rarely, diabetes. It is also called macular pucker. Sometimes, as a result of immune system response to protect the retina, cells converge in the macular area as the vitreous ages and pulls away in posterior vitreous detachment (PVD). However, since epiretinal membrane appears to be a protective response to PVD, where inflammation, exudative fluid, and scar tissue is formed, it is possible that NSAIDs may reduce the inflammation response.
As stated in the introduction, an epiretinal membrane is a layer of scar tissue that forms on the surface of the retina. It can lead to the development of cysts, bumps, or blisters in the retina. An epiretinal membrane (ERM) is a layer of scar tissue that forms on the surface of the retina. It arises from a variety of ocular conditions including aging.
EPIRETINAL MEMBRANE. A common disorder of the macula is epiretinal membrane. An epiretinal membrane is a thin, transparent tissue layer that grows on the surface of the macula. The membrane may undergo shrinkage and contraction causing the tissue of the macula to become wrinkled or distorted. Eventually, this results in progressive blurring and/or distortion of central vision
An epiretinal membrane (ERM), also known as macular pucker, is a thin membrane or film that develops from a proliferation of repair cells on the retina. When it contracts in the macula-the part of the retina responsible for central vision-it is called a macular pucker. A wide variety of eye conditions can lead to the formation of an epiretinal membrane, though in some cases the cause is not apparent.