Luckily, there may be a quick fix to pump up the water pressure in your shower. The DIY mavens at Stack Exchange tell you how. I recently purchased my first home. It has two bathrooms and the water pressure in both is less than ideal. Next, turn the adjustment screw. Turn the screw clockwise to increase pressure. Turn the screw counterclockwise to decrease the pressure. 3. Once the proper pressure is set, tighten the lock nut. These answers all assume the pressure is low in the whole house. If it's just the shower see the other answers.
Go to your local home improvement store and buy a cheap shower head (the one I picked up cost $1.50). If you look down inside of the showerhead you'll see a washer which constricts the water flow. If you take a drill and enlarge the hole, thereby increasing flow, the water pressure will increase. Next, turn the adjustment screw. Turn the screw clockwise to increase pressure. Turn the screw counterclockwise to decrease the pressure. 3. Once the proper pressure is set, tighten the lock nut. These answers all assume the pressure is low in the whole house. If it's just the shower see the other answers.
Cancel. If you're having a problem with only the hot water pressure in your shower, this can only be because of a few very specific things. Fix shower hot water pressure problems with help from a licensed plumber in this free video clip. Now, on a hot water pressure problem, depending on what kind of shower valve you have. Of course, the first thing you have to do, is pull out a part to find out what you've got. Remove the cartridge, this particular one has a locking clip.
Please try again later. If you're having a problem with only the hot water pressure in your shower, this can only be because of a few very specific things. Fix shower hot water pressure problems with help from a licensed plumber in this free video clip. Expert: Terry Matsamas. 
Low water pressure in the shower could be caused by several factors -- a clogged aerator in the showerhead, high iron content in the water, a partially closed valve in the water line or even a loose washer. But when flow restriction is accompanied by rusty water, the problem is most likely with the pipes themselves. 
If only the water pressure in the shower is the problem, there is a good chance the shower head is clogged up causing the water flow to diminish over time. Once the shower head is removed, use a clean rag to remove any old plumbers putty or Teflon tape left on the threads of the shower stem. Next, use a light mixture of 1 part vinegar to 3 parts water to flush the strainer.
How to fix low shower pressure in the shower. When fixing a low water pressure problem in the shower, the first thing to note is if the low pressure is only in the hot water tap and/or cold water tap. The next step is to assess the water pressure in the rest of the home. In general, low water pressure in the shower of a new home could be a result of defective plumbing, whereas gradual development of low water pressure in the shower in an older home may simply be due to a clogged showerhead.
Leakage from the pipes is a common reason why shower pressure can be low. The loss of water will lead to lower supply to the showerhead. If there is suspicion of leakage, there is a need to check all the water pipes and joints, including the main municipal pipe, for leakage. In general, low water pressure in the shower of a new home could be a result of defective plumbing, whereas gradual development of low water pressure in the shower in an older home may simply be due to a clogged showerhead.