No, Toradol is not a narcotic or habit forming. The medicine is a  NSAID prescribed for various types of pain in people such as back  pain. However, there are lots of synthetic drugs  with similar effects which are also con … sidered opiates, such as  oxy-cotton and percasettes. PS. please forgive my spelling. Opium  and its derivatives, such as morphine and heroin, depress neural  activity, temporarily lessening pain and anxiety.
CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Although Toradol ® (ketorolac tromethamine) is a medication used to treat pain, this drug is not a type of narcotic. (For more information on what Toradol is and how it works, click Toradol. This article provides an in-depth overview of the drug, including information on its specific uses, safety precautions, and potential side effects.). Advertisement.
Toradol belongs to a group of medications called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and works by blocking the action of certain hormones (prostaglandins) that cause inflammation and pain in the body. (For more information on what Toradol is and how it works, click Toradol. This article provides an in-depth overview of the drug, including information on its specific uses, safety precautions, and potential side effects.). Advertisement.
Descriptions. Ketorolac is used to relieve moderately severe pain, usually pain that occurs after an operation or other painful procedure. It belongs to the group of medicines called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Ketorolac is not a narcotic and is not habit-forming. It will not cause physical or mental dependence, as narcotics can. However, ketorolac is sometimes used together with a narcotic to provide better pain relief than either medicine used alone. Ketorolac has side effects that can be very dangerous. The risk of having a serious side effect increases with the dose of ketorolac and with the length of treatment. Therefore, ketorolac should not be used for more than 5 days.
An opiate is any drug derived from the seeds of opium poppies, such  as opium or heroine. However, there are lots of synthetic drugs  with similar effects which are also con … sidered opiates, such as  oxy-cotton and percasettes. PS. please forgive my spelling. Opium  and its derivatives, such as morphine and heroin, depress neural  activity, temporarily lessening pain and anxiety.
Home » Tramadol Uses, Warnings and Treatment. Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed. Tramadol is an opioid analgesic used to treat moderate to severe pain. Tramadol was developed by the German pharmaceutical company Grunenthal GmbH in the late 1970s, marketed under the name Tramal. It is also licensed under other names including Ultram.
As an NSAID, ketorolac does not bind to opiate receptors. 8 A study to evaluate the sedative and addictive potential of ketorolac showed no withdrawal symptoms upon cessation of dosing with ketorolac 30 mg IM four times daily for 5 days. SPRIX ® (ketorolac tromethamine) Nasal Spray is the first and only intranasal NSAID. It is indicated for the short-term (up to 5 days) management of moderate to moderately severe pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level.
However, ketorolac is sometimes used together with a narcotic to provide better pain relief than either medicine used alone. Ketorolac has side effects that can be very dangerous. The risk of having a serious side effect increases with the dose of ketorolac and with the length of treatment. Therefore, ketorolac should not be used for more than 5 days. Before using this medicine, you should discuss with your doctor the good that this medicine can do as well as the risks of using it.
I suppose it technically depends on the type of pain, and the respective dosages, but just based on the fact that hydrocodone is an opiate, and ketorolac (toradol) is not, for … the most part, hydrocodone is going to be stronger. However, there are lots of synthetic drugs  with similar effects which are also con … sidered opiates, such as  oxy-cotton and percasettes. PS. please forgive my spelling. Opium  and its derivatives, such as morphine and heroin, depress neural  activity, temporarily lessening pain and anxiety.