1 A San Francisco prostitute gives birth to the first of three children who were later diagnosed with AIDS. 2  The children's blood was tested after their deaths and revealed an HIV infection. 3  The mother died of AIDS in May 1987. 1 July 27, The term AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) is proposed at a meeting in Washington of gay-community leaders, federal bureaucrats and the CDC to replace GRID (gay-related immune deficiency) as evidence showed it was not gay specific. 2  Summer, First known case in Italy.
Answer by Deb Willoughby. Confidence votes 84.6K. Discovery of HIV The near unanimous international consensus is that HIV was first discovered in 1983, by a team of scientists-led by the French virologist Luc Montagnier-at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, France. The virus was first identified in 1981. AIDS was first clinically observed between late 1980 and early 1981. A group of five men showed symptoms of Pneumocystis carinii pneumo … nia (PCP), a rare opportunistic infection that was known to present itself in people with very compromised immune systems.
1 The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report the first substantial decline in AIDS deaths in the United States. 2  Due largely to the use of HAART, AIDS-related deaths in the U.S. decline by 47% compared with the previous year. 1 The number of new AIDS cases diagnosed in the U.S. declines for the first time since the beginning of the epidemic. 2  AIDS is no longer leading cause of death for all Americans ages 25-44, although it remains the leading cause of death for African Americans in this age group.
Formal tracking (surveillance) of AIDS cases began that year in the United States. In 1983, scientists discovered the virus that causes AIDS. The virus was at first named HTLV-III/LAV (human T-cell lymphotropic virus-type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus) by an international scientific committee. This name was later changed to HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). 
2014 marks the 25th anniversary of the discovery of the Hepatitis C virus. Since the virus was discovered in 1989, significant public health and research advances have led to great progress in curbing new infections and developing life-saving treatment options. Discovery of Hepatitis C Virus. The Hepatitis C virus was discovered by scientists at CDC, NIH and industry. Following the discovery, the Hepatitis C virus was identified as the cause of nearly all cases of non-A, non-B Hepatitis in the United States.
Discovery of HIV  The near unanimous international consensus is that HIV was first  discovered in 1983, by a team of scientists-led by the French  virologist Luc Montagni … er-at the Pasteur Institute in Paris,  France. HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) is the virus that causes AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.) HIV is transmitted though blood, semen, vaginal fluid and breast milk. HIV attacks the part of the body that fights disease, the immune system.
The origin of AIDS has presented numerous puzzles to scientists since the first recognized cases appeared in the early 1980s. Until 1984 its cause was the subject of fierce debate. They concluded that the origin of the HIV isolate discovered by Gallo was the same as that discovered by Montagnier. Today it is generally agreed that Montagnier’s group was the first to identify HIV, although Gallo’s group insists it contributed significantly to demonstrating that it causes AIDS.
1 Researchers from Europe estimate that some time in the early 1930s a form of simian immunodeficiency virus, SIV, was transmitted to humans in central Africa. 2  The mutated virus was later identified as the first of other human immunodeficiency viruses, HIV-1. 1 July 27, The term AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) is proposed at a meeting in Washington of gay-community leaders, federal bureaucrats and the CDC to replace GRID (gay-related immune deficiency) as evidence showed it was not gay specific. 2  Summer, First known case in Italy.
HIV was discovered by a team of scientists-led by professor Smith and Dr. Jameson at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, France. The virus was first identified in 1981. AIDS was first clinically observed between late 1980 and early 1981. A group of five men showed symptoms of Pneumocystis carinii pneumo … nia (PCP), a rare opportunistic infection that was known to present itself in people with very compromised immune systems.
HIV in the U.S. The first cases of HIV in the United States date back to 1981. Homosexual men began dying from mysterious, pneumonia-like infections. In June 1981, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) first described the symptoms of this unknown disease in one of their publications. The FDA approved the first protease inhibitor in 1995. This began a new era of strong treatment and response called highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). By 1997, HAART was the standard of treatment for HIV. Soon, the number of deaths caused by AIDS begins to fall.