In a currency pair, the first currency in the pair is called the base currency and the second is called the quote currency. The first currency quoted in a currency pair on forex. It is also typically considered the domestic currency or accounting currency. For accounting purposes, a firm may use the base currency to represent all profits and losses. It is sometimes referred to as the primary currency.
Often the slash character is omitted. A widely traded currency pair is the relation of the euro against the US dollar, designated as EUR/USD. The quotation EUR/USD 1.2500 means that one euro is exchanged for 1.2500 US dollars. Here, EUR is the base currency and USD is the counter currency. The most traded currency pairs in the world are called the Majors. If a EUR/USD position is closed out with a profit in USD by a British bank, then the rate-to-base will be expressed as a GBP/USD rate. This ambiguity leads many market participants to use the expressions currency 1 (CCY1) and currency 2 (CCY2), where one unit of CCY1 equals the quoted number of units of CCY2.
AAA |. The quotation and pricing structure of the currencies traded in the forex market: the value of a currency is determined by its comparison to another currency. The first currency of a currency pair is called the base currency, and the second currency is called the  quote currency . The currency pair shows how much of the quote currency is needed to purchase one unit of the base currency. Next Up. DEFINITION of 'Currency Pair'. The quotation and pricing structure of the currencies traded in the forex market: the value of a currency is determined by its comparison to another currency.
The currency that is used as the reference is called the counter currency, quote currency or terms currency and the currency that is quoted in relation is called the base currency or transaction currency. If a EUR/USD position is closed out with a profit in USD by a British bank, then the rate-to-base will be expressed as a GBP/USD rate. This ambiguity leads many market participants to use the expressions currency 1 (CCY1) and currency 2 (CCY2), where one unit of CCY1 equals the quoted number of units of CCY2.
Similarly, a speculating trader sells a currency pair with the hope that the base currency will decrease in value compared to the quote currency or the quote currency will increase with regards to the base currency. Forex trading often involves the simultaneous buying of one currency and selling of another. A “euro cross” contains the Euro in the currency pair. When the U.S. dollar is the base currency and a currency quote goes up, it means the dollar has appreciated in value and the other currency has comparably weakened.
Currency pairs that do not involve the U.S. dollar are referred to as “cross rates”. A “euro cross” contains the Euro in the currency pair. When the U.S. dollar is the base currency and a currency quote goes up, it means the dollar has appreciated in value and the other currency has comparably weakened.
A currency pair is a quotation featuring two different currencies, with currency being quoted in terms of the other. A currency exchange rate is always quoted in a currency pair, such as EUR/USD (Euro/U.S. Dollar). A “euro cross” contains the Euro in the currency pair. When the U.S. dollar is the base currency and a currency quote goes up, it means the dollar has appreciated in value and the other currency has comparably weakened.
DEFINITION of 'Base Currency'. The first currency quoted in a currency pair on forex. It is also typically considered the domestic currency or accounting currency. For accounting purposes, a firm may use the base currency to represent all profits and losses. It is sometimes referred to as the primary currency.
Definition. The first currency in a currency pair. In a currency exchange, the exchange rate is quoted as the units of one currency in terms of a single unit of a base currency. URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/6418/base_currency.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited.