Brown Early Origins. First found in Cumberland, where the Brown family held a family seat and claim descent from Le Brun in Normandy, who was granted many estates there soon after the Conquest. However, many of the family remained in Normandy where Gilbert and William le Brun were listed in 1185.
German and Jewish (Ashkenazic): nickname from German braun ‘brown’ (Middle High German brun), referring to the color of the hair, complexion, or clothing, or from the personal name Bruno, which was borne by the Dukes of Saxony, among others, from the 10th century or before.
Perhaps the name Stroman derived from Latin name Romanus, also as St Roman, Stromain, St Romain, Saint Roman. This surname Roman is found almost everywhere in Europe, but mostly concentrated in Spain. The surname Romain is probably a French variant of Roman, mostly found in France and the UK.
According to my source (link provided), the proud and noble English surname Brown is first found in Cumberland, where they'd held a family seat. They had arrived in England shortly after the Norman Conquest of 1066 A.D., from Normandy.
(Origin Scottish) A name derived from complexion, color of hair or garments, consequently, a very common name. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
A very common name in Scotland, of more than one origin. (1) Brun is a common personal name in Old English charters, e.g. Brun, c. 970, Brun bydel ('beadle'), c. 1000 (Kemble, Codex Diplomaticus, 981, 1353), etc. The name is from an old adjective meaning 'brown dark red,' Old English and OHG. brun ON. brunn.
Brown is an English-language surname in origin chiefly descriptive of a person with brown hair, complexion or clothing.
English, Scottish, and Irish: generally a nickname referring to the color of the hair or complexion, Middle English br(o)un, from Old English brun or Old French brun. This word is occasionally found in Old English and Old Norse as a personal name or byname.
Brown is the 4th most popular surname in the United States, the 5th most common in England, and the 4th most common last name in Australia. The variant surname, Browne, is also common in England and Ireland. Surname Origin: English, Scottish, Irish.