Posthuman or post-human is a concept originating in the fields of science fiction, futurology, contemporary art, and philosophy that literally means a person or entity that exists in a state beyond being human. It is the object of posthumanist criticism, which critically questions Renaissance humanism, a branch of humanist philosophy which claims that human nature is a universal state from which the human being emerges; human nature is autonomous, rational, capable of free will, and unified in itself as the apex of existence.
Of course, this is not necessarily what the posthuman will mean--only what it can. mean if certain strands among its complex seriations are highlighted and combined to create a vision. of the human that uses the posthuman as leverage to avoid reinscribing, and thus repeating, some of. the mistakes of the past. 23 Although some versions of the posthuman circulating within the culture point towardthe anti-human and the apocalyptic, it is possible to craft others that will be conducive to the long-range survival of humans and the other life forms, biological and artificial, with whom we share theplanet and ourselves.
The posthuman is roughly synonymous with the  cyborg  of A Cyborg Manifesto by Donna Haraway. Haraway's conception of the cyborg is an ironic take on traditional conceptions of the cyborg that inverts the traditional trope of the cyborg whose presence questions the salient line between humans and robots. It is the object of posthumanist criticism, which critically questions Renaissance humanism, a branch of humanist philosophy which claims that human nature is a universal state from which the human being emerges; human nature is autonomous, rational, capable of free will, and unified in itself as the apex of existence.
2. Becoming posthuman Let us suppose that you were to develop into a being that has posthuman healthspan and posthuman cognitive and emotional capacities. At the early steps of this process, you enjoy your enhanced capacities. You cherish your improved health: you feel stronger, more energetic, and more balanced. In the next three sections we will look in a little more detail at each of the three general. central capacities that I listed in the introduction section. I hope to show that the claim that it. could be very good to be posthuman is not as radical as it might appear to some.
The posthuman depends (at least etymologically) upon the human; however, by calling the human so thoroughly into question, the figure of the posthuman implies that the human is, in fact, the more conceptual creature. Corpses are posthuman in a very literal sense. All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.. ~ George Orwell. In this course, we will think about what it is to be human and about how the human is being transformed by rapid advances in technology.
As used in this article, posthuman does not necessarily refer to a conjectured future where humans are extinct or otherwise absent from the Earth. As with other species who speciate from one another, both humans and posthumans could continue to exist. It is the object of posthumanist criticism, which critically questions Renaissance humanism, a branch of humanist philosophy which claims that human nature is a universal state from which the human being emerges; human nature is autonomous, rational, capable of free will, and unified in itself as the apex of existence.
A variation on the posthuman theme is the notion of a posthuman god; the idea that posthumans, being no longer confined to the parameters of human nature, might grow physically and mentally so powerful as to appear possibly god-like by present-day human standards. It is the object of posthumanist criticism, which critically questions Renaissance humanism, a branch of humanist philosophy which claims that human nature is a universal state from which the human being emerges; human nature is autonomous, rational, capable of free will, and unified in itself as the apex of existence.
Posthumanism has a much stronger critical edge attempting to develop through enactment new understandings of the self and others, essence, consciousness, intelligence, reason, agency, intimacy, life, embodiment, identity and the body. This article is about a critique of humanism. The temporal being of both human and non-human is multi-aspectual; for example, both plants and humans are bodies, functioning in the biotic aspect, and both computers and humans function in the formative and lingual aspect, but humans function in the aesthetic, juridical, ethical and faith aspects too.
ConclusionWhat Does It Mean To Be Posthuman?What are we to make of the posthuman? 1 At least for me, the prospect of becomingposthuman both terrifies and gives pleasure. Perhaps I can summarize the implications of theposthuman by interrogating the sources of this terror and pleasure. 23 Although some versions of the posthuman circulating within the culture point towardthe anti-human and the apocalyptic, it is possible to craft others that will be conducive to the long-range survival of humans and the other life forms, biological and artificial, with whom we share theplanet and ourselves.