The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular environment.
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. 
Cell membrane: It is a biological membrane that separates living cell organelles from non living structures. This membrane plays a vital role in helping a cell to communicate with the external environment and also in transporting proteins and other molecules throughout the cell. It is the middle layer, which is present in between the capsule and cell membrane. Cell membrane: It is the inner delicate structure, which plays a vital role in regulating the entry and exits of materials in the cell. It acts a permeable membrane and separates the cell from its environment.
In biology, the cell is the basic structure of organisms. All cells are made by other cells. The environment outside the cell is separated from the inside of the cell by the cell membrane. Inside some cells, parts of the cell stay separate from other parts. These separate parts are called organelles (like small organs). 
Cell contents are separated from the external environment by the  cell membrane. Cells are also separated by the external environment  when they are in the bloodstream in th … e capillaries and veins. Answered. In Genetics. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Littlerush09. Confidence votes 45. The cell membrane separates the cell from its environment.
Since the environment a cell is in is mostly made up of water these automatically arrange themselves to form a layer where the tails are on the inside and the heads form a watertight barrier on the outside. The inner side of this membrane is also like this due to the high concentration of water inside the cell. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Littlerush09. Confidence votes 45. The cell membrane separates the cell from its environment.
1. PLASMA MEMBRANE/ CELL MEMBRANE. Structure-a bilipid membraneous layer composed of proteins and carbohydrates. It is fluid like. Function-the cell membrane separates the cell from its external environment, and is selectively permeable (controls what gets in and out). It protects the cell and provides stability. Proteins are found embedded within the plasma membrane, with some extending all the way through in order to transport materials. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, it is the cell membrane. Some molecules can just passively diffuse through the cell membrane. These molecules are usually smaller and non-polar. Other molecules require membrane channels to pass through the membrane. These are usually large and/or polar. 
This organelle separates cell contents from the external environment and regulates the flow of materials in and out of cell. 1  Mitochondria. 2  Nuclear Membrane. 3  Plasma Membrane. 