Chelation therapy has a long history of use in clinical toxicology and remains in use for some very specific medical treatments, although it is administered under very careful medical supervision due to various inherent risks. Chelation therapy must be administered with care as it has a number of possible side effects, including death.
The proposal raises many questions about the ethics of biomedical research. Chelation and Autism. Chelation therapy is a legitimate FDA approved treatment for heavy metal poisoning. The drugs used for chelation, such as disodium EDTA, bind to heavy metals so that they can be removed from the body. Chelation drugs can be given either orally or intravenously. 
Chelation therapy is not an effective autism treatment, and it may be dangerous. Some doctors and parents have considered chelation therapy as a potential autism treatment. Proponents believe that autism is caused by mercury exposure, such as from childhood vaccines. Chelation therapy supposedly removes mercury from the body, which chelation supporters say cures autism — but there's no evidence of a link between mercury exposure and autism. In addition, chelation therapy can be associated with serious side effects, including potentially deadly liver and kidney damage
The Bottom Line. Chelation therapy is a treatment for heavy metal poisoning: iron, mercury, arsenic, and lead. Some people give chelation therapy for other conditions such as cardiovascular disease, autism, and Alzheimer's. This exposes patients to risks without benefit. Chelation therapy as a treatment for autism is based on the erroneous belief that mercury in childhood vaccines is a cause of autism. This belief arose when it was noted that 1) the number of cases of autism was growing and 2) the number of recommended childhood vaccines was increasing.
Deferasirox is used in the treatment of transfusional iron overload in people with thalassemia. Chelation therapy is used as a treatment for metal poisoning, including acute mercury, iron (including in cases of thalassemia), arsenic, lead, uranium, plutonium and other forms of toxic metal poisoning. Chelation therapy must be administered with care as it has a number of possible side effects, including death.
Abstract. Chelation treatment is used to eliminate specific metals from the body, such as mercury. It has been hypothesized that mercury poisoning may be a factor in autism and data suggest that perhaps 7% of individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have received chelation treatment. 
Chelation therapy is a chemical process in which a synthetic solution-EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid)-is injected into the bloodstream to remove heavy metals and/or minerals from the body. Chelation means to grab or to bind.. When EDTA is injected into the veins, it grabs heavy metals and minerals such as lead, mercury, copper, iron, arsenic, aluminum, and calcium and removes them from the body. Except as a treatment for lead poisoning, chelation therapy is controversial and unproved. Chelation is a very effective way to treat heavy-metal poisoning. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved prescription chelation therapy for the treatment of lead
Chelation therapy is a medical procedure that involves the administration of chelating agents to remove heavy metals from the body. Chelation therapy must be administered with care as it has a number of possible side effects, including death.