Product Line. Liquid Tooling Materials Selection Guide. (Part 1 of 2: Choosing a Liquid Tooling System). Go directly to Part 2 of 2: Choosing a Liquid Tooling Material. Mass Casting Thick Parts (Small Projects). Mass Casting is the easiest and most popular method for creating a pattern, part, tool, or mold. It is the ideal method for smaller parts and offers the widest range of materials to suit any application. (see video for more in-depth instruction).
But tooling costs and complexity increase as the part performance requirements, surface quality requirements and/or the number of parts to be produced increase. The molds used for forming composites, also known as tools, can be made from virtually any material. But tooling costs and complexity increase as the part performance requirements, surface quality requirements and/or the number of parts to be produced increase. Author: Staff. 
Each grain of abrasive functions as a microscopic single-point cutting edge (although of high negative rake angle), and shears a tiny chip. Cutting tools must be made of a material harder than the material which is to be cut, and the tool must be able to withstand the heat generated in the metal-cutting process. Single-point tools are used in turning, shaping, plaining and similar operations, and remove material by means of one cutting edge. Milling and drilling tools are often multipoint tools. Grinding tools are also
Tool steel refers to a variety of carbon and alloy steels that are particularly well-suited to be made into tools. Their suitability comes from their distinctive hardness, resistance to abrasion and deformation and their ability to hold a cutting edge at elevated temperatures. As a result tool steels are suited for their use in the shaping of other materials. With a carbon content between 0.5% and 1.5%, tool steels are manufactured under carefully controlled conditions to produce the required quality.
HexTOOL® is Hexcel’s new patented composite tooling material that, for the first time, enables the tolerance accuracy achieved with metals to be combined with the extreme lightness of carbon fiber composites. HexTOOL® molds are easy to repair and are simple to modify. 
Galling is a physical or chemical adhesion of the work material to the tool surface, most prevalent with stainless steel and aluminum. Some of the other variables are tooling hardness, types and amounts of carbide in the tooling, the surface finish of the tooling, and lubrication. Surface friction can be controlled by the tooling material's carbide size, type, and distribution. Figure 2 shows the micrographs for AISI D2, 6 percent vanadium P/M, and antigalling P/M tool steels, allowing a comparison of their carbides.
The Tooling and Materials work group considered aspects of materials in the forging process, including the materials used in production equipment (die blocks, etc.), new materials to be forged, and the impact of these materials on the forging process. The work group reviewed the strategic targets for tooling and material utilization as listed in the Forging Industry Vision of the Future (Exhibit 3-1).
The ability to improve tooling and increase materials utilization is hindered by technology barriers that exist in several aspects of the forging process (Exhibit 3-2). The work group reviewed the strategic targets for tooling and material utilization as listed in the Forging Industry Vision of the Future (Exhibit 3-1).
Many types of tool materials, ranging from high carbon steel to ceramics and diamonds, are used as cutting tools in today’s metalworking industry. It is important to be aware that differences do exist among tool materials, what these differences are, and the correct application for each type of material. Tool Steels and Cast Alloys. Plain carbon tool steel is the oldest of the tool materials dating back hundreds of years. In simple terms, it is a high-carbon steel, which contains about 1.05% carbon. This high carbon content allows the steel to be hardened, offering greater resistance to abrasive wear