The word thalweg is of 19th-century German origin. It literally means valley way and is used, with its modern spelling Talweg, in daily German to describe a path or road that follows the bottom of a valley, or in geography with the more technical meaning also adopted by English. The thalweg thus marks the natural direction (the profile) of a watercourse. The term is also sometimes used to refer to a subterranean stream that percolates under the surface and in the same general direction as the surface stream.
Definition of THALWEG. 1. a: a line following the lowest part of a valley whether under water or not b: the line of continuous maximum descent from any point on a land surface or one crossing all contour lines at right angles c: subsurface water percolating beneath and in the same direction as a surface stream course. 2. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Thalweg is an English loan word from German. The German word Thalweg (modern spelling Talweg) is a compound noun that is built from the German elements Thal (since Duden 's orthography reform of 1901 written Tal) meaning valley, and Weg, meaning way. The thalweg thus marks the natural direction (the profile) of a watercourse. The term is also sometimes used to refer to a subterranean stream that percolates under the surface and in the same general direction as the surface stream.
In geography and fluvial geomorphology, a thalweg or talweg (/ˈtɑːlvɛɡ/) is the line of lowest elevation within a valley or watercourse. The thalweg thus marks the natural direction (the profile) of a watercourse. The term is also sometimes used to refer to a subterranean stream that percolates under the surface and in the same general direction as the surface stream.
The noun THALWEG has 2 senses: 1. the middle of the chief navigable channel of a waterway that forms the boundary line between states. 2. a line following the lowest points of a valley. Familiarity information: THALWEG used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
thalweg ‎(plural thalwege or thalwegs). ( 1 geology, geography) The line that connects the lowest points in a valley or river channel, and thus the line of fastest flow along a river ’s course. 
thalweg. (geography). The middle of the principal navigable waterway which serves as a boundary between two states. (geology). A line connecting the lowest points along a stream bed or a valley. Also known as valley line. A line crossing all contour lines on a land surface perpendicularly.
noun. A line connecting the lowest points of successive cross-sections along the course of a valley or river. Example sentences. 1  A river adjusts to variations in seasonal changes in volumetric flow by means of its thalweg (the thread of fastest flowing water), its flood plains, and its underground flow. 1 Along all three of the Maine/New Brunswick boundary rivers, the actual boundary follows the middle of the main channel, but it is only on the St. Croix that the term thalweg is expressly used.
German talweg (formerly spelled thalweg), from tal valley (from Old High German) + weg way, path, from Old High German — more at dale, way. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.