Nociception is the neural processes of encoding and processing noxious stimuli. Nociception refers to a signal arriving at the central nervous system as a result of stimulation of specalised sensory receptors in the peripheral nervous system called nociceptors.
We use antihistamines, of course, to relieve the itch.. There are tissues that contain nociceptors which do not lead to pain. In the lungs, for example, there are pain receptors which cause you to cough, but do not cause you to feel pain. Chemical nociceptors respond to a variety of chemicals released with tissue damage, as well as to external chemicals such as capsaicin (the chemical that makes hot peppers hot) and spider venom. Polymodal nociceptors can be excited by strong pressure, by heat or cold, and by chemical stimulation as well.
Referred pain — Pain felt at a site different from the location of the injured or diseased part of the body. Referred pain is due to the fact that nerve signals from several areas of the body may feed the same nerve pathway leading to the spinal cord and brain. Pain is the most common symptom of injury and disease, and descriptions can range in intensity from a mere ache to unbearable agony. Nociceptors have the ability to convey information to the brain that indicates the location, nature, and intensity of the pain.
Once stimulated, a nociceptor sends a signal along a chain of nerve fibers via the spinal cord to the brain. Nociception triggers a variety of autonomic responses and may also result in a subjective experience of pain in sentient beings. Nociceptive neurons generate trains of action potentials in response to intense stimuli, and the frequency of firing determines the intensity of the pain. The gate control theory of pain, proposed by Patrick David Wall and Ronald Melzack, postulates that nociception (pain) is gated by non-nociception stimuli such as vibration. Thus, rubbing a bumped knee seems to relieve pain by preventing its transmission
Nociceptors. In the skin and other tissues of the body, there are special sensory neurons called nociceptors. These neurons translate certain stimuli into action potentials that are then transmitted to more central parts of the nervous system, such as the brain. Chemical nociceptors respond to a variety of chemicals released with tissue damage, as well as to external chemicals such as capsaicin (the chemical that makes hot peppers hot) and spider venom. Polymodal nociceptors can be excited by strong pressure, by heat or cold, and by chemical stimulation as well.
History [edit]. Nociceptors were discovered by Charles Scott Sherrington in 1906. In earlier centuries, scientists believed that animals were like mechanical devices that transformed the energy of sensory stimuli into motor responses. Chemical nociceptors have TRP channels that respond to a wide variety of spices. The one that sees the most response and is very widely tested is Capsaicin. Other chemical stimulants are environmental irritants like acrolein, a World War I chemical weapon and a component of cigarette smoke.
A nociceptor is a sensory neuron (nerve cell) that responds to potentially damaging stimuli by sending signals to the spinal cord and brain. This process, called nociception, usually causes the perception of pain. Chemical nociceptors have TRP channels that respond to a wide variety of spices. The one that sees the most response and is very widely tested is Capsaicin. Other chemical stimulants are environmental irritants like acrolein, a World War I chemical weapon and a component of cigarette smoke.
Nociceptors are sensory receptors that detect signals from damaged tissue or the threat of damage and indirectly also respond to chemicals released from the damaged tissue. Nociceptors are free (bare) nerve endings found in the skin (Figure 6.2), muscle, joints, bone and viscera. Most ailments of the body cause pain. The ability to diagnose different diseases depends to a great extent on the knowledge of the different qualities and causes of pain. Sensitivity and reactivity to noxious stimuli are essential to the well-being and survival of an organism.