Some paramedic programs require you to have worked as an EMT for six months or so before gaining entrance. Paramedic education. The educational requirements to be a paramedic are rigorous. Many community colleges have two-year degree programs in paramedic training. By EMS1 Contributors. The requirements to be a paramedic are extremely rigorous, so it’s not an undertaking or a career choice to be taken lightly. A paramedic is the highest level of EMT (Emergency Medical Technician) certification.
1 In order to recertify, an EMT must possess a current EMT card and have obtained either 24 hours of approved EMS continuing education or an approved 24 hour refresher course within the past two years. 2  Any refresher course or CE must be through an approved training program. 1 How to renew an EMT certification. 2  In order to recertify, an EMT must possess a current EMT card and have obtained either 24 hours of approved EMS continuing education or an approved 24 hour refresher course within the past two years. 3
The process for becoming an Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) differs from state to state, but the overall trajectory is similar. You must become a certified EMT before you can move on to learning advanced life support skills in paramedic courses. Prior to enrolling in an EMT course, you should also consider CPR and Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) certifications, which may suffice for your intended purpose. Find the class or classes right for you. Some employers are looking for certified paramedics to fill EMT slots, but the Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) designation may be right for you if you're just looking for an entry level certification to test the waters.
Get your EMT-B certification. Most community colleges offer EMT-Basic classes. They cost $500-$900 and last from 3 to 6 months, or a semester. In some communities, you may have to ride along as a third person for a few months before you will be put into a class. Sometimes you pay for the class and are reimbursed. The exam includes hands-on testing too, and you should practice EMT skills until you're quite comfortable performing them before you take the EMT-B test. 5. (This Step Is Completely Optional)Get one year of EMT-B experience. This experience may help to better prepare you for being a Paramedic.
Becoming an emergency medical technician (EMT) or paramedic can take anywhere from one to three years, depending on a student’s choice of career and educational path. EMT training focuses on life support techniques in first-response situations, including CPR, tourniquet application, and treatment of wounds. EMT basic training (EMT-B) takes anywhere from six months to two years to complete, depending on the institution. These programs are offered at technical institutes and community colleges and typically include 120 to 150 hours of coursework.
The first of the training requirements to be a paramedic is to get certified as an EMT-B, which is the first and most basic level of EMT training. The EMT-B training is available through many community colleges and other institutions. It usually takes about six months to complete the 120 to 150 hours of training. After that, you take a state certification test. As an EMT, you can be employed providing emergency treatment in ambulances and many other venues. By EMS1 Contributors. The requirements to be a paramedic are extremely rigorous, so it’s not an undertaking or a career choice to be taken lightly. A paramedic is the highest level of EMT (Emergency Medical Technician) certification.
10 Signs You Should be an EMT. Becoming an EMT is a popular career choice. Before choosing to become an EMT, it’s best to determine if this career choice is right for you. Picking a career based on salary alone is never the right decision. Picking a career choice because other people want to you to is also a poor reason. 
That's right. Before you can be a paramedic, you'll need to pass a background check so you can't have any felonies in your background. Being in trouble with the law for drug use or other crimes can keep you from being a paramedic. Paramedics need to demonstrate strong character and a respect for the law. The exam includes hands-on testing too, and you should practice EMT skills until you're quite comfortable performing them before you take the EMT-B test. 5. (This Step Is Completely Optional)Get one year of EMT-B experience. This experience may help to better prepare you for being a Paramedic.
Certification. To become a certified EMT-Basic, you must complete a state-recognized training program and pass the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians (NREMT) certification exam or a state licensing exam (www.nremt.org). If you can't pass it by the third try, you'll have to complete an additional 24 hours of training before you can try again. Once you become a certified EMT-Basic, you'll need to complete continuing education and re-certify every two years.