Genre Definition. Genre means the type of art, literature or music characterized by a specific form, content and style. For example, literature has four main genres; poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction. All of these genres have particular features and functions that distinguish them from one another. Poetry is the first major literary genre. All types of poetry share specific characteristics. In fact, poetry is a form of text that follows a meter and rhythm with each lines and syllables. It is further subdivided into different genres such an epic poem, narrative, romantic, dramatic, and lyric
Theory of Literary Genres. ENGL 355 Fall 2007 not offered. Aristotle classified genres, or the types of literature, into three major categories: lyric, epic or narrative, and drama, mirrored in our modern categories of poetry, novel, and drama. But we also have a proliferation of other literary kinds: epic, tragedy, comedy, satire, biography, essay, pastoral, and so on
The Muse has two primary objectives: 1) to explore specific literary genres and specific works of literature classified by genre, and 2) to explore issues and questions that arise in connection with literary genre. about genre in all the arts. Literary genre is just one form of genre. Genres appertain to all the arts. In the world of arts generally, a genre is a class or category of artistic works that exhibit certain key aesthetic characteristics.
Types & Characteristics of Genres: Poetry. A main literary genre is poetry. All poems share specific characteristics. For example, poetry is written in lines and stanzas instead of sentences and paragraphs. Some poems follow strict rules as to the number and length of lines and stanzas, whereas many poems are much more free-flowing. Types & Characteristics of Genres: Fiction. Poetry, however, is not the only genre that can utilize figurative language. Similarly, fiction, which is any work written in prose that is not real, can also use elaborate figurative language. However, fiction is much more structured than poetry.
The most general genres in literature are (in loose chronological order) epic, tragedy, comedy, and creative nonfiction. They can all be in the form of prose or poetry. Additionally, a genre such as satire, allegory or pastoral might appear in any of the above, not only as a subgenre (see below), but as a mixture of genres. Finally, they are defined by the general cultural movement of the historical period in which they were composed.
Genre should not be confused with age categories, by which literature may be classified as either adult, young-adult, or children's. They also must not be confused with format, such as graphic novel or picture book. They can all be in the form of prose or poetry. Additionally, a genre such as satire, allegory or pastoral might appear in any of the above, not only as a subgenre (see below), but as a mixture of genres. Finally, they are defined by the general cultural movement of the historical period in which they were composed.
A genre is a kind or category of artistic endeavor having a particular form, content, technique, or the like, for example: the genre of epic poetry. In this feature The Muse Of Literature explores authors, bodies of work, and selected individual works strongly associated with specific literary genres. about genre in all the arts. Literary genre is just one form of genre. Genres appertain to all the arts. In the world of arts generally, a genre is a class or category of artistic works that exhibit certain key aesthetic characteristics.
&nbsp Genre is a French term derived from the Latin genus, generis, meaning type, sort, or kind.. It designates the literary form or type into which works are classified according to what they have in common, either in their formal structures or in their treatment of subject matter, or both. 
A literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. They can all be in the form of prose or poetry. Additionally, a genre such as satire, allegory or pastoral might appear in any of the above, not only as a subgenre (see below), but as a mixture of genres. Finally, they are defined by the general cultural movement of the historical period in which they were composed.