The estimated incubation period is unknown and could range from 1 to 7 days, and more likely 1 to 4 days. Persons with novel H1N1 flu virus infection should be considered potentially contagious (able to spread disease) for up to 7 days after illness onset. 
Answer by okcmouseketeer (779). This varies depending on the exact strand of flu. The incubation period is normally anywhere from one to five days. The average period is around 2 days. Children can remain infectious for up to 10 days after the first symptoms are shown
Dr. Clements: When you get infected with the flu virus, it multiplies quietly in body until you get symptoms of the disease and start excreting enough virus to give to someone else. That's the incubation period. For the flu, it is about two to five days. So if you are exposed today, you probably won't have any symptoms for three to five days. Then you have a little headache, maybe a few aches and pains and maybe a low fever. Then, the next day, you have a high fever and a runny nose
Norovirus may have a prolonged infection period that starts even before a patient gets sick. There is a short lag or incubation period (up to two days) between the time that people acquire the virus and the time they get symptoms. People may be contagious during this period. All people are contagious while they are having symptoms. 
Glandular fever is infectious during the incubation period (the time between catching the virus and developing the symptoms). For glandular fever, this can be two to four weeks. Some people have the virus in their saliva for up to 18 months after infection. In adults and older children, cold symptoms usually last about a week, although a cough may last up to three weeks. Colds tend to last longer in children up to the age of five, typically around 10-14 days. Flu is usually infectious a day before symptoms start and remains infectious for about five to six days.
Answer by Lucy101 (225). Influenza, more commonly known as flu, is an infectious disease caused by a virus. The incubation period, the time of exposure to the flu virus to when you start showing symptoms, is approximately 2 to 5 days. This varies depending on the exact strand of flu. The incubation period is normally anywhere from one to five days. The average period is around 2 days.
The typical incubation period for influenza is 1—4 days (average: 2 days). Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. 
The time between exposure to the virus and the time you experience symptoms is called the incubation period. The incubation period for the influenza virus is one to four days, with an average of two days for adults. Once the virus enters the body, it begins to multiply. After about a day and a half, these new particles shed off their lining so that they can enter secretions such as saliva and phlegm. 
This interval is called the incubation period.Cold symptoms can also begin shortly after virus is first produced in the nose (10-12 hours). The time from the beginning of the infection to the peak of symptoms is typically 36-72 hours. http://www.commoncold.org/undrstn3.htm. Response to Original message. 8. 8-12 hours for incubation, 36-72 hours for symptoms. According to commoncold.org... From the time a cold virus enters the nose, it takes 8-12 hours for the viral reproductive cycle to be completed and for new cold virus to be released in nasal secretions.