“A “cowan” is a man with unlawful Masonic knowledge; an “intruder” is one with neither knowledge not secrets, who makes himself otherwise obnoxious; a “clandestine” is one who has been initiated by unlawful means, an “irregular” is one who has been initiated by a Lodge working without authorization.”. In other words, Lodge formed without a Warrant from the Grand Master (we now say Grand Lodge) is “clandestine,” and so a “clandestine Masons” is one made in a Lodge without a Warrant.”. Even this definition will not wholly serve; many old Lodges began and worked for a while without a Warrant yet were never Clandestine.
Pike decreed that only Masons of the highest degrees could be told the hidden meanings of Masonic symbols and goals thus deceiving lower initiates as to the real purpose of Masonry. . They repeat the deceptive claim that Masonry is not a secret society but a society with secrets. The. was explained in 1959 by Rev. E. Cahill in Freemasonry and the Anti-Christian Movement: Most of the Masonic symbolism, in its original and proper meaning, refers primarily to the Solar and Phallic worship. . .This fact is testified to by the great authorities of Anglo-American Freemasonry Pike, Mackey, Thomas Webb Smith, William Preston, Hutcheson, etc. 
An “irregular” Mason is sometimes, unfortunately, confused with a “clandestine” Mason; “Unfortunately,” because some men are “irregularly” made Masons even today-usually in all innocence. In other words, Lodge formed without a Warrant from the Grand Master (we now say Grand Lodge) is “clandestine,” and so a “clandestine Masons” is one made in a Lodge without a Warrant.”. Even this definition will not wholly serve; many old Lodges began and worked for a while without a Warrant yet were never Clandestine.
CLANDESTINE. In Anglo Saxon helan meant something hidden, or secret, a meaning preserved in conceal; hell, the hidden place, is from the same word. CLANDESTINE LODGE. A body of Freemasons or of those improperly claiming to be Freemasons, uniting in a Lodge without the consent of a Grand Lodge, or, although originally legally constituted, continuing to work after its Charter has been revoked, is styled a Clandestine Lodge.
CLANDESTINE FREEMASON. One made in or affiliated with a clandestine Lodge. With clandestine Lodges or Freemasons, regular Freemasons are forbidden to associate or converse on Masonic subjects. CLANDESTINE LODGE. A body of Freemasons or of those improperly claiming to be Freemasons, uniting in a Lodge without the consent of a Grand Lodge, or, although originally legally constituted, continuing to work after its Charter has been revoked, is styled a C
The basic, local organisational unit of Freemasonry is the lodge. The lodges are usually supervised and governed at the regional level (usually coterminous with either a state, province, or national border) by a Grand Lodge or Grand Orient. Freemasonry describes itself as a beautiful system of morality, veiled in allegory and illustrated by symbols. The symbolism is mainly, but not exclusively, drawn from the manual tools of stonemasons-the square and compasses, the level and plumb rule, the trowel, among others.
Navigation: Home | Contact. SHORT TALK BULLETIN-Vol.XIII December, 1935 No.12 CLANDESTINE by: Unknown Every Master Mason knows that he must not visit a clandestine Lodge, not talk Masonically with a clandestinely made Mason, but not all Master Masons can define clandestinism. In other words, Lodge formed without a Warrant from the Grand Master (we now say Grand Lodge) is “clandestine,” and so a “clandestine Masons” is one made in a Lodge without a Warrant.”. Even this definition will not wholly serve; many old Lodges began and worked for a while without a Warrant yet were never Clandestine.
www.masonicdictionary.com. CLANDESTINE (See also Regular) In Anglo Saxon helan meant something hidden, or secret, a meaning preserved in conceal; hell, the hidden place, is from the same word. Helan descended' from the Latin celare, hide; and on this was built the Latin clandestinus, secret, hidden, furtive. CLANDESTINE LODGE. A body of Freemasons or of those improperly claiming to be Freemasons, uniting in a Lodge without the consent of a Grand Lodge, or, although originally legally constituted, continuing to work after its Charter has been revoked, is styled a Clandestine Lodge.
Freemasonry is a fraternal organisation that traces its origins to the local fraternities of stonemasons, which from the end of the fourteenth century regulated the qualifications of stonemasons and their interaction with authorities and clients. Masons are members of the organization. The degrees of freemasonry retain the three grades of medieval craft guilds, those of Apprentice, Journeyman or fellow (now called Fellowcraft), and Master Mason. Freemasonry describes itself as a beautiful system of morality, veiled in allegory and illustrated by symbols. The symbolism is mainly, but not exclusively, drawn from the manual tools of stonemasons-the square and compasses, the level and plumb rule, the trowel, among others.