Chile. Being such a long country stretched over a variety of landscapes, Chile has a vast range of food and drink. One of the highlights of Chilean Cuisine is its diversity of Seafood due to its 4,270 km (2,647 miles) of coastline. Another thing not to be missed while in Chile is its high quality red wine. Chilean food should not be confused with the spicy dishes common in Mexico. Typical Chilean Dishes. Here is a list of typical Chilean Food and Drink and what their equivalent is in English: Arrollado de Chancho-chunks of pork wrapped in pork fat smothered in red aji (ají). Chili bistec a lo-pobre, Beefsteak french, fries fried, onions topped with a couple of fried. eggs
3 FOODS OF THE CHILEANS. Chile has a wide variety of foods, including seafood, beef, fresh fruit, and vegetables. A traditional Chilean meal is pastel de choclo, a pie made with corn, vegetables, chicken, and beef. This dish is usually served with ensalada chilena (Chilean salad). Chile has a wide variety of foods, including seafood, beef, fresh fruit, and vegetables. A traditional Chilean meal is pastel de choclo, a pie made with corn, vegetables, chicken, and beef
Lunch. Lunch is one of the larger meals of the day in Chile. Traditional lunch foods include cazuela, a clear broth made with rice, potato, corn and meat. Pastel de choclo, a corn casserole made with meat, olives and vegetables, is a popular lunch summer dish. A side of pan amasado, a wood-stove baked bread readily found in the Chilean countryside, often comes with lunch. 
Tasting Chile: A Celebration of Authentic Chilean Foods. This cookbook contains 140 traditional recipes from home chefs and restaurants from across Chile, spanning a variety of dishes that ranges from spicy salsas and hearty soups to the ubiquitous empanada and desserts such as sweet cream crepes.
Carbonada (Vegetables and meat minestrone-like soup). It is a very traditional winter stew of the Chilean cuisine. There are versions of this soup in other cuisines of Latin America and here in Chile, it is prepared with potatoes, pumpkin, carrots, green beans and varied seasonings, plus meat cut into small pieces. 
Typical Foods of Chile. Cazuela. Breakfast in Chile is regularly a loaf of bread with toppings and coffey or tea. Bread is bought fresh daily from a corner bakery, shop, or a bread salesman that travels around the neighborhood. In El Salvador it instead would be 2 tortillas, beans and coffey
Sit down to a traditional Chilean breakfast by topping fresh bread (pan amasado) with fruit jellies or manjar, a wildly popular caramel topping. Order a lunch of stew made with rice, potato, corn and meat in broth, followed by pastel de choclo, which is a meat and potato pie cooked with olives and vegetables. Sample chacarero at least once; this combination of steak, tomato, chili peppers and green beans is a very trendy dish. Vegetarian Fare. Avoid meat by partaking in traditional porotos granados, a bean, corn and pumpkin dish. Follow up with Chilean salad and humitas, a boiled corn husk filled with grated corn, fried onions and spices. Sample tomatic&amp;aacute;n (tomato and corn stew).