On a side note, in medical trials and tests, the longest duration of THC staying in someone’s system after 10 years of chronic habitual use is 62 days, so IF it did stay in your system for over 100 days, you are a medical miricle. Based on these findings, it is impossible to say for sure how long marijuana will remain in your system for. There are a number of factors that contribute to this uncertainty, such as the level of THC dose, method of intake, duration and frequency of use and your body’s metabolism rate.
No one can really say how long you will test positive for marijuana, since the rate of THC metabolism varies per individual. The amount of marijuana consumed can also alter the window of time that your body retains traces of THC. THC-COOH is a metabolite of THC. It is produced when the liver breaks down THC and stays in the body for much longer. The most common cutoff level for THC-COOH used by drug screening companies is 50 ng/mL. Less common cutoff levels are 20 ng/mL and 100 ng/mL.
Firstly, you should be aware that marijuana will usually be detected in a urine test for 3-60 days after your last joint, but it can be up to 90 days. If you use a Total Critical Cleaning Package, you can get great results in just a couple of hours. The reason for marijuana staying in your system for so long is that THC is fat-soluble. This means it ends up being stored in your body fat. When your body burns those fat cells later, the THC is released and ends up in your urine. The more you smoke weed, and the heavier you are, the more THC will accumulate.
353,444 Helpful Votes. 388 Followers. A. If you're wondering how long marijuana stays in your system after smoking, it depends on how often you smoke. Light users -- those who smoke pot once in a while -- will have a negative drug screen after a marijuana-free week. 
On a Urine Drug Test, THC will appear as a positive within 2-5 hours of use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days. 2  Moderate User may show positive for 7-13 days
On a Saliva Drug Test, THC will test positive within one hour of use, but may only show positive for about 12 hours after last use. On a Hair Drug Test, THC will show up about 7 days after use and most hair drug tests will test for a 90 day period. However, THC does not always bind to the hair follicle which makes it not always considered an accurate testing method for marijuana use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days.
So, we call this approximate calculation as half life. If you have smoked marijuana then the drug will stay for 3 to 30 days. This is normal for the common drugs. But in the case of marijuana, this can be detected even after a month in Urine drug test marijuana. Marijuana will stay in your system for 10 days if you have been smoking occasionally. If it is smoked on regular basis it will be there up to 45 days and if you smoke constant pace then it will be in the system for as long as 90 days. http://clnk.me/1yc0I. 
Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. Occasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months. Approximate times, Cannabis (marijuana) can be detected through testing: Single Use: Blood Test: 2-3 days Saliva Test: 12-24 hours Urine Test: 2-3 days Hair Test: Up to 90 days, depending on how long your hair sample they use has been growing.
Marijuana itself does not stay in your system, but the main chemical in marijuana, THC, does. In fact, it may stay in your system forever because it is stored in fatty tissues of various organs. Despite being stored in body fat, THC is only detectable for a certain amount of time. There are many variables that determine how long THC will remain detectable in your system, including amount used, frequency, metabolism, and the concentration of the plant. Approximate times, Cannabis (marijuana) can be detected through testing: Single Use: Blood Test: 2-3 days Saliva Test: 12-24 hours Urine Test: 2-3 days Hair Test: Up to 90 days, depending on how long your hair sample they use has been growing.