Notice period. An employee must give at least 8 weeks’ notice of any leave they wish to take. If the child is born more than 8 weeks early, this notice period can be shorter. Your employee has a statutory right to a maximum of 3 separate blocks of leave, although you can allow more if you wish. The adoptive parent getting Statutory Adoption Pay must take at least 2 weeks’ adoption leave following the placement. The mother must give you notice (at least 8 weeks) to end her maternity pay, or tell Jobcentre Plus to end her Maternity Allowance.
You must give your employer two weeks’ written notice. Is my annual leave affected if I take maternity leave? No. Annual leave is not affected by maternity leave. It continues to build up as normal while you are on the standard 26 weeks’ maternity leave and the additional 16 weeks’ maternity leave. 
Key facts. 1  All pregnant employees can take up to 52 weeks’ maternity leave around the birth of their child. 2  During statutory maternity leave, you may be entitled to statutory maternity pay for up to 39 weeks. 3  You must take a minimum of two weeks’ leave after the birth of your child, or four if you work in a factory. 1 All pregnant employees can take up to 52 weeks’ maternity leave around the birth of their child. 2  During statutory maternity leave, you may be entitled to statutory maternity pay for up to 39 weeks.
Statutory Maternity Leave. Employees must tell you at least 15 weeks before the baby is expected the date: 1  the baby is due. 2  they want to start their maternity leave-they can change this with 28 days’ notice. You can delay the start date for leave or pay if the employee doesn’t have a reasonable excuse for giving you the wrong amount of notice. To delay it, write to them within 28 days of their leave request.
Employees must give notice of their intention to take leave and that notice must: 1  State the date they wish to commence leave. 2  Be given at least three months before the expected date of delivery. 3  Be given at least 21 days before they want to start their leave. 
Employees requesting maternity leave must give their employers at least four weeks' written notice before the leave. They must also provide a medical certificate indicating the estimated date of delivery. 
1 have worked for that employer for at least 12 months; and. 2  have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12 months prior to the start of the FMLA leave; and, 3  work at a location where at least 50 employees are employed at the location or within 75 miles of the location. Yes. Pregnancy disability leave or maternity leave for the birth of a child would be considered qualifying FMLA leave for a serious health condition and may be counted in the 12 weeks of leave so long as the employer properly notifies the employee in writing of the designation.
If you want to change the date you start your maternity leave, you must give your employer notice of the new date at least 28 days before the new date or the old date, whichever is earliest. If there is a good reason why that it not possible, tell your employer as soon as you reasonably can. Once you have given notice, your employer must write to you within 28 days and state the date you are expected to return from maternity leave. If you are only entitled to OML this will be 26 weeks after the start of
If you intend to take Ordinary Paternity Leave you have to give your employer notice that specifies: 1  the week your child is due to be born in; 2  the length of leave that you intend to take (up to two weeks); and. 3  the date that you have chosen your leave to begin on. 