Likewise, Lean Manufacturing is seeking a production design that can handle both internal and external variability, where variability in production efficiency, product quality and customer orders are sought handled and absorbed through the total design of the Lean Manufacturing system. Just-In-Time (Left Pillar). Lean Manufacturing is driven by the pull of the customer's order, where production is ideally only initiated when orders are received from customers. The concept of Just-In-Time (JIT), is fundamental to Lean Manufacturing, and will potetially help to reduce a lot of waste.
Definition. Doing more with less by employing 'lean thinking.' Lean manufacturing involves never ending efforts to eliminate or reduce ' muda ' (Japanese for waste or any activity that consumes resources without adding value) in design, manufacturing, distribution, and customer service processes. Use lean manufacturing in a sentence. Show more usage examples... A forever thorn in the side of the cotton pickers of Macon, Georgia was lean manufacturing, because when the cotton gin was invented there was no need for over half of the workers in the field, making for lean times too.
Lean manufacturing is the term most commonly used to describe the Toyota Production System (TPS). In the above figure, we have the TPS house. At the base, we have operational stability, which means creating consistency in methods and tasks, equipment, workplace organization, and output of work. Lean manufacturing includes a set of principles that lean thinkers use to achieve improvements in productivity, quality, and lead-time by eliminating waste through kaizen. Kaizen is a Japanese word that essentially means change for the better or good change.
Lean Manufacturing is a production philosophy that seeks to supply exactly what the customer wants, when the customer wants it. Furthermore, Lean Manufacturing aims at supplying these goods and services with minimum waste, where waste in production is reduced through continuous improvements of the production processes. Just-In-Time (Left Pillar). Lean Manufacturing is driven by the pull of the customer's order, where production is ideally only initiated when orders are received from customers. The concept of Just-In-Time (JIT), is fundamental to Lean Manufacturing, and will potetially help to reduce a lot of waste.
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Lean production is an assembly-line methodology developed originally for Toyota and the manufacturing of automobiles. It is also known as the Toyota Production System or just-in-time production. Lean production principles are also referred to as lean management or lean thinking. 
The manager wants to understand what lean manufacturing is really all about. Lean Manufacturing is based on the Toyota production system. It is about providing a defect-free product or information or service to the customer in the quantity needed and at the time it is needed. Just-In-Time and Built-in-Quality