Cook the egg. Place it in the microwave and cook it on the highest power setting for 35 seconds. When it's done cooking, remove the paper towel and inspect the egg. If the white is still liquid, put it back in the microwave and cook for an additional 10 or 15 seconds. 1 If you want the yolk to stay runny, cook the egg at 50 percent power for about 60 seconds. 2  Keep cooking until the white is set but the yolk is still runny. 3  For a hard-cooked egg (similar to a hard-boiled egg) cook on the highest power setting for 60 seconds. 4  7 Edit step.
Cook the yolk for 20 to 30 seconds per yolk. Remove the bowl containing white and put in the yolk. Still on medium or low power if the option is available, cook the bowl of egg yolk for about 20 to 30 seconds per yolk. If cooking more than one yolk, stop every 30 seconds to check on progress. Put enough water to submerge the eggs into a microwave safe bowl, leaving at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) clearance at the top. Heat for at least three minutes, or however long it takes for the water to begin to boil.
In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, whisk one large egg with a fork. Add 1 tablespoon milk or water and a pinch of salt. Whisk with the fork until thoroughly combined. Place the dish in the microwave oven. Microwave, uncovered, on 100 percent power (high) for 30 seconds. How to Poach an Egg in the Microwave. 1  In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, combine 1/3 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon vinegar, and a pinch of salt. 2  Gently crack one large egg into the water mixture and cover the dish with plastic wrap, a lid, or a small plate. 3  Place the covered dish in a microwave oven
Carefully put bowl in the microwave oven, then cook on HIGH power for 3 - 6 minutes, according to how you like your eggs. After 30 seconds cooking, the water will return to a gentle boil, and cook the eggs, as they do conventionally. 3 minutes will cook the eggs to soft boil stage and 5 - 6 minutes (according to their size) will cook to a hard boil.
Break and slip in two eggs. Stir yolks with fork. Cover each container with plastic wrap. Cook separately on 50% or 30% power, stirring once or twice, allowing about 20 to 30 seconds per yolk, about 30 seconds to 1 minute per white. Cook 1 1/2 to 3 minutes and let stand as above. Microwave Scrambled Eggs: In a 10-ounce custard cup, beat together 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons milk with salt and pepper to taste, if desired, until blended.
1. In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, whisk one large egg with a fork. Add 1 tablespoon milk or water and a pinch of salt. Whisk with the fork until thoroughly combined. Place the dish in the microwave oven. Microwave, uncovered, on 100 percent power (high) for 30 seconds. With a fork, stir the egg. How to Poach an Egg in the Microwave. 1  In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, combine 1/3 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon vinegar, and a pinch of salt. 2  Gently crack one large egg into the water mixture and cover the dish with plastic wrap, a lid, or a small plate. 3  Place the covered dish in a microwave oven
Let the egg stand for two or three minutes. Microwaves heat up the fat in the egg much hotter than a pot of boiling water does. This heat will continue to cook the egg after it is removed. If part of the egg isn't hard enough after three minutes, cook it for another 10 to 20 seconds. Put enough water to submerge the eggs into a microwave safe bowl, leaving at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) clearance at the top. Heat for at least three minutes, or however long it takes for the water to begin to boil.
Boil water alone in the microwave. Put enough water to submerge the eggs into a microwave safe bowl, leaving at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) clearance at the top. Heat for at least three minutes, or however long it takes for the water to begin to boil. Heating the water in advance reduces the risk of exploding the shell, although a few cracks may still occur