Weak Stems. Weak stems are an adaptation which allow water lilies to focus their energy and resources on expanding their leaf network, rather than continually strengthening a stem. The water on which lilies float provides all the support traditionally offered by stems. Often growing in still waters such as lakes and ponds, the water lily can root in water up to six or seven feet deep, and can cover hundreds of acres of water when left unmanaged. Though popular in gardens, it is considered an invasive species in many parts of the United States.
Victoria is a genus of water-lilies, in the plant family Nymphaeaceae, with very large green leaves that lie flat on the water's surface. Victoria amazonica has a leaf that is up to 3 metres (9.8 ft) in diameter, on a stalk up to 8 metres (26 ft) in length. 
Adaptation of aquatic plants is evident by their structure: deeply dissected and waxy leaves, specialized pollination mechanism and variation in growth pattern. These are the types of plants based on adaptation: 1. Totally submerged plants – Are considered true water plants or hydrophytes. 
Water Lily. Water lilies are floating aquatic, or water, plants. Their long roots are anchored deeply in the floor beneath the lilies. The leaves of the water lily floats on top of the water, allowing them to absorb sunlight. The chlorophyll in the leaves is only on the upper surface of the leaves, the part the sunlight will hit. Notice the overturned leaf in the picture is red, while the other leaves are green
They are also referred to as hydrophytes or macrophytes. These plants require special adaptations for living submerged in water, or at the water's surface. The most common adaptation is aerenchyma, but floating leaves and finely dissected leaves are also common. Aquatic plants can only grow in water or in soil that is permanently saturated with water. They are therefore a common component of wetlands. One of the largest aquatic plants in the world is the Amazon water lily; one of the smallest is the minute duckweed. Many small aquatic animals use plants like duckweed for a home, or for protection from predators, but areas with more vegetation are likely to have more predators.
The most definite adaptation of the water lily is its size. This is because they want to capture as much sunlight as possible. Water lilies are rooted, but the roots float, so they can catch sunlight. Water lilies also have extremely sharp thorns, so predators do not eat them. They have air sacs to help with flotation. They also have specialised roots to take in oxygen.
Water Starwort in a marsh pool. Totally submerged plants are the true water plants or hydrophytes. Because they are truly aquatic they have the greatest number of adaptations to life in water. These include: The presence of little or no mechanical strengthening tissue in stems and leaf petioles. 
The most definite adaptation of the water lily is its size. This is because they want to capture as much sunlight as possible. Water lilies are rooted, but the roots float, so … they can catch sunlight. Water lilies also have extremely sharp thorns, so predators do not eat them. Water lilies are water plants that grow in thick patches which create stagnant low oxygen areas under the floating mats. The plants are slow growing but eventually tend to colonize shallow water of up to six feet.