Mia /mia/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MEE-ah. It is of Israeli, Latin and Scandinavian origin. In Israeli, feminine short form of Michal. In Latin and Scandinavian, a short form of Maria. Made famous by actress Mia Farrow. Soccer player Mia Hamm, model Mia Tyler. Mia is a very popular first name for women (#743 out of 4276, Top 17%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#49869 out of 150436, Top 33%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Mia for girls.
What does Mia mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Mia is of Italian and Latin origin. The meaning of Mia is mine. It is also of Danish origin, where its meaning is beloved. Mia is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 3 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Mi-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6 in baby name popularity for girls with 13442 occurrences. It ranked 6475 in popular baby names for boys with 13 occurrences.
The name Mia is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Mia is: My. Also a Wished for child; rebellion. Latin Meaning: The name Mia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Mia is: Commonly-used: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. Popular with both Spanish and non-Spanish cultures. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Mia is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Mia is: Abbreviation of Maria
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Mia and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Mia and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Mia are: The meaning of the name “Mia” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Mia (Hebrew: מיה) is a feminine name. It is of Hebrew, Latin and Scandinavian origin. The earliest known reference was to the short form of Miriam (מִרְיָם), an ancient female Hebrew name. Bearing in mind that many Levite names are Egyptian, it might be derived from an Egyptian word myr, which means beloved.
In Central Europe, Mia is a pet form for Amalia, Amelia, Emilia, Emily and Mary (given name) The name is also occasionally used as a spelling variant of the name Maya. It is of Hebrew, Latin and Scandinavian origin. The earliest known reference was to the short form of Miriam (מִרְיָם), an ancient female Hebrew name. Bearing in mind that many Levite names are Egyptian, it might be derived from an Egyptian word myr, which means beloved.
adjective. 1  acronym for missing in action. 2  Though the term has military origins, it is also used to simply imply that a person hasn't been seen in some period of time. 3  She's been MIA since the bar last night. 4  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) . adjective. 1  acronym for missing in action. 2  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) . 3  See more words with the same meaning: lost, missing, misplaced. 4  See more words with the same meaning: military (related to) .
The meaning of Mia has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Mia are: 1  American meaning: Wished for child. 2  Latin, Italian Meaning: Mine. The different meanings of the name Mia are: The meaning of the name “Mia” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.