The study of biomedical engineering is the modern research and development of new concepts and technologies to better assist the medical field with the growing needs of patients. Its diverse practices cover a wide range of disciplines, challenging its innovators to possess knowledge in both medicine and engineering. Tissue engineering is the latest form of biomedical engineering, and relates to the effort by scientists to create and manufacture artificial tissues and organs for use in human patients. Some early success has been made, including working bladders that can be grown and then transplanted into people.
Biomedical engineering is a discipline that advances knowledge in engineering, biology and medicine, and improves human health through cross-disciplinary activities that integrate the engineering sciences with biomedical sciences and clinical practice. A career in Biomedical Engineering. Biomedical engineering (BME) applies the science of engineering to the art of medicine for improving health and function of the overall population. BME is a branch of engineering in which knowledge and skills are developed and applied to solve problems in biology and medicine.
What Biomedical Engineers Do About this section. Biomedical engineers study possible applications of new materials for use as new body parts. Biomedical engineers analyze and design solutions to problems in biology and medicine, with the goal of improving the quality and effectiveness of patient care. 
Biomedical engineering is the study of engineering principles combined with medicine and biology, mostly for healthcare purposes. Biomedical engineers work to close the gap between medicine and engineering – two industries that are massive by themselves, but together solve very complex and important issues. 
Function. Biomedical engineering is a diverse field focusing on the creation, implementation, and use of various devices to benefit the medical industry. These devices generally involve years of planning, design, and invention before becoming commonplace in hospitals or laboratories. Tissue engineering is the latest form of biomedical engineering, and relates to the effort by scientists to create and manufacture artificial tissues and organs for use in human patients. Some early success has been made, including working bladders that can be grown and then transplanted into people.
View full size image. Biomedical engineering, or bioengineering, is the application of engineering principles to the fields of biology and health care. Bioengineers work with doctors, therapists and researchers to develop systems, equipment and devices in order to solve clinical problems. Biomedical engineers have developed a number of life-enhancing and life-saving technologies. These include: 1  Prosthetics, such as dentures and artificial limb replacements. 2  Surgical devices and systems, such as robotic and laser surgery. 3  Systems to monitor vital signs and blood chemistry
Biomedical engineering is the process by which medical knowledge is applied in the analysis and design fields to create new technologies and make existing technologies more efficient or cost-effective. In most cases, these engineers provide invaluable services that enhance the overall field of healthcare. 
Biomedical engineers are employed in the industry, in hospitals, in research facilities of educational and medical institutions, in teaching, and in government regulatory agencies. They often serve a coordinating or interfacing function, using their background in both engineering and medical fields. 