Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. Appraisals that do not require the appraiser to go inside the home are less costly, but they are also less common. Most appraisals require full inspections of a home.
A home appraisal, an objective opinion about what a home is worth, provides valuable information about real estate. Both buyers and sellers seek this information, which is also used by tax assessors and mortgage lenders. Appraisers, though, charge for their services, and the charges can vary. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. Appraisals that do not require the appraiser to go inside the home are less costly, but they are also less common. Most appraisals require full inspections of a home.
Definition. A professional who furnishes appraisal services for a fee, usually to investors who are considering purchasing property. Also called independent fee appraiser, review appraiser. URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/13301/fee_appraiser.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited.
“ The fee appraiser submitted the appraisal to us at 4pm on thursday, we submitted it to the courts the next day. URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/13301/fee_appraiser.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited.
appraisal fee. Charges payable to a qualified appraiser for estimating the market value of a property, as a fixed fee or one based on a percentage of the estimated value.
A property appraisal is an estimate of a property’s value. Property value is based on such factors as location, amenities, structural condition and recent sales of similar local properties. A home appraiser conducts the process. 
Sometimes an appraisal report is used to set the sale price of a property. Most, but not all, countries require appraisers to be licensed or certified. Appraisers are often known as property valuers or land valuers; in British English they are valuation surveyors. If the appraiser's opinion is based on market value, then it must also be based on the highest and best use of the real property. In the UK, real estate appraisal is known as property valuation and a real estate appraiser is a land valuer or property valuer (usually a qualified chartered surveyor who specializes in property valuation).
The Appraisal Fee Reference™ provides objective data regarding what independent fee appraisers are “customarily” paid for a base URAR when engaged directly. The AFR cannot address what is “reasonable,” due to the variations of real estate itself. We developed the national Appraisal Fee Reference™ to be the authoritative guide to average and median appraisal fees for a base URAR.
Typical Home Appraisal Cost. Actual fees might be higher or lower depending on the specifics of your property. Please call 866-533-7173 or fill out form to your right for a free Quote on the exact fee and turn time. The price of a commercial appraisal can vary by hundreds or even thousands of dollars depending on the appraiser. Therefor we put your assignment out for bid with several of our commercial appraisers in the area