1 Robert DeNiro. 2  The fourth-most famous American actor has to be Robert DeNiro for his long, continually popular career in American cinema. 3  Equally playing villains and good guys with ease, Taxi Driver was the role in the 70s that brought DeNiro to the forefront of American audiences. 4  Sean Penn. These American actors are not merely mortal human beings like the rest of the population–they are forever immortalized as semi-divine on the silver screen. 1  Marlon Brando. 2  Clark Gable. 3  Johnny Depp. 4  Robert DeNiro. 5  Sean Penn. 6  Humphrey Bogart. 7  Al Pacino. 8  Leonardo DiCaprio. 9  James Stewart. 10  Michael Douglas.
Alexandra Daddario Actress, San Andreas Alexandra Anna Daddario was born on March 16, 1986 in New York City, New York, to Christina, a lawyer, and Richard Daddario, a prosecutor. Her brother is actor Matthew Daddario and her grandfather was congressman Emilio Q. Daddario, of Connecticut. Kate Mara Actress, 127 Hours Kate was born in Bedford, New York. She is one of four children of Kathleen McNulty (Rooney) and NFL football team New York Giants executive Timothy Christopher Mara. Her sister is actress Rooney Mara.
As there is no successful movies of Tom Cruise in 2014 and here we are sorting the list of Top 10 Most Popular Hollywood Actors in 2014 so Tom Cruise ranked as 7th best actor of the Hollywood in 2014. 8. Bradley Cooper. Bradley Charles Cooper (DOB Jan 5, 1975) is an American actor and producer. In The list of top 10 Hollywood actors of 2014 Bradley Cooper ranked as 8th best actor. 9. Tom Hanks. Thomas Jeffrey Hanks commonly known as Tom Hanks is an American actor, director, film producer and writer.
1 The fourth-most famous American actor has to be Robert DeNiro for his long, continually popular career in American cinema. 2  Equally playing villains and good guys with ease, Taxi Driver was the role in the 70s that brought DeNiro to the forefront of American audiences. These American actors are not merely mortal human beings like the rest of the population–they are forever immortalized as semi-divine on the silver screen. 1  Marlon Brando. 2  Clark Gable. 3  Johnny Depp. 4  Robert DeNiro. 5  Sean Penn. 6  Humphrey Bogart. 7  Al Pacino. 8  Leonardo DiCaprio. 9  James Stewart. 10  Michael Douglas.
1 Alec Guinness. 2  This great actor is perhaps best-known for his role as Obi-Wan Kenobi from “Star Wars” and is one of the most famous British actors ever. 3  Prior to his role in “Star Wars”, he won an Oscar for his role in “The Bridge on the River Kwai” and acted in dozens of other movies. 4  Jim Broadbent. 1 Jim Broadbent. 2  Broadbent’s fame took off in the late 1990s with roles in huge films such as “Moulin Rouge!”, “Bridget Jones’s Diary”, “Gangs of New York and some “Harry Potter” films, making him one of the most famous British actors working today.
Michael Caine age 82 Sir Michael Caine, CBE, is an English actor and author. Renowned for his distinctive Cockney accent, Caine has appeared in over 115 films and is one of the UK's most recognisable actors. Tommy Lee Jones age 69 Tommy Lee Jones is an American actor and film director. He has received four Academy Award nominations, winning one as Best Supporting Actor for his performance as U.S. Marshal Samuel Gerard in the.
The likes of George Clooney, Jack Nicholson, Morgan Freeman, Anthony Hopkins, Al Pacino, Daniel Day-Lewis, and Christopher Walken have been around for decades and lost little of that spark that made them favorites. Tommy Lee Jones age 69 Tommy Lee Jones is an American actor and film director. He has received four Academy Award nominations, winning one as Best Supporting Actor for his performance as U.S. Marshal Samuel Gerard in the.
1 The best most famous American actor is Marlon Brando, and he sits atop this list because his death has only immortalized him into a more planet-sized legend. 2  From his classic line Stella! to other unforgettable pieces of acting in erotic films like Last Tango in Paris, Brando is synonymous with American cinema. These American actors are not merely mortal human beings like the rest of the population–they are forever immortalized as semi-divine on the silver screen. 1  Marlon Brando. 2  Clark Gable. 3  Johnny Depp. 4  Robert DeNiro. 5  Sean Penn. 6  Humphrey Bogart. 7  Al Pacino. 8  Leonardo DiCaprio. 9  James Stewart. 10  Michael Douglas.
The Best Actors Working Today. List Criteria: Working actors who have starred in major films or TV series in the last ~5 years. The best actors working today include Hollywood legends, Academy Award winners and many of the top up and coming actors in the world right now. Tommy Lee Jones age 69 Tommy Lee Jones is an American actor and film director. He has received four Academy Award nominations, winning one as Best Supporting Actor for his performance as U.S. Marshal Samuel Gerard in the.