Hamstring muscle injuries — such as a pulled hamstring — occur frequently in athletes. They are especially common in athletes who participate in sports that require sprinting, such as track, soccer, and basketball. A pulled hamstring or strain is an injury to one or more of the muscles at the back of the thigh. 
A hamstring injury is a strain or tear to the tendons or large muscles at the back of the thigh. It's a common injury in athletes and can occur in different severities. The three grades of hamstring injury are: 1  grade 1 – a mild muscle pull or strain. 2  grade 2 – a partial muscle tear. The hamstrings are tendons (strong bands of tissue) at the back of the thighs that attach the large thigh muscle to the bone. The term 'hamstring' also refers to the group of three muscles that run along the back of your thigh, from your hip to just below your knee.
Muscle Strains in the Thigh. A muscle strain (muscle pull or tear) is a common injury, particularly among people who participate in sports. The thigh has three sets of strong muscles: the hamstring muscles in the back of the thigh, the quadriceps muscles in the front, and the adductor muscles on the inside. The quadriceps muscles and hamstring muscles work together to straighten (extend) and bend (flex) the leg. The adductor muscles pull the legs together
Causes. The hamstring muscles are a group of three muscles that run along the back of your thigh from your hip to just below your knee. These muscles make it possible to extend your leg straight behind your body and to bend your knee
1 Hamstrings are tendons of the muscles of the back of the thigh. 2  Hamstring muscles bend the knee and straighten the hip. 3  Hamstring muscle injury is a common athletic injury. 4  Most hamstring muscle and tendon injuries heal without surgery. Hamstring injury facts. 1  Hamstrings are tendons of the muscles of the back of the thigh. 2  Hamstring muscles bend the knee and straighten the hip. 3  Hamstring muscle injury is a common athletic injury. 4  Most hamstring muscle and tendon injuries heal without surgery.
Full Definition of HAMSTRING. 1. a: either of two groups of tendons at the back of the human knee b: any of three muscles at the back of the thigh that function to flex and rotate the leg and extend the thigh. 2. : a large tendon above and behind the hock of a quadruped
The three muscles of the posterior thigh (semitendinosus, semimembranosus, biceps femoris long & short head) flex (bend) the knee, while all but the short head of biceps femoris extend (straighten) the hip. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In human anatomy, a hamstring is any of the three tendons contracted by three posterior thigh muscles (semitendinosus, semimembranosus and biceps femoris), and the term is often also used to refer to the muscles themselves.