Partner/owners in an LLP company are compensated for their participation in the company based on the services that they perform, not on a profit sharing basis, which is customary under an LLC structure. LLP companies are not legally allowed to compensate its owners as employees. Taxation. An LLP company has the option to pay taxes through a corporation taxation structure or a pass-through taxation structure. Pass-through taxation means that the profits and losses of the LLP are not reported by the company, but are reported by the individual partners/owners of the company.
Save. An LLP, Limited Liability Partnership, company is a business structure that offers asset protection to the owners. Owners of an LLP company are called partners and may consist of two or more individuals, trusts, corporations, partnerships and other business entities. Taxation. An LLP company has the option to pay taxes through a corporation taxation structure or a pass-through taxation structure. Pass-through taxation means that the profits and losses of the LLP are not reported by the company, but are reported by the individual partners/owners of the company.
A Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) and a limited liability company (L.L.C. or LLC) differ in their legal liabilities and business obligations and have some pros and cons when compared to other business organization structures like corporations, partnerships, and limited partnerships. The owners of an LLP are called partners.. Partners essentially own the LLP in much the same way as partners own a general partnership and shareholders own a corporation. When an LLP engages in business activities, it is the LLP itself which actually owns and operates the business from a legal sense.
A Japanese LLP is not a corporation, but rather exists as a contractual relationship between the partners, similarly to an American LLP. Japan also has a type of corporation with a partnership-styled internal structure, called a godo kaisha, which is closer in form to a British LLP or American limited liability company. Limited liability partnerships are distinct from limited partnerships in some countries, which may allow all LLP partners to have limited liability, while a limited partnership may require at least one unlimited partner and allow others to assume the role of a passive and limited liability investor.
The limited liability partnership (LLP) is a similar business structure but it has no general partners. All of the owners of an LLP have limited personal liability for business debts. 
A limited liability partnership (LLP) is a partnership in which some or all partners (depending on the jurisdiction) have limited liabilities. It therefore exhibits elements of partnerships and corporations. In an LLP, one partner is not responsible or liable for another partner's misconduct or negligence. Limited liability partnerships are distinct from limited partnerships in some countries, which may allow all LLP partners to have limited liability, while a limited partnership may require at least one unlimited partner and allow others to assume the role of a passive and limited liability investor.
An LLC is a limited liability company, sometimes referred to as a limited liability corporation, and an LLP is a limited liability partnership. Both legal entities are relatively new in the business world, and both share aspects of a corporation and a partnership. There are a few differences in the formation of an LLC and LLP. Both are formed through articles of organization or articles of formation, and each usually is run based on an operating agreement.
Limited Liability Partnerships. A limited liability partnership (LLP) is basically a general partnership, but with the addition of giving the partners at least some limited personal liability. There is only one class of partner (general partners). The degree of liability limitation for an LLP varies from state to state. 