The cell membrane, or plasma membrane, surrounds and protects the internal environment of a cell; however, this is not its only function. A cell membrane also determines what materials enter or leave the cell. This ensures that the cells will be able to get rid of wastes and take up important nutrients and gases.
Confidence votes 1.9K. A cell membrane is also known as a plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane. The cell membrane separates the interior of a cell from its outside environment. The main function of a cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings.
The cell membrane is a structure that forms the outer boundary of the cell and allows only certain materials to move into and out of the cell. Food, oxygen and water move into the cell through the membrane.
Phospholipids form the basic structure of a cell membrane, called the lipid bilayer. Scattered in the lipid bilayer are cholesterol molecules, which help to keep the membrane fluid consistent. Membrane proteins are important for transporting substances across the cell membrane.
The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular environment.
The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins.
Share. By Regina Bailey. Definition: The cell membrane is a thin semi-permeable membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm of a cell, enclosing its contents. Its function is to protect the integrity of the interior of the cell by allowing certain substances into the cell, while keeping other substances out.