Wifislax is an open source Linux operating system based and inspired by the Slackware Linux distribution. It’s main goal is to support the latest Wi-Fi technologies. The system provides out-of-the-box support for a wide range of wireless and wired network cards. In addition, it contains a large number of security and forensics tools, which transforms it into a pentesting (penetration testing) distro. Distributed as a dual-arch Live CD. It is distributed as a single Live CD ISO image that can run on both 64-bit and 32-bit CPUs. It integrates various unofficial network drivers, directly into the Linux kernel provided by the Slackware project.
Obtain and burn WiFiSlax. WiFiSlax is an operating system that you will be loading from a CD. It contains the tools necessary to crack WEP encryption on wireless networks. This only works with WEP encryption, not WPA/WPA2. WiFiSlax is available for free from the developer’s website. 1 In the BIOS screen, navigate to the Boot menu. 2  Set the first boot device as the CD/DVD drive. 3  This is sometimes labeled as an optical drive. 4  Setting it first will make the computer try to boot from the CD before it loads the operating system from the hard drive like it normally would.
Wifislax is a Linux distribution, focused on WiFi security, based on Slax and the whole production upon the BackTrack distribution, which provides a set of tools, drivers and functionalities with which every needed test on the field of wireless security can be conducted. Wifiway was conceived and designed for WiFi networks security auditing, RFID and Bluetooth. Wifiway is based on the distribution of the Linux operating system and runs without needing to be installed on the computer, but Wifiway works recording the ISO ...
Wifislax is a GNU/Linux distribution for performing quick and easy audits of wireless networks so that you can access the numerous tools within the system prepared to help you. As always, it's important to keep in mind that this type of distribution should be used to improve your network security, not for any illegal actions like stealing WiFi passwords or intercepting data, which are considered to be serious crimes by the authorities.
WiFiSlax is an operating system that you will be loading from a CD. It contains the tools necessary to crack WEP encryption on wireless networks. 1 In the BIOS screen, navigate to the Boot menu. 2  Set the first boot device as the CD/DVD drive. 3  This is sometimes labeled as an optical drive. 4  Setting it first will make the computer try to boot from the CD before it loads the operating system from the hard drive like it normally would.
Wifislax is a Slackware-based live CD containing a variety of security and forensics tools. 1 Notes: In case where multiple versions of a package are shipped with a distribution, only the default version appears in the table. 2  For indication about the GNOME version, please check the nautilus and gnome-shell packages. 3  The Apache web server is listed as httpd and the Linux kernel is listed as linux.
Installation with Obstacles. Contrary to the assumption that Wifislax – like other well-known Linux distributions – can be installed on your hard disk with just a few clicks, the installation routine exhibits significant weaknesses in practice. The Wifislax ISO image, which weighs in at just 630MB, fits perfectly onto a CD. When launched, the system comes up with an unusual GRUB screen: You can then change the language setting to English in the first step and select whether to boot Wifislax with a conventional or PAE kernel.
66 - Boot WifiWay/WiFiSlax wireless security OS from a USB drive (persistent). Live WifiWay is a (Spanish) wifi security linux version. It can be run from a grub4dos USB boot drive by extracting the files from the iso file and copying them to the USB drive. Wifiway is based on: http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/. More menu entries can be found in the /boot/wifiway.cfg file in the iso file
Link to official Wifislax site. Wifislax was added by adgellida in Dec 2011 and the lastest update was made in Nov 2014. There is a history of activites on Wifislax in our Change Log and Activity Log. It's possible to update the information on Wifislax or report it as discontinued, duplicated or spam. Wifislax includes a long list of security and auditing tools ready to be used, among which are numerous ports and vulnerabilities scanner, tools for creating and designing exploits, sniffers, and forensic analysis tools for auditing wireless tools, in addition to add a variety of useful launchers. More Info ».