Noun. 1. fjord-a long narrow inlet of the sea between steep cliffs; common in Norway. fiord. inlet, recess-an arm off of a larger body of water (often between rocky headlands). Translations. [fjɔːd] N → fiordo m. fjord. n. 1. (Physical Geography) (esp on the coast of Norway) a long narrow inlet of the sea between high steep cliffs formed by glacial action. [C17: from Norwegian, from Old Norse fjoerthr; fjörthr see, firth]. ford
(fyord) , fyôrd-steep sided inlet of the sea characteristic of glaciated. Regions fjords probably resulted from the scouring by glaciers of valleys formed by any of several, processes including faulting and erosion by running. Water when the regions occupied by these glaciers, subsided the valleys were drowned by the. sea (fyord) , fyôrd-steep sided inlet of the sea characteristic of glaciated. Regions fjords probably resulted from the scouring by glaciers of valleys formed by any of several, processes including faulting and erosion by running. water
A fjord is formed when a glacier cuts a U-shaped valley by ice segregation and abrasion of the surrounding bedrock. Glacial melting is accompanied by the rebounding of the Earth's crust as the ice load and eroded sediment is removed (also called isostasy or glacial rebound). In the Danish language any inlet is called a fjord, but none of the fjords of Denmark may be considered a fjord in the geological sense. Limfjord in English terminology is a sound, since it separates the North Jutlandic Island (Vendsyssel-Thy) from the rest of Jutland.
The Fjord horse or Norwegian Fjord Horse is a relatively small but very strong horse breed from the mountainous regions of Western Norway. It is an agile breed of light draught horse build. All Fjord horses are dun in colour, with five variations in shade recognised in the breed standard. 
fjord. A long, narrow, winding inlet from the sea between steep slopes of a mountainous coast. Fjords usually occur where ocean water flows into valleys formed near the coast by glaciers. fjord. n. 1. (Physical Geography) (esp on the coast of Norway) a long narrow inlet of the sea between high steep cliffs formed by glacial action. [C17: from Norwegian, from Old Norse fjoerthr; fjörthr see, firth]. ford
Split and merge into it. Answer by Tiggergrowl8240. Fjords are narrow deep inlets of the sea set between high rocky cliffs:: Narrow, U-shaped inlets, with steep sides formed by the action of glaciers. A fjord is a valley that was flood by the sea. A Fjord is a hardy type of pony who lives in the coldest temperatures. It has a fuzzy mane and tail with a lovely pattern. 
A fjord is a narrow, high-walled, and very long submerged glacial valley. Fjords are formed when a descending glacier carves a U-shaped valley into the bedrock. Often, the force of the descending glacier carving into the bedrock is so strong that fjords tend to be deeper than the oceans that they empty into. 
Fjords are found in locations where current or past glaciation extended below current sea level. A fjord is formed when a glacier retreats, after carving its typical U-shaped valley, and the sea fills the resulting valley floor. 
A fjord is a long, narrow arm of the sea with steep sides, carved by glacial activity. Many people consider fjords the very symbol of Norway. This country contains some of the longest, deepest, and most beautiful fjords in the world. 