In terms of salary, pro rata refers to the proportion, or percentage, a part-time employee would receive if she worked full-time. Pro rata may also apply when an employer makes certain deductions from your salary. Calculation. To arrive at your pro rata salary, you must know what the job pays on a full-time basis, what your employer views as full-time hours, the number of weeks you will be working during the year and your required work hours per week.
Pro rata basically means wages are in proportion to hours worked. So a wage of £12,000 FULL TIME, (full time is classed as 39 hours) so for 20 hours, pro rata of £12,000 would be approximately half-so 20 hours a week would give yearly wage of £6,000. Report Abuse. Pro rata basically means wages are in proportion to hours worked. So a wage of £12,000 FULL TIME, (full time is classed as 39 hours) so for 20 hours, pro rata of £12,000 would be approximately half-so 20 hours a week would give yearly wage of £6,000. ♥ Bekka ♥ · 9 years ago.
Report Abuse. Pro-Rata basically means at that rate of salary. For example, if they offered you the job at £20,000/ Pro-Rata, but you were only working half the time in a week (20 Hours), then you would only get the equivalent of £10,000 a year. They use it as another term for part-tim
Part-time Status. Your pro rata salary is proportionate to the amount that a full-time employee -- who works the same job and has the same qualifications as you -- would receive. For example, this may happen to a teacher who works on a part-time basis for a college or university. Calculation. To arrive at your pro rata salary, you must know what the job pays on a full-time basis, what your employer views as full-time hours, the number of weeks you will be working during the year and your required work hours per week.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Pro Rata means how much you get paid for part time in proportion to the full time wage. how i usually work this out-- take the full time wage divide it by 52 (weeks in year) = take that total and divide it by 40 (average full time hours) = this gives you a hourly rate. Report Abuse. Pro rata basically means wages are in proportion to hours worked. So a wage of £12,000 FULL TIME, (full time is classed as 39 hours) so for 20 hours, pro rata of £12,000 would be approximately half-so 20 hours a week would give yearly wage of £6,000. ♥ Bekka ♥ · 9 years ago.
Pro rata is an adverb or adjective, meaning in proportion. The term is used in many legal and economic contexts. It is sometimes spelled pro-rata, but this is technically a misspelling of the Latin phrase. In North American English this term has been vernacularized to prorated. More specifically, pro rata means: 1  In proportionality to some factor that can be exactly calculated. 2  To count based on amount of time that has passed out of the total time. 3  Proportional Ratio.
Pro rata. Pro rata is an adverb or adjective, meaning in proportion. The term is used in many legal and economic contexts. It is sometimes spelled pro-rata, but this is technically a misspelling of the Latin phrase. In North American English this term has been vernacularized to prorated
Pro Rata. [Latin, Proportionately.] A phrase that describes a division made according to a certain rate, percentage, or share. In a Bankruptcy case, when the debtor is insolvent, creditors generally agree to accept a pro rata share of what is owed to them.
For example, a pro-rata dividend means that every shareholder gets an equal proportion for each share he or she owns. Pro-rating also refers to the practice of applying interest rates to different time frames. If the interest rate was 12% per annum, you could pro-rate this number to be 1% a month (12%/12 months). 