Nine ways to wear one of spring’s hottest trends: ankle-length pants. Ankle-length pants have been seen on the runways of fashion darlings like Isabel Marant for a few seasons now. This spring, it’s the hottest pant shape. A definite love-it-or-hate-it trend, ankle-length pants are easy to pull off, if you know how. The secret: picking the right shoes. Cropped Cigarette Jean, $198, Edun / Leopard-print Loafers, on sale for approx. $97, Beyond Skin. Most people will look best in a pair of skinny ankle-length pants, simply because they are more flattering and tend to accentuate the curve of the calves.
Wear with: AVOID: Pairing high ankle wrapped sandals with your capris or ankle length pants, unless you have legs to your eyeballs. This style can cut up the lower leg proportions too much. Since you should be wearing a straight cut or skinny silhouette when rock'n a capri you can juxtapose the skinny with a fuller top. When you have the imbalance of a long torso and shorter leg, the way to create balance is to visually shorten the torso and lengthen the leg. You want to do this by: So if your body type is balanced top/bottom or you've got long legs and short torso then a capri or ankle length pant could be a flattering option for you.
I am hard to please when it comes to ankle pants and the “wrong” length is my poison eye. Thankfully, I’ve had lots of practice fitting clients across all body types, heights, sizes and ages into ankle pants over the years, and have found that there are two lengths that look flattering on everyone. Carter, yes. 4 to 6 inches above the ankle. If you’re very petite – like shorter than 5ft – 3 inches can do the trick. And another yes. Pants that are shorter than regular length but longer than capris are usually referred to as ankle pants.
Pair with a simple tee and a cropped jacket or long blazer and you’re wearing the spring trend as it should be. Red is one of the hottest hues this spring when it comes to pants. Get inspired by Isabel Marant’s latest runway collection and pair your skinny ankle-length jeans with black pointed-toe pumps. Cropped Cigarette Jean, $198, Edun / Leopard-print Loafers, on sale for approx. $97, Beyond Skin. Most people will look best in a pair of skinny ankle-length pants, simply because they are more flattering and tend to accentuate the curve of the calves.
Ankle pants at correct length for heels. SUCH a subtle difference between the straight legs above and these ankle-length pants, I know. And in some cases how high a pair of pants rides at the waist and how high your heels are may nudge them over the edge into ankle-length or just-a-touch-too-short-length. In my opinion, the key here is that we see the entire bridge of the foot and the hem hits at ankle height.
Marisa Swanson. This is why we're slightly obsessed with ankle-length pants: a well-fitting pair with a touch of Lycra in a basic color can be worn everywhere. Everywhere. Go ahead and think of a scenario you can't wear them to
The lengths of these ankle pants are shorter than the norm by about four to six inches depending on your height, and of course, tapered for extra structure. Wear them slightly longer, but not as long as the example above, and wider at the hems, and you loose the flattering line on the leg. Carter, yes. 4 to 6 inches above the ankle. If you’re very petite – like shorter than 5ft – 3 inches can do the trick. And another yes. Pants that are shorter than regular length but longer than capris are usually referred to as ankle pants.
With heels the hem of the pant should be about half an inch above the ground, or just enough to not drag when you walk. Standard heels are 3.5″ so just take your favorite pair when having your pants hemmed. Flats should also be just high enough to not rub the floor. 2) Cropped/Ankle pants. A pant length that does work well with flats or heels are cropped pants that hit right around the ankle bone. Ankle pants should have a slim leg and be tapered at the ankle otherwise you will end up with capri pants. These look great with heels as they create a long leg line as well as adding a hint of skin. 
A few weeks ago, Belle linked to my 2009 guide to pant length and one of her commenters pointed out that although much of the post was still relevant, styles had changed. It’s five years later and ankle pants are almost more common than full-length, so some of my tips are definitely outdated. And in some cases how high a pair of pants rides at the waist and how high your heels are may nudge them over the edge into ankle-length or just-a-touch-too-short-length. In my opinion, the key here is that we see the entire bridge of the foot and the hem hits at ankle height.
Full-length pants at correct length for heels. If you’re doing full-length pants or trousers with heeled shoes, they should look like this. In my opinion, pants should not graze the floor, as that’s just asking to ruin your hems. About one inch above the floor when you’re standing straight will work just fine. And in some cases how high a pair of pants rides at the waist and how high your heels are may nudge them over the edge into ankle-length or just-a-touch-too-short-length. In my opinion, the key here is that we see the entire bridge of the foot and the hem hits at ankle height.