Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. Some water pills increase the amount of calcium in the body. Taking large amounts of vitamin D along with some water pills might cause to be too much calcium in the body. This could cause serious side effects including kidney problems. 
Vitamin B6: Commonly called pyroxidine in various formulas, this B vitamin is important to the nervous system and red blood cells, as well as synergistically working with other B vitamins for energy and stress reduction. Also may help carpal tunnel syndrome and PMS. In capsule form, you can find alpha by itself or the most prevalent forms in a natural mixed form. Any Vitamin E with the form dl-alpha (notice the 'L' in Centrum and others) is a synthetic form made from petroleum based products and has limited absorption.
Biotin: Known as the 'hair vitamin', biotin is also necessary for metabolism of protein, carbs, and fat, so is also included in many low carb diets as a supplement. Deficiency produces hair loss, appetite loss, and depression, and sometimes brittle nails. ODI: 300 mcg. For hair and nails: 300-3000 mcgs. In capsule form, you can find alpha by itself or the most prevalent forms in a natural mixed form. Any Vitamin E with the form dl-alpha (notice the 'L' in Centrum and others) is a synthetic form made from petroleum based products and has limited absorption.
ODI: 25-300 mgs. Vitamin B2: Commonly called Riboflavin, this vitamin is important for energy as are all B vitamins. B2 also helps vision and mental health. Found in dairy, eggs, fish, poultry, beans, and green leafy vegetables. In capsule form, you can find alpha by itself or the most prevalent forms in a natural mixed form. Any Vitamin E with the form dl-alpha (notice the 'L' in Centrum and others) is a synthetic form made from petroleum based products and has limited absorption.
VITAMIN A (Retinol, retinal, and retinoic acid — three active forms of vitamin A in the body — are retinoids, preformed vitamin A. Beta carotene can easily be converted to vitamin A as needed.). Essential for vision Lycopene may lower prostate cancer risk. Keeps tissues and skin healthy. VITAMIN C (ascorbic acid). Foods rich in vitamin C may lower the risk for some cancers, including those of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, and breast. Long-term use of supplemental vitamin C may protect against cataracts. Helps make collagen, a connective tissue that knits together wounds and supports blood vessel walls.
Vitamin A is essential for good health. It promotes growth, the immune system, reproduction, and vision. However, recent research suggests that too much vitamin A, particularly in the form of retinol, may be bad for your bones. Vitamin A is important for healthy bones. However, too much vitamin A has been linked to bone loss and an increase in the risk of hip fracture. Scientists believe that excessive amounts of vitamin A trigger an increase in osteoclasts, the cells that break down bone.
Vitamin B12: This B vitamin is known as the energy vitamin for its role with other B's in helping to increase cellular energy. It is also necessary to form red blood cells and the protective covering around nerves. In capsule form, you can find alpha by itself or the most prevalent forms in a natural mixed form. Any Vitamin E with the form dl-alpha (notice the 'L' in Centrum and others) is a synthetic form made from petroleum based products and has limited absorption.
Many of us get these important vitamins in our daily diets; however, with complex diets and food restrictions, supplementation may be necessary to ensure you are receiving the proper level of these essential vitamins. Let’s analyze each B vitamin and describe its benefits and common food sources. We know B vitamins are important but many of us don’t know why. The eight B vitamins are B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, B9, and B12.
Together, the B vitamins work together to help maximize your cellular energy production and support your body’s many vital processes. †. B vitamins are also important for normal nervous system function. Additionally, vitamin B 6 and vitamin B 12 are essential for healthy red blood cell formation. Folic acid (also known as B 9), is important for women of childbearing age; it plays a critical role in the proper development of the baby’s nervous system. 
Vitamin B12 is a nutrient that helps keep the body's nerve and blood cells healthy and helps make DNA, the genetic material in all cells. Vitamin B12 also helps prevent a type of anemia called megaloblastic anemia that makes people tired and weak. Two steps are required for the body to absorb vitamin B12 from food. 