1 garlic flakes (Substitute 1/2 teaspoon garlic flakes for every clove of garlic) OR. 2  garlic powder (Substitute 1/8 teaspoon powder for every clove of garlic called for in recipe.) OR. 3  garlic salt (Substitute 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt for every clove of fresh garlic called for in recipe. A head or bulb of garlic usually contains about 10 cloves. 1 clove = 1 teaspoon chopped garlic = 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic = 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder = 1/2 teaspoon garlic flakes = 1/4 teaspoon granulated garlic = 1/2 teaspoon garlic juice. Substitutes: 1  granulated garlic (provides flavor, but not texture) OR.
Overview. Garlic has been used as both food and medicine for thousands of years, dating back to when the Egyptian pyramids were built. In early 18th century France, gravediggers drank crushed garlic in wine believing it would protect them from the plague. Garlic supplements are made from whole fresh garlic, dried, or freeze-dried garlic, garlic oil, and aged garlic extracts. Not all garlic contains the same amount of active ingredients. It is important to read the label carefully.
If you have granulated garlic instead of garlic powder, the recommended ratio is 1/4 teaspoon of granules for every fresh clove. If you are using garlic flakes (dehydrated minced garlic) instead, substitute 1/2 teaspoon of flakes for every clove. There are several other aromatic herbs that can be substituted for garlic. 
(1 clove of garlic = 1/2 teaspoon of garlic flakes) OR garlic powder (1/8 teaspoon garlic powder = 1/2 teaspoon garlic flakes). garlic greens = garlic sprouts Substitutes: greens onions + minced garlic. infused garlic oil To make your own: Add whole cloves of garlic to olive oil and heat gently, then discard cloves. A head or bulb of garlic usually contains about 10 cloves. 1 clove = 1 teaspoon chopped garlic = 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic = 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder = 1/2 teaspoon garlic flakes = 1/4 teaspoon granulated garlic = 1/2 teaspoon garlic juice. Substitutes: 1  granulated garlic (provides flavor, but not texture) OR.
This is what sliced, minced and crushed garlic looks like. You need a garlic press to crush garlic. The price of a garlic press can range anywhere from a low of about $4.00 to a high of about $25.00. Mine was $8. 
Medical Definition of CLOVE. 1. a: the pungent fragrant aromatic reddish brown dried flower bud of a tropical evergreen tree (Syzygium aromaticum) of the myrtle family (Myrtaceae) that yields clove oil b: a spice consisting of whole or ground cloves—usually used in plural. 2. Definition of CLOVE. : one of the small bulbs (as in garlic) developed in the axils of the scales of a large bulb. ADVERTISEMENT.
What Is a Clove of Garlic: Different preparations of cloves for culinary use. Garlic is definitely one of the most common ingredients in many cuisines spanning Western, Chinese, SE Asian and European. 
Green garlic, is young garlic before it begins to form cloves; resembling a baby leek, with a long green top and white bulb. Garlic's essential oils remain in the body long after consumption, affecting breath and even skin odor. Season: available year-round. How to select: Choose firm, plump bulbs with dry skins. Avoid soft or shriveled cloves and garlic stored in the refrigerated section of the produce department. How to store: Store fresh garlic in an open container in a cool, dark place. Unbroken bulbs can be stored up to 8 weeks. Once broken from the bulb, individual cloves will keep 3-10 day
I have a jar of pre-minced garlic in the fridge, but am not sure how much of that would equate to one clove of garlic. asked by Sean,Murray over 3 years ago. No need to email me as additional answers are added to this question. 
Step 5: Minced Garlic. First, crush a clove of garlic. Then, give it a rough chop. Next, hold your knife and lay the other hand flat across the tip. Use a rocking motion to chop the garlic until finely minced. Tip: Minced garlic distributes the flavor more fully in a dish and is great in sauces and marinades. 