A number of different disorders may cause polyneuropathy, including diabetes and some types of Guillain-Barre barré. Syndrome sensory polyneuropathy is the condition of having multiple sensory, neuropathies while motor polyneuropathy refers to multiple motor. neuropathies 1 Myelinopathy, or demyelinating polyneuropathy, is due to a loss of myelin (or of the Schwann cells that make and contain it). 2  This demyelination slows down or completely blocks the conduction of action potentials through the axon of the nerve cell.
Diabetic neuropathy is nerve damage caused by diabetes. In the United States, diabetes is one of the most common causes of nerve damage, also known as peripheral neuropathy. Diabetic neuropathy can affect nerves that supply feeling and movement in the arms and legs. It can also affect the nerves that regulate unconscious vital functions such as heart rate and digestion. Diabetic polyneuropathy is often associated with diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy. Patients with neuropathy should be counseled to seek appropriate eye care and discuss renal care and follow-up with their primary care physicians or endocrinologists. Patient education should begin in the primary care office.
Polyneuropathies may be classified in different ways, such as by cause, by speed of progression, or by the parts of the body involved. Classes of polyneuropathy also are distinguished by which part of the nerve cell is affected mainly: the axon, the myelin sheath, or the cell body. 1 Myelinopathy, or demyelinating polyneuropathy, is due to a loss of myelin (or of the Schwann cells that make and contain it). 2  This demyelination slows down or completely blocks the conduction of action potentials through the axon of the nerve cell.
Diabetic Polyneuropathy is being Misdiagnosed in majority of Patients. What Are Peripheral Nerves?Peripheral nerves are like electric wires. They connect the spinal cord to the muscles and sensory organs in the skin. 
diabetic polyneuropathy, a disorder involving a number of nerves, a long-term complication of diabetes mellitus. Central nervous system, autonomic, and peripheral nerves may be affected. Neuropathic ulcers commonly develop on the feet. A gradually progressing autoimmune muscle weakness in arms and legs caused by inflammation of the myelin sheath covering peripheral nerve axons. Demyelination slows or blocks conduction of impulses to muscles. Numbness and paresthesia may accompany or precede loss of motor function, which varies from mild to severe
Polyneuropathy or symmetrical polyneuropathy (poly- + neuro- + -pathy) is damage or disease affecting peripheral nerves (peripheral neuropathy) in roughly the same areas on both sides of the body, featuring weakness, numbness, pins-and-needles, and burning pain. 1 Myelinopathy, or demyelinating polyneuropathy, is due to a loss of myelin (or of the Schwann cells that make and contain it). 2  This demyelination slows down or completely blocks the conduction of action potentials through the axon of the nerve cell.
(Neuropathy means nerve disease or damage.) Symptoms can range from numbness or tingling, to pricking sensations (paresthesia), or muscle weakness. Areas of the body may become abnormally sensitive leading to an exaggeratedly intense or distorted experience of touch (allodynia). Exposure to toxins may damage nerves and cause peripheral neuropathy. 1  Medication toxicity can be caused by many agents in addition to those for fighting cancer. 2  Other agents that commonly cause peripheral neuropathy as a side effect include those used to fight infection such as antiretroviral agents for treating HIV.
Sensory polyneuropathy is the condition of having multiple sensory neuropathies, while motor polyneuropathy refers to multiple motor neuropathies. Sensorimotor polyneuropathy or sensory-motor polyneuropathy is the combination of both conditions. 1 Myelinopathy, or demyelinating polyneuropathy, is due to a loss of myelin (or of the Schwann cells that make and contain it). 2  This demyelination slows down or completely blocks the conduction of action potentials through the axon of the nerve cell.
Depending on the affected nerves, symptoms of diabetic neuropathy can range from pain and numbness in your extremities to problems with your digestive system, urinary tract, blood vessels and heart. For some people, these symptoms are mild; for others, diabetic neuropathy can be painful, disabling and even fatal. Diabetic neuropathy is a common serious complication of diabetes. Yet you can often prevent diabetic neuropathy or slow its progress with tight blood sugar control and a healthy lifestyle. 1  Symptoms.