Assume that you have a Celsius scale temperature of 100 degrees and you wish to convert it into degrees on the Fahrenheit scale. Using the stated formula, you first multiply the Celsius scale temperature reading by nine-fifths and get a result of 180. Tc = (5/9)*(Tf-32); Tc = temperature in degrees Celsius, Tf = temperature in degrees Fahrenheit. For example, assume you have a Fahrenheit temperature of 98.6 degrees and you desire to convert it into degrees on the Celsius scale.
The following formula can be used to convert a temperature from its representation on the Celsius (C) scale to the Kelvin (K) scale: For a printer friendly version, click here. There are three (3) temperature scales in use today, Fahrenheit, Celsius and Kelvin. The Fahrenheit temperature scale is a scale based on 32 for the freezing point of water and 212 for the boiling point of water. The interval between these two temperature points is 180. 
Below is the formula to convert a Celsius scale temperature into degrees on the Fahrenheit(commonly misspelled Farenheit) scale. As you might guess, it is the exact opposite of converting Fahrenheit to Celsius. Tf = (9/5)*Tc+32; Tc = temperature in degrees Celsius, Tf = temperature in degrees Fahrenheit. Tc = (5/9)*(Tf-32); Tc = temperature in degrees Celsius, Tf = temperature in degrees Fahrenheit. For example, assume you have a Fahrenheit temperature of 98.6 degrees and you desire to convert it into degrees on the Celsius scale.
Fahrenheit temperature scale is a scale based on 32 for the freezing point of water and 212 for the boiling point of water, the interval between the two being divided into 180 parts. Celsius temperature scale also called centigrade temperature scale, is the scale based on 0 for the freezing point of water and 100 for the boiling point of water.
Temperature Scales. Temperature is the level of heat in a gas, liquid, or solid. Three scales are commonly used for measuring temperature. The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are the most common. The Kelvin scale is primarily used in scientific experiments. Converting Temperatures. It is sometimes necessary to convert temperature from one scale to another. Here is how to do this. 1  To convert from ºC to ºF, use the formula: ºF = ºC x 1.8 + 32.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. The three common temperature scales are Celsius, Fahrenheit, and Kelvin. Each scale has its uses, so it's likely you'll encounter them and need to convert between them. Fortunately, the conversion formulas are simple: 1 Water boils at 100°C or 212°F. 2  Water freezes at 0°C and 32°F. 3  Absolute zero is 0 K. 4  Celsius and Fahrenheit are degree scales. 5  The degree symbol is not used to report temperature using the Kelvin scale.
This is a compendium of temperature conversion formulas and comparisons among eight different temperature scales, several of which have long been obsolete. 
Since that time, however, most English-speaking countries have officially adopted the Celsius scale. The conversion formula for a temperature that is expressed on the Celsius (C) scale to its Fahrenheit (F) representation is: F = 9/5C + 32. Celsius temperature scale also called centigrade temperature scale, is the scale based on 0 for the freezing point of water and 100 for the boiling point of water.
Units of Temperature from fahrenheit to celsius to kelvin and back Degrees Fahrenheit, (developed in the early 1700's by G. Daniel Fahrenheit), are used to record surface temperature measurements by meteorologists in the United States. (Note...the word degrees is NOT used with Kelvin.) The way to convert from degrees Celsius to Kelvin is: The three different temperature scales have been placed side-by-side in the chart below for comparison. Image adapted from: Ahrens. UTC Conversions Terms for using data resources.