The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. Native to the americas the-jaguar is the third largest feline after the, tiger and the lion and The. largest in the americas The jaguar is largely a solitary, opportunistic, stalk-and-ambush predator at the top of the food chain (an apex predator). It is a keystone species, playing an important role in stabilizing ecosystems and regulating the populations of the animals it hunts.
Only from the close distance, characteristic spots could be seen. Name jaguar is derived from Indian word yaguar which means: he who kills in a single leap. Jaguars are ambush predators that kill their victims using the element of surprise. They will pierce the skull of an animal and kill it with a single bite. They can eat 85 different types of animals. Fish, caimans, capybaras, peccaries, tapirs...are usually on the jaguar's menu. Although jaguars eat meat almost exclusively, they can eat avocado occasionally. Jaguars are nocturnal (hunt at night) and solitary animals (live on their own). Anaconda is the only natural enemy of jaguar.
The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion, and the largest in the Americas. The jaguar's present range extends from Southwestern United States and Mexico across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina. The jaguar is largely a solitary, opportunistic, stalk-and-ambush predator at the top of the food chain (an apex predator). It is a keystone species, playing an important role in stabilizing ecosystems and regulating the populations of the animals it hunts.
The jaguar is the largest cat in the western hemisphere. In its habitat, the jaguar is the top predator. It is the third largest cat in the world; only lions and tigers are larger. The jaguar is stockier and heavier than the leopard, with a shorter, thicker tail. Jaguars are night stalkers that prefer to ambush their prey rather than chase it. They have large jaw muscles which enable them to pierce the skulls of their prey with their sharp teeth. The jaguar is known in South America as “the animal that kills in a single bound”. Jaguars love water and will swim readily.
Jaguar Facts. Jaguar is third largest cat in the world (tiger and lion are on the first two places), and largest cat that lives in America. It can be found in North, Central and South America, in the wide variety of ecosystems: rainforests, swamps, grasslands, scrub woodlands, forests… Jaguars are endangered species. Fish, caimans, capybaras, peccaries, tapirs...are usually on the jaguar's menu. Although jaguars eat meat almost exclusively, they can eat avocado occasionally. Jaguars are nocturnal (hunt at night) and solitary animals (live on their own). Anaconda is the only natural enemy of jaguar.
Jaguars prey are: tapirs, deer, sloth, peccaries and others. Jaguars predators are man and other jaguars in combat. Jaguars prey are: tapirs, deer, sloth, peccaries and others. Jaguars predators are man and other jaguars in combat. 
The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. native to the americas The jaguar is largely a solitary, opportunistic, stalk-and-ambush predator at the top of the food chain (an apex predator). It is a keystone species, playing an important role in stabilizing ecosystems and regulating the populations of the animals it hunts.
Jaguars are members of the cat family, and like all big cats, they are predators. They stalk and hunt smaller or docile animals (usually herbivores) for food, including … gazelles and other types of wild deer, small wild pigs, and the babies of larger animals such as water-buffalo. 8 people found this useful. Jaguars are animals that live in the rain-forests and are only killed by humans and other jaguars. Humans kill them for their territory, and they kill each other for mating rights.