The waterfall scene, where DiCaprio and others jump from a high cliff to the water below, was filmed in Khao Yai National Park in central Thailand, at the Haew Suwat Waterfall. The map in the film was illustrated by the author of the book that The Beach was based upon, Alex Garland. It is reported that crew members flattened the beach with a tractor, much to the locals' dismay. The tsunami of 2004, however, has reshaped the beach to its natural look. Boyle has been cited saying that the look of the jungle scenes in the film was inspired by the Rare/ Nintendo game Banjo-Kazooie.
Photograph: haveseen / iStockphoto. Danny Boyle ’s film of the Alex Garland novel was filmed on Hat Maya, the main beach of Phi Phi Leh Island, near Phuket, Thailand, amid allegations of ecological vandalism when imported palms were planted to make the ‘perfect’ beach even more perfect. 
Locations. Phi Phi Leh. To get to Phi Phi Leh where the most of ‘The Beach’ was shot, the usual route is by longboat from the neighbouring Phi Phi Don. There is no hotels or guesthouses on Phi Phi Leh as it’s a national park, but you can stay the night by camping on the beach within Maya Bay. Me in Maya Bay, Where The Beach was Filmed. There is a lot of hotels and guesthouses on Phi Phi Don though, but no airport.
Most of the movie adaptation of “The Beach” was filmed on Thailand’s Maya Bay, an insanely picturesque spot with glass-clear water that is completely flat. Large, jungle-covered cliffs nearly surround the entire bay, which is located on Ko Phi Phi Leh on Thailand’s east coast (somewhat close to Krabi and Phuket). To visit “The Beach” (Ko Phi Phi Leh Beach), first you need to get from Bangkok to Phuket (or Krabi). Ko Phi Phi Leh and Maya Beach are both wildly popular with tourists, who are eager to visit the utopian island they saw in the movie (however fictional it was).
On the Beach is a 1959 American black-and-white post-apocalyptic science fiction drama film from United Artists, produced and directed by Stanley Kramer, starring Gregory Peck, Ava Gardner, Fred Astaire and Anthony Perkins. On the Beach premiered simultaneously in 17 cities on six continents on December 17, 1959. The Hollywood premiere was attended by the film's stars, Fred Astaire and Anthony Perkins, in addition to other celebrities, including Cary Grant.
by Roger | September 22nd, 2008. Tweet. If you’ve read the book or seen the movie “The Beach,” you’re familiar with author Alex Garland’s fictional creation of a Utopian society set on a gorgeous Thai beach. While the story maybe be fiction, the real beach where “The Beach” was filmed is real – sort of. To visit “The Beach” (Ko Phi Phi Leh Beach), first you need to get from Bangkok to Phuket (or Krabi). Ko Phi Phi Leh and Maya Beach are both wildly popular with tourists, who are eager to visit the utopian island they saw in the movie (however fictional it was).
We have a lot more information on the location where the movie “The Beach” was filmed, but here is some basic information: The movie “The Beach” was filmed in Maya Bay, a small cove surrounded by 300-foot cliffs. Maya Bay is on the island Ko Phi Phi Leh, a picturesque and uninhabited island on Thailand’s west coast. Ko Phi Phi Leh is the smallest of the two Phi Phi islands; many travelers are familiar with Ko Phi Phi Don, which is larger than Leh and offers accommodation. »More about where The Beach was filmed. If you’re looking for information about visiting the location of the movie “The Beach,” which was filmed in Thailand in 2000 and stars Leonardo DiCaprio, look no further. This picturesque bay is a favorite of holiday-makers in Thailand, and a relatively easy spot to visit
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. The Beach is a 2000 drama film by the Trainspotting team of writer John Hodge, producer Andrew Macdonald and director Danny Boyle based on The Beach, a 1996 novel by Alex Garland. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Tilda Swinton, Robert Carlyle, Virginie Ledoyen and Guillaume Canet. Richard (Leonardo DiCaprio). 
The Beach (film). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Beach is a 2000 adventure drama film directed by Danny Boyle and based on the 1996 novel of the same name by Alex Garland, which was adapted for the film by John Hodge. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio and features Tilda Swinton, Robert Carlyle, Virginie Ledoyen, Guillaume Canet, and Paterson Joseph. It was filmed on the Thai island Koh Phi Phi. It is reported that crew members flattened the beach with a tractor, much to the locals' dismay. The tsunami of 2004, however, has reshaped the beach to its natural look. Boyle has been cited saying that the look of the jungle scenes in the film was inspired by the Rare/ Nintendo game Banjo-Kazooie.