1 Passport Book Number: 2  The Passport Book Number is commonly called the inventory control number. 3  You may or may not have a Passport Book Number on your passport. 4  The location of the Passport Book Number on your passport may vary depending on the country that issued your passport. 1 City: City where passport was issued. 2  Write current official name of the city. 3  e.g., write Mumbai instead of Bombay. 4  If your passport was issued outside India, such as in USA or even some third country, write that city, state/province and country here.
A passport is a travel document, usually issued by a country 's government, that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder for the purpose of international travel. Standard passports contain the holder's name, place and date of birth, photograph, signature, and other identifying information. 
1 However, if you have the old-style Mexican passport, enter the passport book number found on the first passport page (not on the photo page) that is different from your passport number. 2  Country/Authority that Issued Passport: 3  Country that issued your passport. 4  That is the country you are citizen of. 1 City: City where passport was issued. 2  Write current official name of the city. 3  e.g., write Mumbai instead of Bombay. 4  If your passport was issued outside India, such as in USA or even some third country, write that city, state/province and country here.
A new question is: Enter 'passport book number'. There is checkbox next to the field 'does not apply'. I have chosen that for now. But if you know exactly please let know. Here is the exact text from the form about this field: [QUOTE] The Passport Book Number is commonly called the inventory control number. You may or may not have a Passport Book Number on your passport. The location of the Passport Book Number on your passport may vary depending on the country that issued your passport
Confidence votes 1.4K. When applying for a US passport renewal, the online form (DS-82) asks you for your Passport Book Number but does not define what this is, exactly. After finding nothing definitive online, I contacted the National Passport Information Center and asked them. (They have a toll free number. It is 1-877-487-2778. 
34.3k Views. Your US passport book number can be found on the top right of the second page in your passport. Image source: Popular Science. Note that a US passport book number is the same as a passport number, it's just a slightly more formal phrasing. Updated 17 Apr • View Upvotes. I'm trying to renew my passport (filling out the online form) and it's asking for my passport book number. There is a number listed below a barcode on the last page that is different than my passport number on the first page. My guess is that the book number is the number listed below the barcode on the last page.
An Indian passport is a passport by issued the Government of India to citizens of the Republic of India for travelling abroad. It enables the bearer to travel internationally and serves as proof of Indian citizenship as per the Passports Act (1967). 1 Official passport (White cover) - Issued to individuals representing the Indian government on official business. 2  It is a Type S passport-S stands for Service. 3  Diplomatic passport (Maroon cover) - Issued to Indian diplomats, top ranking government officials and diplomatic couriers.
My File Number has a character '/' which the online DS160 does not allow. My passport was issued in 2004, is it possible that newer passports have a standardized Passport Book Number? Do I mark Passport Book Number as not applicable or type it in withouth the /. I have chosen that for now. But if you know exactly please let know. Here is the exact text from the form about this field: [QUOTE] The Passport Book Number is commonly called the inventory control number. You may or may not have a Passport Book Number on your passport.