The wielder of the master sword. A devanee is also a proud attender of Hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardy (gryffindor). She commands her pokemon with the power of the force to eliminate any and all Death Eaters around, and at the end of the day, she slaughters hordes of orcs while making sure frodo goes unharmed. Oh yeah, she's also a god, and the granddaughter of Gandalf.
This name is either a variant spelling of EMILY, or a combination of the names EMMA and LEE. EMMALENA f English (Rare). Extremely rare name that was either intended as a variant of Emmeline or, more likely, is simply a combination of Emma and Lena. From an English surname which was either derived from the medieval masculine name Emery or a place name (Emborough, in Somerset) meaning flat-topped hill from Old English emn flat topped and beorg hill, mound (or possibly from Hembury, in Devon)... [more].
Devanee's language of origin is Sanskrit and it is predominantly used in Indian. The meaning of Devanee is 'god-like, divine'. It is derived from the word deva which is of the meaning ' divine '. Devanee is the feminine version of the Indian Deval. Devanee is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Devante is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced De-vante. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1850 in baby name popularity for boys with 79 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Generally the first surname is the father's first surname and the second is the mother's first surname but this traditional order no longer required. Generally the second surname is only used for formal and legal matters.
ELLINGTON m English. From the traditionally English habitation surname, from the Old English Ellingtun meaning settlement associated with Ella , from the Old English tun 'settlement, town', and the short form of the various compound names with the first element aelf 'ælf' elf or the Byname ealda 'meaning'.... old From an English surname which was either derived from the medieval masculine name Emery or a place name (Emborough, in Somerset) meaning flat-topped hill from Old English emn flat topped and beorg hill, mound (or possibly from Hembury, in Devon)... [more].
Possibly a variant of Archana or from the English word arcana meaning specialized knowledge that is mysterious to the uninitiated; mysteries or deep sercrets; elixirs... [more]. ARCENIA f English (Rare), Spanish (Rare), Portuguese (Rare). Probably a variant of Arsenia. ANAZIA f African American (Modern), Nigerian. Originally a Nigerian surname of unknown meaning. ANCHOR m English. The name is either a masculine form of Anchoretta (finally going back to the Welsh name Angharad) or used with the literal meaning anchor.
Devante /de-van-te/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys is of American origin. Devante is a version of De- (American) with the prefix Dev- . Kreatif forms: Devandou, Devandu, Duvante. Devante is an uncommon first name for males. Devante is an equivalently rare last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Devante for boys. Devante was first listed in 1991 and reached its top rank of #199 in the U.S. in the year 1992, but is not ranked currently
Meaning unknown, but believed to be a taken from the Greek name Eleni, or one of the Hebrew names of God Eloni. ELORA f English (Rare), French (Modern, Rare), Popular Culture (Rare). Of uncertain origin and meaning, this name is most likely a contraction of Elnora .... From an English surname which was either derived from the medieval masculine name Emery or a place name (Emborough, in Somerset) meaning flat-topped hill from Old English emn flat topped and beorg hill, mound (or possibly from Hembury, in Devon)... [more].
Many Spanish given names honor the Virgin Mary. Girls are frequently given the name Maria or Maria followed by a suffix name and boys are sometimes given the name Maria as a middle name. Girls with Marian composite names may use the suffix portion of their name as their main informal name. Generally the first surname is the father's first surname and the second is the mother's first surname but this traditional order no longer required. Generally the second surname is only used for formal and legal matters.