A: Armour Thyroid is a medication that is used to treat an underactive thyroid gland. It is a natural thyroid supplement that contains the needed thyroid hormone to help balance out your deficiency and relieve the symptoms of hypothyroidism. Armour Thyroid works by replacing the thyroid hormone when your body does not make enough on its own. It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually from pigs). There are different brands of thyroid supplements, including Westhroid, Nature-Throid, and Armour Thyroid.
How to use Armour Thyroid. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Dosage is based on your medical condition, laboratory test results, and response to treatment. For children, the dosage is also based on age/ weight. Thyroid hormone is used to treat underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually a pig's).
Armour Thyroid is a sought after thyroid hormone medication which contains desiccated thyroid extract. Amour Thyroid is derived from pig thyroid and contains both T4 (levothyroxine) and T3 (liothyronine) hormones, which are naturally occurring thyroid hormones in the body. Because Armour Thyroid replaces or supplements the lack of thyroid hormones in the body, the most common side effects associated with the drug are generally similar to the symptoms of underactive or overactive thyroid.
Uses. Thyroid hormone is used to treat underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually a pig's). It replaces or provides more thyroid hormone, which is normally produced by the thyroid gland
The usual starting dose is 30 mg Armour Thyroid (thyroid tablets) , with increments of 15 mg every 2 to 3 weeks. A lower starting dosage, 15 mg/day, is recommended in patients with long-standing myxedema, particularly if cardiovascular impairment is suspected, in which case extreme caution is recommended. Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Armour Thyroid sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
A: Armour Thyroid (desiccated or dried thyroid) is a combination of hormones that are normally produced by the thyroid gland to regulate the body's energy and metabolism. It is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) and to treat or prevent goiter (enlarged thyroid gland). Armour Thyroid works by replacing the thyroid hormone when your body does not make enough on its own. It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually from pigs). There are different brands of thyroid supplements, including Westhroid, Nature-Throid, and Armour Thyroid.
There are different brands of thyroid hormone available. Do not change brands without first consulting your doctor or pharmacist. Symptoms of low thyroid hormone levels include tiredness, muscle aches, constipation, dry skin, weight gain, slow heartbeat, or sensitivity to cold. Thyroid hormone is used to treat underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually a pig's).
Armour Thyroid is the brand name for a hormone used for treating an underactive thyroid. It's also used to prevent certain types of enlarged thyroid glands and to manage thyroid cancer. Armour Thyroid works by replacing the thyroid hormone when your body does not make enough on its own. It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually from pigs). There are different brands of thyroid supplements, including Westhroid, Nature-Throid, and Armour Thyroid.
Armour thyroid is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) and to treat or prevent goiter (enlarged thyroid gland). Because Armour thyroid is a replacement for a naturally occurring hormone, side effects do not commonly occur when thyroid hormone levels are in normal range. Armour Thyroid works by replacing the thyroid hormone when your body does not make enough on its own. It is a natural product made from animal thyroid glands (usually from pigs). There are different brands of thyroid supplements, including Westhroid, Nature-Throid, and Armour Thyroid.
INDICATIONS. Armour Thyroid (thyroid tablets) tablets are indicated: 1  As replacement or supplemental therapy in patients with hypothyroidism of any etiology, except transient hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Armour Thyroid sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.