Bilirubin. Bilirubin, which is found in bile, undergoes many chemical changes as it passes through the digestive tract. These changes can account for the color of stool, which is usually light or dark brown for normal processes or dark green when chemical changes have happened rapidly. Bleeding. When bleeding occurs in the digestive tract, for any reason, stool will turn black due to the chemical changes to the hemoglobin flowing into the intestinal tract. If the bleeding is occurring in the lower intestines, than stools will appear red in color.
However, black stool can also be caused by a serious condition, such as bleeding in the digestive tract caused by a peptic ulcer. Black stool that is tarry in texture and foul smelling is often a symptom of upper gastrointestinal bleeding from the esophagus, stomach or small intestine. This is called melena. Answers. Best Answer: Adam, black stool can have several causes. Black stool is a condition in which the feces are very dark or black. Black stool may be normal in some cases and caused by ingesting certain substances or medications, such as iron supplements. Several ingested substances can change the color of stool
1 Changes in stool color may be due to diarrhea; bleeding in the intestine; diseases of the intestines, liver, or pancreas; and medications. 2  Diagnosis when stool color changes depends on what process is suspected of causing the change, for example, gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy if bleeding is supsected. 
False Melena A black stool caused by food, supplements, medication, or minerals is known as false melena.. Iron supplements, taken alone or as part of a multivitamin for iron-deficiency anemia, may cause stools to be black or even greenish in color. Best Answer: Black, tarry stools (poop) with a foul odor can be the result of eating certain foods, taking iron supplements, or possibly from internal bleeding. If the black color is from blood, it is known as melena..
Dark stool not associated with specific foods or medications can be more worrisome and may be an indicator of bleeding somewhere in the digestive system. The color and quality of the stool depends on where the bleeding is occurring and how fast the stool moves through the digestive system. When related to foods, blueberries, beets, or black licorice are often the cause. Stool passed after eating these foods may be dark brown, bluish, reddish, or black. Iron supplements and medications containing bismuth subsalicylate, a common ingredient in anti-diarrhea medications, can also turn the stool dark or black.
Black stool may be normal in some cases and caused by ingesting certain substances or medications, such as iron supplements. However, black stool can also be caused by a serious condition, such as bleeding in the digestive tract caused by a peptic ulcer. Seek prompt medical care if you have unusually dark stools or any change in the color or texture of your stool. If your stools are black and tarry in texture, bloody, or if you have major rectal bleeding, seek immediate medical care (call 911) .
Stool comes in a range of colors. All shades of brown and even green are considered normal. Only rarely does stool color indicate a potentially serious intestinal condition. Stool color is generally influenced by what you eat as well as by the amount of bile — a yellow-green fluid that digests fats — in your stool. As bile pigments travel through your gastrointestinal tract, they are chemically altered by enzymes — changing the pigments from green to brown. Light-colored, white or clay-colored. A lack of bile in stool. This may indicate a bile duct obstruction. Certain medications, such as large doses of bismuth subsalicylate (Kaopectate, Pepto-Bismol) and other anti-diarrheal drugs.
Black stools can be a symptom of a serious condition, such as esophageal varices or peptic ulcer. Seek prompt medical care if you have unusually dark stools or any change in the color or texture of your stool. If your stools are black and tarry in texture, bloody, or if you have major rectal bleeding, seek immediate medical care (call 911) .
If it takes a shorter time, the result may be greener stool because green is one of the first colors in the rainbow of the digestive process. Color can be a red flag when it’s a drastic change, Aserkoff says. “If stool is black, it can mean that you are bleeding internally, possibly as a result of an ulcer or cancer ,” he says. Stool that is black due to bleeding is also sticky (tarry) and smells bad. 