Pre-heat the oven to 450 degrees. Place tri-tip in a roasting pan with a rack and place in hot oven, and roast to your preference. Check internal temperature after 20 minutes. It should be blood rare. That is too rare for us, so I roasted it for 30 minutes (140 degrees) . Tent the meat loosely while you make the pan sauce.
3) Light the grill and bring to medium heat (between 350 – 375 degrees). Preheat for 7-8 minutes. This is the ideal heat to cook the tri tip fully in 35-40 minutes, depending on the size of the roast. 4) Place the meat fat side up in between the burners. 
3. Slow-grill the steak. Place the tri-tip on the cool side of the grill, with the thickest part of the steak facing the hot side of the grill, and cook with the lid closed. Turn the steak occasionally, about every 20 minutes, until it reaches 110° (43°C) in the center of the thickest part. Mmm, tri-tip steak! It's not only one of the most flavorful cuts of beef, it's also one of the least expensive cuts. You can cook tri-tip in a variety of ways, from grilling to oven roasting, or even pan-fried. Beyond cooking it, you can also marinate it first for extra flavor.
Refrigerate for at least 3 hours or overnight. 3. Place tri-tip on a broiler pan (I used a cookie sheet, which worked fine) and place in the middle of the oven. Rotate the pan a quarter turn to ensure even cooking after 15 minutes of cooking. Cook until medium rare, about 30 minutes or an internal temperature of 145? F
3. Oven-roasting the tri-tip roast. 1  Place roast in the oven and roast, uncovered, for 30 to 35 minutes or until the thermometer registers 135 degrees F. Remove from the oven and cover with foil. You can ask the butcher to cut a tri-tip roast into 3/4- to 1-inch-thick steaks. These are best suited for broiling in the oven. 1. Seasoning Tri-Tip Steaks. 1  Marinating for 2 to 3 hours in your favorite marinade is not essential but will help keep the steaks tender and moist while cooking.
Test the meat after 30 minutes with a meat thermometer. Remove it from the grill when it is 135 degrees (medium rare) or 150 degrees Fahrenheit (medium). The tri-tip cut will start to get tough if you cook to a higher temperature than this. 
3. Oven-roasting the tri-tip roast Place roast in the oven and roast, uncovered, for 30 to 35 minutes or until the thermometer registers 135 degrees F. Remove from the oven and cover with foil. Let the meat stand for 15 minutes, which will bring the temperature up to 145 degrees F (medium rare) after standing. You can ask the butcher to cut a tri-tip roast into 3/4- to 1-inch-thick steaks. These are best suited for broiling in the oven. 1. Seasoning Tri-Tip Steaks. 1  Marinating for 2 to 3 hours in your favorite marinade is not essential but will help keep the steaks tender and moist while cooking.
Other names for the tri-tip are bottom sirloin roast and triangle roast. If you don't see it in the meat case, you may need to request it from your butcher. A boneless tri-tip roast weighs around 1-1/2 to 2 pounds and is around 2 inches thick. You can ask the butcher to cut a tri-tip roast into 3/4- to 1-inch-thick steaks. These are best suited for broiling in the oven. 1. Seasoning Tri-Tip Steaks. 1  Marinating for 2 to 3 hours in your favorite marinade is not essential but will help keep the steaks tender and moist while cooking.
Tip. 1  To oven-roast a tri-tip, prepare meat with rub and refrigerate as instructed. 2  Heat oven to 350 degrees. 3  Add 2 tablespoons of olive oil or other cooking oil to a large, heavy ovenproof pan. 4  On stovetop, heat on high until pan is very hot, then add tri-tip, fat side down. 1 Heat oven to 350 degrees. 2  Add 2 tablespoons of olive oil or other cooking oil to a large, heavy ovenproof pan. 3  On stovetop, heat on high until pan is very hot, then add tri-tip, fat side down. 4  Turn heat to medium-high and sear roast for about 4 minutes.