Best Answer: The first name Kim is the family name of the father, the wife does not change her name, but the children take the name of the father. Koreans have three names, as do several other countries. It is proper to pronounce all the names, not just their surname or their first given name. I was just reading about Kim Jong-il and now I'm curious about these names-Kim Jong-un, Kim Jong-nam (but his son is Kin Han-sol)...I know that 'Kim' is the surname, but what is the given name?
A Korean name consists of a family name followed by a given name, as used by the Korean people in both North Korea and South Korea. Despite official Korean romanization systems used for geographic and other names in North and South Korea, personal names are generally romanized according to personal preference. Thus, a family name such as Lee may also be found spelled I, Yi, Rhee, and Rhie.
Korean Baby Names. You are gonna love these cool Korean Baby Names for boys... I remember when I was selecting names for my first child... I wanted to see EVERYTHING. I didn't want to miss a single great name. As a result I scoured wide categories, and thousands of baby names. 
Early names based on the Korean language were recorded in the Three Kingdoms period (57 BCE – 668 CE), but with the growing adoption of the Chinese writing system, these were gradually replaced by names based on Chinese characters (hanja). Despite official Korean romanization systems used for geographic and other names in North and South Korea, personal names are generally romanized according to personal preference. Thus, a family name such as Lee may also be found spelled I, Yi, Rhee, and Rhie.
In the Korean language, ireum or seong-myeong usually refers to the family name (seong) and given name (ireum in a narrow sense) together. Traditional Korean names typically consist of only one syllable. There is no middle name in the English language sense. Many Koreans have their given names made of a generational name syllable and an individually distinct syllable, while this practice is declining in the younger generations. Despite official Korean romanization systems used for geographic and other names in North and South Korea, personal names are generally romanized according to personal preference. Thus, a family name such as Lee may also be found spelled I, Yi, Rhee, and Rhie.
Home » Names. Korean names are used in South and North Korea. Note that depending on the Korean characters used these names can have many other meanings besides those listed here. See also about Korean names. Refine Search
Discover Korean First Names & other fantastic boy names at Top 100 Baby Names Search. You might just find that one of these great names is just the right blend of exotic perfect-ness... exactly what you were looking for. Well, at the very least a few of these great gems might make it to your short list. After all, my baby's name could be hiding on a list somewhere... AND I would know it as soon as I saw it! So, in that same spirit of carefulness we at Top 100 Baby Names Search present you these great Korean first names... Enjoy and don't hesitate to take a look at the entire website. Look carefully... One of these great names from the Orient, just might be your baby's name