Certain services may add to your total tree trimming cost. For example, you will pay around $250 per hour for emergency tree pruning and trimming services. To have broken or dead limbs cleared from a large tree, you will pay approximately $1,000. If the company doesn’t have a truck, the workers will have to climb the tree, which will push the bill over $1,500. 1 30 Feet and Shorter – Trees that are up to 30 feet high, like Russian olive trees and dogwood trees, cost between $75 and $450. 2  30 Feet to 60 Feet – It costs between $150 and $875 to have trees in this height range, like crab apple trees, trimmed by the pros.
This cost is based on Spokane County labor costs and includes removal of dead branches, thinning, & general pruning. It may vary by tree species and minimum job fees can also apply. Tree Removal Time: 3.15 Hours. Your Estimated Stump Removal Costs in Spokane - 1 Stump(s): $252.84. This cost is based on specialty equipment requirements and Spokane County labor costs for a licensed, bonded, and insured tree service company. Our pros will clearly lay out pricing for both the removal of a tree and any additional stump grinding costs in Spokane. Many tree companies quote the job with ONLY the tree removal prices included, but with Cork'd you will be aware of all potential charges before the project begins.
The average cost to remove a tree is from $200-$700. Every tree is different and needs to be examined before a quote can be given. There are ways to save money by having multiple tree discounts, no clean up, you keeping the wood, or refer your neighbor while we are in your neighborhood. The average stump cost varies. It usually runs from 2-3 $ an inch (diameter). Quotes are based on size, soil conditions, and access. Discounts are available by having multiple stumps, no clean up, or other tree work.
Caring for trees in this combination of semi-arid and cool-summer Mediterranean environments can be overwhelming, but local professionals can save the day by offering tree trimming, tree removal and even stump removal. Use this guide to better price tree services in Spokane, Washington. In 2013, the Spokane Park Board did a complete tree inventory of the city. During that process, they discovered that the city was home to more than 86,000 trees, which they valued at a whopping $382 million.
According to the Spokane Municipal Code, however, licensed tree trimmers that take more than 30 minutes to an hour for tree removal may need to apply for a permit, especially if the work will be done on or near a busy road or intersection. In 2013, the Spokane Park Board did a complete tree inventory of the city. During that process, they discovered that the city was home to more than 86,000 trees, which they valued at a whopping $382 million.
Skip to a section: 1  Costs – Find more information on the average costs of tree maintenance, removal and stump removal in Spokane, Washington. 2  FAQs – There are many varieties of trees that growing in Spokane, including fruit trees like pears and apples. In 2013, the Spokane Park Board did a complete tree inventory of the city. During that process, they discovered that the city was home to more than 86,000 trees, which they valued at a whopping $382 million.
Larger trees have more branches, and they take a lot longer to trim and prune. A rough breakdown of the average price for a professional tree trimming is as follows: 1  30 Feet and Shorter – Trees that are up to 30 feet high, like Russian olive trees and dogwood trees, cost between $75 and $450. 1 30 Feet and Shorter – Trees that are up to 30 feet high, like Russian olive trees and dogwood trees, cost between $75 and $450. 2  30 Feet to 60 Feet – It costs between $150 and $875 to have trees in this height range, like crab apple trees, trimmed by the pros.
It’s very important to have your trees trimmed by a professional who practices proper techniques. Otherwise, more harm than good could be done. The average cost for tree trimming is from $100-$475. Again, every tree is different and needs to be examined before a quote can be given. There are ways to save money by having multiple tree discounts, no clean up, you keeping the wood, or refer your neighbor while we are in your neighborhood. The average stump cost varies. It usually runs from 2-3 $ an inch (diameter). Quotes are based on size, soil conditions, and access. Discounts are available by having multiple stumps, no clean up, or other tree work.
1 Costs – Find more information on the average costs of tree maintenance, removal and stump removal in Spokane, Washington. 2  FAQs – There are many varieties of trees that growing in Spokane, including fruit trees like pears and apples. In 2013, the Spokane Park Board did a complete tree inventory of the city. During that process, they discovered that the city was home to more than 86,000 trees, which they valued at a whopping $382 million.
1 30 Feet to 60 Feet – It costs between $150 and $875 to have trees in this height range, like crab apple trees, trimmed by the pros. 2  60 Feet and Taller – You can expect to pay between $200 and $1,000 or more to have an exceptionally tall tree, like a red oak or a pine tree, trimmed by a professional company. 1 30 Feet and Shorter – Trees that are up to 30 feet high, like Russian olive trees and dogwood trees, cost between $75 and $450. 2 