Heating by the greenhouse effect. Our planet s surface is now kept at a comfortable temperature because the atmosphere traps some of the radiant heat from the Sun and keeps it near the surface, warming the planet and sustaining living creatures.
By contrast, without a greenhouse effect, the Earth would look like the lower diagram. The apparent temperature surface that we would see from space is located well above the real surface of the Earth where we live. This apparent temperature surface is about 5000 meters up (17,000 feet) within the atmosphere.
On the real Earth, the current average surface temperature is 288 K (59 o F), not 303 K, so the actual greenhouse effect causes a warming of only 33 o C (59 o F) relative to an atmosphere without a greenhouse effect. Thus, the crude model presented here overestimates the strength of the greenhouse effect by 50%.
Without this greenhouse effect, the average surface temperature would be 255 degrees kelvin (-18 degrees Celsius or 0 degrees Fahrenheit); a temperature so low that all water on Earth would freeze, the oceans would turn into ice and life, as we know it, would not exist.
The greenhouse effect is not the same as global warming. Global warming refers to the increase in global average temperature due to excessive amounts of greenhouse gases. The greenhouse effect describes a critical function of our atmosphere: to keep the earth warm enough to sustain life.
By increasing the abundance of these gases in the atmosphere, humankind is increasing the overall warming of the Earth s surface and lower atmosphere, a process called global warming.. The figure below illustrates the radiation balance and the role of greenhouse effect. Illustration of the Earth s radiative balance.
The greenhouse effect is the process by which radiation from a planet's atmosphere warms the planet's surface to a temperature above what it would be in the absence of its atmosphere. If a planet's atmosphere contains radiatively active gases (i.e., greenhouse gases) the atmosphere radiates energy in all directions.
So the Earth's temperature without greenhouse gases would be -17oC. A:If we didn't have the greenhouse effect, the Earth's average surface temperature would fall way below freezing, and there will be a global ice age, therefore killing off most of the Earth's life forms.
If there were no greenhouse effect, the Earth’s average surface temperature would be a very chilly -18°C (0°F) instead of the comfortable 15°C (59°F) that it is today.
Of the longwave energy emitted back to space, 90% is intercepted and absorbed by greenhouse gases. Without the greenhouse effect the Earth's average global temperature would be -18° Celsius, rather than the present 15° Celsius.