Cafe in Buenos Aires. Although Argentina's official language is Spanish, Argentinian Spanish is different from the Spanish spoken in Spain. In some ways it sounds more like Italian than Spanish. There are also many other languages spoken in Argentina, including Italian, German, English and French. Indigenous languages that are spoken today include Mapuche, Guarani, Aymara, Toba and Quechua
Argentina is predominantly a Spanish-speaking country — the fourth largest after Mexico, Spain, and Colombia (according to a compilation of national census figures and United Nations estimates, see List of countries with Spanish-speaking populations). In most Spanish speaking countries the letters y and ll are pronounced like “y” in yo-yo, however in most parts of Argentina will be pronounced like “zh”. As previously mentioned voseo is commonly used in Argentina while with its own slight variation.
The official Language is Spanish and the Main Language. There are also other languages spoken there though including:ItalianLevantine ArabicQuechueGermanYiddish. Wichi Wichí Lhamtes. Lhamtés vejoz argentina is also a. Melting, Pot, Chinese, Italian, German, French, portuguese Arabic and welsh are spoken by large Minorities. In argentina, in fact the second most widely spoken Language in Argentina. is italian
Argentina is also a melting pot. Chinese, Italian, German, French, Portuguese, Arabic, and Welsh are spoken by large minorities in Argentina. In fact, the second most widely spoken language in Argentina is Italian. Wichi Wichí Lhamtes. Lhamtés vejoz argentina is also a. Melting, Pot, Chinese, Italian, German, French, portuguese Arabic and welsh are spoken by large Minorities. In argentina, in fact the second most widely spoken Language in Argentina. is italian
Abipon, Abipón, Cacan cacán Chane chané and haush are now extinct languages that were spoken by People indigenous To argentina. Before european contact very little Is known Of. Cacan Cacán and chane chané the Abipon abipón language was A–Native american language of the mataco guaycuru Family that. was spoken by the abipon abipón people In most Spanish speaking countries the letters y and ll are pronounced like “y” in yo-yo, however in most parts of Argentina will be pronounced like “zh”. As previously mentioned voseo is commonly used in Argentina while with its own slight variation.
Dialectal variants of the Spanish language in Argentina. The spoken languages of Argentina number at least 40 although Spanish is dominant. Others include native and other immigrant languages; two languages are extinct and others are endangered, spoken by elderly people whose descendants do not speak the languages. In most Spanish speaking countries the letters y and ll are pronounced like “y” in yo-yo, however in most parts of Argentina will be pronounced like “zh”. As previously mentioned voseo is commonly used in Argentina while with its own slight variation.
Several native American languages spoken in Argentina by the native people (1% of the population) are declining at rates that may result in only a handful of speakers within a generation. In most Spanish speaking countries the letters y and ll are pronounced like “y” in yo-yo, however in most parts of Argentina will be pronounced like “zh”. As previously mentioned voseo is commonly used in Argentina while with its own slight variation.
3 • LANGUAGE. The official language of Argentina is Spanish, but a number of other European-descended communities still maintain their own languages. Italians, for instance, constitute the largest immigrant group. As a result, Italian is widely understood, as is English, another significant immigrant language. 
Spanish is the major and official language of Argentina, but it is also influenced by Italian. Because of it's Italian influence the Spanish language used is called Castillan … o. Wichi Wichí Lhamtes. Lhamtés vejoz argentina is also a. Melting, Pot, Chinese, Italian, German, French, portuguese Arabic and welsh are spoken by large Minorities. In argentina, in fact the second most widely spoken Language in Argentina. is italian