Heidelberg Castle and the city's historical centre can be reached in 30 minutes from the property on foot or using public transport. While Heidelberg Zoo is 1.6 miles away, the Heidelberg Thermal Baths are just 0.9 miles from Boardingstudio Heidelberg. Frankfurt Airport is located 45.4 miles from the property. Nice are, walking distance to center. Richard, Netherlands. Just 1,650 feet from Central Station Heidelberg, this self-catering accommodation located in Heidelberg. Featuring a furnished terrace, Boardingstudio Heidelberg also offers free WiFi internet access.
Stay in the Heart of Heidelberg. Hotel am Kornmarkt is located just below Heidelberg Castle, offering guests unique and easy access to the heart of the city. Set in a historic building, the bright rooms also come with free WiFi access. 
Understand [edit]. It is no secret that Heidelberg is a jewel among German travel destinations. Heidelberg is in the Neckar river valley right where the legend-rich Odenwald (Forest of Odes or Odin) opens up towards the plains of the Rhine Valley. Heidelberg is home to the oldest university in Germany (est. 
Share. We’ve compiled a list of recommended hotels to help you choose where to stay in Heidelberg, Germany. Though Heidelberg does not have many 5-star hotels, and budget accommodations are even harder to find, we’ve found a few worth considering. 4-Star Hotels in Heidelberg. Crowne Plaza Heidelberg. This hotel is just a short walk from the pedestrian-only area of the Old Town. Rooms are quiet and come with a large work area with fax capabilities, coffee maker, and WiFi (at a charge).
http://www.marriott.com/hotels/maps/travel/hdbmc-heidelberg-marriott-hotel/?directPageRequest=true Marriott International, Inc. Enjoy river views and superb dining, while staying at the award-winning Heidelberg Marriott Hotel, located in one of Germany's most facinating cities. 49.408861 8.672632.
Heidelberg (Germany). Academy of Science with ruins of castle above. On the summit of Jettenb hl (195 m/640 ft), which dominates the eastern portion of the city, is Heidelberg Castle (mainly 14th-17th century), one of the most impressive historic landmarks of Germany. 
Link to website HeidelbergCement in Germany. HeidelbergCement was founded 1873 in Heidelberg, Germany. Until the 1960s HeidelbergCement was active almost exclusively in its home market of southern Germany. Today, the company employs around 4,000 people throughout Germany. 
About the University. Located on 110 beautiful acres in northwest Ohio, Heidelberg University combines a challenging liberal-arts curriculum with practical career preparation. 
Heidelberg-Location. Heidelberg is located in Southeastern Germany along the Neckar river, in the region of Baden Wurttemberg, an hour south of Frankfurt. Heidelberg is part of Germany's  Castle Road .. It is a lively University town overlooked by evocative castle ruins.