I think unplugging the refrigerators will both save electricity and reduce wear on the compressors, although I agree with others that if possible you should measure the usage, in part to decide whether any (possibly small) savings is worth the effort. 1 If you have the means to measure the electricity savings, I would do so. 2  You may find that the savings are small and not worth the effort. 3  Water jugs will not help you if you are unplugging the fridge, in fact they will make it worse. 4  The purpose of the water is to retain cold and stabilize the temperature.
Electrical Costs. Perhaps your primary reason for unplugging the refrigerator is to save on electrical costs. It won’t cost much to keep your refrigerator running. Springfield, Illinois’s City Water, Light and Power Company estimates that the monthly cost of running a refrigerator ranges from about $7 to $18. Time Away and Refrigerator Contents. If a “long” vacation for you means a week or 10 days, it is probably not worth unplugging your refrigerator. If, on the other hand, you will be away for a month or more, the proposition becomes more feasible. Toss or give away all perishables whether or not you unplug the fridge.
The main way to save money with your fridge is to use an efficient model. New fridges aren't just a little more efficient, they're incredibly more efficient. A 1986-era 18 c.f. fridge uses 1400 kWh a year, while a modern energy-efficient model uses only 350 kWh — a whopping 75% reduction. Now, keeping some ice in the fridge can also help keep your food cool if the power goes out, but it's not an energy-saving technique. One company compiled a massive database of energy use for 41,000 different refrigerator models from 1979 to 1992.
Flickr/psyberartist. This interesting question from Econundrums reader Myk recently caught my attention: I have often wondered if it would be possible to unplug my fridge at night when I know for certain that no one will need to open it for eight hours. 
Dear Vanessa, I've heard that unplugging things like phone chargers and appliances saves electricity, but a friend told me recently that it doesn't save enough to be significant. He says I do not need to worry about energy vampires.. 
According to the U.S. Department of Energy, refrigerators use more power than any other commonly owned appliance -- about twice as much as a dishwasher. But while most modern homesteaders gladly do without dishwashers and clothes dryers, few unplug their refrigerators. On the other hand, if you need to store fresh meat or other foods that won't keep at room temperature but you still want to reduce your energy use, a compromise may be in order. Many fridge-free households use an energy-efficient chest freezer for long-term storage and making ice.
Better way to save energy is to adjust the controls so that the freezer part is at 0 F and the fridge part at 37-40 F. Use a thermometer and wait a day after adjusting controls for temps to stabilize. If you don't have a thermometer, setting the controls to mid range will come close enough. Report Abuse. Don't, you risk the food spoiling. If your refrigerator has a switch for moisture control, turn it off during the winter, turn it back on when the humidity gets high enough in the summer for the box to start sweating.
At 15 kWh, trading in a pre-1986 fridge for a new efficient one would save about $158 a year in electricity costs. And some older fridges are even worse than the average. One reader estimates her savings to be $238 per year for trading in her 1979 fridge for a 2004 model. Now, keeping some ice in the fridge can also help keep your food cool if the power goes out, but it's not an energy-saving technique. One company compiled a massive database of energy use for 41,000 different refrigerator models from 1979 to 1992.
1 Computers: According to the EPA, computers account for 2 percent to 3 percent of overall household and office energy use in the US. 2  As I've said before, sleep mode is good, but not as good as unplugging entirely. 3  Laptops are more energy efficient, and screensavers save nothing. 
Your energy bill will be smiling at the end of the month if you can keep this up. You would definitely love – A few tips to save energy in the office. I will be providing 3 more fun tips later this week on saving energy with you refrigerator. Kindly comment, Like and tweet these tips. Unplugging the refrigerator does not work for many persons, this is due to the fact that they unplug their fridge in the middle of the day or when they are leaving for work in the mornings. It is not recommended that you unplug your fridge in the days, neither is it advisable to do it everyday.