Some new parents wonder what room temperature for baby is safe and comfortable. Experts recommend maintaining a room temperature between 65 to 74⁰F, which can be monitored more easily with a room thermometer. Maintaining a comfortbale temperature for your baby's room can help your little one's sound sleep. Then, choose light blankets and thin clothing for your baby. Depending on the room temperature or how she feels, you can add or take away some layers of blanket or clothing. Always check if your baby is sweaty or cold to see if she needs more or less sheets of blanket.
When to See a Doctor. If your baby is under age 3 months and has a fever, take her to a doctor. For at least the first 6 months of life, call your doctor anytime she has a fever. At your baby’s next checkup you can ask if the doctor has a “fever policy.” That will give you a better idea about when you need to call. 
BabyCentre's health visitor. You can help your baby to sleep safe and sound by keeping the temperature in his room between 16 degrees C and 20 degrees C. A basic room thermometer will help you to keep an eye on the temperature. If your baby gets too hot, he may be more at risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), also known as cot death. You may want to place an electric fan in your baby’s bedroom. If you do, keep the fan well away from your baby’s cot and check regularly that his room is not too cold. If you think your baby is getting too hot, check his tummy. If it feels hot, or if he's sweaty, remove some layers.
I have read that the acceptable temperature range for a newborn nursery is between 16 and 20 degrees Celcius. We have an Angel Care monitor in our baby's nursery used to track the temperature. We try to keep his room at about 19 degrees celcius althougfh some nights it reads 21 degrees celcius. 
Your baby needs lots of sleep. The average newborn sleeps for up to 16 hours a day, although it may not feel like this much to you! At first your baby will need to wake up frequently for feeds, probably every three hours to four hours in the day, with longer spells at night. Find out more about how much sleep your baby needs. If possible, your baby should sleep in the same room as you (Lullaby Trust 2013) for the first six months
RoomTemperature 1 of 4 Information Statement ROOM TEMPERATURE SIDS AND KIDS DOES NOT RECOMMEND A SPECIFIC ROOM TEMPERATURE FOR HEALTHY BABIES To Reduce the Risk of Sudden Unexpected Deaths in Infancy (SUDI), including SIDS and Fatal Sleep Accidents 1. Sleep baby on the back from birth, not on the tummy or side 2. 
Ideal Nighttime Temperature. The ideal temperature for a baby's room at night is between 65-70⁰F. Like adults, they tend to sleep more soundly when the temperature is slightly cooler than normal. Infants fall into asleep much easier without blankets, so don't counteract the cool temperature with heavy blankets. Then, choose light blankets and thin clothing for your baby. Depending on the room temperature or how she feels, you can add or take away some layers of blanket or clothing. Always check if your baby is sweaty or cold to see if she needs more or less sheets of blanket.
You know how you sleep better when the room's a little cooler? Well, your bundle of joy is no different. Keep your baby's room warmer during the day and cooler at night, Dr. Greene suggests. The optimal temperature for infant sleep is between 65 and 70?F. If you don't have a thermostat you can control, leave the window slightly open or use a fan at night. The biggest lesson I learned when I became a mom: Nothing is predictable--except for a shortage of shut-eye. It's a given that babies get up a lot during the first three months, and it's important to have realistic expectations, says Harvey Karp, M.D., creator of the DVD and book, The Happiest Baby on the Block.