Top Definition. qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm. A phenomena that happens to a computer's keyboard when a human being is bored to death... Bored to death in a cube a human decides to type qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm (all the keyboard buttons in an orderly way) to a search engine to see what comes up. Then finds definitions for it and then adds a new one... This phenomenon will always remain constant for data entry keyboards with the QWERTY layout (hence the name ‘QWERTY keyboards’). This is true to the same extent that that DEATH is the opposite of LIFE, yet the one can’t occur without the other since both are linked and the one always follows the other.
20 Words related to zxcvbnm. 1  qwertyuiop. 2  asdfghjkl. 3  qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm. 4  qwerty. 5  qazwsxedcrfvtgbyhnujmikolp. 6  plokmijnuhbygvtfcrdxeszwaq. 7  poiuytrewq. 8  mnbvcxz. 9  mnbvcxzlkjhgfdsapoiuytrewq. 10  lkjhgfdsa. 11  boredom. 12  asdf. 13  1234567890. 14  bored. 15  keyboard. 16  asdfghjk. 17  qpwoeiruty. 18  qwertyuioplkjhgfdsazxcvbnm. 19  asdfghjkl; 20  zaqxswcdevfrbgtnhymjukilop. 
Unless the standard keyboard layout changes to something in the line of werqytuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm to which the opposite will then be mnbvcxzlkjhgfdsapoiutyqrew. Should this happen, then a standard data entry keyboard will not be known as a ‘QWERTY keyboard’, anymore, but rather a ‘WERQYT keyboard’. This phenomenon will always remain constant for data entry keyboards with the QWERTY layout (hence the name ‘QWERTY keyboards’). This is true to the same extent that that DEATH is the opposite of LIFE, yet the one can’t occur without the other since both are linked and the one always follows the other.
QWERTY. of or noting the standard typewriter or computer keyboard with q, w, e, r, t, and y being the first six of the top row of letters, starting from the left. QWER·TY. adj. Of, relating to, or designating the traditional configuration of computer or typewriter keyboard keys. [ From the first six letters at the upper left .]. (ˈkwɜːtɪ) or QWERTY keyboard.
20 Words related to zxcvbnm. 1  qwertyuiop. 2  asdfghjkl. 3  qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm. 4  qwerty. 5  qazwsxedcrfvtgbyhnujmikolp. 6  plokmijnuhbygvtfcrdxeszwaq. 7  poiuytrewq. 8  mnbvcxz. 9  mnbvcxzlkjhgfdsapoiuytrewq. 10  lkjhgfdsa. 11  boredom. 12  asdf. 13  1234567890. 14  bored. 15  keyboard. 16  asdfghjk. 17  qpwoeiruty. 18  qwertyuioplkjhgfdsazxcvbnm. 19  asdfghjkl; 20  zaqxswcdevfrbgtnhymjukilop. 
1. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) the standard English language typewriter keyboard layout with the characters q, w, e, r, t, and y positioned on the top row of alphabetic characters at the left side of the keyboard. (ˈkwɜr ti, ˈkwɛr-). adj. QWER·TY. adj. Of, relating to, or designating the traditional configuration of computer or typewriter keyboard keys. [ From the first six letters at the upper left .]. (ˈkwɜːtɪ) or QWERTY keyboard.
QWERTY. of or noting the standard typewriter or computer keyboard with q, w, e, r, t, and y being the first six of the top row of letters, starting from the left. 1. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) the standard English language typewriter keyboard layout with the characters q, w, e, r, t, and y positioned on the top row of alphabetic characters at the left side of the keyboard. (ˈkwɜr ti, ˈkwɛr-). adj.
This month, we are on track to donate 192. (Noun) The bottom row of the keyboard which you type after qwertyuiop and asdfghjkl. However, before you continue to qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm, mnbvcxzlkjhgfdsapoiuytrewq, and qazwsxedcrfvtgbyhnujmikolp. Which I assume you are so bored that you are also going to look up the definitions of those words like i did because you are so completely bored and dont want to actually do your work.