For instance, Culex tarsalis, a common California (USA) mosquito, might go through its life cycle in 14 days at 70° F and take only 10 days at 80° F. On the other hand, some species have naturally adapted to go through their entire life cycle in as little as four days or as long as one month. Most eggs hatch into larvae within 48 hours; others might withstand subzero winters before hatching. Water is a necessary part of their habitat. Larva: The larva (plural-larvae) lives in the water and comes to the surface to breathe. Larvae shed (molt) their skins four times, growing larger after each molt.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: General life cycle: http://www.metapathogen.com/mosquito/ Timing for Culex pipiens (house mosquito): eggs take 2-4 days to hatch into larva (depends on temp), larval takes 7-14 days, then goes pupa (tumbler) ~ 2days after which adult mosquto follows. Source(s): Aqwa · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Answers. Best Answer: Time for eggs to hatch varies with species from 16 to 24 hours to more than 2 years for floodwater mosquitoes. Larvae develop through 3 molts (4 instars) over a period of about one week before pupating. Adults emerge from the back of the pupa after 2 to 3 days. Adults live for 2 or more weeks, although standing water species overwinter as mated, engorged females.. Source(s): http://insects.tamu.edu/fieldguide/bimg2...
Mosquito Life Cycle. Mosquito, After Feedings. The length of the mosquito life cycle varies between species and is dependent upon environmental conditions such as temperature and moisture. However, the life cycle of all mosquitoes is comprised of the egg, larval, pupal and adult stages. Male mosquitoes feed on plant nectar alone, while females extract the blood of hosts in order to develop and nourish eggs. Most mosquitoes lay their eggs directly into water. Others lay their eggs near bodies of water but not within them. Eggs will hatch into larvae within 24 to 48 hours. Larvae soon grow to become approximately 5 mm in length. Most larvae breathe through air tubes. Larger larvae can be seen floating just above the surface of infested waters. 
While some mosquitoes lay their eggs on the surface of the water, the most abundant species deposit their eggs on moist soil. These eggs may lie dormant for several months and even years and will not hatch until they are covered by rain water or tides. Four to five days after the eggs hatch, the larvae are full grown. 
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
On average a mosquito’s life span is typically 2-3 weeks however for the lucky mosquitoes who can find a hideout for the winter such as a garage, culvert, or attic, have a chance of living for up to 6 months. Top of page. All mosquitoes require water to complete the 3 of 4 stages of their life cycle. One female mosquito can lay anywhere between 100 to 300 eggs at one time, in her lifetime she can lay between 1,000 and 3,000 eggs. That is why it is so important to eliminate all possible breeding sites or apply larvacide which prevents the larva from becoming adult mosquitoes.
A mosquito may lay a raft of eggs every third night during its life span. Mosquitoes lay their eggs one at a time, sticking them together to form a raft of from 200-300 eggs. A raft of eggs looks like a speck of soot floating on the water and is about 1/4 inch long and 1/8 inch wide. Tiny mosquito larvae emerge from the eggs within 24 hours. 1 person found this useful.
Three different ways of getting to the water. Mosquitoes lay eggs which hatch into larvae or wrigglers that live for a while in water, then emerge as new adult mosquitoes. Though mosquitoes live on land, they've evolved three different ways to get their eggs in the water, so the larvae can hatch where they need to be. The eggs are so small, though, that a single raft of 200 to 300 eggs is only 1/4 inch long. Mosquitoes usually lay the eggs at night and the rafts are so inconspicuous, you may never notice them. Culex mosquito egg raft.