Wine and Roses weigela (Weigela florida 'Alexandra) grows 4 to 5 feet tall and pairs burgundy leaves with rose-pink flowers. Old fashioned weigela and its cultivars are hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 5 through 8. Old fashioned weigela (Weigela florida), often simply called weigela, is valuable in the landscape as a specimen plant or in mixed landscape beds. The species variety grows 6 to 8 feet tall, and has pink flowers and green leaves. Over 170 cultivars are available, offering different colors and mature sizes.
When you learn how to grow Weigela, you’ll know how to grow a shrub valued for use as a specimen or border plant. This old-fashioned beauty blooms profusely in spring and sporadically through the summer. Care of Weigela is low maintenance. Plant Weigela in a full sun area for the greatest show of springtime blooms from the growing Weigela. Weigela may also be planted in light shade, flowering will not be as abundant, but blooms will appear.
Plant Characteristics: Red Prince Weigela will grow to be about 6 feet tall at maturity, with a spread of 6 feet. It has a low canopy, and is suitable for planting under power lines. It grows at a medium rate, and under ideal conditions can be expected to live for approximately 30 years. This shrub should only be grown in full sunlight. 
Weigela florida Description. Weigela florida is a deciduous shrub that has a rounded shape due to having a wider spread than height. There are many cultivars available but the typical Weigela plant has a range in height of 72 to 120 inches (180–300 cm), and a spread of 100 to 144 inches (250–350 cm). Bark is gray-brown. Weigela florida Growing and Care Guide. 1  Grows well in zones 4 to 8 (hardy to zone 5). 2  Grow in full sunlight for best results. 3  Can grow well in dappled or lightly shaded areas, but flowers will not be as showy. 4  Soil can be average to fertile and fairly moist, but good drainage is required.
Plant Characteristics: Sonic Bloom Pink Weigela will grow to be about 5 feet tall at maturity, with a spread of 5 feet. It tends to fill out right to the ground and therefore doesn't necessarily require facer plants in front, and is suitable for planting under power lines.
Weigela florida is a deciduous flowering shrub. Characteristics: Weigela bushes grow to a height of 6-10 feet with a similar spread. Their arching branches produce pink, white or red flowers in late spring to early summer. The flowers of these shrubs are trumpet-shaped, and their color may be more intense when they first bloom. Planting Zones:
Weigela Florida grows to 10 feet in height and 10 feet across and around, so leave that much room when planting the small shrub from a 2-gallon pot. Plant Weigela in a full sun area for the greatest show of springtime blooms from the growing Weigela. Weigela may also be planted in light shade, flowering will not be as abundant, but blooms will appear.
Overview. Wine and roses weigela is a hybrid of the old-fashioned weigela shrub known as weigela florida. Weigela wine and roses is a deciduous shrub that can grow to between 4 and 6 feet tall and is hardy in the USDA Zones 5 to 8. It's recognized by its striking wine-to burgundy-colored leaves and pink, trumped-shaped flowers. Dig a hole twice the width and depth of the container in which the weigela wine and roses plant is growing. If you're planting more than one shrub, space each of the planting holes 6 to 8 feet from one another.
Overview. Plant weigela shrubs as a border plant around the foundation of your home or as a stand alone showpiece in your yard or garden. Weigela shrubs can grow up to 6 feet tall and have purplish green to variegated green foliage. 