With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c) perform exempt job duties. (Employees who earn more than $100,000 per year are almost certainly exempt.). Salary basis test. Generally, an employee is paid on a salary basis if s/he has a guaranteed minimum amount of money s/he can count on receiving for any work week in which s/he performs any work.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?X
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Electrical Controls Engineer III in the United States is $98,753 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Electrical Controls Engineer III in the United States are expected to make less than $98,753. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $98,753. The annual salary for someone with the job title Electrical Controls Engineer III may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Controls Engineer Salary. Controls Engineer average salary is $68,271, median salary is $64,418 with a salary range from $32,614 to $429,374. Controls Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Controls Engineer salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c) perform exempt job duties. These requirements are outlined in the FLSA Regulations (promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor). 
Average Controls Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide are 46% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
The law requires that employees be paid for overtime hours worked at a rate of 1 ½ times their regular rate of pay (unless the employee is exempt from the provision). Overtime is defined as more than 40 hours worked in a work week. It requires significant record keeping for compliance. Employees may be exempt from this law if they meet 3 tests in regard to: 1. Salary Level 2. Salary Basis 3. Job Duties The FLSA was updated in 2004. The information below is designed to assist you in determining whether an employee is exempt from the FLSA. Test 1: Salary Level The employee must be paid at least $455 per week or $910 biweekly or $1971.66 monthly or $23,660 annually