Some great info but your topic above on how much do truck drivers make is incorrect. It says up to .44 cents a mile or $1200 a week. I work at Con-way freight and started at $46 cents a mile. The top out is .58 cents a mile for road drivers or $24.75 hour for city and dock work, we have guys earning over $2300 per week. 
Average truck driver salary: A truck driver can earn an average salary of $30,000 to $40,000 per year. However, you should keep in mind that this amount varies depending on the trucking company you work for. To break these numbers down to experience and distance, long distance truck drivers earn approximately $15 per hour. If a driver is experienced enough, he can earn an average of $20 per hour.
Truck Driving Per Mile Salary. Truck drivers that are paid per mile see varying wages depending on their experience, the region they work in and the company they are employed with. A majority of trucking companies pay between $0.28 and $0.40 cents per mile according to the U.S Bureau of Labor Statistics. A few companies do pay up to $0.45 cents per mile. These types of jobs require more skill and are for drivers with many years of experience. The technical skill required to haul sensitive materials is rewarded with higher pay. The average truck driver is expected to travel between 2,000 and 3,000 miles per week, based on the 70 hour maximum hour restriction over eight days. Drivers that are just starting out can expect to see starting wages. Median wages for rookie truck drivers are between $0.27 and $0.29 per mile. Increases are given once a driver proves themselves and gets in some time with the company
How much do Truck Drivers Make Based on the Type of Trucking. How much do truckers make when it comes to light drivers or delivery drivers will involve the average annual salary of $30,000. The top ten percent of truckers will earn over $60,000 a year. Heavy truck drivers will earn an average of $40,000 a year, with the top drivers bringing home an annual $58,000. Most truckers, both tractor trailer and light, will receive benefits such as basic life insurance, medical insurance, paid holidays and vacations and retirement plans. The amount truck drivers make can also depend on the state a driver lives in. Delivery service drivers and light truckers earned the highest salary in Alaska at $42,000. Other states that offer a high salary for this position include New York, Florida, Oregon, Massachusetts and North Dakota.
One of the biggest questions we get from potential students considering a career in Trucking is, “How much money do truck drivers make?”. The short answer is that the average salary for professional truck drivers, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, is almost $40,000 per year. Of course, you’ll have a ton of opportunities to make significantly more than that. 
How much do truckers make will depend on the type of truck an individual operates and whether they deliver locally or nationwide. How much do truckers make when it comes to light drivers or delivery drivers will involve the average annual salary of $30,000. The top ten percent of truckers will earn over $60,000 a year. Heavy truck drivers will earn an average of $40,000 a year, with the top drivers bringing home an annual $58,000. Most truckers, both tractor trailer and light, will receive benefits such as basic life insurance, medical insurance, paid holidays and vacations and retirement plans. The amount truck drivers make can also depend on the state a driver lives in. Delivery service drivers and light truckers earned the highest salary in Alaska at $42,000. Other states that offer a high salary for this position include New York, Florida, Oregon, Massachusetts and North Dakota.
Very much a male-dominated career in the United States, Tractor-Trailer Drivers earn an average of $17.34 per hour. Overall incomes of Tractor-Trailer Drivers — including $2K bonuses, $5K profit sharing proceeds, and $25K commissions on the more lucrative end — generally ranges between $30K and $64K. Chicago is home to an above-average pay rate for Tractor-Trailer Drivers, 19 percent higher than the national average. Tractor-Trailer Drivers can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Seattle (+16 percent), Houston (+14 percent), Denver (+10 percent), and Indianapolis (+9 percent).
Well, now you know. Truck drivers pay varies with experience. Just like any other job, the more experienced you are, the better the pay. For example, a class C licensed driver earns an average salary of $12 to $17 per hour depending on his level of experience. However, you should keep in mind that this amount varies depending on the trucking company you work for. To break these numbers down to experience and distance, long distance truck drivers earn approximately $15 per hour. If a driver is experienced enough, he can earn an average of $20 per hour.
Of course, pay isn’t twice what it was, with any company. Here’s how I see it in 2012…. Below average truck driver pay-anything under .40 cents per mile, or $40,000 per year. Average truck driver pay-about .40 to .45 cents per mile, or $50,000 to $60,000 per year. Above average truck driver pay-close to .50 cents per mile, and over $60,000 per year. Of course, what you haul matters. Flatbed, step-deck and heavy-haul drivers add a little to that pay scale. We start our drivers off at .36 cents on all miles for the first 3 months and then .38 cents with stop pay, detentions pay and a .02 cent bonus for safe driving per month. We do hire them on 1099 and give a raise of .02 cents per year with holiday pay, and more bonus as I see fit, depending on how the driver is doing.