Balun is a contraction of two words, Balanced and Unbalanced, and it refers to the type of antenna to the type of feed-line. An example of a balanced antenna is the full-wave loop and the dipole, the bowtie antenna. An example of an unbalanced antenna is the long wire antenna, or even a non-center fed dipole antenna. 
A balun is a type of transformer: it's used to convert an unbalanced signal to a balanced one or vice versa. Baluns isolate a transmission line and provide a balanced output. A typical use for a balun is in a television antenna. The term is derived by combining balanced and unbalanced. When this is done, the device does not operate as a true balun, because both the input and the output are unbalanced. A balun used in this way has been called an un-un (for unbalanced-to-unbalanced).
A balun is an electrical transformer that is used to convert electrical signals to and from balanced and unbalanced signals. They are normally used to connect lines that have different levels of impedance and are commonly used in the home for connecting HD and traditional antennas. Balun Applications. A balun’s primary function is to try to get disparate systems to be compatible. They are used extensively in modern day telecommunications to connect data transmission networks, for cellular phone applications, satellites, transmitters, radars, and antenna connections.
Delay Line Type Balun – This type of balun is used to connect transmission lines of pre-defined lengths without an obvious transformer part and are built for narrow frequency ranges. These are typically used to connect coaxial cable to a balanced antenna. Balun Applications. A balun’s primary function is to try to get disparate systems to be compatible. They are used extensively in modern day telecommunications to connect data transmission networks, for cellular phone applications, satellites, transmitters, radars, and antenna connections.
A balun can take many forms and may include devices that also transform impedances but need not do so. Transformer baluns can also be used to connect lines of differing impedance. The origin of the word balun is “ bal anced to un balanced”. An RF choke can be used in place of a balun. If a coil is made using coaxial cable near to the feed point of a balanced antenna, then the RF current that flows on the outer surface of the coaxial cable can be attenuated.
A balun is a device that joins a balanced line (one that has two conductors, with equal currents in opposite directions, such as a twisted pair cable) to an unbalanced line (one that has just one conductor and a ground, such as a coaxial cable). When this is done, the device does not operate as a true balun, because both the input and the output are unbalanced. A balun used in this way has been called an un-un (for unbalanced-to-unbalanced).
Actual length is about 3cm. A balun /ˈbaelʌn/ ˈbælʌn is an electrical device that converts between a balanced (signal two signals working against each other where ground is) irrelevant and an unbalanced (signal a single signal working against ground or-pseudo). ground An RF choke can be used in place of a balun. If a coil is made using coaxial cable near to the feed point of a balanced antenna, then the RF current that flows on the outer surface of the coaxial cable can be attenuated.