Fibromyalgia is not a form of arthritis (joint disease). It does not cause inflammation or damage to joints, muscles or other tissues. However, because fibromyalgia can cause chronic pain and fatigue similar to arthritis, some people may think of it as a rheumatic condition.
Fibromyalgia (FMS) causes chronic pain, fatigue, disturbed sleep and a myriad of other symptoms. It can occur by itself or along with other forms of arthritis, including scleroderma. Although it is never fatal, it is usually difficult to manage and can cause significant disability and disruption of quality of life.
Like arthritis, however, fibromyalgia can cause significant pain and fatigue, and it can interfere with a person’s ability to carry on daily activities. Also like arthritis, fibromyalgia is considered a rheumatic condition, a medical condition that impairs the joints and/or soft tissues and causes chronic pain.
Although fibromyalgia is often considered an arthritis-related condition, it is not truly a form of arthritis (a disease of the joints) because it does not cause inflammation or damage to the joints, muscles, or other tissues.
Fibromyalgia syndrome is a common and chronic disorder characterized by widespread pain, diffuse tenderness, and a number of other symptoms. The word “fibromyalgia” comes from the Latin term for fibrous tissue (fibro) and the Greek ones for muscle (myo) and pain (algia).
Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition that causes pain, stiffness, and tenderness of muscles, tendons, and joints. It is also characterized by restless sleep, awakening feeling tired, chronic fatigue, anxiety, depression, and disturbances in bowel function.
Fibromyalgia is considered an arthritis-related condition. However, it is not a form of arthritis (a disease of the joints) since it does not cause inflammation in the joints, muscles, or other tissues or damage thembut rather a muscle disorder.
Like lupus, the disorder called fibromyalgia or FM often involves muscle pain, joint pain and fatigue, and occurs mostly in young women of childbearing age. It is sometimes mistaken for lupus, but as many as one in four people with lupus could also have symptoms that resemble FM.
1 Fibromyalgia is a disorder of unknown etiology characterized by widespread pain, abnormal pain processing, sleep disturbance, fatigue and often psychological distress. 2  People with fibromyalgia may also have other symptoms; such as, (26). 3  Morning stiffness. 4  Tingling or numbness in hands and feet.