Answers. Best Answer: Eubacteria, also know as “true bacteria”, are microscopic prokaryotic cells. Cyanobacteria, also called blue-green algae, are Eubacteria that have been living on our planet for over 3 billion years. Blue-green algae grow in the shallow parts of the ocean. --all eubacteria are unicellular --microscopic --some can make their own food (autotrophs) while others rely on external sources of nutrition (heterotrophs http://facstaff.uww.edu/wentzl/eubacteri...
Other bacteria are good to eat, such as those in yogurt. People have found that some types of Eubacteria can be very useful. Some are used at wastewater treatment plants to help clean the water. Others are also used to make grapes into wine and milk into cheese. --all eubacteria are unicellular --microscopic --some can make their own food (autotrophs) while others rely on external sources of nutrition (heterotrophs http://facstaff.uww.edu/wentzl/eubacteri...
1 Eubacteria can survive in a wide range of environments. 2  Some are aerobic, meaning they need oxygen to survive; while others are anaerobic, meaning they will die if oxygen is present. 3  Some make their own food, autotrophic, and some obtain their food from other organisms, heterotrophic. 1 Some are aerobic, meaning they need oxygen to survive; while others are anaerobic, meaning they will die if oxygen is present. 2  Some make their own food, autotrophic, and some obtain their food from other organisms, heterotrophic. 3  There are more eubacteria than any other organism.
Characteristics of Eubacteria. 1  Eubacteria can survive in a wide range of environments. 2  Some are aerobic, meaning they need oxygen to survive; while others are anaerobic, meaning they will die if oxygen is present. 3  Some make their own food, autotrophic, and some obtain their food from other organisms, heterotrophic. 1 Some are aerobic, meaning they need oxygen to survive; while others are anaerobic, meaning they will die if oxygen is present. 2  Some make their own food, autotrophic, and some obtain their food from other organisms, heterotrophic. 3  There are more eubacteria than any other organism.
Eubacteria. Eubacteria, known as true bacteria, are prokaryotic (lacking nucleus) cells that are very common in human daily life, encounter many more times than the archaebacteria. 
Eubacteria Kingdom. The eubacteria kingdom is one of the six kingdoms of the living world. Find out the characteristics, facts and some of the examples of these living creatures, in the article given below. Eubacteria are unicellular organisms. They can also be classified according to their shape and are found in three different shapes. Following are the shapes and examples of some of the eubacteria. Structure of these bacteria depend upon their shape and type.
The Kingdom Monera includes organisms that are single-celled known as bacteria. The microorganisms in Kingdom Monera are considered as the most ancient living forms on earth. The kingdom is divided into two groups Archaebacteria and Eubacteria. All the organisms of this kingdom are prokaryotes. These cells do not have nuclear membrane, the chromosome is a single and circular, they also lack membrane bound cellular organelles. This kingdom includes bacteria, cyanobacteria, mycoplasma etc. 
The characteristics of Eubacteria are: 1  They are unicellular, prokaryotic microscopic cells. 2  Their cell membrane contain lipids made up of glycerol-ester lipids. 3  The cell wall is made up of Peptidoglycan (Murein). 4  Chromosome is circular and nucleosomes maybe present. 1
1 Bacteria in general are not harmful. 2  Actually, the majority of the time bacteria helps. 3  It helps us digest our food, create yogurt and cheese, and make antibiotics. 4  Many bacteria are decomposers; they help keep dead organisms from covering the world while giving plants the nutrients that are essential to their growth. 1 Some are aerobic, meaning they need oxygen to survive; while others are anaerobic, meaning they will die if oxygen is present. 2  Some make their own food, autotrophic, and some obtain their food from other organisms, heterotrophic. 3  There are more eubacteria than any other organism.
Eubacteria are the most commonly found organisms in the world. They are also known as true bacteria, and are present on almost all surfaces. They are prokaryotic cells, and hence do not have a nucleus. The eubacteria kingdom is one of the six kingdoms in which the entire living world is classified. Eubacteria are unicellular organisms. They can also be classified according to their shape and are found in three different shapes. Following are the shapes and examples of some of the eubacteria. Structure of these bacteria depend upon their shape and type.