How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
A paid judgment stays on a person's credit report for seven years.  An unpaid judgment also stays on the report for seven years, but  may be renewed. Tax liens are another i … tem that stay on a credit  report for seven years, if paid. If not paid, they remain on the  credit report indefinitely. 1 A judgment remains on a consumer's credit report for 7 years from the date of entry, or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is longer. 2  This time period applies to each legal action. 3  Under certain circumstances and certain state's laws, judgments can be renewed
Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), a judgment can show up on your credit report for at least seven years. It can show up even longer, depending on how much time your state's laws give effect to that judgment. For example, if a judgment was filed against you in Arizona, it is good for five years. If a judgment was entered against you in California, it can show up on your credit report for ten years, or even 20 years if the creditor renewed it on time.
· just now. Report Abuse. The judgement will stay on your credit file for 7 years, whether it has been paid or unpaid. Once it has been paid in full it will show on your file as paid, which can have an impact on you applying for credit depending on the company's credit policy. Report Abuse. How it works is this: once the judgment is paid it will appear in your credit report as having been satisfied. It will show the creditor that you did have the judgment in the past, but you have taken care of it finally. It does not get erased completely until after 7 years.
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Adverse public records will have less affect on your FICO score as time passes, but they can remain on your credit report for up to 10 years based on what type of public record it is. Judgments specifically remain on your credit report for 7 years from the date filed. 
The judgment should also be removed from your credit report seven years from the date it was entered. The bad news is the judgment will still be there, even though you can't see it on your credit report, lurking in the shadows, waiting for the worst possible time to leap out and surprise you. 
Longevity of Judgments on a Credit Report. After the judgment is filed, it can stay on a credit report for an eternity. Depending on the state, the black mark remains on the report for 12 to 20 years, with an option for the creditor to renew the negative strike at the end of that time. 
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.