Tachikawa is on the JR Chūō Line. Trains traveling west from Tokyo Station through Shinjuku stop at Tachikawa Station before continuing to Hachiōji and Takao. The JR Ome Line and Itsukaichi Line also serve the city, stopping at Tachikawa and Nishi Tachikawa stations. Kunitachi, Kokubunji, and Kodaira are east of Tachikawa, Higashiyamato, and Musashimurayama are north of Tachikawa, Fussa, and Akishima west of Tachikawa, and Hino to the south.
Geography [edit]. Tachikawa is about 40 km west of the center of Tokyo. Kunitachi, Kokubunji, and Kodaira are east of Tachikawa, Higashiyamato, and Musashimurayama are north of Tachikawa, Fussa, and Akishima west of Tachikawa, and Hino to the south.
Tachikawa Station (立川駅, Tachikawa-eki) is a railway station in the city of Tachikawa in Tokyo, Japan, operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East). The Chūō Main Line passes through Tachikawa Station. The Ōme Line and Nambu Line terminate here. Although the Itsukaichi Line does not reach Tachikawa, a few trains on that line continue along the Ome Line tracks to serve this station.
The distance between cities of Tokyo (Japan) is calculated in kilometers(kms), miles and nautical miles. Distance in miles gives you the mileage between cities by this Tokyo (Japan) mileage calculator. 1 Enter the Distance To city, village, town, airport or place name from Tokyo (Japan) in the Distance To (second) text box.
Mt. Takao-san. A great place to enjoy riding a cable car and climbing in the suburbs of Tokyo. Mt. Takao is one of the three-star destinations in the Michelin Green Guide Japan. To visit Mt. Takao, transfer to the Chuo Line at Tachikawa Railway Station, and get off at Takao Railway Station. It takes about 18 minutes from Tachikawa Railway Station to Takao Railway Station.
Tachikawa-Minami Station and Tachikawa Kita Station on the Tama Toshi Monorail Line flank Tachikawa Station, and are connected to it by decks. The Ōme Line and Nambu Line terminate here. Although the Itsukaichi Line does not reach Tachikawa, a few trains on that line continue along the Ome Line tracks to serve this station.
Tachikawa (立川市, Tachikawa-shi) is a city located in western Tokyo Metropolis, Japan. The city was founded on December 1, 1940. As of February 1, 2010, the city has an estimated population of 178,064 and a population density of 7,303.69 persons per km². The total area is 24.38 km². Kunitachi, Kokubunji, and Kodaira are east of Tachikawa, Higashiyamato, and Musashimurayama are north of Tachikawa, Fussa, and Akishima west of Tachikawa, and Hino to the south.
I've done it many times. From Fussa Station there should only be one train line (OME). Take it towards Tachikawa. In Tachikawa you may have to switch trains to go to Shinjuku. From Shinjuku hop onto the Green and Gray train. This is the Yamanote Line and there will be a sign near the train that says Tokyo. It's very simple. If you get lost. 
Haneda Airport-Haijima Office and Tachikawa Railway Station: Full route list, timetable and bus stop guide of HANEDA AIRPORT EXPRESS. 1  HANEDA AIRPORT EXPRESS 2  ». Routes, Timetable and Bus Stops 3  ». Bus route index 4  ». Haijima Office and Tachikawa Railway Station. 5  Haneda Airport. 6  Haijima Office and Tachikawa Railway Station. To visit Mt. Takao, transfer to the Chuo Line at Tachikawa Railway Station, and get off at Takao Railway Station. It takes about 18 minutes from Tachikawa Railway Station to