Genetic information in bacteria is stored in the sequence of DNA in two forms, that is bacterial chromosome and plasmid. The following are the properties of a bacterial chromosome. 1  Location: Within nucleoid region, not surrounded by nuclear envelope. 2  Number: 1 chromosome each cell. 
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole. 
Some people say a bacterial cell is just a simple bag of enzymes. This couldn't be further from the truth! Learn about the structure and function of the bacterial cell membrane, what's in the cytoplasm, and how membrane surface area impacts bacterial size. Cell Membrane. The answer is the cell membrane. The cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer that completely surrounds a bacterial cell. The word 'completely' is important here because any break in the bilayer will lead to the death of the bacteria.
The cell wall is a tough, flexible and sometimes rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. It surrounds the cell membrane and provides these cells with structural support and protection. In addition, the cell wall acts as a filtering mechanism. A major function of the cell wall is to act as a pressure vessel, preventing over-expansion when water enters the cell. Cell walls are found in plants, fungi and prokaryotic cells but not in mycoplasmas. Around the outside of the cell membrane is the bacterial cell wall. Bacterial cell walls are made of peptidoglycan (also called murein), which is made from polysaccharide chains cross-linked by unusual peptides containing D-amino acids.
Overview. Bacteria cells function quite differently from human cells, from the function of the cell as a whole, right down to the individual structures in each cell. Bacteria exist in nature as individual cells. While some bacteria work together in a group, no bacteria forms multicellular tissues. In the grand scheme of things, the function of each bacterial cell begins and ends with collecting enough nutrients to survive. Bacterial cells consist of a phospholipid bilayer, and in some cases a layer of peptidoglycan.
Cells of Bacteria: The cells of bacteria are different from those of plants and animals in many ways, the most obvious of which is that bacteria lack a nucleus and other membrane-bound organelles (except ribosomes). Unlike animals and plants, bacteria have pili, flagella, and most have a cell capsule. 
In gram-negative bacteria, the cell wall is thin and releases the dye readily when washed with an alcohol or acetone solution. Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm.
Cell wall is a tough, rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. Cell wall is a characteristic feature to cells of plants, bacteria, fungi, algae and some archaea. It is located outside the cell membrane. The major function of the cell wall is to provide rigidity, tensile strength, structural support, protection against mechanical stress and infection. It also aids in diffusion of gases in and out of the cell. In bacteria the cell wall is made up of peptidoglycans. The Archean cell wall is made of glycoproteins and polysaccharides. In fungi cell walls are made of glucosamine and chitin. In algae it is composed
Bacterial cells are covered by a cell envelope that is composed of a cell membrane and a cell wall. The cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer that regulates the transport of molecules into and out of the cell. This is the weak structure that would burst from the osmotic pressure without reinforcement. 
Bacterial Cell Function. In the grand scheme of things, the function of each bacterial cell begins and ends with collecting enough nutrients to survive. Bacterial cells consist of a phospholipid bilayer, and in some cases a layer of peptidoglycan.