If a brand ambassador chooses to represent the company and/or its brands, the individual should do so in a transparent way.. Self-branding is an effective way to help new businesses save the hassle of hiring brand ambassadors, training them and then realizing they are not good enough for the company. A testimonial does not advertise the product freely unlike the role of the brand ambassador. A brand ambassador performs the function of a testimonial but a testimonial is not a brand ambassador. By simply providing a testimonial for a product/service, one need not be an ambassador for the same.
Despite the risks and challenges of granting your employees carte blanche in representing the company (a PR anxiety attack in the making) branding strategists contend that to compete in the cutthroat world of social media marketing, brand ambassadors are crucial to extending the visibility of a company. In a survey of those 1,000 bloggers, the company found that 10 percent blogged about health—making them, however indirectly or informally—potential brand ambassadors for Humana. It became a question for the executive team, not so much do you want to be in social media—but that you are in social media, he said.
In theory, a Brand Ambassador should understand a product as well as the person who created it or the person that owns the company. A Brand Ambassador should be extremely friendly and outgoing, and should always show a desire to perform and get the name of the product out to the general public. 
Ambassadors are emotionally engaged with your company’s brand promise and they espouse the brand value you promise to deliver to your customer, it is in the very fabric of their personalities to want to share information, solve problems and help others. A social media brand ambassador (or SMBA as we like to call them) is someone who does this for your company on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, and they are gold to your company.
Full Definition of AMBASSADOR. 1. : an official envoy; especially: a diplomatic agent of the highest rank accredited to a foreign government or sovereign as the resident representative of his or her own government or sovereign or appointed for a special and often temporary diplomatic assignment. 2
Ambassadors represent their home country while working and living in the country to which they’ve been appointed. For U.S. Ambassadors, government experience and a familiarity with your country’s policies are two of the most important requirements; ability to adapt to other cultures is also important. There aren’t any official education requirements, but undergraduate and advanced degrees are common. It is critical that the United Nations ambassador report frequently to the U.S. State Department and also make recommendations based on U.N. activities. For example, ambassadors to the U.N. can lend or withdraw support on budgetary matters, resolutions and confirmation of secretaries-general, who head the U.N.
“A brand ambassador is basically a spokesperson for a company both online and off,” says LaDonna Dennis, Founder/Owner of Mom Blog Society, the #1 Mom Blogger in the U.S. according to Cision. There are even companies that connect you with brand ambassadors. While these companies may be pricier than working directly with one brand ambassador, they can often provide additional services, such as analytics and a team of bloggers for your campaign.
Brand ambassador is marketing jargon for celebrity endorser or spokesmodel, a person employed by an organization or company to promote its products or services. The brand ambassador is meant to embody the corporate identity in appearance, demeanor, values and ethics. A testimonial does not advertise the product freely unlike the role of the brand ambassador. A brand ambassador performs the function of a testimonial but a testimonial is not a brand ambassador. By simply providing a testimonial for a product/service, one need not be an ambassador for the same.
Brand ambassadors are simply people who represent and talk about your company in a positive way, preferably in front of lots of potential customers (i.e. their friends and family). A brand ambassador is someone who embodies the brand he or she is endorsing. A social media brand ambassador (or SMBA as we like to call them) is someone who does this for your company on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, and they are gold to your company.