In 1938, milk products were the source of 25% of all food and waterborne illnesses that were traced to sources, but now they account for far less than 1% of all food and waterborne illnesses. Pasteurization is the process of heating a liquid to below the boiling point to destroy microorganisms. It was developed by Louis Pasteur in 1864 to improve the keeping qualities of wine. Commercial pasteurization of milk began in the late 1800s in Europe and in the early 1900s in the United States. 
1 UHT, also known as ultra-heat-treating, processing holds the milk at a temperature of 140 °C (284 °F) for four seconds. 2  During UHT processing milk is sterilized and not pasteurized. 3  This process allows milk or juice to be stored several months without refrigeration. Louis Pasteur’s pasteurization experiment illustrates the fact that the spoilage of liquid was caused by particles in the air rather than the air itself. These experiments were important pieces of evidence supporting the idea of Germ Theory of Disease.
Routine pasteurization of milk began in the United States in the 1920s and became widespread by 1950 as a means to reduce contamination and reduce human illnesses. It led to dramatic reductions in the number of people getting sick from diseases that had previously been transmitted commonly by milk. The risk of getting sick from drinking raw milk is greater for infants and young children, the elderly, pregnant women, and people with weakened immune systems, such as people with cancer, an organ transplant, or HIV/AIDS, than it is for healthy school-aged children and adults.
Pasteurization (American English) or pasteurisation (British English) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century. In 1864, Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine was enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage, preventing these beverages from turning sour. Louis Pasteur’s pasteurization experiment illustrates the fact that the spoilage of liquid was caused by particles in the air rather than the air itself. These experiments were important pieces of evidence supporting the idea of Germ Theory of Disease.
Pasteurization is the reason for milk's extended shelf life. High-temperature, short-time (HTST) pasteurized milk typically has a refrigerated shelf life of two to three weeks, whereas ultra-pasteurized milk can last much longer, sometimes two to three months. Louis Pasteur’s pasteurization experiment illustrates the fact that the spoilage of liquid was caused by particles in the air rather than the air itself. These experiments were important pieces of evidence supporting the idea of Germ Theory of Disease.
January 30, 2013 at 11:23 pm (Uncategorized). A dear friend of mine, who shall remain nameless, began a discussion with me during which he protested that pasteurization of milk is necessary. I rebutted that pasteurization became necessary due to the poor living conditions of the dairy cows. To which he replied, pasteurization began before the commercialization of dairies. (For the record, this is how I recall this conversation going.
Pasteurization is a process that kills harmful bacteria by heating milk to a specific temperature for a set period of time. First developed by Louis Pasteur in 1864, pasteurization kills harmful organisms responsible for such diseases as listeriosis, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, and brucellosis. 
Pasteurization is a process named after its inventor, Louis Pasteur. He is regarded as the father of the germ theory which held that microorganisms are present in the enviro … nment and are the cause of decay and spoilage. Pasteurization is a process of heating a food, usually liquid, to a specific temperature for a definite length of time, and then cooling it immediately. This process slows mic … robial growth in food. The process was named after its creator, French chemist and microbiologist Louis Pasteur.
According to Andrea S. Wiley, author of Re-Imagining Milk, “The first state-level mandate (for pasteurization of milk) did not occur until 1947 in Michigan.”. I rebutted that pasteurization became necessary due to the poor living conditions of the dairy cows. To which he replied, pasteurization began before the commercialization of dairies. (For the record, this is how I recall this conversation going.