Frequency is a measurement of how often a recurring event such as a wave occurs in a measured amount of time. One completion of the repeating pattern is called a cycle. Only moving waves which vary their positions with respect to time possess frequency. Frequency is one way to define how fast a wave moves. Units. Frequency is expressed in units of cycles per unit time. Although frequency is a measurement of rate of movement, it is not identical to velocity. For example, if we think of a car that moves at 60 miles per hour, we mean just that.
1 For example, a swell or a wave train with a period of 20 seconds will be traveling at 30 knots in deep water. ( 2 Knots are nautical miles per hour. 3  One knot equals 1.2 mph on land.) A swell with a period of 10 seconds will travel at 15 knots. 
(under construction). Wave period. Wave frequency is also related to another measurement called the wave period (T). The wave period is just how much time it takes for one cycle to pass and the units are always in terms of time. The faster a wave moves, its wave period becomes smaller. Instead of measuring in terms of a fixed time unit, the second, the wave period uses a fixed number of cycles, one cycle ... Units. Frequency is expressed in units of cycles per unit time. Although frequency is a measurement of rate of movement, it is not identical to velocity. For example, if we think of a car that moves at 60 miles per hour, we mean just that.
The period of a wave is the time for a particle on a medium to make one complete vibrational cycle. Period, being a time, is measured in units of time such as seconds, hours, days or years. The period of orbit for the Earth around the Sun is approximately 365 days; it takes 365 days for the Earth to complete a cycle. The frequency of rotation of a second hand on a clock is _______.a. 1/60 Hz b. 1/12 Hz c. 1/2 Hz d. 1 Hz e. 60 Hz 5. A kid on a playground swing makes a complete to-and-fro swing each 2 seconds. The frequency of swing is _________.a. 0.5 Hz b. 1 Hz c. 2 Hz 6. In problem #5, the period of swing is _
Wave period is the amount of time (in seconds) it takes from the moment one wave crest passes a fixed point until a second wave crest passes that same point. Typically one will hear waves described like, . It's 5 ft @ 13 seconds. Wind waves range from 9-12 seconds. Ground swells range from 13-15 seconds, and strong ground swells have a period anywhere from 16-25 or more seconds. The next time you're in the water, try measuring the amount of time between wave crests.
The unit of frequency is the hertz. The period (T) of a wave is the time that it takes for one complete oscillation. The unit of period is the second. The period and frequency of a wave are linked by the following relationship, The speed (v) of a wave is the distance travelled per unit time by the wave. The unit of speed is the metre per second, m s -1. The speed, frequency and wavelength of a wave are linked by the following relationship,
So the frequency is f =10 cycles / 120 s = 0.0833 cycles/s. Answer: D. Frequency refers to the number of occurrences of a periodic event per time and is measured in cycles/second. In this case, there are 10 cycles per 2 minutes (also known as 10 cycles per 120 seconds). Answer: 0.0195 sec. Here is an example of a problem with a lot of extraneous information. The period is simply the reciprocal of the frequency. In this case, the period is 1/(51.2 Hz) which is 0.0195 seconds.
The period of a wave or a vibration is the time it takes for one complete back and forth vibration. The frequency of a wave or a vibration specifies the number of back-and-forth vibrations it makes in a given time. If the frequency of a vibrating object is known, its period can be calculates, and vice versa. Suppose that a pendulum has a period of 1.5 seconds. It takes 1.5 seconds to make a complete back-and-forth vibration. This 1.5-second pendulum is longer in length than a 1-second pendulum.
The period of a wave is the time for a particle on a medium to make one complete vibrational cycle. Period, being a time, is measured in units of time such as seconds, hours, days or years. The period of orbit for the Earth around the Sun is approximately 365 days; it takes 365 days for the Earth to complete a cycle. Answer: 0.0195 sec. Here is an example of a problem with a lot of extraneous information. The period is simply the reciprocal of the frequency. In this case, the period is 1/(51.2 Hz) which is 0.0195 seconds.
For example, the first waves of a new swell might have a period of 20-25 seconds (secs), followed by 17 sec swells 2 days later, then 14 sec periods and 13 sec periods even days later, and so on. But more on this later. Wind waves range from 9-12 seconds. Ground swells range from 13-15 seconds, and strong ground swells have a period anywhere from 16-25 or more seconds. The next time you're in the water, try measuring the amount of time between wave crests.