The starting salary for police officers is $52,184 a year, effective October 1, 2014. After 18 months of service, most police officers can expect to earn a base salary of approximately $57,094 a year. Recruits begin earning their full salary upon entering the Academy. 
1 In some states, you may be required to be hired by a department before you can even attend the police academy. 2  However, this means that you may get a discount on tuition or even have it paid for depending on the position for which he was hired as well as his credentials. 1 However, this means that you may get a discount on tuition or even have it paid for depending on the position for which he was hired as well as his credentials. 2  According to HowStuffWorks.com, the average policy academy is going to cost upwards of $5,000 for the entire program.
In Georgia, the certification process to become a police officer is regulated by the Georgia Peace Officers Standards and Training Council (POST). Candidates pursuing Basic Law Enforcement Training at GPSTC must meet the following minimum requirements: 1  Be at least 18 years old; 2  Be a citizen of the United States; 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Police Patrol Officer in the United States is $52,799, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Police Patrol Officer in the United States are expected to make less than $52,799. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 
The Basic Mandate Law Enforcement program at GPSTC is the top police officer training program in the state of Georgia and is designed for applicants who are interested in becoming law enforcement officers. 
1 According to HowStuffWorks.com, the average policy academy is going to cost upwards of $5,000 for the entire program. 2  For example, Oakland Community College, located in Auburn Hills, Michigan, charges $5,500 for the entire program. 1 However, this means that you may get a discount on tuition or even have it paid for depending on the position for which he was hired as well as his credentials. 2 
A person who is to become a police officer in Connecticut must first attend a Basic Training Program at either the Connecticut Police Academy or at a Council-approved Academy. A person wanting to do that must first be hired by a law enforcement unit (police department, etc.) within the State of Connecticut. The majority (90%) of police recruits go through POST s program at the Connecticut Police Academy in Meriden, Connecticut. The basic training program at the Connecticut Police Academy is approximately 22 weeks long.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Our academy for a brand new officer is 22 weeks long, followed by 12 weeks of field training. It costs $98,000 per officer for both. The costs of the police academy are paid by the department. About 15% of the cadets or probationary officers quit before the end of training. 6,500 people applied for our class that begins in January. They only plan to hire 55.