A vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina that causes itching and burning of the vulva, the area around the vagina. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of the fungus Candida. Vaginal yeast infection. Most women will get a vaginal yeast infection at some point in their life. Symptoms of vaginal yeast infections include burning, itching, and thick, white discharge. Yeast infections are easy to treat, but it is important to see your doctor or nurse if you think you have an infection. Yeast infection symptoms are similar to other vaginal infections and sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
Most yeast infections involve Candida albicans (C. albicans), a yeast that can be treated effectively with standard yeast infection medicine. Recurrent vaginal yeast infections tend to involve non-C. albicans types of yeast, which are more resistant to the standard treatments for C. albicans yeast infections. A vaginal yeast infection is caused by an overgrowth of yeast organisms that normally live in small numbers in the vagina. Things that may encourage an excess growth of vaginal yeast include: 1  Using antibiotics.
1 ANTIBIOTICS are probably the leading cause of vaginal yeast infections in American wimmin, and are a great example of the important principle that by using technology to solve problems, we create other problems. 2  Say you take an antibiotic to cure your sinus infection. There are two good reasons to learn a bit about the causes of vaginal yeast infections. First, if you have recurring yeast infections, you can figure out what's causing them and then work to prevent them, rather than just working to kill the yeast every time they take over.
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Sometimes, other types of candida fungus are to blame. Common treatments usually cure a Candida albicans infection. Yeast infections caused by other types of candida fungus can be more difficult to treat, and need more aggressive therapies. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes. 4  Impaired immune system
The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes. 4  Impaired immune system
Yeast infections, especially recurrent ones, are a signal that your body is out of balance. Candida normally grows in a healthy vagina, where the slightly acid pH environment keeps Candida and other microorganisms from multiplying rapidly enough to cause infection. Yeast infections are not restricted to women only. 
Vaginal yeast infections are caused by Candida albicans, which, along with a few types of bacteria, are normally present in relatively small numbers in your crotch. There are two good reasons to learn a bit about the causes of vaginal yeast infections. First, if you have recurring yeast infections, you can figure out what's causing them and then work to prevent them, rather than just working to kill the yeast every time they take over.
Risk factors. Factors that increase your risk of developing a yeast infection include: 1  Antibiotic use. 2  Yeast infections are common in women who take antibiotics. 3  Broad-spectrum antibiotics, which kill a range of bacteria, also kill healthy bacteria in your vagina, leading to overgrowth of yeast organisms. 4  Increased estrogen levels. 