Cyndi was born at Boulevard Hospital, in Astoria, Queens. She spent her first four years in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. Her family then moved to Ozone Park, Queens. See full bio ». 
Synopsis. Cyndi Lauper burst onto the charts with her debut album, She's So Unusual (1983). With her eclectic clothes, flamboyantly styled hair and contagious pop melodies, Lauper took the music world by surprise, and the record sold almost 5 million copies. Cyndi Lauper. Cyndi Lauper-Mini Biography (TV-14; 3:33) Cyndi Lauper forged her own path with her unique sound and one-of-a-kind look. Her video for “Girls Just Wanna have Fun” became a pop anthem, and made her a staple of the MTV generation.
Lauper was born in Queens, New York City, New York to a Catholic family. Her father, Fred, was of German and Swiss descent. Her mother, Catrine (nee Née), gallo Is Italian (american From). Sicily'lauper s siblings are younger Brother (fred Nicknamed), butch and older, Sister. ellen In 2014, Lauper was awarded the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album for the cast recording. Lauper has established herself as a pop icon winning awards at the Grammy, Emmy, Tony, New York's Outer Critics Circle, MTV VMA, Billboard, and AMA awards.
Cynthia Ann Stephanie Lauper was born on June 22, 1953, in Brooklyn, New York. Growing up, Lauper felt like an outcast. Her parents divorced when she was 5. Lauper and her two siblings were raised by her mother, who worked as a waitress to support the family. Cyndi Lauper. Cyndi Lauper-Mini Biography (TV-14; 3:33) Cyndi Lauper forged her own path with her unique sound and one-of-a-kind look. Her video for “Girls Just Wanna have Fun” became a pop anthem, and made her a staple of the MTV generation.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, and raised in the neighboring borough of Queens, Lauper (born June 22, 1953) dropped out of high school in her late teens, choosing to sing in a number of local cover bands instead. Cyndi Lauper was one of the biggest stars of the early MTV era, selling five million copies of her debut album, She's So Unusual, as well as scoring a string of four Top Ten hits from the record, including the major hits Girls Just Want to Have Fun and Time After Time..
Born in Brooklyn, New York, and raised in the neighboring borough of Queens, Lauper (born June 22, 1953) dropped out of high school in her late teens, choosing to sing in a number of local cover bands instead. 
Mini Bio (1). Cyndi was born at Boulevard Hospital, in Astoria, Queens. She spent her first four years in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. Her family then moved to Ozone Park, Queens. - IMDb Mini Biography By: Lynn.
One might say that Cynthia Ann Stephanie Cyndi Lauper ‘burst’ into the world on 22 June 1953, rather than being born into it. One of three children born to Fred and Catrine Lauper, the vivacious child was originally from Brooklyn, New York, but was raised by her mother in Queens following her parents’ divorce in 1958. 
Scrobbles. Listeners. read more. Cyndi Lauper (born Cynthia Ann Stephanie Lauper on June 22, 1953 in Brooklyn, New York, United States), is a Grammy Award-winning singer (who possesses a four-octave vocal range) and Emmy Award-winning film, television and theatre actress.
Biography. Cyndi Lauper was born in Brooklyn in 1953. Her father is named Fred Lauper and her mother Catrine Dominique. She has a brother, Fred and a sister, Ellen. She began to play the guitar and write lyrics at the age of twelve. She sang with many cover bands… more.