A fitness instructor teaches his students how to lead healthier lives through improved exercise and diet. He is generally expected to motivate them and help them reach realistic, mutually agreed upon goals. He normally provides instruction and advice to groups as well as individuals. Fitness instructors often work one-on-one with clients. A fitness instructor may plan exercise routines utilizing different equipment. Fitness instructors may help organize sports teams.
Fitness instructor job description. Everywhere you look, you’re always being told to stop lounging in front of the TV, put down the second doughnut and do some exercise. Working as a fitness instructor isn’t just about working your pecs: good instructors advise clients on diet, develop bespoke personal training plans and give vital advice and encouragement. As a fitness instructor you should be able to: 1  Demonstrate the correct way to use exercise equipment. 2  Monitor the misuse of equipment. 3  Ensure the gym is clean and free of health and safety hazards. 4  Deliver exercise classes and workshops. 5  Develop personal exercise and diet plans
To achieve success as a fitness instructor normally requires a good understanding of human behavior and how to inspire different personality types. An instructor is normally expected to understand how and why each of his students developed unhealthy habits and advise on how to correct them. Fitness instructors often work one-on-one with clients. A fitness instructor may plan exercise routines utilizing different equipment. Fitness instructors may help organize sports teams.
What Fitness Trainers and Instructors Do. Fitness trainers and instructors lead, instruct, and motivate individuals or groups in exercise activities, including cardiovascular exercise (exercises for the heart and blood system), strength training, and stretching. They work with people of all ages and skill levels. Group fitness instructors organize and lead group exercise sessions, which can include aerobic exercise, stretching, muscle conditioning, or meditation. Some classes are set to music. In these classes, instructors may select the music and choreograph an exercise sequence.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Fitness Instructor in the United States is $40,966, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Fitness Instructor in the United States are expected to make less than $40,966. The annual salary for someone with the job title Fitness Instructor may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
A personal trainer is a fitness professional involved in exercise prescription and instruction. They motivate clients by setting goals and providing feedback and accountability to clients. Trainers also measure their client's strengths and weaknesses with fitness assessments. 
As a full-time fitness instructor, you would usually work 37 to 40 hours a week, often on a shift or rota basis covering early mornings, evenings and weekends. Many instructors work part-time or freelance (self-employed). You could work in gyms, health clubs or leisure centres. 