choroiditis. Inflammation of the choroid. The ophthalmoscopic appearance is a whitish-yellow area stippled with pigment. However, it is most often associated with an inflammation of the retina (chorioretinitis) and of the other tissues of the uvea. Vision is blurred if the lesion is in the macular area.
1 Usually only one eye is affected. 2  Choroiditis: Inflammation of the choroid in which the sensory retina becomes edematous and opaque. 3  The inflammatory cells and exudate may burst through the sensory retina to cloud the vitreous body. Choroiditis is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Choroiditis, or a subtype of Choroiditis, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
Choroiditis, also known as posterior uveitis, is a rare, inflammatory eye disease that, according to the National Institutes of Health, only affects about 200,000 people in the United States. The choiroid is the layer of the eye found at the back of the uvea. It is made up of connective tissue and blood vessels. 
1 Choroiditis: Inflammation of the part of the eye called the choroid (layer behind the retina). 2  Usually only one eye is affected. 3  Choroiditis: Inflammation of the choroid in which the sensory retina becomes edematous and opaque. Choroiditis is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Choroiditis, or a subtype of Choroiditis, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
Chorioretinitis is an inflammation of the choroid (thin pigmented vascular coat of the eye) and retina of the eye. It is a form of posterior uveitis. If only the choroid is inflamed and not the retina, the condition is termed choroiditis. 
Choroiditis: Inflammation of the part of the eye called the choroid (layer behind the retina). Usually only one eye is affected. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Choroiditis is available below. 
Serpiginous Choroiditis is one of the conditions in a group termed the white dot syndromes which all involve inflammation of the retina and choroid and are defined by the appearance of white dots in the posterior inner part of the eye (fundus). Signs & Symptoms. Serpiginous Choroiditis is a rare disorder characterized by recurrent lesions affecting two layers of the eye (the retinal pigment epithelium and the choriocapillaris). The retina is the light-sensitive internal coat of the eyeball, consisting of eight layers.
Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Choroiditis, Serpiginous is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. General Discussion. Serpiginous Choroiditis is one of the conditions in a group termed the white dot syndromes which all involve inflammation of the retina and choroid and are defined by the appearance of white dots in the posterior inner part of the eye (fundus).
Choroiditis: An inflammation of the layer of the eye behind the retina, either in its entirely (multifocal choroiditis) or in patches (focal choroiditis). Usually the only symptom is blurred vision. See also uveitis. 
Serpiginous Choroiditis is a rare recurrent eye disorder characterized by irregularly shaped (serpiginous) lesions involving two layers of the eye surface (the retinal pigment epithelium and the choriocapillaris). No symptoms are apparent unless a specific area of the retina (macula) is damaged. General Discussion. Serpiginous Choroiditis is one of the conditions in a group termed the white dot syndromes which all involve inflammation of the retina and choroid and are defined by the appearance of white dots in the posterior inner part of the eye (fundus).