Grill. Place the steaks on the hot grill using tongs. Close the lid and turn the heat down to medium high. Allow the steaks to cook on one side for 2 to 7 minutes depending on the thickness of the steak and how you like it cooked; the thicker the steak, the longer the cooking time. Flip the steaks once and allow them to cook for 2 to 7 minutes. Add 2 tbsp. or 3 tbsp. of oil to the pan. Ron Bennett/Demand Media. Pan Sear. Place the steaks in the pan with tongs, and allow them to cook for 2 to 7 minutes depending on the level of doneness you desire.
Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Combine the olive oil, Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, garlic, onion, salt, pepper, rosemary, steak seasoning, and steak sauce in the container of a food processor or blender. 2  Process until well blended. 3  Prick steaks on both sides with a fork, and place in a shallow container with a lid. 
Delmonico Cooking Time Chart : For the best results, cook steaks using an accurate Meat Thermometer instead of a timetable. Steaks should be allowed to rest up to 10 minutes before serving. This resting period allows the juiced to distribute in the meat.
Cooking Time. The cooking time for your steaks depends on the thickness of the meat and personal taste. For 1-inch steaks, cook the meat 3 or 4 minutes after searing for rare meat and up to 8 or 9 minutes for well done. A 1 1/2-inch steak will take 2 to 3 minutes longer. These times are estimates. To verify the meat is done to your taste, use a meat thermometer to measure the internal temperature of the meat. 
Directions. Allow the steaks to come to room temperature for up to 1 hour. Rub the steaks on both sides with the vegetable oil and season liberally, to taste, with the Essence, salt, and pepper. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Preheat a grill, grill pan, or cast iron skillet to medium-high. When hot, grill the steaks until seared on both sides, about 4 minutes per side. Transfer steaks to a baking sheet and place in the oven. Bake until meat reaches the desired temperature, 120 to 125 degrees F for medium rare. 
Directions. Heat a heavy grill pan or griddle pan over high heat. Wipe hot grill or griddle with extra-virgin olive oil. Cook steaks 6 minutes on each side for medium doneness, 8 minutes for medium well. Season steaks with steak seasoning or salt and pepper and remove to a warm platter to allow the meat to rest. Heat a medium nonstick skillet over medium high heat
Preheat a pan on the stove over medium high heat. Add 2 tbsp. or 3 tbsp. of oil to the pan. Ron Bennett/Demand Media. Pan Sear. Place the steaks in the pan with tongs, and allow them to cook for 2 to 7 minutes depending on the level of doneness you desire.
Put a thin film of olive oil in the skillet. Cook the steaks for 6 minutes per side, then test the temperature in the largest one. Cook the steak to 140 degrees Fahrenheit for medium rare or 145 degrees for medium. If the steaks aren't at the correct temperature after 12 minutes, cook them for a few minutes longer, up to 4 more minutes. Cooking the steak with the bone makes it more flavorful and moist than the boneless steak. Like other tender steaks, Delmonico benefits from cooking with dry heat, on a grill, in the oven or in a skillet. A traditional garnish is a pat of maitre d'hotel butter -- butter mixed with lemon juice and chopped parsley.