Proof of Service. If you have asked the court clerk to serve your papers by certified mail, you need do nothing else. The court clerk sends out the certified mail for you, and the signed post office receipt comes back directly to the clerk if service is accomplished. It's as simple as that
1 After the papers are served, a Proof of Service form must be filled out and signed by the person who served the papers. 2  The Proof of Service form must be filed with the court. 3  Do not serve the papers yourself! 4  Any person who is at least 18 years old and not involved in the case may serve papers. The person given the papers must be told what the papers are about and who they are for. Do not leave the papers yourself. After leaving the papers, the person serving the papers must also mail a copy of them to the party to be served, at the same address where the papers were left. Do not mail
A minority of states, allow papers to be served by first-class mail. The states differ, however, on what you must do if the defendant doesn't answer your complaint within the time limit. Check with your court clerk to see if this method is available in your area. If you have asked the court clerk to serve your papers by certified mail, you need do nothing else. The court clerk sends out the certified mail for you, and the signed post office receipt comes back directly to the clerk if service is accomplished.
In a 209A protective order case, the police will serve the papers on the abusive person. You do not have to serve them or get a sheriff or constable to serve them. Once you file your case, you have to serve the court papers. It is not enough to call the person on the phone and tell him about the case. You can just mail or give the papers to the person you are serving, but he must sign the section of the summons that says he got the papers. If he agrees to sign the summons, it is called accepting service.. The person you are serving will have to get his signature notarized.
1 Not be a party to the case; 2  Serve the paperwork on the other side in the time require; 3  Fill out a proof of service form that tells the court whom they served, when, where, and how; and. 4  Return the proof of service to you so you can file it with the court. 1 You can find out the name of the corporation's agent for service at the website of the California Secretary of State. 2  If you are suing a city, serve the city clerk or agent authorized to accept service. 3  You can find the address and phone number in the government pages of your phone book.
Serve the papers on time. The deadline for serving papers can vary by state, but usually, you must serve the papers to the respondent at least eight days before your court date. 1  In some instances, you may need to serve the papers up to 30 days before the court date.
1 In some instances, you may need to serve the papers up to 30 days before the court date. 2  For instance, if you serve papers using substituted service to someone outside of the county, you must do so at least 30 days before the court date. 3  Check with the court when you file your petition to find out what your deadline is. The deadline for serving papers can vary by state, but usually, you must serve the papers to the respondent at least eight days before your court date. 1 
1 You have 60 days from the day you file your divorce papers to serve your spouse. 2  If you are not able to serve within that time, you can go back to the Family Court Central Intake Center before the 60 days are up. 3  They will give you a new Summons and you will get an additional 60 days. 
Report Abuse. not sure why you are trying to serve the papers. Most court rules state that a process server, sheriff or other non interested party is to serve any legal document. You, an interested party, can not serve your own documents. In Canada to service papers, someone (not you) has to physically hand the papers to the person (can be done by Commissionaire) or can be sent by something like Purolator where they receive a signature, or registerred mail where they receive a signature. You can not give the papers to them or it will void the serving.
Certified Mail. In the majority of states, you can serve papers by sending them to the defendant via certified mail with a return receipt requested. In some states, service by certified (or registered) mail is one among several ways you may serve papers. If you have asked the court clerk to serve your papers by certified mail, you need do nothing else. The court clerk sends out the certified mail for you, and the signed post office receipt comes back directly to the clerk if service is accomplished.