Definition of PART OF SPEECH for Kids. : a class of words (as adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions, interjections, nouns, prepositions, pronouns, or verbs) identified according to the kinds of ideas they express and the work they do in a sentence.
Traditional grammar classifies words based on eight parts of speech: the verb, the noun, the pronoun, the adjective, the adverb, the preposition, the conjunction, and the interjection. Each part of speech explains not what the word is, but how the word is used.
The term part of speech refers simply to the various types of words that can be used in a sentence: noun, verb, adjective, that sort of thing. Sometimes a single part of speech can serve more than one function. For example, a verb can be used as a noun, as in this example: Running is my favorite pastime.
The word part is a noun, of is a preposition, and speech is a noun. object of the preposition.
The term part of speech is a noun phrase, which is any word or group of words based on a noun or pronoun (without a verb) that can function in a sentence as a subject, objec … t of a verb or a preposition. A noun phrase can be one word or many words.
A verb used as a noun is called a gerund. A verb used as an adjective is called a participle. Both gerunds and participles are called verbals. Hover over any word in the sentence below to see its part of speech.
In fact, the same word can be a noun in one sentence and a verb or adjective in the next. The next few examples show how a word's part of speech can change from one sentence to the next, and following them is a series of sections on the individual parts of speech, followed by an exercise.
The word 'part' can be 1) a noun, 2) an adjective, 3) a verb, or 4) an adverb. 1) My mother gave me part of her dessert, as she was not very hungry. 2) What he has written is … part novel and part poem. 3) He threatened to part me from my family and friends. 4) This invoice has been part-paid.
A part of speech is a group of words that are used in a certain way. For example, run, jump, and be are all used to describe actions/states. Therefore they belong to the VERBS group. In other words, all words in the English language are divided into eight different categories.