Histamine. Histamine is a chemical the immune system uses to help protect the body's cells against infection. The immune system is the body's natural defence against illness and infection. If the immune system detects a harmful foreign object, such as bacteria or a virus, it will release histamine into nearby cells
Sites of histamine release. 1  Much of the histamine in the body is produced by the granules in mast cells and basophils as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. 2  Another important site where histamine is stored and released is in the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the stomach. 1 Histamine is also made in the brain where it acts as a neurotransmitter or chemical messenger that carries signals between nerv
The body produces too much histamine when it has an allergic reaction. An allergic reaction is an overreaction of the immune system to certain substances that do not affect most people, according to HealthMad. Common substances that produce too much histamine in the body are proteins found in foods, airborne irritants and insect venom. When someone has an allergy to a substance, her body will attack the allergen, resulting in high levels of histamine that lead to common allergy symptoms
Mast cells. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels.
Histamine is a chemical which is made by the body and has a number of roles in the human body. Medications that interfere with histamine can be used to treat allergies as well as acid reflux. This molecule is able to affect the immune, digestive and nervous systems by affecting cells in many different parts of the body. 
Histamine is a substance that is released from specialized cells called mast cells when they are activated, often as part of an allergic immune response. This test measures the amount of histamine in the blood or urine. Mast cells are large tissue cells found throughout the body. 
Histamine in Foods. There are many foods that contain histamine or cause the body to release histamine when ingested. These types of reactions are food intolerances, and are different from food allergy in that the immune system is not involved in the reaction. The symptoms, however, can be the same as a food allergy
1 Much of the histamine in the body is produced by the granules in mast cells and basophils as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. 1 Histamine is also made in the brain where it acts as a neurotransmitter or chemical messenger that carries signals between nerves. 2  Another important site where histamine is stored and released is in the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the stomach.
As part of an immune response to foreign pathogens, histamine is produced by basophils and by mast cells found in nearby connective tissues. Histamine increases the permeability of the capillaries to white blood cells and some proteins, to allow them to engage pathogens in the infected tissues. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels.
: The histamine reaction in relation to the immune response (in both allergic reactions and immune reactions) serves two main functions: 1. It causes what is called “vasodilation.” Vasodilation occurs when the muscular walls that surround blood vessels are relaxed, causing the interior of the blood vessel to widen. 2. Histamine in Sleep: The body regulates the amount of histamine in circulation and maintains a careful balance. This is most important with keeping the body awake and alert. Antihistamines are known to cause drowsiness and sleep.