Daily Gallons Per Capita. The size of the circles shows daily residential water use, in gallons per capita. The colors show how far above or below the state average of 77 gallons those areas used in February 2015. Change in Consumption. The size of circles shows daily residential water use in April 2015, in gallons per capita. The colors show an increase or decrease in water use from April 2013 to April 2015. Statewide, water use decreased 13.5 percent during that period, an improvement from the previous month.
The table below gives a guide to average water use based on the number of occupants. It is based on figures provided by Waterwise and average customer entries into our water meter calculator. For information based more closely on your own usage, please visit our water meter calculator. 
Water is an important part of our daily lives and we use it for a wide variety of purposes, but do we really understand how much we use? The average American family uses more than 300 gallons of water per day at home. Roughly 70 percent of this use occurs indoors. Nationally, outdoor water use accounts for 30 percent of household use yet can be much higher in drier parts of the country and in more water-intensive landscapes. For example, the arid West has some of the highest per capita residential water use because of landscape irrigation.
The average American family of four uses 400 gallons of water per day. On average, approximately 70 percent of that water is used indoors, with the bathroom being the largest consumer (a toilet alone can use 27 percent!). 
Households with lawns or gardens must factor in the amount of water sprinkled on grass, flowers and vegetables. Outdoor watering uses 5 to 10 gallons per minute. So in 10 or 20 minutes, you may use 100 gallons – the amount industry experts estimate is used by an average person each day for all personal water needs! If the climate turns unseasonably dry, expect to use even more water to keep your garden alive and your grass green.
How much electricity does an American home use? In 2013, the average annual electricity consumption for a U.S. residential utility customer was 10,908 kilowatthours (kWh), an average of 909 kWh per month. Louisiana had the highest annual consumption at 15,270 kWh, and Hawaii had the lowest at 6,176 kWh. 
If you take a tub bath, you will use about 36 gallons of water, compared with the 25 to 50 gallons required for a shower. New showerheads, however, reduce the water used in an average shower to just 2 gallons per minute versus 5 or 6 gallons that spurt out of older showerheads. One toilet flush will use 5 to 7 gallons unless it is in a new home where 1.5 gallon commodes are required. Outdoor watering uses 5 to 10 gallons per minute. So in 10 or 20 minutes, you may use 100 gallons – the amount industry experts estimate is used by an average person each day for all personal water needs! If the climate turns unseasonably dry, expect to use even more water to keep your garden alive and your grass green.
The size of the circles shows daily residential water use, in gallons per capita. The colors show how far above or below the state average of 77142 gallons those areas used in February 2015in July 2014. Many factors influence residential water use, like climate, income, lot size and types of homes. Change in Consumption. The size of circles shows daily residential water use in April 2015, in gallons per capita. The colors show an increase or decrease in water use from April 2013 to April 2015. Statewide, water use decreased 13.5 percent during that period, an improvement from the previous month.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average amount is 60 - 70 gallons per day per person for indoor water use only. Answer   the national average water usage per person is around 200 gallons per day.(Shower/tub, Sink,Toilet,washing clothes,washing dishes,cooking,miscellaneous.). + 11 others found this useful. Patti Melich. Edit.