Direct support professionals are the “core” of New York’s system of supports for individuals with developmental disabilities. Their jobs require technical and values-based skills that make life-changing differences in the lives of the individuals they support. DSP Competency Project Overview. Coupled with the Code of Ethics for Direct Support Professionals, each DSP will understand their partnership with individuals who deserve respect, opportunities for self expression and involvement in their communities. Created on Friday, 25 Jan 2013 at 10:10 am.
The statewide training program requires all Direct Support Professionals to successfully complete 70-hours of training over two years, or pass a challenge test for each of two, 35-hour training segments. As of May 2006 Michigan and 5 other states were gearing up to implement fingerprinting background [2] checks for Direct Support Professionals that provide care in long term care facilities. Some states, such as California, require criminal background checks, while other states do not.
A high school diploma or equivalent is generally required for direct support professionals, as is daily access to a vehicle. Additional qualifications-and previous experience in the field of patient care and disability services-are often preferred. (United States). A Direct Support Professional earns an average wage of $10.23 per hour. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. A skill in DSP is associated with high pay for this job
Description of Direct Support Professional Training. The Department is committed to continuously improving service quality to ensure that individual health and safety is protected and needs are met. 1 Direct Support Professionals who are mandated to meet the training requirement, may opt to meet it by passing a challenge test for each 35-hour training program. 2  Those who pass the challenge test for either segment will not be required to take that specific training segment.
A direct support professional is a person who assists an individual with a disability to lead a self-directed life and contribute to the community, assists with activities of daily living if needed, and encourages attitudes and behaviors that enhance community inclusion. As of May 2006 Michigan and 5 other states were gearing up to implement fingerprinting background [2] checks for Direct Support Professionals that provide care in long term care facilities. Some states, such as California, require criminal background checks, while other states do not.
The second level of credentialing recognizes Direct Support Professionals who have demonstrated competence that is measured and approved by the NADSP and is split between two levels; Direct Support Professional Certified Initial Level I and Direct Support Professional Certified Advanced Level II. 
Recognizing that direct support staff are key to the provision of quality services, the Department has established a competency-based training program that is mandatory for all direct support staff (and administrators who provide direct support) working in licensed community care facilities. 1 Direct Support Professionals who are mandated to meet the training requirement, may opt to meet it by passing a challenge test for each 35-hour training program. 2  Those who pass the challenge test for either segment will not be required to take that specific training segment.
Direct support professionals (DSPs) are people who work directly with people with physical disabilities and/or intellectual disabilities with the aim of assisting the individual to become integrated into his /her community or the least restrictive environment. As of May 2006 Michigan and 5 other states were gearing up to implement fingerprinting background [2] checks for Direct Support Professionals that provide care in long term care facilities. Some states, such as California, require criminal background checks, while other states do not.
1 The DSP Training is divided into two equal segments of 35 hours each to be completed in successive years for a total of 70 hours. 2  Direct Support Professionals who are mandated to meet the training requirement, may opt to meet it by passing a challenge test for each 35-hour training program. 1 Direct Support Professionals who are mandated to meet the training requirement, may opt to meet it by passing a challenge test for each 35-hour training program. 2  Those who pass the challenge test for either segment will not be required to take that specific training segment.