Sensory Processing Disorder (SPD) is a neurological condition that makes it difficult for the body to receive messages from the senses and turn them into the appropriate motor and behavioral responses. 
Sensory Processing Disorder is used to define and describe the disorder / dysfunction symptoms-in hopes of making this a universally accepted medical diagnosis - thus enabling insurance reimbursement for evaluation and treatment. Through this site, you will finally begin to understand-or further understand, why your child does the things he/she does. Sensory Processing Disorder-also known as Sensory Integration Dysfunction-is still in the process of becoming widely accepted and treated by all professionals.
Good news... Your frustration and confusion about your child-who may have Sensory Processing Disorder (SPD) - is almost over! Finally!... A thorough explanation and a name for the behaviors and developmental concerns that exist-which seemed almost impossible to understand or cope with. Through this site, you will finally begin to understand-or further understand, why your child does the things he/she does. Sensory Processing Disorder-also known as Sensory Integration Dysfunction-is still in the process of becoming widely accepted and treated by all professionals.
Sensory processing disorder (SPD; also known as sensory integration dysfunction) is a condition that exists when multisensory integration is not adequately processed in order to provide appropriate responses to the demands of the environment. Sensory-based motor disorder (SBMD) [edit]. Sensory-based motor disorder shows motor output that is disorganized as a result of incorrect processing of sensory information affecting postural control challenges, resulting in postural disorder, and/or developmental coordination disorder.
This is referred to as sensory processing disorder (SPD), or sometimes dysfunction in sensory integration (DSI) or Sensory Integration Dysfunction (SID). This is an umbrella term that refers to a number of neurological disabilities. There are varying levels of SPD. If the brain has a problem in processing and using the sensory information provided, where it does not organise the sensory signals in a useful or accurate way, it can affect the ability to learn as well the development of behaviour, social and motor skills.
Processing disorders, like auditory processing disorder, visual processing disorder, and sensory processing disorder are caused by a deficiency in a person’s ability to effectively use the information gathered by the senses. 
Sensory processing disorder/Sensory integration dysfunction. Sensory processing disorder, or sensory integration dysfunction, are names for a condition where a person's nervous system has difficulty in taking in, integrating and making use of sensory information. If the brain has a problem in processing and using the sensory information provided, where it does not organise the sensory signals in a useful or accurate way, it can affect the ability to learn as well the development of behaviour, social and motor skills.
In this article. Sensory processing disorder is a condition in which the brain has trouble receiving and responding to information that comes in through the senses. The condition used to be called sensory integration dysfunction. Symptoms of Sensory Processing Disorder. Sensory processing disorder may affect one sense, like hearing, touch, or taste. Or it may affect multiple senses. And people can be over-or under-responsive to the things they have difficulties with. Like many illnesses, the symptoms of sensory processing disorder exist on a spectrum. In some children, for example, the sound of a leaf blower outside the window may cause them to vomit or dive under the table. They may scream when touched. They may recoil from the textures of certain foods
Sensory Processing Disorder (SPD) is a neurological disorder that causes difficulties with processing information from the five senses: vision, auditory, touch, olfaction, and taste, as well as from the sense of movement (vestibular system), and/or the positional sense (proprioception). Donna Williams, Ph.D, bestselling author, artist, and musician, had extreme sensory processing challenges as a child and still has some, but to a lesser degree. Donna talks about feeling a sensation in her stomach area, but not knowing if her bladder is full, or if it means her stomach hurts because she is hungry.