A ligament is a complicated elastic structure which needs to be both elastic and strong. It relies on its collagen content for strength. Whilst elastin gives ligaments their flexibility, it is collagen which gives them strength.Collagen is what you see in a scar. Collagen fibres work like the steel rods in cement.
Normal ligament structure and physiology Skeletal ligaments are defined as dense bands of collage-nous tissue (fibres) that span a joint and then becomeanchored to the bone at either end. They vary in size, shape,orientation and location.
The fascicle contains the basic fibril of the ligament or tendon, and the fibroblasts, which are the biological cells that produce the ligament or tendon. There is a structural characteristic at this level that plays a significant role in the mechanics of ligaments and tendons: the crimp of the fibril.
The Structure of Ligaments. A ligament is a complicated elastic structure which needs to be both elastic and strong. It relies on its collagen content for strength. Whilst elastin gives ligaments their flexibility, it is collagen which gives them strength.Collagen is what you see in a scar. Collagen fibres work like the steel rods in cement.
Injury to a ligament results ina drastic change in its structure and physiology and creates a situation where ligament function is restored by the formation ofscar tissue that is biologically and biomechanically inferior to the tissue it replaces.
Ligaments and tendons are soft collagenous tissues. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscles to bone. Ligaments and tendons play a significant role in musculoskeletal biomechanics. They represent an important area of orthopaedic treatment for which many challenges for repair remain.
Many strong ligaments surround the joint capsule of the knee to reinforce its structure and hold its bones in the proper alignment. On the anterior surface of the knee, the patella is held in place by the patellar ligament, which extends from the inferior border of the patella to the tibial tuberosity of the tibia.