About Melanoma of the Skin. Melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in melanocytes (cells that color the skin). The skin is the body's largest organ. It protects against heat, sunlight, injury, and infection. Skin also helps control body temperature and stores water, fat, and vitamin D. The skin has several layers, but the two main layers are the epidermis (upper or outer layer) and the dermis (lower or inner layer). Skin cancer begins in the epidermis, which is made up of three kinds of cells 1  : Squamous cells: Thin, flat cells that form the top layer of the epidermis.
Melanoma is a life threatening malignant tumor that originates in cells called melanocytes, which are pigment-producing cells. The majority of melanomas are black or brown. However, some melanomas are skin-colored, pink, red, purple, blue or white. Melanoma begins on the skin where it is easy to see and treat. The first sign of melanoma is often a change in the size, shape, or color of a mole. Melanoma also may appear as a new, black, abnormal or ugly-looking mole. Rarely, melanoma is not pigmented and is more difficult to diagnose. It may also appear as a non-healing ulcer or a new scar-like lump in the skin
This type of melanoma can occur in a previously benign mole. The melanoma can be found almost anywhere on the body, but is most likely to occur on the trunk in men, the legs in women, and the upper back in both. It is the most common melanoma in African-Americans and Asians, and the least common among Caucasians. Nodular melanoma is usually invasive at the time it is first diagnosed. The malignancy is recognized when it becomes a bump. It is usually black, but occasionally is blue, gray, white, brown, tan, red or skin tone.
1 Melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in melanocytes (cells that color the skin). 2  There are different types of cancer that start in the skin. 3  Melanoma can occur anywhere on the skin. 4  Unusual moles, exposure to sunlight, and health history can affect the risk of melanoma. Melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in melanocytes (cells that color the skin). The skin is the body’s largest organ. It protects against heat, sunlight, injury, and infection. Skin also helps control body temperature and stores water, fat, and vitamin D.
Melanoma is a kind of skin cancer. It isn't as common as other types of skin cancer, but it is the most serious. Melanoma usually looks like a flat mole with uneven edges and a shape that is not the same on both sides. It may be black, brown, or more than one color. Most melanomas show up as a new spot or skin growth. But they can form in an existing mole or other mark on the skin. Melanoma can affect your skin only, or it may spread to your organs and bones. As with other cancers, treatment for melanoma works best when the cancer is found early. This topic is about melanoma that occurs in the skin
This type of in situ melanoma is found most often in the elderly, arising on chronically sun-exposed, damaged skin on the face, ears, arms and upper trunk. Lentigo maligna is the most common form of melanoma in Hawaii. When this cancer becomes invasive, it is referred to as lentigo maligna melanoma. It is the most common melanoma in African-Americans and Asians, and the least common among Caucasians. Nodular melanoma is usually invasive at the time it is first diagnosed. The malignancy is recognized when it becomes a bump. It is usually black, but occasionally is blue, gray, white, brown, tan, red or skin tone.
Melanoma, also known as malignant melanoma, is a type of cancer that develops from the pigment-containing cells known as melanocytes. Melanomas typically occur in the skin but may rarely occur in the mouth, intestines, or eye. In women they most commonly occur on the legs, while in men they are most common on the back. Melanoma is the most dangerous type of skin cancer. Globally, in 2012, it occurred in 232,000 people and resulted in 55,000 deaths. Australia and New Zealand have the highest rates of melanoma in the world.