Four Methods: Reheating in Microwave Reheating on a Stovetop Reheating Chicken in an Oven Reheating a Whole Store-Bought Rotisserie Chicken in an Oven. Chicken makes for a delicious and cost-efficient meal, but it has a tendency to dry out when you reheat it for leftovers. Once the oven has preheated, place the chicken in the oven. If the chicken has been cut into small pieces, it may take only a few minutes to reheat properly. If you are reheating large pieces, like whole breasts, you may have to wait longer.
Conventional Oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and place the oven rack in the middle position. Place the previously cooked, frozen chicken dish on the oven rack. Plan on it taking twice the normal cooking time to reheat a fully frozen chicken dish. If the dish cannot be heated through to at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit in two hours, reduce the size of the chicken dish before initially placing it in the oven. 1 Wrap the chicken tightly in heavy freezer paper for freezing. 2  Don't thaw raw chicken at room temperature or under warm water. 3  Instead, thaw it safely in the refrigerator so it never warms above 40 degrees Fahrenheit. 4  Raw, uncooked frozen chicken should not be cooked in any type of oven directly from its frozen state.
Microwaving. Place precooked chicken on a microwave-safe dish. Cover the dish with a paper towel to lock in moisture while reheating. Turn the microwave on its high setting and cook the chicken for two to three minutes until it reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Line a casserole dish or roaster with non-stick cooking spray or oil. Remove precooked chicken from the refrigerator and set it aside for 30 to 45 minutes until it reaches room temperature. Place casserole dish or roaster in the oven.
Yes you can cook chicken breast from frozen, but when it goes into the oven and cooks, it will let out a lot of water (from the defrosting). But make sure to add an extra 10 m … inutes or so for defrosting time in the oven. 
Reheating a takeout chicken can help bring back its just-from-the-oven juiciness -- if you do it right. Too much reheating will dry out the meat and change its flavor. To determine the best reheating method, we ran a few tests using both small and large chickens. Both took the same amount of time to reheat. 
Microwave Oven. Remove the ready-to-heat frozen chicken dish from its packaging or freezer container. Leave it partially covered, or make vent holes in the cover, then place it in the microwave. Set and start the microwave oven according to the manufacturer's recommendation. 1 Wrap the chicken tightly in heavy freezer paper for freezing. 2  Don't thaw raw chicken at room temperature or under warm water. 3  Instead, thaw it safely in the refrigerator so it never warms above 40 degrees Fahrenheit. 4  Raw, uncooked frozen chicken should not be cooked in any type of oven directly from its frozen state.
Reheat the chicken. Place the dish in the properly preheated oven, making sure it’s in the center rack for even heat application. Depending on how large your chicken is, you might need a little more or less time, but it should take about 25 minutes for your chicken to reheat thoroughly. Once the oven has preheated, place the chicken in the oven. If the chicken has been cut into small pieces, it may take only a few minutes to reheat properly. If you are reheating large pieces, like whole breasts, you may have to wait longer.