“The officer did not have me sign the ticket. If I do not show up for court the ticket will be dismissed.”. Some states have a line on the traffic citation where you acknowledge the summons and agree to appear for court. It doesn’t matter if you sign or not,you are still required to be in court on the date listed on the ticket. If this were true, nobody would sign and all speeding tickets would have to be dismissed. Not going to happen. If you do not appear you will be found guilty, a fine will be added for failure to appear, and a warrant will be issued for your arrest. Quite possibly your driver’s license will also be suspended
Courts drop tickets if officers don’t show up. Depends. Some states don’t require the officer to appear in court for a traffic ticket hearing; the judge will still try the case, regardless of whether the officer shows. Some states, though, require an appearance; without one, the judge will toss the case.
If the officer fails to sign the ticket you may have a good reason for asking for a dismissal. The reason is that the ticket represents the arrest and is the officers affidavit to the court that you committed the offense specified. If it is unsigned it has the force of a unsigned affidavit. 
In Illinois, a driver given a citation is not required to sign the ticket. Their drivers license is taken as bond. To sign a ticket in Illinois, you have to given an I-Bond (Individual Bond) which makes court appearance a requirement. Report Abuse. Nope If you don't pay or appear in court then a warrant will be issued for your arrest for Failure to Appear. Its called a bench warrant and now you have a felony charge added to your traffic citation. Best advice, if you want to argue the ticket is show up in court and presnt your case to the judge.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, you do have to sign the ticket. As the officer says, signing the tick is not an admission of guilt but you are admiting to the fact that you were speeding. The reason why its like this is because more often then not you can take these tickets to court and fight it and win. If you don't, you will be arrested. The scene of a ticket is no place to argue the citation, that is why the court exists. The best thing to do is sign the citation and make your argument in court. Refusing to sign the citation might appear like a silent admission of guilt and definately a sign of being uncooperative.
The officer forgot to have you sign the traffic ticket. Myth. A traffic citation is still valid, even without your signature. Your signature simply serves as a promise that you will appear in court on the specified date. Depends. Some states don’t require the officer to appear in court for a traffic ticket hearing; the judge will still try the case, regardless of whether the officer shows. Some states, though, require an appearance; without one, the judge will toss the case.
Driving with traffic flow is not a valid reason to contest a speeding ticket. Fact. It doesn’t matter if your neighbor was going 90 mph in a 50 mph zone or not. If you were driving above the speed limit, your traffic citation stands. Depends. Some states don’t require the officer to appear in court for a traffic ticket hearing; the judge will still try the case, regardless of whether the officer shows. Some states, though, require an appearance; without one, the judge will toss the case.
If the ticket was served to you personally by the officer who signed the ticket you must take care of the ticket through the court. In many states it is not a requirement for the offender to sign the ticket. This has nothing to do with being a contract, it is your copy of the simplified traffic ticket witch is an accusatory instrument filed with the local criminal court. Report Abuse. Nope If you don't pay or appear in court then a warrant will be issued for your arrest for Failure to Appear. Its called a bench warrant and now you have a felony charge added to your traffic citation. Best advice, if you want to argue the ticket is show up in court and presnt your case to the judge.