1 Ingestion of larvae cysts in meat or muscle tissue. 2  When an animal has a tapeworm infection, it has tapeworm larvae in its muscle tissue. 3  If you eat raw or undercooked meat from an infected animal, you ingest the larvae, which then develop into adult tapeworms in your intestines. 
Best Answer: Most people who are infected with tapeworm don't show symptoms. Signs and symptoms of intestinal infection Most likely, you won't have any signs or symptoms with an intestinal infection. It's possible you might notice segments of the adult tapeworm (proglottids) in your stool.
If you believe you have symptoms of a tapeworm, see your doctor immediately. Symptoms include chronic indigestion, intestinal upset, weight loss, dizziness, abdominal pain, diarrhea or constipation, and loss of appetite. 
After your doctor or physician has diagnosed you with a tapeworm infection, he or she will prescribe an oral medication. Tapeworms are treated with three common prescriptions: praziquantel, albendazole, and nitazoxanide. The variety your doctor prescribes will depend upon the type of infection you have contracted. 1 In addition to determining if you have a tapeworm, stool analysis can identify a variety of digestive problems, including infection, nutritional deficiencies, and cancer. 2  A blood test may also be able to identify antibodies in the blood of a person who has been infected by a tapeworm.
Eating undercooked meat from infected animals is the main cause of tapeworm infection in people. Although tapeworms in humans usually cause few symptoms and are easily treated, they can sometimes cause serious, life-threatening problems. That's why it's important to recognize the symptoms and know how to protect yourself and your family.
Symptoms. Many people with intestinal tapeworm infection have no symptoms. If you do feel the effects, your symptoms will depend on the type of tapeworm you have and its location. Invasive tapeworm infection symptoms vary depending on where the larvae have migrated. If tapeworm larvae have migrated out of your intestines and formed cysts in other tissues, they can eventually cause organ and tissue damage, resulting in: 1  Fever. 2  Cystic masses or lumps. 3  Allergic reactions to the larvae.
Treatment for Tapeworms. If you suspect you have tapeworms, you should see your doctor. Because there are different types of worms and tapeworms that can infect people, diagnosing a tapeworm infection may require a stool sample to identify the type of worm. If worms are not detected in the stool, your doctor may order a blood test to check for antibodies produced to fight tapeworm infection. Although tapeworms in humans usually cause few symptoms and are easily treated, they can sometimes cause serious, life-threatening problems. That's why it's important to recognize the symptoms and know how to protect yourself and your family.
You may not know you have a tapeworm infection until you see segments of the worm in your stools (poo). The segments will look like white grains of rice but sometimes longer sections of the worm may need to be seen by an expert to confirm diagnosis. A tapeworm infection does not always cause symptoms. See your GP if you see what you think are segments of a tapeworm in your stools. Infection is usually diagnosed from a stool sample but further tests may be needed depending on the type of tapeworm infection. Read more about how tapeworm infections are diagnosed.
Many people with intestinal tapeworm infection have no symptoms. If you do feel the effects, your symptoms will depend on the type of tapeworm you have and its location. If tapeworm larvae have migrated out of your intestines and formed cysts in other tissues, they can eventually cause organ and tissue damage, resulting in: 1  Fever. 2  Cystic masses or lumps. 3  Allergic reactions to the larvae.
Save. Most people who are infected with tapeworm have few, if any, symptoms. Symptoms can range from mild to severe, and a tapeworm infestation will not just go away. It will need medical care, especially if the larvae have migrated from the intestinal track and into other parts of the body. Tapeworm eggs are excreted by the host, human or animal, into the soil. The eggs are then ingested by not washing your hands before eating or preparing food. You can also become infected by eating raw or undercooked meats or drinking water contaminated with tapeworm eggs or larvae.