What Does Nominal Size Mean. In filter media, one of the terms that you will often see is “nominal”. Nominal size rating means that the filter in use is going to be able to retain the vast majority – but not all – of the particulates. It will be able to retain between 60% and 98% of them, which is actually quite good
By this definition the nominal maximum aggregate size for the material example above is also 1/2. However, if there were only 91% passing the 3/8 the nominal maximum aggregate size for that material would be 3/8, not 1/2. By the CT 382 definition, the maximum aggregate size is 3/4 and the nominal maximum aggregate size is 1/2. In the November 2011 version of CT 202, nominal maximum aggregate size is defined as one sieve size larger than the first size to retain more than 10%..
· just now. Report Abuse. Nominal means in name or by name; at any rate, it means having to do with the name of something. It does not necessarily mean small; the sense of the nominal fee example given the previous answerer is that it's a fee in name only, and doesn't meaningfully impact anyone's finances. Nominal means alot of things. It cane mean at low cost I.E. for a nominal fee. Or having to do with or attached to a person's name, I.E. Mrs. smith is nominal with our teacher Mr. Smith. Or it can even mean the mrs. or mr. in that situation. In Grammer it means a noun or relating to a noun.
DN = Diameter Nominal. The term Diameter Nominal refers to the internal diameter of a pipe. Together with the nominal pressure rating and the materials class, all dimensions of a piping line, e. g. flange dimensions, are defined by indicating the nominal diameter. Steel is often not specified, but assumed as materi
Nominal size is a term used for the comparative sizes of piping and tubing rather than the actual dimensions. Like 3/4″ or 1″. Nominal sizes of piping in sprinkler systems are not the actual sizes and are given in inches and fractions of an inch. For a given NPS (Nominal Pipe Size), the OD stays fixed and the wall thickness increases with schedule.
Applying the nominal size across domains requires understanding of the size systems in both areas; for example, someone wishing to select a drill bit to clear a  1⁄4 -inch screw may consult tables to show the proper drill bit size. For example both 1⁄2 inch and 15 millimetres (0.59 in) copper pipe is actually the same pipe which has a nominal internal diameter of 1⁄2 an inch and a nominal external diameter of 15 millimetres (diameter is always internal in the imperial measurement system and always external in metric).
For example, dimensional lumber sizes such as 2 by 4 refers to a board whose finished dimensions are closer to 1 1⁄2 inches by 3 1⁄2 inches. A  3 1⁄2 -inch floppy disk 's standard dimension is 90 mm, or 3.54 inches, and is advertised to hold 1.44 megabytes although its capacity is 1,474,560 bytes. A  3⁄4 -inch pipe in the Nominal Pipe Size system has no dimensions that are exactly 0.75 inches. A screw thread has a number of dimensions required to assure proper function but is referred to by a nominal size and a thread design family, for example  1⁄4 inch, 20 threads per inch, Unified National Coarse. For example both 1⁄2 inch and 15 millimetres (0.59 in) copper pipe is actually the same pipe which has a nominal internal diameter of 1⁄2 an inch and a nominal external diameter of 15 millimetres (diameter is always internal in the imperial measurement system and always external in metric).
The word is also sometimes used as a shortened form of nominal phrase, a synonym for noun phrase. Nominal can also mean a sequence of one or more nouns that do not form a complete noun phrase. In other uses, it refers to a class of word that encapsulates both parts of speech in English as nouns and adjectives. Nominal means alot of things. It cane mean at low cost I.E. for a nominal fee. Or having to do with or attached to a person's name, I.E. Mrs. smith is nominal with our teacher Mr. Smith. Or it can even mean the mrs. or mr. in that situation. In Grammer it means a noun or relating to a noun.