1 In a medium bowl, gently whisk eggs, egg yolks, sugar and flour until all ingredients are well incorporated. 2  When chocolate is smooth, remove bowl from hot water and add butter. 3  Stir until butter is melted and chocolate is smooth again. 4  Add egg mixture, mixing well. 1 When chocolate is smooth, remove bowl from hot water and add butter. 2  Stir until butter is melted and chocolate is smooth again. 3  Add egg mixture, mixing well. 4  Spoon batter into cake pan or prepared muffin tin, filling each cup half-full. 5  Bake for 18-20 minutes in a cake pan or 11-12 minutes in a muffin tin.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Budino is a sweet Italian pudding known for its light yet filling texture and intense flavor. This type of dessert gets its name simply from the Italian word for pudding, and different bakers can have their own unique takes on budino recipes. Flavor from lemon zest in this dish is usually found in budino di ricotta, a somewhat smoother recipe version. This pudding is often made by first straining any lumps out of unsweetened ricotta cheese and then whipping it together with egg yolks and sugar.
Chef Cora says, Budino in Italian means pudding, but this is more like a molten cake, moist and almost gooey in the middle when served warm from the oven. I like to serve the budino with a scoop of homemade Banana Chocolate-Chunk Ice Cream, but it's also great with creme anglaise and fresh raspberries or strawberries. 1 When chocolate is smooth, remove bowl from hot water and add butter. 2  Stir until butter is melted and chocolate is smooth again. 3  Add egg mixture, mixing well. 4  Spoon batter into cake pan or prepared muffin tin, filling each cup half-full. 5  Bake for 18-20 minutes in a cake pan or 11-12 minutes in a muffin tin.
Jenn Garbee, in the LA Times: Technically, it's just pudding. But mention the word budino to an Italian chef and eyes light up, chattering hands dance through the air and unabashed creativity is unfurled.  Budino is BUDINO!
1. For the budino, combine cream and milk in bowl or pitcher, set aside. Whisk egg, egg yolks and cornstarch in medium bowl, set aside. 2. Combine brown sugar, kosher salt and 1/2 cup water in pot. Place over medium-high heat and let sit until edges start to brown.
Preparation. For budino: Mix cream and milk in large bowl. Whisk egg, egg yolks, and cornstarch in medium bowl. Stir sugar, 1/2 cup water, and salt in heavy large pot over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. 
Budino is a sweet Italian dish, usually rich and creamy like a custard or pudding. The word originally referred to a type of medieval sausage, similar to English pudding. 
Budino in Italian means pudding but this is more like a molten cake, moist and almost gooey in the middle when served warm from the oven. 
Preparation. 1. Whisk egg yolks, whole egg, and cornstarch in a medium bowl until smooth. 2. Put sugar, salt, and 1/2 cup water in a 4-qt. saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat, without stirring but swirling occasionally, and cook until mixture gets thicker, foamy, and lavalike, about 5 minutes. Reduce heat to low and slowly whisk in 3 cups cream and the milk.
Whisk 1/2 cup milk and cornstarch in a small bowl; set aside. Heat remaining 2 1/2 cups milk in a small saucepan just to a simmer; set aside. To make caramel, stir sugar and 3/4 cup water in a heavy saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; cook without stirring until an instant-read thermometer registers 210°–220°. Line a sieve with a double layer of cheesecloth and set over a large pitcher. Whisk egg yolks in a large bowl. Gradually whisk in hot milk, then cornstarch mixture. Slowly whisk in caramel. Return mixture to saucepan. Whisk constantly over medium heat until mixture thickens and a thermometer registers 175°, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat; whisk in butter, rum, and salt. Pour through prepared sieve. Pour 1/2 cup budino over crust in each jar. Cover; chill until set, 4–5 hours.