Decide how far you would like the runner to continue on the top and bottom landings, and then add that number to your total to determine the final length needed for a stair runner. The standard width measurement for stair runners is 2 feet, 6 inches, but it is possible to find runners in widths from 2 feet to 3 feet. As the length of your runner increases, the available widths will likely widen. Record this measurement. Number your paper according to the number of stairs you have. If you have 25 stairs, number 1 through 25 on your paper. Measure the depth of each stair tread and record the
Stair Runs. 1. Measure one riser and one tread to give the length needed for each step (see A.). 2. Count the number of steps (on average this will be 13 risers and 12 treads). 3. Multiply the number of steps by the length per step, and then add the height of the top riser. 4. Add an extra 50cm per flight to allow for adjustment. Check that all treads and risers on your stairs have the same measurements. If not, you will need to measure each step individually and add the measurements together
HOW TO MEASURE FOR STAIR RUNNERS. Decorating takes a new dimension when you add Oriental Roll Runners to a home. All of our stair runners, 100% wool and synthetic, are tightly woven through the back to last many years and showcase your hardwood stairs. Measuring for Stair Runners is easy! 
Count how many Risers you. have on the stairs. Count how many Steps you. have on the stairs. Using the Calculator on the left, enter. the values from Step 1 to Step 4. and click on Calculate. 1  HOME. 2  About Us. 3  Contact Us
Measuring for a carpet stair runner is surprisingly simple. Stair runners, usually sold by the running foot or yard, can be 22 to 36 inches wide. To calculate the length of the staircase for a runner, you need to measure the depth of the stair tread and the height of the stair riser. The tread is the flat horizontal board upon which you step
Step 2. Check the Rear of the Stair runner for the correct width or measure the width. Next measure the stair width e.g 30 subtract the stair width from the runner width 30 - 26 = 4 this is the total space left. divide the answer by 2 to get equal spaces 4 / 2 = 2 this is 2 either side. Check the Rear of the Stair runner for the correct. width or measure the width.
1 For straight steps, measure one riser and one tread to give the length need for each step. 2  Include the “nose” in the measurement (see drawing A). 3  Check that all treads and risers on your stairs have the same measurements. 4  Count steps and check for differing depths. 
When measuring risers, you will need to measure from the top of the nose of the tread above to the point where the riser meets the tread below. This is called the crotch of the stair. When you have finished taking measurements, add them all together to find out how long your runner will need to be. Fix one end of a very long, flexible tape measure at the top of your stairs where you want your runner to start. Then fix your tape measure at each point where a riser joins to the tread below it, until you reach the bottom, where you want your runner to end.
Steps. 1. Measure 1 stair tread, which is the horizontal part of the stair on which you step, from one side to the other side, from the wall to the rails. 1  Round your measurement to the nearest foot (meter), and record the width measurement. Measure across the tread, from where the riser (the vertical part) meets it and down the height of the riser. 1  For this measurement, you are measuring in the opposite direction from your first measurement, across the short distance of the tread. 2  This will be the measurement used for the height of each stair.