It is a group of organs in the body which work together to digest food. Digestion is the process by which our body breaks down food into substances we can take in (absorb) and use. Food travels through the alimentary canal which starts at mouth and ends at the anus. It completes the chemical digestion of food and the subsequent absorption of nutrients takes place in the small intestine. Nutrients are absorbed through the villi into the blood and lymph vessels. Hardly any food is absorbed elsewhere in the digestive system.
Structure: The esophagus is a muscular tube which leads from the pharynx, at the back of the mouth, to the stomach, the first main organ of digestion. Function: To carry chewed food from the pharynx to the stomach. Food moves along it by a muscular contraction known as peristalsis. It completes the chemical digestion of food and the subsequent absorption of nutrients takes place in the small intestine. Nutrients are absorbed through the villi into the blood and lymph vessels. Hardly any food is absorbed elsewhere in the digestive system.
Alimentary canal, or the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, is the continuous muscular digestive tube that winds through the body digesting and absorbing foodstuff; its organs include: the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 
Food enters the alimentary canal through the mouth or oral cavity. The functions of the oral cavity include analysis, mechanical processing, digestion and lubrication. The anatomy of the mouth includes the following features: Lips-protect the anterior opening of the mouth. The alimentary canal The Poo Machine (GI tract) is a continuous tube that winds and twists through the ventral body cavity. It is about 9 m (30 ft) in a cadaver but somewhat shorter in a living person. The organs that form the alimentary canal include:
The structure of the human alimentary canal. The alimentary canal is a long hollow tube which runs from the mouth to the anus .Together with several other organs, including the liver and the pancreas, it makes up the digestive system. The total length of the human alimentary canal is between 5 and 6 m, from anus to mouth. Each region of the alimentary canal has it own function and different structure. There are 4 basic layers in the wall of the alimentary canal. Working from the inside these are: a) the mucosa b) the submucosa c) the muscularis externa d) the serosa.
# 52 Human alimentary canal. The alimentary canal is a long tube which runs from the mouth to the anus. It is part of the digestive system. The digestive system also includes the liver and the pancreas. 
The digestive system is a group of organs working together to convert food into energy and basic nutrients to feed the entire body. Food passes through a long tube inside the body known as the alimentary canal or the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). The alimentary canal is made up of the oral cavity, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestines, and large intestines.
The pancreas secretes digestive enzymes into the small intestine to complete the chemical digestion of foods. Large Intestine The large intestine is a long, thick tube about 2 ½ inches in diameter and about 5 feet long. Food passes through a long tube inside the body known as the alimentary canal or the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). The alimentary canal is made up of the oral cavity, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestines, and large intestines.
oThe alimentary canal, or gastrointestinal (GI) tract, is the continuous muscular digestive tube that winds through the body digesting and absorbing foodstuff; its organs include: the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 