Bruce Frederick Joseph Springsteen was born September 23, 1949 in New Jersey, USA. His father, Douglas Frederick Springsteen, worked as a bus driver, and was of Irish and Dutch ancestry. His mother, Adele Ann (Zerilli), worked as a legal secretary, and was of Italian ancestry. 
The next installment of the Live Bruce Springsteen Archive Series finds Bruce solo in Columbus, Ohio in the midst of the Devils & Dust Tour. A decade after the Ghost of Tom Joad Tour, Devils & Dust took Bruce through theaters and curtained-off arenas to maintain a level of intimacy rarely seen in his touring career. Don't miss The GRAMMY Museum 's Bruce Springsteen photo exhibition, on display at Monmouth University in New Jersey through December 2015. The exhibit includes 45 iconic Springsteen photos including this shot by Pamela Springsteen. More info at http://monmouth.edu/arts.
Now available: July 31, 2005 Columbus, OH. The next installment of the Live Bruce Springsteen Archive Series finds Bruce solo in Columbus, Ohio in the midst of the Devils & Dust Tour. 
Mini Bio (1). Bruce Frederick Joseph Springsteen was born September 23, 1949 in New Jersey, USA. His father, Douglas Frederick Springsteen, worked as a bus driver, and was of Irish and Dutch ancestry. His mother, Adele Ann (Zerilli), worked as a legal secretary, and was of Italian ancestry. He has an older sister, Virginia, and a younger sister Pamela Springsteen. Bruce was raised as a Catholic
Synopsis. Born on September 23, 1949, in the town of Long Branch, New Jersey, Bruce Springsteen played the bar circuit while assembling his famous E Street Band. His breakout record Born to Run united arena rock with human-size tales of working-class America. Rock musician Bruce Springsteen was born September 23, 1949, in Long Branch, New Jersey. Springsteen was raised in a working-class household in Freehold Borough. The future Boss's father, Doug Springsteen, had trouble holding down a steady job and worked at different times as a bus driver, millworker and prison guard
Bruce Frederick Joseph Springsteen (born September 23, 1949 in Freehold, New Jersey, United States) is an American songwriter, singer, and guitarist. 