According to the The United States Department of Health and Human Services (USDHHS) 1, physical fitness is defined as a set of attributes that people have or achieve that relates to the ability to perform physical activity. This description goes beyond being able to run long distance or lift a lot at the gym. Cardiorespiratory endurance is how our body is able to supply fuel during physical activity via the body's circulatory and respiratory systems. 1  How efficient your heart and lungs are at delivering oxygen to your body. 2  How efficient your body is at creating the ATP, or energy, your muscles need in order to contract.
You don't need to do it all at onceit's all right to break up your physical activity into three, 10-minute times throughout the day. And, increasing the intensity or the amount of time that you are physically active can have even greater health benefits. But if you're breathing hard and it's hard to hold a conversation, the activity is vigorously intense. Vigorously intense activity burns more calories per unit of time. For most people, moderately intense physical activities include: 1  Walking briskly.
The term physical activity should not be mistaken with exercise. Exercise is a subcategory of physical activity that is planned, structured, repetitive, and purposeful in the sense that the improvement or maintenance of one or more components of physical fitness is the objective.
Clarifying the Meaning of Physical Fitness. …means being able to perform a physical activity. It also means having the energy and strength to feel as good as possible. Getting more fit, even a little bit, can improve your health. While still a cloudy definition of fitness, we can re-work this statement to clarify. Let’s break these three points up. A definition still quite vague. So, fitness is a condition of being physically fit and healthy. Ummm, okay…. WebMD approaches a better understanding stating that fitness: …means being able to perform a physical activity.
Fitness is the condition of being physically fit and healthy and involves attributes that include, but are not limited to mental acuity, cardiorespiratory endurance, muscular strength, muscular endurance, body composition, and flexibility. Fitness is a set of attributes that people have or achieve that relates to the ability to perform physical activity. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cite five components of physical fitness-muscular strength, flexibility, cardiorespiratory endurance, muscular endurance and body composition.
A Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics answered. Fitness is a broad term that means something different to each person, but it refers to your own optimal health and overall well-being. Being fit not only means physical health, but emotional and mental health, too. It defines every aspect of your health. Fitness is a set of attributes that people have or achieve that relates to the ability to perform physical activity. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cite five components of physical fitness-muscular strength, flexibility, cardiorespiratory endurance, muscular endurance and body composition.
Posted on March 17, 2009 by Sheila. To be physically fit means to be in a state of health and well-being. Physical fitness is defined as the body’s ability to function efficiently and effectively in work and leisure activities, to be healthy, to resist disease and to react to emergency situations. 
Physical fitness can be achieved through exercise. Physical fitness is a general state of health and well-being and, more specifically, the ability to perform aspects of sports or occupations. Physical fitness is generally achieved through correct nutrition, moderate-vigorous physical activity, exercise and rest