Jello is a kind of strange substance which is also a colloid. Jello is made from water with flavorings, sweetener, and gelatin mixed in. Gelatin is made from a protein called collagen which is the main protein in cartilage, the flexible material that forms your outer ear and nose. People shave with colloids, put colloids in their hair and on their sandwiches, and then have a cold colloid for desert. You may have topped your hot chocolate with a colloid or put a colloid in your cereal this morning. It seems that the world is full of colloids.
A colloid is when a substance is suspended in another substance,  usually a liquid. For example, whole milk is a colloid because the  milk solids are suspended in a solution … of water. A colloid is a type of mechanical mixturewhere one substance is dispersed evenly throughout another. The particles of the dispersed substance are only suspended in the mixture … , unlike a solution, where they are completely dissolved within
Emulsions are just one example of a colloid, a mixture where one substance is evenly dispersed in another. Fog and clouds are colloids of water in air. Smoke is a colloid of solid particles in air. As we have seen, foams are colloids of a gas in water, and emulsions are colloids of one liquid in another. Ink is a colloid of a solid pigment in water. Styrofoam is a colloid of a gas in a solid. Gels are a colloid of a liquid in a solid. There are also colloids of solids in other solids, as in some types of glass. One type of colloid often encountered in cooking are hydrocolloids.
These are gels (solid) or sols (liquid) made of particles dispersed in water. Gelatin is a sol when hot, and a gel when cooled. Other examples are jellies made from pectin, agar, carrageenan, or other gelling agents. If the particles are too large, instead of a stable colloid, we get a suspension. Styrofoam is a colloid of a gas in a solid. Gels are a colloid of a liquid in a solid. There are also colloids of solids in other solids, as in some types of glass. One type of colloid often encountered in cooking are hydrocolloids.
Sometimes the dispersed substance alone is called the colloid; the term colloidal suspension refers unambiguously to the overall mixture (although a narrower sense of the word suspension is contradistinguished from colloids by larger particle size). The dispersed-phase particles or droplets are affected largely by the surface chemistry present in the colloid. Some colloids are translucent because of the Tyndall effect, which is the scattering of light by particles in the colloid. Other colloids may be opaque or have a slight color.
For example, if a colloid consists of a solid phase dispersed in a liquid, the solid particles will not diffuse through a membrane, whereas with a true solution the dissolved ions or molecules will diffuse through a membrane. The dispersed-phase particles or droplets are affected largely by the surface chemistry present in the colloid. Some colloids are translucent because of the Tyndall effect, which is the scattering of light by particles in the colloid. Other colloids may be opaque or have a slight color.
Homogeneous mixtures with a dispersed phase in this size range may be called colloidal aerosols, colloidal emulsions, colloidal foams, colloidal dispersions, or hydrosols. The dispersed-phase particles or droplets are affected largely by the surface chemistry present in the colloid. Some colloids are translucent because of the Tyndall effect, which is the scattering of light by particles in the colloid. Other colloids may be opaque or have a slight color.
A colloid is a mixture of a small insoluble particles that are dispersed in a medium and do not settle out (in any practical period of time). A colloid is a type of mechanical mixturewhere one substance is dispersed evenly throughout another. The particles of the dispersed substance are only suspended in the mixture … , unlike a solution, where they are completely dissolved within
Well gelatin, the thing that makes up jelly and where it gets it’s name, is a solid without adding water. It’s a mixture of very hydrophillic (water loving) proteins. When you add water it becomes what is known as a colloid gel. In this state it’s actually both solid and liquid. 