A neurologist is a specialist who treats diseases in the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system), peripheral nerves (nerves connecting the brain and spine to the organs, like the lungs or liver), and muscles. (801) 585‑7575. To receive the best care, you should always first consult your primary care doctor, and they might recommend you see a neurologist, or they might not be able to provide a satisfying answer for your concerns. It is good to be aware then of what a neurologist does and the symptoms they treat.
A neurologist is a doctor who specializes in treating diseases of the nervous system. The nervous system comprises the central and peripheral nervous system. This complex system involves the spinal cord and the brain. Neurologist Subspecialties. Because the nervous system is complex, a neurologist may specialize in a specific area. Subspecialties have evolved in order to narrow a doctor’s focus. For example, some doctors specialize in treating children with neurological problems.
Neurologists deal with disorders of the nervous system, which includes the brain, spinal cord, or other nerves. They treat patients with sleep disorders, migraines, movement disorders like Parkinson’s, lower back pain, stroke, and more. 
A neurologist is a medical doctor who is specialized in the diagnosis and management of disorders of the nervous system. There are some disorders that are mostly the domaine of neurosurgeons and neurologists usually have a limited role in their treatment, such as head trauma, hydrocephalus, brain tumors, etc. Neurologists can practice general neurology or they may sub-specialize in a particular area.
A neurologist is a doctor who specializes in the field of neurology (study of brain and related conditions), and treats various disorders that affect the nervous system. Pediatric neurologist salary. A pediatric neurologist is a physician who deals with the disorders of the brain and nervous system in children. According to American Medical Group Association (AMGA) reports, the average expected salary for pediatric neurologists ranges from between $197,282 – $219,561 per year.
1 A neurology doctor specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders affecting the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. A neurology doctor, or neurologist, is a healthcare professional who diagnoses and treats disorders affecting the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. He or she can specialize in one area or work more broadly, and can also be either a primary care provider or work in consultation with other healthcare provider
Neurologist Education and Training. A neurologist is a medical doctor or osteopath who has trained in the diagnosis and treatment of nervous system disorders, including diseases of the brain, spinal cord, nerves and muscles. Neurologists perform neurological examinations of the nerves of the head and neck; muscle strength and movement; balance, ambulation, and reflexes; and sensation, memory, speech, language, and other cognitive abilities. They also perform diagnostic tests such as the following: 1  CAT (computed axial tomography) or CT scan.
Shares & Saves. Save. A neurologist is a medical doctor who specializes in the study, diagnosis and treatment of injury and diseases of the nervous system. This includes the brain, spinal cord, muscles and nerves throughout the body. Since the nervous system is essential to every bodily function, neurology is a vast area of study. A neurologist helps identify the source of problems with a patient's nervous system. This can be an inability to use the senses correctly. Loss of sight, hearing, smell, taste and the sensation of touch are often linked to neurological disorders.