[ 3 syll. al-ber-ta, alb-e- rta ] The baby girl name Alberta is pronounced in English as aeL-B AH R-Tah or in Italian and Polish as aaL-B EH R-Taa †. Alberta has its origins in the Germanic language. It is used largely in English, German, Hungarian, Italian, and Polish. The meaning of Alberta is 'nobly famous'. It is a two-element name derived from adal and berht which are of the meanings ' noble, honorable ' and ' bright, famous ' respectively. Alberta is the feminine form of the Irish, Dutch, English, French, German, Polish, Russian, and Slavic Albert. The name Alberta is used to a great extent; it has 36 forms that are used in English and foreign languages.
Alberta /al-ber-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced al-BER-tah. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Alberta is  noble, bright . Feminine of Albert. Also the name of a western Canadian province, and a popular type of peach. Alberta is a very popular first name for females (#332 out of 4276, Top 8%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#40139 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Alberta for girls
The name Alberta is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Alberta is: Intelligent or noble. American Meaning: The name Alberta is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Alberta is: Intelligent or noble. Hungarian Meaning: The name Alberta is a Hungarian baby name. In Hungarian the meaning of the name Alberta is: Bright or noble. English Meaning: The name Alberta is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Alberta is: from the Old German Adalbert meaning noble and bright. The Canadian province Alberta was named for Queen Victoria and prince Albert's daughter Princess Louise Alberta, who was married to a former Canadian Governor General.
German Meaning: The name Albert is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Albert is: Intelligent or noble. American Meaning: The name Albert is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Albert is: Intelligent or noble. Hungarian Meaning: The name Albert is a Hungarian baby name. In Hungarian the meaning of the name Albert is: Bright or noble.
Other origins for the name Alberta include-English, German, German.The name Alberta is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Feminine form of Albert from the Old German Adalbert meaning noble and bright. In English, the name Alberta means-Feminine form of Albert from the Old German Adalbert meaning noble and bright. The Canadian province Alberta was named for Queen Victoria and prince Alberts daughter Princess Louise Alberta, who was married to a former Canadian Governor General.
By Susan Munroe. Definition: The province of Alberta is one of the ten provinces and three territories that make up Canada. Alberta is one of three prairie provinces in Canada. Origin of the Name Alberta: The province of Alberta was named after Princess Louise Caroline Alberta, the fourth daughter of Queen Victoria. See Also: 1  Alberta Facts. 2  Province of Alberta.
Alberta is a form of the name Albert. The name Albert is an Anglicized form of the German name berht meaning bright or famous. In the Middle Ages, it was a name often borne by German royalty. 
Meaning of Alberta. English name. In English, the name Alberta means-Feminine form of Albert from the Old German Adalbert meaning noble and bright. The Canadian province Alberta was named for Queen Victoria and prince Alberts daughter Princess Louise Alberta, who was married to a former Canadian Governor General.