The dental hygienist job description is indeed quite complex given that any dental hygienist's duty falls into various spheres including pre-procedure care, in-office treatment of dental patients and post-procedure care. Although dental hygienists do not themselves diagnose oral disease, one integral dental hygienist duty is to prepare clinical and laboratory diagnostic tests for the dentist to interpret at a later time.
What Dental Hygienists Do. Dental hygienists clean teeth, examine patients for signs of oral diseases such as gingivitis, and provide other preventative dental care. They also educate patients on ways to improve and maintain good oral health. Dental hygienists help patients develop and maintain good oral health. For example, they may explain the relationship between diet and oral health. They may also give advice to patients on how to select toothbrushes and other oral-care devices. Other tasks hygienists may perform vary by state.
During a dental appointment, a hygienist typically removes soft and hard deposits from a patient's teeth; examines the gums and teeth to discern the presence of disease or oral abnormality; and strips the teeth of calculus (tartar), stains and plaque. Although dental hygienists do not themselves diagnose oral disease, one integral dental hygienist duty is to prepare clinical and laboratory diagnostic tests for the dentist to interpret at a later time.
Dental Hygienists take care of much of the less complex, day-to-day duties in a Dentist’s office. You’re the first person that patients see, you do the majority of the procedures (time-wise), and you’re the last person the patients interact with. 
What They Do [About this section] [To Top]. Dental hygienists clean teeth, examine patients for signs of oral diseases such as gingivitis, and provide other preventative dental care. They also educate patients on ways to improve and maintain good oral health. Dental hygienists use many types of tools to do their job. They clean and polish teeth with hand, power, and ultrasonic tools. In some cases, they remove stains with an air-polishing device, which sprays a combination of air, water, and baking soda.
Dental hygienists wear safety glasses, surgical masks, and gloves to protect themselves and their patients from diseases. Dental hygienists clean teeth, examine patients for signs of oral diseases such as gingivitis, and provide other preventative dental care. They also educate patients on ways to improve and maintain good oral health. Dental hygienists help patients develop and maintain good oral health. For example, they may explain the relationship between diet and oral health. They may also give advice to patients on how to select toothbrushes and other oral-care devices. Other tasks hygienists may perform vary by state.
What Dental Hygienists Do. Dental hygienists wear safety glasses, surgical masks, and gloves to protect themselves and their patients from diseases. Dental hygienists clean teeth, examine patients for signs of oral diseases such as gingivitis, and provide other preventative dental care. They also educate patients on ways to improve and maintain good oral health
The dental hygienist job description is indeed quite complex given that any dental hygienist's duty falls into various spheres including pre-procedure care, in-office treatment of dental patients and post-procedure care. 
Job Description. A career as a dental hygienist offers a wide range of challenges. In the dental office, the dentist and the dental hygienist work together to meet the oral health needs of patients.