You can see how things start to mount up. An example – private MRI costs. An MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) scan can help to diagnose illness or injury that can’t be seen because it’s internal. Typically, an MRI scan costs somewhere around £400 to £600. 
Insurance: Allegiance. Our insurance gave us an EOB yesterday the MRI is going to cost us $2700.00 and the contrast dye was $600.00 so in total a 45 minute brain MRI with contrast dye at Aurora St. Lukes in Milwaukee, WI is $3300.00 with Allegiance Medical Insurance. 1 An open MRI is wider than an enclosed MRI and is often recommended for obese patients, those who struggle with claustrophobia, or patients whose joints are being examined. 2  An open MRI typically costs about the same as a conventional MRI, about $1,000-$5,000, depending on the parts of the body
This compares very favourably with the average Central London private MRI scan price of £500. In fact our MRI prices are around half the cost of our competitors. We are able to keep the price of our scans this low by providing longer opening hours on more days than other companies. Saturday and Sundays £200 for a single region MRI scan during our off peak* times and £250 during peak times*. Our weekday prices remain at the current pricing of £245 off peak and £295 peak per single region. *off peak hours are 8am - 9am and 6.30pm - 7.30pm. Peak hours are the remaining hours that we are open.
Affordable MRI. Affordable MRI-high quality MRI from £200. At London Imaging Centre we have always been known for the quality of our diagnostic services. As we are now open 12 hours a day, seven days a week, we can spread our costs, without compromising any of our standards.
Cost. Most insurance companies will cover the cost of the MRI scan. Uninsured patients who are self pay will be charged the following: For a single scan with payment on the day and paid by Debit card or Cash the cost will be £225. The cost includes a Radiologist/specialist report.
For self paying patients the price of a single region MRI Scan varies according to location, but generally costs from £350. InHealth have over 20 private MRI Scan locations throughout the country. 
In some cases, an MRI can produce clearer images than an X-ray or CT scan. Most MRIs are typically covered by health insurance when deemed medically necessary. If deductibles are met, typical out-of-pocket cost consists of copays of $20-$100 for the doctor visit and for the procedure. 1 An open MRI is wider than an enclosed MRI and is often recommended for obese patients, those who struggle with claustrophobia, or patients whose joints are being examined. 2  An open MRI typically costs about the same as a conventional MRI, about $1,000-$5,000, depending on the parts of the body
1.5 Tesla MRI. Most single area, routine exams cost $900. The price of your scan will be dependent on the time needed for your scan, complexity and whether or not an injection of contrast is required. The price of your scan will be confirmed once we have received your doctor’s referral and supporting information. Below is an example of our most common MRI scan fees.
Discounted price for weekends only. Saturday and Sundays £200 for a single region MRI scan during our off peak* times and £250 during peak times*. Our weekday prices remain at the current pricing of £245 off peak and £295 peak per single region. *off peak hours are 8am - 9am and 6.30pm - 7.30pm. Peak hours are the remaining hours that we are open.
An MRI scan is a painless procedure which allows your doctor to see detailed images of the inside of your body. You will have the scan in a hospital, but you can usually go home the same day. An MRI scan usually takes between 30 and 50 minutes. However, some scans may last for an hour to an hour and a half. 