1 Avoid caffeine and smoking for 30 minutes prior to taking your blood pressure. 2  Sit quietly (don’t talk) with both feet flat on the floor for at least three minutes before you inflate the cuff. 1 Don't talk or eat while you check. 2  Sit with your back supported and both feet on the floor. 3  Get the cuff on your bare arm, not over your sleeve. 4  Take more than one reading, especially if you get unusual numbers. 5  All kinds of factors, from exercise to cold weather, can throw your blood pressure off.
Tell the patient that the blood pressure readings will take a few minutes and they will feel the cuff tighten and then deflate. Gather the equipment and make sure they are in working order. Position the arm. Place their arm on a table or desk to take the blood pressure. Place cuff above the elbow. Make sure the cuff is one inch above the elbow and fit the arm tightly and snugly. You should be able to put one finger under the cuff for tightness. Place the stethoscope earpieces into your ears. Hypertension is when you have high blood pressure. The readings would indicate 140/90 or more. High blood pressure is very serious as you could have a stroke, heart attack or kidney problems. Hypotension is low blood pressure. When you begin to go too far below 120/80, which is normal, it is considered hypotension.
1 Make sure your arm is positioned properly. 2  Always use the same arm when taking your blood pressure. 3  Rest your arm, raised to the level of your heart, on a table, desk or chair arm. 4  You might need to place a pillow or cushion under your arm to elevate it high enough. 5  Place the cuff on bare skin, not over clothing. 1 Sit quietly before and during monitoring. 2  When you're ready to take your blood pressure, sit for five minutes in a comfortable position with your legs and ankles uncrossed and your back supported against a chair. 3  Try to be calm and not think about stressful things. 4  Don't talk while
If you purchase a manual or digital blood pressure monitor (sphygmomanometer), follow the instruction booklet carefully. The following steps provide an overview of how to take your left arm blood pressure on either a manual or digital blood pressure monitor. 
How to take your blood pressure using a home blood pressure monitor. 1. Put the cuff on following the instructions that came with your monitor. 2. Make sure you are relaxed and comfortable. If you are anxious or uncomfortable, this will make your blood pressure rise temporarily. 3. If possible, use the arm that your doctor or nurse uses when measuring your blood pressure. 4. Before you take your readings, rest for five minutes. You should be sitting down in a quiet place, preferably at a desk or table, with your arm resting on a firm surface and your feet flat on the floor. 5.
Before taking your blood pressure: 1  Find a quiet place. ( 2 You will need to listen for your heartbeat.). 3  Roll up the sleeve on your left arm or remove any tight-sleeved clothing, if needed. ( 4 It's best to take blood pressure from the left arm, if possible.). 5  Rest in a chair next to a table for five to 10 minutes. 1 (You will need to listen for your heartbeat.). 2  Roll up the sleeve on your left arm or remove any tight-sleeved clothing, if needed. ( 3 It's best to take blood pressure from the left arm, if possible.). 4
To monitor your blood pressure using an automatic blood pressure monitor, find a comfortable place to sit with good back support at a table or desk. When you're ready to take your blood pressure, sit quietly for three to five minutes beforehand. 
1 (It's best to take blood pressure from the left arm, if possible.). 2  Rest in a chair next to a table for five to 10 minutes. ( 3 Your left arm should rest comfortably at heart level.). 4  Sit up straight with your back against the chair, legs uncrossed. 1 (You will need to listen for your heartbeat.). 2  Roll up the sleeve on your left arm or remove any tight-sleeved clothing, if needed. ( 3 It's best to take blood pressure from the left arm, if possible.). 4
1 When you're ready to take your blood pressure, sit for five minutes in a comfortable position with your legs and ankles uncrossed and your back supported against a chair. 2  Try to be calm and not think about stressful things. 3  Don't talk while taking your blood pressure. 4  Make sure your arm is positioned properly. 1 Sit quietly before and during monitoring. 2  When you're ready to take your blood pressure, sit for five minutes in a comfortable position with your legs and ankles uncrossed and your back supported against a chair. 3  Try to be calm and not think about stressful things. 4
If you have high blood pressure, it's a good idea to check your blood pressure at home. Use an automatic monitor with a cuff that fits around your arm and that keeps track of your readings. Check your blood pressure once in the morning and once in the evening for a week, then one or two days a month after that. 