Concurrent Validity refers to the extent to which test scores correlate with scores on other relevant measures administered at the same time. Concurrent Validity is the type of Validity d. Other definition: Concurrent validity refers to an assessment of whether a test is measuring what it claims to be measuring by correlating scores with some currently available relevant criterion (e.g., school performance).
External validity refers to the extent to which the results of a study can be generalized to other settings (ecological validity), other people (population validity) and over time (historical validity). Face Validity. This is the least sophisticated measure of validity. Face validity is simply whether the test appears (at face value) to measure what it claims to. Tests wherein the purpose is clear, even to naive naïve, respondents are said to have high face. validity
concurrent validity, validity of a test or a measurement tool that is established by simultaneously applying a previously validated tool or test to the same phenomenon, or data base, and comparing the results. Concurrent validity is achieved if the results are highly correlated (the same or similar) at a statistically significant level. con·cur·rent va·lid·i·ty. Index of criterion-related validity used to predict performance in a real-life situation given at about the same time as the test or procedure; the extent to which the index from one test correlates with that of a nonidentical test or index.
Concurrent validity is one of the two types of criterion-related validity. Criterion-related validity refers to the degree to which a measurement can accurately predict specific criterion variables. Since the construct, or psychological concept, that you want to measure is depression, you search for psychological tests that measure depression. In your search, you come across the Beck Depression Inventory, which researchers have determined through several studies is a valid measure of
Concurrent validity is a measure of how well a particular test correlates with a previously validated measure. It is commonly used in social science, psychology and education. Don't miss these related articles: An Example of Concurrent Validity. Researchers give a group of students a new test, designed to measure mathematical aptitude. They then compare this with the test scores already held by the school, a recognized and reliable judge of mathematical ability.
Concurrent validity is the extent to which performance on a measurement is related to current performance on a similar, previously established measurement. 
It is a parameter used in sociology, psychology, and other psychometric or behavioral sciences. Concurrent validity is demonstrated when a test correlates well with a measure that has previously been validated. The two measures may be for the same construct, but more often used for different, but presumably related, constructs. For example, an employment test may be administered to a group of workers and then the test scores can be correlated with the ratings of the workers' supervisors taken on the same day or in the same week. The resulting correlation would be a concurrent validity coefficient.
This is in contrast to predictive validity, where one measure occurs earlier and is meant to predict some later measure. In both cases, the (concurrent) predictive power of the test is analyzed using a simple correlation or linear regression. For example, an employment test may be administered to a group of workers and then the test scores can be correlated with the ratings of the workers' supervisors taken on the same day or in the same week. The resulting correlation would be a concurrent validity coefficient.
Construct validity defines how well a test or experiment measures up to its claims. It refers to whether the operational definition of a variable actually reflect the true theoretical meaning of a concept. Don't miss these related articles: 