noun (plural helices ˈhiːlɪsiːzˈhɛlɪsiːz). 1 An object having a three-dimensional shape like that of a wire wound uniformly in a single layer around a cylinder or cone, as in a corkscrew or spiral staircase.
The common helix is the curve formed by the thread of the ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all the convolutions of which are in the plane. Helix (noun). a caulicule or little volute under the abacus of the Corinthian capital. Helix (noun). the incurved margin or rim of the external ear.
1 (mathematics) A curve on the surface of a cylinder or cone such that its angle to a plane perpendicular to the axis is constant; the three-dimensional curve seen in a screw or a spiral staircase. ( 2 architecture) A small volute under the abacus of a Corinthian capital. ( 3 anatomy) The incurved rim of the external ear.
Double Helix. Definition: In biology, double helix is a term used to describe the structure of DNA. A DNA double helix consists of two spiral chains of deoxyribonucleic acid. The shape is similar to that of spiral staircase.
A helix (pl: helixes or helices) is a type of smooth space curve, i.e. a curve in three-dimensional space. It has the property that the tangent line at any point makes a constant angle with a fixed line called the axis. Examples of helices are coil springs and the handrails of spiral staircases.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: helix (Noun). A curve on the surface of a cylinder or cone such that its angle to a plane perpendicular to the axis is constant; the three-dimensional curve seen in a screw or a spiral staircase. helix (Noun). A small volute under the abacus of a Corinthian capital.
he·lix. 1. A three-dimensional spiral curve. In mathematical terms, a helix can be described as a curve turning about an axis on the surface of a cylinder or cone while rising at a constant upward angle from a base.
(plural helixes or helices). ( 1 mathematics) A curve on the surface of a cylinder or cone such that its angle to a plane perpendicular to the axis is constant; the three-dimensional curve seen in a screw or a spiral staircase.