1 You don't need to change who you are, and the person with anxiety doesn't want you to change either. 2  You are close for a reason. 3  Be yourself. 4  The fact that you're looking for what you can do to help this person with anxiety proves that you're a good influence in their life. 1 Exercise itself is a known remedy for anxiety, and creating new memories can help people cope with some of the stresses of life. 2  So try your best to get out and do things together. 3  DON'T guilt trip. 4  It can be hard, but you have to remember that those with anxiety often struggle to get out of their own head.
A good long-term strategy is really to get them into treatment. A good way to help them kind of approach treatment is to get yourself maybe educated about anxiety and the nature of anxiety and the various treatments for it, to begin sharing that information with your family member. So a person with an anxiety disorder might say, for example, I'm getting anxious about driving, can you drive me somewhere? And if you're wanting to be helpful to your family member you might feel like: Oh, well that's a good thing to do, it will alleviate their anxiety, and they can get things done.
1 Find things to do that don't involve alcohol (since alcohol can cause setbacks in anxiety treatments). 2  Stay active. 3  Exercise itself is a known remedy for anxiety, and creating new memories can help people cope with some of the stresses of life. 1 Exercise itself is a known remedy for anxiety, and creating new memories can help people cope with some of the stresses of life. 2  So try your best to get out and do things together. 3  DON'T guilt trip. 4  It can be hard, but you have to remember that those with anxiety often struggle to get out of their own head.
I have a free 7 minute anxiety test available that will help you see how severe your own anxiety is, and what can be done to treat it. Take it yourself or send it to friends and family today. Start the test here. 1 Exercise itself is a known remedy for anxiety, and creating new memories can help people cope with some of the stresses of life. 2  So try your best to get out and do things together. 3  DON'T guilt trip. 4  It can be hard, but you have to remember that those with anxiety often struggle to get out of their own head.
These people may have an anxiety disorder, depression, or both. It is not uncommon for someone with an anxiety disorder to also suffer from depression or vice versa. Nearly one-half of those diagnosed with depression are also diagnosed with an anxiety disorder. The good news is that these disorders are both treatable, separately and together. Depression and anxiety disorders are different, but people with depression often experience symptoms similar to those of an anxiety disorder, such as nervousness, irritability, and problems sleeping and concentrating. But each disorder has its own causes and its own emotional and behavioral symptoms.
Answer: So the tricky thing about being helpful to someone with an anxiety disorder is that the most common sense things that you can think of to do are the things that actually might make the anxiety disorder to sort of stick around. So a person with an anxiety disorder might say, for example, I'm getting anxious about driving, can you drive me somewhere? And if you're wanting to be helpful to your family member you might feel like: Oh, well that's a good thing to do, it will alleviate their anxiety, and they can get things done.
2. “Calm down.”. The debilitating problem with anxiety and panic disorders is that you simply can’t calm down. Finding the ability to relax -- particularly on command -- isn’t easy for most people, and it certainly can be more difficult for someone suffering from anxiety. “Anxiety can be like quicksand -- the more you do to try to defuse the situation immediately, the deeper you sink. By telling people things like ‘stay calm,’ they can actually increase their sense of panic.”. Despite everything, there are ways to still be supportive without causing more distress.
Here are seven comments you should avoid saying to someone who suffers from an anxiety disorder -- and how you can really help them instead. 1. “Don’t sweat the small stuff.”. The truth is, what you consider small may not be so minute in someone else’s world. “Anxiety can be like quicksand -- the more you do to try to defuse the situation immediately, the deeper you sink. By telling people things like ‘stay calm,’ they can actually increase their sense of panic.”. Despite everything, there are ways to still be supportive without causing more distress.
1 Be yourself. 2  The fact that you're looking for what you can do to help this person with anxiety proves that you're a good influence in their life. 3  Be positive, have fun, and be the person that your friends or family member loves. 1 Exercise itself is a known remedy for anxiety, and creating new memories can help people cope with some of the stresses of life. 2  So try your best to get out and do things together. 3  DON'T guilt trip. 4  It can be hard, but you have to remember that those with anxiety often struggle to get out of their own head.