Credits Required. Generally, you will need to complete coursework beyond a bachelor's degree to become a CPA, as most 4-year programs do not provide the full 150 hours of coursework required for eligibility to take the CPA exam. You must have completed 150 semester hours in an accounting concentration to be eligible to take the exam. Many states require you to apply for the exam through the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA), which offers a list of jurisdictions by state.
An undergraduate or graduate degree in accounting, finance or auditing will give you a solid foundation for becoming an accounting or auditing professional and provide you with the background necessary to apply for the CPA exam in your state. You may also gain experience through internships and entry-level jobs. You must have completed 150 semester hours in an accounting concentration to be eligible to take the exam. Many states require you to apply for the exam through the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA), which offers a list of jurisdictions by state.
Most graduates of accounting programs earn the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) designation -- a must for any accountant filing a report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Almost all states require CPAs to have a minimum of 150 semester hours of college. A Bachelor's degree in Accounting, or a related field, is widely considered the minimum education level required to land a job as an accountant, the BLS reports. However, many employers seek applicants that have earned Master's degrees in Accounting or Business Administration.
Education Requirements. Each state in the U.S. has a state board of accountancy that is responsible for licensing certified public accountants (CPAs) who practice in that state. Each board issues rules that govern what a person must do in order to become a licensed CPA. You may be required to renew your CPA license annually or biannually. In order to maintain a CPA license, most state boards of accountancy require CPAs to take a specified number of continuing professional education (CPE) hours within a specified period of time.
Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting. Most employers require a minimum of a bachelor’s degree in accounting to work in an accountant or auditor position. While a bachelor’s degree is the minimum requirement, some companies prefer accountants with a graduate degree education. Certified public accountants must meet state education requirements to qualify for the Uniform CPA Examination. While the requirements include a bachelor’s degree education, most states include a minimum of 150 semester hours in college coursework to qualify for a license.
Certified public accountants (CPAs) perform accounting, tax and auditing services for public accounting firms, businesses or individuals. Read on to learn about the education and testing requirements involved in becoming a CPA. You must have completed 150 semester hours in an accounting concentration to be eligible to take the exam. Many states require you to apply for the exam through the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA), which offers a list of jurisdictions by state.
Most states require aspiring CPAs to complete at least 150 semester hours of study to become licensed. Students generally accrue 120 hours via a traditional bachelor's degree program. To earn the required 150 hours, some schools offer the option of a combined 5-year bachelor's and master's degree program in accounting. 
Although not required, most accountants attend college and earn a bachelor’s degree. However, a bachelor’s degree in accounting or a related field is considered the minimum education requirement for those who plan to become a CPA. Although CPAs have specific education and experience requirements, regular accountants do not. That means students have the opportunity to study in any number of related fields and still be eligible to fill accounting positions. Here are five popular degree options for accountants.