For example, it will be common to find golf cart dimensions as 7.6′ length x 4′ width x 5.6′ height. An interesting cart variant is the four-seater golf cart with dimensions of 3,190mm x 1,210mm x 1,945mm with a ground clearance of about 100mm. You’ll be able to find both gas powered and electricity powered variants of this four-seater golf car. Standard Golf Cart Dimensions. Today you will find golf carts in various types of formats and dimensions. Nevertheless, the idea is still the same, and that is to be able to convey about two individuals at speeds not exceeding 24 kilometers per hour. This was the original standard stamped as golf cars were manufactured.
a golf car is about 119cm wide (47 in) and its length is 240cm (94.5 in). 
Standard golf cart dimensions are as follows: width is set at four feet, length is at eight feet, and its height is at six feet. Standard Golf Cart Dimensions. Today you will find golf carts in various types of formats and dimensions. Nevertheless, the idea is still the same, and that is to be able to convey about two individuals at speeds not exceeding 24 kilometers per hour. This was the original standard stamped as golf cars were manufactured.
Loading a Golf Cart on a Trailer. The standard golf cart will fit in a 5X10 utility trailer without any problems, no matter if it is lifted or has a rear seat on the back. If you have a smaller trailer, you may have to load the golf cart backwards so the rear seat foot tray overhangs the front of the trailer. Golf Cart Transport. When loading a golf cart on a truck bed or on a trailer you should follow these steps. Face the golf cart in the direction of the hauling vehicle, flip the windshield down and fasten a sting around the windshield.
Before you trailer your golf cart it is always a good precaution to check the grease in the wheel bearings before you haul. No or low grease in the wheel bearings is a major cause of trailer failure. golf cart trailer – length width. Comments are closed. Golf Cart Transport. When loading a golf cart on a truck bed or on a trailer you should follow these steps. Face the golf cart in the direction of the hauling vehicle, flip the windshield down and fasten a sting around the windshield.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The length of the club car golf car is 94.5 inches while the width is 47 inches. In centimeters, the length is 240cm while the width is 119cm. 
Standard golf cart tires (factory) measure 18″ tall (outer diameter) x 8.5″ wide (across the tread) x 8″ at the bead (inner diameter). It is written 18 x 8.5 x 8 where the first number is the overall diameter of the golf car tire, the second is the width at the tread and the third is the diameter of the golf cart wheel. Please see illustration at left. On golf cart tires, the designation ‘NHS’ means Non Highway Service. Proper tire pressure is usually indicated on the sidewall and will vary between brands or models of golf cart tires. Most golf car tires use somewhere between 15 to 25 PSI (pounds per square inch) with an average of about 20-22 PSI.
Given the aforementioned golf cart dimensions an ordinary golf cart will weigh about 410 to 450 kilograms or 900 to 1,000 pounds. Most models of golf cars you will find have four stroke engines under the hood. Standard Golf Cart Dimensions. Today you will find golf carts in various types of formats and dimensions. Nevertheless, the idea is still the same, and that is to be able to convey about two individuals at speeds not exceeding 24 kilometers per hour. This was the original standard stamped as golf cars were manufactured.
Golf Car on a Trailer. A golf cart will fit in a 5 X 10 utility trailer without any problems, no matter if it is lifted or has a rear seat on the back. Golf Car Transporting. When loading a golf cart on a truck bed or on a trailer you should follow these steps. Face the golf cart in the direction of the hauling vehicle, flip the windshield down and fasten a sting around the windshield.