1 Dip each tenderloin into the egg mixture. 2  Transfer the pork to the second bowl and cover it entirely with the flour mixture. 3  Set your deep-fryer to medium-high or heat canola oil to 365 degrees Fahrenheit in a large skillet. To ensure a nice crispy exterior, dredge the pork before starting the deep-frying process. Use two large bowls and set up a dredging station. 1  Combine 1 egg and 1 cup of milk in the first bowl, whipping them together. 2  Mix 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of bread crumbs, salt and pepper in the second bowl.
1 Mix 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of bread crumbs, salt and pepper in the second bowl. 2  Dip each tenderloin into the egg mixture. 3  Transfer the pork to the second bowl and cover it entirely with the flour mixture. 4  Set your deep-fryer to medium-high or heat canola oil to 365 degrees Fahrenheit in a large skillet. To ensure a nice crispy exterior, dredge the pork before starting the deep-frying process. Use two large bowls and set up a dredging station. 1  Combine 1 egg and 1 cup of milk in the first bowl, whipping them together. 2  Mix 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of bread crumbs, salt and pepper in the second bowl.
1 Transfer the pork to the second bowl and cover it entirely with the flour mixture. 2  Set your deep-fryer to medium-high or heat canola oil to 365 degrees Fahrenheit in a large skillet. 3  Deep-fry the tenderloins for 6 to 8 minutes in the deep-fryer or 3 to 4 minutes on each side in the skillet. To ensure a nice crispy exterior, dredge the pork before starting the deep-frying process. Use two large bowls and set up a dredging station. 1  Combine 1 egg and 1 cup of milk in the first bowl, whipping them together. 2  Mix 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of bread crumbs, salt and pepper in the second bowl.
I roasted a 4 pound pork loin at 475 for 1/2 hour and lowered ... and myself, I only got about a 1 pound tenderloin, so I didn't cook it as long. ... Roast Pork Tenderloin with Prunes Recipe: EatingWell ... Food Network invites you to try this Roast Pork Tenderloin with Prunes recipe from EatingWell.com. Trusted Results with How long do you deep fry pork loin per pound. Cooks.com-Recipe-Slow Cooker Roast Pork. 1 pork loin roast (or your favorite cut) 1 pkg dried onion soup mix. 1 ... roast, and 1 additional hour per pound, up to approximately 8 hours. ... Cooks.com-Recipes-Loin Tender.
Let pork loin come to room temperature. Preheat deep-fryer to 325 F. Place pork roast in the fryer basket, fat-side down, and slowly lower into the hot oil. Fry about 1 hour or until center tests 155 F. with an instant-read meat thermometer. Timing will vary due to the thickness of the roast. Lightly tent the pork with foil and let rest 30 minutes before slicing to serve.
1 Cut pork tenderloin into 1/2 inch slices. 2  Pound to about 1/4 inches. 3  thickness. 4  Should be about 12 slices. 5  In a pie plate,or medium bowl,beat egg with 4 tsps. 6  of water,salt,rosemary,and pepper. 7  Place bread crumbs on wax paper. Directions. 1  Cut pork tenderloin into 1/2 inch slices. 2  Pound to about 1/4 inches. 3  thickness. 4  Should be about 12 slices. 5  In a pie plate,or medium bowl,beat egg with 4 tsps.
Thanks: 69. Thanked 624 Times in 472 Posts. Deep-frying pork loin and beef tenderloin. I'm taking my turkey frying stuff to a friend's house this weekend, and we're going to try deep-frying a 3 lb. chunk of pork loin and a 3 lb. chunk of beef tenderloin (the beef first). I'm going to inject the pork with some sort of cajun marinade, and rub with Tony Cachere's. 
Let the tenderloin cool before serving. Pan-roasting pork tenderloin Preheat your oven to 425ºF and coat an ovenproof skillet with oil. Sear the tenderloin over medium-high heat until it’s brown on all sides. Roast the tenderloin for 15 to 20 minutes until the internal temperature reads 145ºF. Let it cool before serving. Stuffed pork tenderloin To butterfly the tenderloin, trim the silver skin with a thin sharp knife. 