Latitude: 52.35. Longitude: 4.9166667. Time zone: Europe/Amsterdam. Current time zone offset: UTC/GMT +2 hours. The current time and date in Amsterdam is 2:37 PM on Thursday, October 15, 2015. You can find the latitude and longitude of any world city, and check the city distance by comparing the flight distance between cities with the driving distance to see how far two cities are from each other.
Amsterdam Centraal, the Netherlands Lat Long Coordinates Info. The latitude of Amsterdam Centraal, the Netherlands is 52.379189, and the longitude is 4.899431. Amsterdam Centraal, the Netherlands is located at Netherlands country in the Notable Buildings place category. 
The latitude and longitude of the country is 52째23' N and 4째55' E respectively. The major Netherlands latitude and longitude is 52째23' N and 4째55' E. The country is situated between Germany and Belgium. The area in between the latitude and longitude of Netherlands is approximately 41,526 sq km. The latitude of the country is in between the Arctic Circle and Tropic of Cancer. The temperature is cool in the summers. The winters are not severe due to the location
The latitude of Amsterdam, Netherlands is 52.377956, and the longitude is 4.897070. Amsterdam, Netherlands is located at Netherlands country in the Cities place category. Amsterdam is the largest city and the capital of the Netherlands, with the population close to 825,000 people.
Print this map. RELATIVE LOCATION: Located in northeastern Europe on the edges of the North Sea, the Netherlands is geographically positioned in both the northern and eastern hemispheres. The Netherlands is bordered by the countries of Belgium and Germany, and the North Sea. 
Amsterdam is located in the western Netherlands, in the province of North Holland. The river Amstel terminates in the city centre and connects to a large number of canals that eventually terminate in the IJ. Amsterdam is situated 2 metres below sea level. The surrounding land is flat as it is formed of large polders. 
Coordinates of Amsterdam, Netherlands is given above in both decimal degrees and DMS (degrees, minutes and seconds) format. The country code given is in the ISO2 format. Amsterdam is the largest city and the capital of the Netherlands, with the population close to 825,000 people.
Travelmath provides a database of major and local cities around the world. You can find the latitude and longitude of any world city, and check the city distance by comparing the flight distance between cities with the driving distance to see how far two cities are from each other.
Amsterdam, Netherlands. Amsterdam is the largest city and the capital of the Netherlands, with the population close to 825,000 people.
Where is Amsterdam located on the world map, you might be wondering? Amsterdam is the capital city of the Netherlands, and this country is located in North-West Europe between Germany in the east, Belgium in the south, and the North Sea in the north and west.