Causes of muscle spasm. The first step to getting to the bottom of what your back is telling you and to feeling better is to determine the cause of your back muscle spasm. Muscles spasms occur: 1  As a result of the muscles trying to protect themselves from a muscle strain or sprain or. 2  In response to an underlying condition. 
Muscle spasms and cramps. Cramps are caused by muscle spasms, involuntary contractions of one or more muscles. In addition to the foot and calf muscles, other muscles prone to spasms include the front and back of the thigh, the hands, arms, abdomen and muscles along the ribcage. Almost everyone experiences muscle cramps, which come without warning.
Spasms and stiffness. Muscle stiffness and spasms are common MS symptoms, and are often described as 'spasticity'. Certain things can trigger them, and they can make daily activities difficult. Physiotherapy, drug treatments and other therapies can help. If MS causes nerve damage that affects muscle movements, they can cause a range of problems. Other things-relapses, heat, infections, stress-can also make spasms and stiffness worse. Investigating potential trigger factors that cause or make your spasms or stiffness worse is a vital step in finding solutions.
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. 
Muscle Spasms. Muscle spasms, one of the most common causes of back pain and neck pain, often may be resolved with conservative, non-surgical treatment; however, there are a few signs to be aware of that should prompt a call to the doctor. You’ve just hefted that bag of dog food into the trunk. Because the muscles that surround and support the spine are among the most powerful and often-used in the body, muscle spasms can be one of the most common – and painful – causes of back pain.
Now waves of uncontrollable muscular pain are gripping your back so tightly you can hardly stand up. Because the muscles that surround and support the spine are among the most powerful and often-used in the body, muscle spasms can be one of the most common – and painful – causes of back pain.
Joint pain, Muscle cramps or spasms (painful) and Stiffness or decreased movement. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms joint pain, muscle cramps or spasms (painful) and stiffness or decreased movement including Muscle strain, Tendinitis, and Bone spurs. 
Neck spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening and shaking, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. In some conditions, such as cervical dystonia, the spasm may cause your head to turn or to jerk. 
1 Spasms may affect many different types of muscles in the body, leading to many different symptoms and presentations. 2  Spasms of skeletal muscles are most common and are often due to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities. 3  The spasm occurs abruptly, is painful, and is usually short-lived. 1 If muscle spasms are especially painful, if they do not resolve or if they recur, medical care should be accessed to look for possible underlying causes. 2  Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 3  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes.
1 Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 2  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes. 3  Examples include the pain associated with menstrual cramps, diarrhea, gallbladder pain, and passing a kidney stone. 1 If muscle spasms are especially painful, if they do not resolve or if they recur, medical care should be accessed to look for possible underlying causes. 2  Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 3