meconium aspiration, the inhalation of meconium by a fetus or newborn. It can block the air passages and cause failure of the lungs to expand or other pulmonary dysfunction, such as pneumonia or emphysema. 
If meconium is present in the amniotic fluid, this is known as meconium aspiration or meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). Your newborn can also breathe in amniotic fluid containing meconium shortly after birth. Although MAS is often not life threatening, it can cause significant health complications for your newborn. After delivery, your newborn expels meconium stools for the first few days of life. Stress your baby experiences before or during birth may cause expulsion of meconium into the amniotic fluid (fluid that surrounds the fetus).
Meconium is dark-green fecal material that is produced in the intestines of a fetus before birth. After delivery, your newborn expels meconium stools for the first few days of life. Stress your baby experiences before or during birth may cause expulsion of meconium into the amniotic fluid (fluid that surrounds the fetus). Stress can also cause your baby to gasp inside your uterus and inhale, or aspirate, amniotic fluid into his or her lungs
Overview. Meconium aspiration syndrome is a serious condition in which a newborn breathes a mixture of meconium and amniotic fluid into the lungs around the time of delivery. This can cause breathing difficulties due to swelling (inflammation) in the baby's lungs after birth. 
Meconium is normally stored in the infant's intestines until after birth, but sometimes (often in response to fetal distress and hypoxia) it is expelled into the amniotic fluid prior to birth, or during labor. If the baby then inhales the contaminated fluid, respiratory problems may occur. Meconium passage into the amniotic fluid occurs in about 5–20 percent of all births and is more common in overdue births. Of the cases where meconium is found in the amniotic fluid, meconium aspiration syndrome develops less than 5 percent of the time.
However, the most severe complication of meconium passage in utero is aspiration of stained amniotic fluid before, during, and after birth. Aspiration induces hypoxia via four major pulmonary effects: airway obstruction, surfactant dysfunction, chemical pneumonitis, and pulmonary hypertension. The first intestinal discharge from newborns is meconium, which is a viscous, dark-green substance composed of intestinal epithelial cells, lanugo, mucus, and intestinal secretions (eg, bile).
Meconium Aspiration Syndrome. Meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS) is a condition that occurs when a newborn infant aspirates (or breathes in) a mixture of meconium and amniotic fluid (the fluid in which the baby floats inside the mother). 
Meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS) also known as neonatal aspiration of meconium is a medical condition affecting newborn infants. Meconium passage into the amniotic fluid occurs in about 5–20 percent of all births and is more common in overdue births. Of the cases where meconium is found in the amniotic fluid, meconium aspiration syndrome develops less than 5 percent of the time.
Meconium aspiration syndrome is respiratory distress in a newborn who has breathed (aspirated) meconium into the lungs before or around the time of birth. Fetuses may pass stools (meconium) in response to stress, such as a lack of oxygen. Meconium aspiration syndrome is often most severe in postmature newborns because they have a smaller volume of amniotic fluid so the meconium is concentrated in a smaller amount of amniotic fluid (see Postmaturity).
Summary. Meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS) is a potentially serious medical condition affecting newborns when they breathe in meconium before or during birth. Meconium being passed during labor is usually the result of fetal distress. 