A coffee bean is a seed of the coffee plant, and is the source for coffee. It is the pit inside the red or purple fruit often referred to as a cherry. Just like cherries, the coffee fruit is also a so called stone fruit. Arabica beans consist of 0.8-1.4% caffeine and Robusta beans consist of 1.7-4% caffeine. As coffee is one of the world's most widely consumed beverages, coffee beans are a major cash crop, and an important export product, counting for over 50% of some developing nations' foreign exchange earnings.
Bean (/ˈbiːn/) is a common name for large plant seeds of several genera of the family Fabaceae (alternately Leguminosae) which are used for human or animal food. The term bean originally referred to the seed of the broad or fava bean, but was later expanded to include members of the New World genus Phaseolus, such as the common bean and the runner bean, and the related genus Vigna.
The two most economically important varieties of coffee plant are the Arabica and the Robusta; 75-80% of the coffee produced worldwide is Arabica and 20% is Robusta. Arabica beans consist of 0.8-1.4% caffeine and Robusta beans consist of 1.7-4% caffeine. As coffee is one of the world's most widely consumed beverages, coffee beans are a major cash crop, and an important export product, counting for over 50% of some developing nations' foreign exchange earnings.
Beans come many colors, shapes, and sizes. Pods may be green, yellow, purple, or speckled. The plants range in size from 2 feet tall for bush types to pole types that may climb to 12 feet. A bean harvested when young, before the seeds fully develop, is called a snap bean. 
Your bush beans will still produce if you do not add bean inoculants to the soil, but it will help you get a bigger crop from your bush beans. Plant bush bean seeds about 1 1/2 inches deep and 3 inches apart. If you are planting more than one row of bush beans, the rows should be 18 to 24 inches apart. You can expect the bush beans to germinate in about 1-2 weeks. If you would like a continuous harvest of bush beans through the season, plant new bush bean seeds about once every 2 weeks.
Types of Beans. Beans come in numerous varieties consisting of both bush and pole types. Deciding what variety of bean you want to grow and whether to grow the bush or pole type plant is important when you are planning your garden. 1  Green beans are probably the most widely grown in the vegetable garden. Pole beans are known as vine-growing plants and will grow nearly anywhere. These types of beans require staking with supports that can be derived from items such as bamboo, string, a fence, trellis or ladder. Sunflowers or corn stalks can also be used for bean supports.
Types of Beans Beans come in numerous varieties consisting of both bush and pole types. Deciding what variety of bean you want to grow and whether to grow the bush or pole type plant is important when you are planning your garden. Pole beans are known as vine-growing plants and will grow nearly anywhere. These types of beans require staking with supports that can be derived from items such as bamboo, string, a fence, trellis or ladder. Sunflowers or corn stalks can also be used for bean supports.
Snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) — the most popular garden beans — include bush and pole varieties, which vary in shape, size, and color. Tender filet beans are a type of green snap bean with stringless, slender, delicate pods. They are grown just like other snap beans. Growth period: 50-55 days bush, 50-67 days pole. Prepare the planting bed by using a garden fork to loosen the soil. Mix in a 1-inch layer of mature compost. Plant seeds 1 inch deep and 2 to 4 inches apart. Thin bush beans to 4 inches apart; thin pole beans to 6 inches apart. Wide double rows (two parallel rows of beans planted 12 to 14 inches apart) are the most space-efficient way to grow beans