In flowering plants, the sporophyte comprises the whole multicellular body except the pollen and embryo sac. Bryophytes (mosses, liverworts and hornworts) have a dominant gametophyte phase on which the adult sporophyte is dependent for nutrition. The embryo sporophyte develops by cell division of the zygote within the female sex organ or archegonium, and in its early development is therefore nurtured by the gametophyte. In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the pollen and the embryo sac. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half.
The sporophyte is also the dominant generation in seed plants. Seed plants are vascular plants that produce seeds and include some nonflowering plants (like pine trees) and flowering plants (like oak trees and roses). A sporophyte is a multicellular diploid generation found in plants and algae that undergo alternation of generations. It produces haploid spores that develop into a gametophyte.
For the seedless vascular plants, the sporophyte stage is the longest part of the cycle, but the cycle is similar to nonvascular plants. For example, in ferns, the gametophyte is a tiny heart-shaped structure, while the leafy plant we recognize as a fern is the sporophyte (see Figure above). Like all plants, nonvascular plants have an alternation of generations life cycle. In the life cycle of the nonvascular seedless plants, the gametophyte stage is the longest part of the cycle. The gametophyte is photosynthetic.
Examples. Hornworts, liverworts, and mosses are all examples of bryophytes. These plants are an important structural component of many damp habitats. For example, moss grows into a dense covering like a mat. Special root-like structures called rhizoids help anchor the moss to the surface it grows on. Summary. To find a bryophyte, such as mosses, liverworts, or hornworts, look for short, spongy plants growing along the rocks, soil, and trees in a damp fresh water environment. If you touched one, it would feel spongy and wet.
Seed Plants. The sporophyte is also the dominant generation in seed plants. Seed plants are vascular plants that produce seeds and include some nonflowering plants (like pine trees) and flowering plants (like oak trees and roses). So when you see any of these plants, you are looking at the sporophyte. A sporophyte is a multicellular diploid generation found in plants and algae that undergo alternation of generations. It produces haploid spores that develop into a gametophyte.
In nonvascular plants, like mosses, the sporophyte generation is not the dominant generation. This means that the sporophyte is smaller is size and shorter lived than the gametophyte generation. When you think of a moss, you probably picture a tiny green leafy plant, like the one shown below. A sporophyte is a multicellular diploid generation found in plants and algae that undergo alternation of generations. It produces haploid spores that develop into a gametophyte.
In the diploid stage, sperm and eggs, produced by the gametophyte, are able to join as sperm moves through water, using a special tail-like structure. Diploid means that the chromosomes are paired-one from the egg, one from the sperm. The sperm move through the water down into the part of the plant that holds the egg. Summary. To find a bryophyte, such as mosses, liverworts, or hornworts, look for short, spongy plants growing along the rocks, soil, and trees in a damp fresh water environment. If you touched one, it would feel spongy and wet.
Young sporophytes of the common moss Tortula muralis. In mosses, the gametophyte is the dominant generation, while the sporophytes consist of sporangium-bearing stalks growing from the tips of the gametophytes. A sporophyte (/spɔːroʊˌfaɪt/) is the diploid multicellular stage in the life cycle of a plant or alga. In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the pollen and the embryo sac. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half.
Hornworts, liverworts, and mosses are all examples of bryophytes. These plants are an important structural component of many damp habitats. For example, moss grows into a dense covering like a mat. Summary. To find a bryophyte, such as mosses, liverworts, or hornworts, look for short, spongy plants growing along the rocks, soil, and trees in a damp fresh water environment. If you touched one, it would feel spongy and wet.
1 Nonvascular seedless plants include mosses, liverworts, and hornworts. 2  Vascular seedless plants include clubmosses, ferns, whisk ferns, and horsetails. 3  Nonvascular seedless plants spend most of their life cycle in the gametophyte stage, while vascular seedless plants spend most of their life as a sporophyte. Like all plants, nonvascular plants have an alternation of generations life cycle. In the life cycle of the nonvascular seedless plants, the gametophyte stage is the longest part of the cycle. The gametophyte is photosynthetic.