Stipends are usually lower than what would be expected as a permanent salary for similar work. This is because the stipend is complemented by other benefits such as accreditation, instruction, food, and/or accommodation. Universities usually refer to money paid to graduate students as a stipend, rather than as wages, to reflect complementary benefits. Stipend has a specific, different, use in the Church of England, meaning the salary of a stipendiary minister, one who receives payment directly from the diocese (as opposed to other forms of disbursement such as free use of a house in return for clerical duties, known as house-for-duty).
noun. The definition of a stipend is a sum of money paid at regular intervals. An example of a stipend is a small sum of money paid to a graduate teaching assistant by the school to cover living expenses. A fixed and regular payment, such as a salary for services rendered or an allowance. Middle English stipendie, from Old French, from Latin stīpendium, soldier's pay, from *stipipendium: stips, stip- , a small payment + pendere, to weigh, pay; see suspend. Origin of stipend.
DEFINITION of 'Stipend'. A predetermined amount of money that is provided periodically to help offset expenses. Stipends are often provided to those who are ineligible to receive a regular salary in exchange for the duties they perform, such as interns. A stipend is generally lower than a salary would be, but the recipient is at the same time able to gain experience and knowledge in a specific field. Next Up.
A stipend is a form of payment that is given to people in place of salary or wage. Stipends are often given to people who are participating in an internship, apprenticeship, graduate work, or a fellowship. A stipend is a form of payment that is given to individuals in place of salary or wage. It is generally only intended to cover living expenses, and is often given to people who are participating in an internship, apprenticeship, graduate work, or a fellowship, just to name a few.
stipend. noun. A fixed and regular payment, such as a salary for services rendered or an allowance. Middle English stipendie, from Old French, from Latin stīpendium, soldier's pay, from *stipipendium: stips, stip- , a small payment + pendere, to weigh, pay; see suspend. Origin of stipend.
When you are not appointed on salary basis and work under training, you get stipend. Many companies take freshers, train them and for their services the companies pay them stipends which are minimal amount paid for their services. So now you might have got a bit of idea about what is a stipend. Certain companies also pay stipend on less frequent basis than regular paychecks. It can be paid once a month or can be paid as lump sum once. This is why it becomes important for the person to manage money of the stipend accordingly.
Stipend Law & Legal Definition. A stipend is a fixed sum of money paid periodically for services or to defray expenses. The fact that remuneration is termed a fee or stipend rather than salary or wages is immaterial. Wages are generally subject to employment taxes. Payment of stipends is made according to the policies of the governing entity.
A stipend is a form of salary, such as for an internship or apprenticeship. Stipend has a specific, different, use in the Church of England, meaning the salary of a stipendiary minister, one who receives payment directly from the diocese (as opposed to other forms of disbursement such as free use of a house in return for clerical duties, known as house-for-duty).