Best Answer: To the poster above, crude is correct. Tannerite is not made out of just ammonium nitrate and aluminum powder. There are a couple other additives that give it the extra  Kick . There is a big difference between a crude mixture and actual Tannerite targets
No. Tannerite ® binary rifle targets, when mixed and used correctly per instructions, will not cause a fire. The original Tannerite ® brand binary exploding target was specifically designed from conception to be non-incendiary. 
That being said, what we made here is not “tannerite” tannerite is a trademarked name, and the mixture contains a couple additional ingredients than just Ammonia Nitrate and Aluminum powder. But you can get similar results just using the two main ingredients in this homemade tannerite clone. It is a very simple mixture: 
That’s right; home made Tannerite…. Tannerite is a target that goes “boom” when you shoot it. It is legal and fun to shoot in the right settings and we’re going to tell you how to make it. Do not take anything on this page as legal or scientific advice – we’re just sharing information for entertainment purposes only. 
Tannerite is the brand name of a binary explosive marketed primarily for making exploding targets for firearms practice. It is a patented combination of ammonium nitrate (an oxidizer) and aluminium powder (a fuel) that is supplied as two separate powders that are mixed and shaken to produce an explosive. Low-velocity shotgun ammunition will not initiate a detonation. Tannerite detonations occur at a very high velocity, producing a large explosion and cloud. It is marketed as a target designator that is useful for persons who are firing at long ranges.
Tannerite® Brand Binary Exploding Targets are a binary explosive used primarily as a shot indicator for firearms practice. Tannerite ® is unique in that it is exceptionally stable when subjected to less severe forces such as a hammer blow or being dropped. Tannerite ® Company recommends using 0.5-pound (0.23 kg) preparations of the substance, which should detonate when shot by a high-powered rifle. Small caliber rim-fire or slow moving pistol ammunition will not initiate a detonation.
Uses [edit]. Tannerite is intended to detonate when shot by a high-velocity firearm cartridge. Low-velocity shotgun ammunition will not initiate a detonation. Tannerite detonations occur at a very high velocity, producing a large explosion and cloud. It is marketed as a target designator that is useful for persons who are firing at long ranges.
Those targets were made of Tannerite. It is a brand-name explosive target that comes in a container about the size of your fist, but it packs quite a punch. You can find Tannerite on the shelves of most of your local gun shops and it is pretty popular. 
Tannerite, the compound in question, is the trademark for a patented ammonium nitrate and aluminum powder based binary explosive used primarily as a target for firearms practice. It is completely legal and you can purchase it from a number of sources. Tannerite holds unique properties in that it remains stable unless hit with a massive amount of force, such as a high velocity projectile. Simply dropping it or hitting it with a hammer will not produce any effect.
details. With Tannerite Exploding Binary Rifle Targets, you know when you hit your target! The patented Tannerite Targets will not cause a fire and cannot be initiated to explode by any method other than a center fire rifle shot. The Tannerite binary explosive compound is perfect for long-range firearms practice. 