Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. 
TSH causes the thyroid gland to make two hormones: triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). T3 and T4 help control your body's metabolism. Triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) are needed for normal growth of the brain, especially during the first 3 years of life. A baby whose thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone (congenital hypothyroidism) may, in severe cases, be mentally retarded. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH).
This leads to high levels of TSH and low levels of free T4. If your free T4 levels are too low—the normal range for T4 is 5 to 13.5 micrograms per deciliter—it's a possible indicator that you have hypothyroidism, even if your previous TSH tests came back normal. Again, the normal ranges vary from lab to lab. Anti-thyroid Microsomal Antibodies Testing. TSH Testing. In diagnosing hypothyroidism, your doctor will take into account both your symptoms and the results of a thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) test. In essence, hypothyroidism is the result of diminished levels of thyroid hormones—known as T3 and T4.
If a patient's TSH falls in the normal range, thyroid tests for free T4 and free T3 and thyroid antibodies can rule out hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. Low TSH levels can indicate hyperthyroidism, TSH deficiency or the result of certain medications. Symptoms of an overactive thyroid include nervousness, irritability, increased perspiration, heart racing, hand tremors, anxiety, diarrhea, vision changes and muscle weakness.
Low TSH Levels. Low TSH levels can indicate hyperthyroidism, TSH deficiency or the result of certain medications. Symptoms of an overactive thyroid include nervousness, irritability, increased perspiration, heart racing, hand tremors, anxiety, diarrhea, vision changes and muscle weakness.
Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels evaluate the functioning of the thyroid gland. TSH instructs the thyroid to produce thyroid hormone. High TSH levels indicate that the thyroid is underactive, and a low TSH means the thyroid is overactive. Abnormal TSH levels alert medical professionals to diseases of the thyroid gland. The American Thyroid Association (ATA) recommends adults begin screening for thyroid dysfunction at age 35. Low TSH levels can indicate hyperthyroidism, TSH deficiency or the result of certain medications. Symptoms of an overactive thyroid include nervousness, irritability, increased perspiration, heart racing, hand tremors, anxiety, diarrhea, vision changes and muscle weakness.
Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH). Guide. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH then triggers the pituitary gland to release TSH. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)
Thyroid-stimulating hormone. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body. 
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. 