Save. entice /ɪnˈtaɪs/ verb. entices; enticed; enticing. entice. /ɪnˈtaɪs/. verb. entices; enticed; enticing. Learner's definition of ENTICE. [+ object]. : to attract (someone) especially by offering or showing something that is appealing, interesting, etc. The store hopes to entice [= tempt, lure ] shoppers with attractive window displays. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. /ɪnˈtaɪsmənt/ noun, plural enticements.
Someone trying to entice this woman with a piece of cake. Someone trying to entice this woman with a piece of cake. The definition of entice is persuade or attract by offering pleasure. When you convince your cat to come out from under the bed by offering a treat, this is an example of when youentice your cat. 
entice. verb lure, attract, invite, persuade, draw, tempt, induce, seduce, lead on, coax, beguile, allure, cajole, decoy, wheedle, prevail on, inveigle, dangle a carrot in front of Retailers will try almost anything to entice shoppers through their doors. verb. snare, hook-entice and trap; The car salesman had snared three potential customers. seduce-lure or entice away from duty, principles, or proper conduct; She was seduced by the temptation of easy money and started to work in a massage parlor.
Origin. Middle English (also in the sense 'incite, provoke'; formerly also as intice): from Old French enticier, probably from a base meaning 'set on fire', based on an alteration of Latin titio 'firebrand'. More. Early senses of entice included ‘incite’ and ‘provoke (to anger)’. Attract or tempt by offering pleasure or advantage: a show which should entice a new audience into the theatre [with object and infinitive]: the treat is offered to entice the dog to eat. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  For those with jobs, this may not sound like a particularly enticing prospect.
Wiktionary (1.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: entice (Verb). To lure; to attract by arousing desire or hope. I enticed the little bear into the trap with a pot of honey. Entice (verb). to draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense: To lead astray; to induce to evil; to tempt; as, the sirens enticed them to listen.
Synonym Discussion of ENTICE. lure, entice, inveigle, decoy, tempt, seduce mean to lead astray from one's true course. lure implies a drawing into danger, evil, or difficulty through attracting and deceiving. entice suggests drawing by artful or adroit means. inveigle implies enticing by cajoling or flattering. Rhymes with ENTICE. advice, allspice, black ice, Brandeis, bride-price, brown rice, concise, cut ice, cut-price, deice, device, dry ice, excise, fried rice, list price, make nice, no dice, off-price, on ice, pack ice, precise, shelf ice, strike price, white rice, wild rice.
Full Definition of ENTICE. transitive verb. : to attract artfully or adroitly or by arousing hope or desire: tempt. — en·tice·ment \-ˈtī-smənt\ noun. — en·tic·ing·ly \-ˈtī-siŋ-lē\ adverb. See entice defined for English-language learners. See entice defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Rhymes with ENTICE. advice, allspice, black ice, Brandeis, bride-price, brown rice, concise, cut ice, cut-price, deice, device, dry ice, excise, fried rice, list price, make nice, no dice, off-price, on ice, pack ice, precise, shelf ice, strike price, white rice, wild rice.
= lure, attract, invite, persuade, draw, tempt, induce, seduce, lead on, coax, beguile, allure, cajole, decoy, wheedle, prevail on, inveigle, dangle a carrot in front of. 1  British English: entice To entice someone to go somewhere or to do something means to try to persuade them to go to that place or to do that thing. Translations for 'entice'. 1  British English: entice To entice someone to go somewhere or to do something means to try to persuade them to go to that place or to do that thing. 2  VERBRetailers have tried almost everything to entice shoppers through their doors.