Cotyledon is a seed leaf found in embryos of flowering plants. Cotyledon found in monocots is important in food absorption whereas, in dicots, cotyledon’s functions are in both absorption and storage of food. Generally, monocot embryos contain one cotyledon and dicot embryos contain two; however, there are exceptions.
A cotyledon is part of the embryo within the seed of a plant. Often when the seed germinates, or begins to grow, the cotyledon may become the first leaves of the seedling.
Function of Cotyledon. In dicot plants, the cotyledons are photosynthetic and function like leaves. The cotyledons are the first part of the plant to emerge from the soil. Some cotyledons last only days after growing from the soil and give way for other plant growth, while some cotyledons can last for years.
Basically in seeds the total food matter is stored in the cotyledons in dicot plants. And in monocot plants the food matter are stored in the albumin. So the plants are divide … d into two types on the basis of storage of food matter.
The cotyledon is the part of the embryo that lies in the seed of a plant. It becomes the embryonic first leaves of a seedling when germination occurs. Various other parts of a seed exist, including the endosperm -- the food supply that is contained in the seed and sometimes specifically in the cotyledon.
A valuable function of the cotyledon is to help botanists classify flowering plants, also called angiosperms. For example, flowering plants that have one cotyledon -- or one seed leaf -- are called monocotyledonous, or monocots, and are placed in the Class Liliopsida.
In non-endospermic seeds the cotyledons are the food store. The function of the cotyledon/scutellum in monocots is to a) synthesise GA and b) absorb the digested products of the endosperm and pass them on (via vascular tissue) to the embryo.
Cotyledon. Definition. noun, plural: cotyledons. (1) (botany) The primary or rudimentary leaf of the embryo of a seed plant that either remains in the seed or emerges upon seed germination; a modified leaf that is part of the plant embryo within the seed; a seed leaf.