A heterogeneous mixture is made of different substances that remain physically separate. Heterogeneous mixtures always have more than one phase (regions with uniform composition and properties). A mixture of sand and sugar is a heterogeneous mixture. The grains can be distinguished from each other with a magnifying glass. There are two solid phases: the sand grains, and the sugar grains.
In chemistry, a mixture is a substance containing two or more elements or compounds that are not covalently bound to each other and which retain their own chemical and physical identities; – a substance which has two or more constituent physical substances. In chemistry, a homogeneous suspension of material means that when dividing the volume in half, the same amount of material is suspended in both halves of the substance. However, it might be possible to see the particles under a microscope. An example of a homogeneous mixture is air.
Definition of Homogeneous Mixture: A mixture which has uniform composition and properties throughout. For example, air is a homogeneous mixture of gases. A teaspoonful of table salt stirred into a glass of water also makes a homogeneous mixture. 
A MIXTURE is a combination of two or more substances that are not chemically united and do not exist in fixed proportions to each other. Most natural substances are mixtures. In the graphic on the left there are four substances-water, alcohol, oil, and food color dye. Many homogeneous mixtures are commonly referred to as solutions. A heterogeneous mixture consists of visibly different substances or phases. The three phases or states of matter are gas, liquid, and solid. Graphic on the left of Dancing Raisins shows liquid, solid, and gas substances in a heterogeneous mixture.
Mixtures can either be homogeneous or heterogeneous. A homogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the composition is uniform and every part of the solution has the same properties. A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the components can be seen, as there are two or more phases present. One example of a mixture is air. Salt, sugar, and many other substances dissolve in water to form homogeneous mixtures. A homogeneous mixture in which there is both a solute and solvent present is also a solution. Mixtures can have any amounts of ingredients. The following table shows the main properties of the three families of mixtures.
Homogeneous is a term in physical chemistry and material science that refers to substances and mixtures which are in a single phase. This is in contrast to a substance that is heterogeneous. The definition of homogeneous strongly depends on the context used. In chemistry, a homogeneous suspension of material means that when dividing the volume in half, the same amount of material is suspended in both halves of the substance. However, it might be possible to see the particles under a microscope. An example of a homogeneous mixture is air.
Solutions are always homogeneous mixtures, but homogeneous mixtures are not always solutions. Homogeneous and heterogeneous classifications are scale-dependent. What we mean when we say a mixture is homogeneous is that there are no visible phase differences on the scale of interest. 
There are two main categories of mixtures: homogeneous mixtures and heterogeneous mixtures. In a homogenous mixture all the substances are evenly distributed throughout the mixture (salt water, air, blood). In a heterogeneous mixture the substances are not evenly distributed (chocolate chip cookies, pizza, rocks). Within the categories of homogeneous and heterogeneous mixtures there are more specific types of mixtures including solutions, alloys, suspensions, and colloids. Solutions (homogeneous). A solution is a mixture where one of the substances dissolves in the other.
The difference between heterogeneous and homogeneous mixtures is the degree at which the materials are mixed together and the uniformity of their composition. A homogeneous mixture is a mixture where the components that make up the mixture are uniformly distributed throughout the mixture. The composition of the mixture is the same throughout. There is only one phase of matter observed in a homogeneous mixture. Homogeneous Mixture Examples. 1  air. You can't see individual chemicals or ingredients in this type of mixture. Only one phase of matter is present in a homogeneous mixture. A heterogeneous mixture is a mixture where the components of the mixture are not uniform or have localized regions with different properties.