African Lungfish Teeth. Lungfishes are voracious eaters. Their teeth are remarkably developed, compared to other forms of fish. The upper jaw has two rounded teeth at the front having a hard bridge that moves from side to side. African lungfishes have elongated bodies like an eel with soft scales. They have narrow thread-like pelvic and pectoral fins which help them to swim and crawl on land. Prehistoric African lungfishes had two dorsal fins, a caudal fin and a tail fin all independent of each other.
African lungfishes are eel or salamander-like fishes belonging to the genus ‘Protopterus’. ‘Protopterus’ is the only genus belonging to the family of ‘Protopteridae’. These fishes, as the name suggests, are found in Africa. They are often kept as pets in spite of their predatory nature. African lungfishes have elongated bodies like an eel with soft scales. They have narrow thread-like pelvic and pectoral fins which help them to swim and crawl on land. Prehistoric African lungfishes had two dorsal fins, a caudal fin and a tail fin all independent of each other.
Background Info. There are 6 species of lungfish spread around the world. Four of these species survive along the south west of the African continent; one species is from South America and the last species lives on the east coast of Australia. 
Lungfish, also known as salamanderfish, are freshwater fish that can be found in Australia, South America and Africa. There are six different species divided into two families, Lepidosirenidae, South American lungfish and African lungfish, and Ceratodidae, Australian lungfish. 
We are CITES approved for breeding, sales and export of the Australian Lungfish. You can have a living fossil in your aquarium fish tank. Australian Lungfish make ideal aquarium fish. They are very hardy, almost indestructible (they have existed for 350 million years) and can have a lifespan of 100 years. (You may like to make some provision for them in your will). These fish are easy to care for and undemanding regarding tank conditions and feeding.
Lungfish are periodically exposed to water with low oxygen content or situations in which their aquatic environment dries up. Their adaptation for dealing with these conditions is an outpocketing of the gut, related to the swim bladder of other fishes, that serves as a lung. They have soft scales, and the dorsal and tail fins are fused into a single structure. They can either swim like eels, or crawl along the bottom, using their pectoral and pelvic fins. The largest species reach about 200 cm (6.6 ft) long. African lungfishes generally inhabit shallow waters, such as swamps and marshes; however, they are also found in larger lakes such as Lake Victoria. They can live out of water for many months in burrows of hardened mud beneath a dried-up stream bed
As I mentioned earlier, lungfishes are predators. They eat several small animals including shrimp, frogs, clams, insects, fish, and crustaceans. In zoos, lungfish feed mainly on krill although other invertebrates and fish may be eaten. 
What are 'lungfish'? Modern Lungfishes are in 3 families: Ceratodontidae-found in Australia, Lepidosirenidae-found in South America, and Protopteridae-found in Africa. These relict fish have el … ogated bodies, much like that of an eel. They have small scales, and these fish actually have paired lungs. Lungfish are a type of fish that live in Africa in rivers. They have lungs which they use to breathe. If the river that they live in dries up, they will form a cocoon of mucus … and (I think) dirt, which they will stay in until it it rains again and the river fills back up with water, which may take three or four years.