Plymouth was never a prosperous settlement, but the religiously faithful were content to be ignored by English officials and left to direct their own affairs. Plymouth remained a separate political entity until it was absorbed by the Massachusetts Bay Colony, in 1691. - - - Books You May Like Include: ----. Mayflower: A Story of Courage, Community, and War by Nathaniel Philbrick. Plymouth Colony. The Virginia Company of Plymouth, a group of English merchant investors, had failed to establish permanent colonies in the northern reaches of what was then known as Virginia.
Plymouth Colony was, along with Jamestown, Virginia, one of two important early English colonies in North America. The colony agreed on a treaty with Chief Massasoit which helped to ensure the colony's success. The colony played a central role in King Phillip's War, one of the earliest and bloodiest of the Indian Wars. Plymouth Colony later merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony to form the colony of Massachusetts. 1677 map of New England by William Hubbard showing the location of Plymouth Colony.
When our Founding Fathers sought inspiration in forming our government after the American Revolution, it was to the mother country of Great Britain -- at the time, the world’s most powerful parliamentary democracy -- that they turned. It may at first seem like a contradiction that the very country we had fought a bloody war to get away from was in fact the country that inspired so many of our political traditions. But to turn away from British traditions would, in a sense, be like turning away from our birthright.
The effect of British political traditions extends even to our legislative use of the position of sergeant-at-arms. Sergeants had long functioned as bodyguards for British kings, but in 1415 King Henry V appointed Nicholas Maudit to be the first House of Commons sergeant-at-arms. It may at first seem like a contradiction that the very country we had fought a bloody war to get away from was in fact the country that inspired so many of our political traditions. But to turn away from British traditions would, in a sense, be like turning away from our birthright.
Popham Colony, also known as Fort St. George, was organized by the Plymouth Company (unrelated to Plymouth Colony) and founded in 1607. It was settled on the coast of Maine and was beset by internal political struggles, sickness, and weather problems. For most of its history, the town was the primary administrative unit and political division of the colony. Plymouth Colony was not formally divided into counties until June 2, 1685, during the reorganization that would lead to the formation of the Dominion of New England.
Covenant A binding agreement or compact; in the Bible, God's promise to the human race. Massachusetts Bay Company Joint stock company chartered by the English government in 1629 to colonize a huge part of New England. The Massachusetts Bay Colony was centered in Boston. Mayflower Compact Document signed by Pilgrim men aboard the Mayflower, on Nov. 21, 1620, before the Plymouth landing. Plymouth Colony, America's first permanent Puritan settlement, was established by English Separatist Puritans in December 1620. The Pilgrims left England to seek religious freedom, or simply to find a better life.
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of European settlements from the start of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States. In the late 16th century, England, France, Spain and the Netherlands launched major colonization programs in eastern North America. On the eastern seaboard of what would become the United States, the four distinct British regions were: New England, the Middle Colonies, the Chesapeake Bay Colonies (Upper South) and the Lower South. Some historians add a fifth region, the Frontier, which was never separately organized.
In 1628, the Puritans struck a deal with the English government, under which the Puritans would leave England and settle north of the Plymouth Plantation on the condition that they would have political control of their colony. The Puritans wanted their colony to be a theocracy, and emphasized religion over trade. 
Plymouth Colony, founded in 1620 in what is now Massachusetts, was an early English colony in New England. It was founded by Pilgrims, who were members of a Puritan religious group known as the Separatists. Plymouth Colony later merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony to form the colony of Massachusetts. 1677 map of New England by William Hubbard showing the location of Plymouth Colony.