Resolved Question: how long do side effects last after having iron infusion. had infusion last thursday...extreme fatigue, itching, leg cramps, nausea and joint pain. itching has subsided but all other effects are still with me. Submitted: 3 years ago.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. In Canada-Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to Health Canada at 1-866-234-2345. List iron dextran intravenous side effects by likelihood and severity. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. In Canada-Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to Health Canada at 1-866-234-2345. List iron sucrose intravenous side effects by likelihood and severity. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is unlikely, but get medical help right away if it occurs. Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible
• The doctor/nurse will put a small IV drip in your arm/hand through which iron is given. • If you experience any side effects, inform staff immediately/ ring your bell. After the iron infusion Sometimes side effects can start one to two days after the infusion and include headache, mild fever, joint and muscle aches. These generally settle down by themselves over the next few days. They are more common with ‘total dose’ infusions of iron polymaltose
Hello, Some people have a reaction to iron infusion which usually clears up in about 1 week. You can take painkillers for the cramps and joint pain Antacids should be able to control the nausea to some extent since high acidity is a common side effect of iron infusion. how long do side effects last after having iron infusion. had infusion last thursday...extreme fatigue, itching, leg cramps, nausea and joint pain. itching has subsided but all other effects are still with me.
 Severe side effects (eg a serious allergic reaction) are rare. You will be closely monitored for any signs of these during (and for at least 30 minutes after) the infusion by nursing staff. Day of the iron infusion  Have your breakfast/lunch. You do not need to fast for an iron infusion. 
Care after your iron infusion Your doctor has prescribed an iron infusion for you. The iron is given through an intravenous (IV) tube into a vein in your arm. Based on your blood levels and how you are feeling your doctor will decide how often you need the iron infusion. The iron infusion takes about 2 to 4 hours. You may need some medication before the infusion, which may take up to 1 hour. This medication may be given to help possible side effects from receiving an iron infusion. The nurses in Medical Day Care will closely watch you during the iron. infusion and treat any side effects you may have
Some people may experience a delayed reaction 1-2 days after their treatment. These side effects usually lessen within 3 to 4 days if the medication was injected into a vein or within 3 to 7 days if the medication was injected into a muscle. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious
Get help from a doctor now ›. Iron Infusion: The length of time depends on the dose you are getting. Generally, it is infused at a rate of not more than 50mg (100ml) in 30 minutes. ...Read more. Dr. John Bagwell Board Certified, Hematology and Oncology 49 years in practice 2K people helped. 
I have been on IVIG infusions for 8 years. The side effects have been severe at times including swollen red eyes, nausea, headache, itching, etc. My kidneys failed after an infusion a few years ago. It was determined that the rate of my infusion had to be reduced to 20 ml per hour. 