Crate training can take days or weeks, depending on your dog's age, temperament, and past experiences. It's important to keep two things in mind while crate training: 1  The crate should always be associated with something pleasant. 2  Training should take place in a series of small steps. 1 After your dog enters the crate, praise him, give him the treat, and close the door. 2  Sit quietly near the crate for five to ten minutes, and then go into another room for a few minutes. 3  Return, sit quietly again for a short time, and then let him out of the crate.
If you put the puppy in his crate when he's already tired and ready to settle down, he'll get used to his new bedroom faster. In the beginning, he should only be expected to stay in the crate for 2 hours at a time and overnight. During his periods out of the crate, your puppy needs plenty of playtime and attention. I like to give puppies at least an hour between crating periods where they're played with, loved, allowed to explore and romp. 
Answer: Assuming the puppy is on a proper housetraining program and getting the appropriate amounts of exercise and attention, a general rule of thumb is to take the number of months in her age and add one. For example, if you have a four-month-old puppy, he should be able to stay crated for up to five hours. 
1 Puppies under six months of age shouldn't stay in a crate for more than three or four hours at a time. 2  They can't control their bladders and bowels for that long. 3  The same goes for adult dogs that are being housetrained. 4  Physically, they can hold it, but they don’t know they’re supposed to. 1 After your dog enters the crate, praise him, give him the treat, and close the door. 2  Sit quietly near the crate for five to ten minutes, and then go into another room for a few minutes. 3  Return, sit quietly again for a short time, and then let him out of the crate.
If you've allowed your dog to toilet in there crate previously then this is why they keep doing it, also if you leave your puppy in there too long then it will happen! A Puppy of 3/4 months can only hold on for 3/4 hours so you need to get up in the night and let them out. You can gradually build the number of hours your dog can stay in the crate to 6 hours maximum (on the rare occasion when absolutely unavoidable), but this process occurs at a rate of one hour per month-a 2 month old puppy must have a break after 2 hours.
But during the day, neither puppies nor adult dogs should be crated for more than four or five hours at a time. When crating a puppy for more than two hours, it’s best to provide water by attaching a water bottle dispenser to the crate. 8-10 weeks 30-60 minutes. 11-14 weeks 1-3 hours. 15-16 weeks 3-4 hours. 17+ weeks 4-5 hours. If you have a puppy and you work all day, it’s essential that you give your puppy a midday break from the crate every day for at least her first eight months.
Space. To keep your puppy from having an accident in his crate you should you make sure the crate is not too big. A puppy only needs enough room to stand up, turn around and get comfortable in his crate. Once you have gotten your puppy a crate, there are a few rules you should know. Most importantly, you need to know how long you should have your puppy in her crate. This rule and some other tips on how to keep a crated puppy will have you on the road to a happy, better-behaved puppy.
Time. The rule of thumb in dog training is to not keep a puppy in a crate longer than one hour more than the number of months old the puppy is. So if your puppy is a robust 6-month-old, do not keep her in the crate longer than seven hours. Likewise, if your puppy is a newly adopted 8-week-old, she should not be in a crate for more than three hours without having an opportunity to get outside to urinate or defecate. Once you have gotten your puppy a crate, there are a few rules you should know. Most importantly, you need to know how long you should have your puppy in her crate. This rule and some other tips on how to keep a crated puppy will have you on the road to a happy, better-behaved puppy.
You have to keep it real. Puppies train at their own pace, but a puppy can only hold their potty for a few hours. A guide would be 1 hour for each month of age, plus 1 hour, so a three-month-old puppy should only be expected to hold their potty for 4 hours at most. 