During separation, the two strands of the DNA double helix uncoil at a specific location called the origin. Several enzymes and proteins then work together to prepare, or prime, the strands for duplication. Finally, a special enzyme called DNA polymerase organizes the assembly of the new DNA strands.
However, only four bases: A (adenine), C (cytosine), G (guanine), and T (thymine) constitute the backbone of the molecule. The DNA molecule is made up of two polynucleotide strands intertwined together to form a long helical structure, the DNA double helix.
Watson and Crick Model: James Watson and Francis Crick proposed a structure for the DNA molecule that suggested the basic mechanism of DNA replication. The model proposes that DNA is composed of two strands of DNA running anti-parallel (remember the 5' and 3' ends!!) to each other.
1. The DNA double helix is held together by two types of bonds, covalent andhydrogen. Covalent bonds occur within each linear strand and strongly bond thebases, sugars, and phosphate groups (both within each component and betweencomponents).
DNA Replication. DNA replicates by the semiconservative model of replication. This model states that during replication of double stranded DNA, the two strands separate and each separate strand is then used as a template to make a new strand.
The strands is such a molecule are said to be complementary. There is one other aspect of the structure of DNA that is not shown in the figure: the two strands wrap around each other to form a double helix structure.
If the two strands of a DNA molecule are separated, each can be used as a pattern or template to produce a complementary strand. Each template and its new complement together then form a new DNA double helix, identical to the original.
The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific.