glossolalia-repetitive nonmeaningful speech (especially that associated with a trance state or religious fervor). pathology-any deviation from a healthy or normal condition. 
Lorraine Day, M.D. The phenomenon of speaking in tongues, technically designated as glossolalia, has been manifested in nearly every Christian denomination in recent years. It is estimated that between 140 and 370 million Christians engage in glossolalia worldwide. Charismatics usually consider speaking in tongues as the fulfillment of the Latter Rain as promised in Joel 2:28-29. They believe that glossolalia is a final manifestation of the Holy Spirit in the end of time before the Second Coming of Christ.
glossolalia consists of strings of meaningless syllables made up of sounds taken from those familiar to the speaker and put together more or less haphazardly .... Glossolalia is language-like because the speaker unconsciously wants it to be language-like. 
Speaking in Tongues is not uniquely Christian. Tongues as we see it today did not come about as a result of studying the Bible. It just out of the blue happened. It should be of extreme concern to all Christians, because as already shown, it is not uniquely a Christian practice by any means. What is Speaking in Tongues. Glossolalia or speaking in tongues is practiced by an estimated 100 million Christians in the world today and the number engaging in this practice is growing at a massive rate every year. That is approximately 20% of all Christians.
Medical Definition of GLOSSOLALIA. : profuse and often emotionally charged speech that mimics coherent speech but is usually unintelligible to the listener and that is uttered in some states of religious ecstasy and in some schizophrenic states. 
Thesis Four. Biblical glossolalia has a uniform character throughout the New Testament. While there are “kinds of tongues/languages” spoken in the Spirit and kinds of situations where glossolalia is appropriate there are not kinds of glossolalia. 
glossolalia. [glos′ōlā′lyə]. Etymology: Gk, glossa + lalein, to babble. speech in an unknown language, as in speaking in tongues during a state of religious ecstasy when the message being transmitted through the speaker is believed to be a message from a celestial spirit or from God. 
Glossolalia or (speaking in tongues) is the fluid vocalizing of speech-like syllables that lack any readily comprehended meaning, in some cases as part of religious practice. Some consider it as a part of a sacred language. It is a common practice amongst Pentecostal and Charismatic Christianity. Glossolalia (and especially the idiom speaking in tongues) also sometimes refers to xenoglossy, the putative speaking of a natural language previously unknown to the speaker. 
Definition of Speaking in Tongues. Speaking in Tongues is one of the supernatural gifts of the Holy Spirit referred to in 1 Corinthians 12:4-10: Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; ... To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Some Christians who speak in tongues believe they are speaking in an existing language. Most believe they are uttering a heavenly tongue. Some Pentecostal denominations including the Assemblies of God teach that speaking in tongues is the initial evidence of the baptism in the Holy Spirit.