Polymyositis (PM)(inflammation of many muscles) is a type of chronic inflammation of the muscles (inflammatory myopathy) related to dermatomyositis and inclusion body myositis. Polymyositis is an inflammatory myopathy mediated by cytotoxic T cells with an as yet unknown autoantigen, while dermatomyositis is a humorally mediated angiopathy resulting in myositis and a typical dermatitis. The cause of polymyositis is unknown and may involve viruses and autoimmune factors.
Polymyositis can also affect other areas of the body and is, therefore, referred to as a systemic illness. Occasionally, it is associated with cancer or with other diseases of connective tissue (such as systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and rheumatoid arthritis). Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 2/19/2015. The cause of the disease is not known. It begins when white blood cells, the immune cells of inflammation, spontaneously invade muscles. The muscles affected are typically those closest to the trunk or torso. This results in weakness that can be severe.
In some cases of polymyositis, distal muscles (muscles further away from the trunk of the body, such as those in the forearms and around the ankles and wrists) may be affected as the disease progresses. Polymyositis may be associated with collagen-vascular or autoimmune diseases, such as lupus. Polymyositis may also be associated with infectious disorders, such as HIV-AIDS. 
Polymyositis. Polymyositis is an autoimmune, neuromuscular disease in the myositis family. It is also referred to as a connective tissue disease as it involves the collagen and/or elastin that bind the body together. In Polymyositis, the body’s immune system attacks and degenerates muscles causing painful inflammation. 
Polymyositis (pol-e-my-o-SY-tis) is an uncommon inflammatory disease that causes muscle weakness affecting both sides of your body. Polymyositis can make it difficult to climb stairs, rise from a seated position, lift objects or reach overhead. Polymyositis most commonly affects adults in their 30s, 40s or 50s. 
The exact cause of polymyositis is unknown, but the disease shares many characteristics with autoimmune disorders, in which your immune system mistakenly attacks your own body tissues. 1  Symptoms. 2  Complications. 
In some cases of polymyositis and dermatomyositis, distal muscles (away from the trunk of the body, such as those in the forearms and around the ankles and wrists) may be affected as the disease progresses. Polymyositis and dermatomyositis may be associated with collagen-vascular or autoimmune diseases. Polymyositis may also be associated with infectious disorders. Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and wasting. 
Back to Top Symptoms. Polymyositis is a systemic disease, which means it affects the whole body. Muscle weakness and tenderness can be signs of polymyositis. A rash is a sign of a similar condition, dermatomyositis. Common symptoms include: 1  Difficulty swallowing. 2  Muscle pain. 
Polymyositis. Polymyositis is a disease caused by inflammation of the muscles. This occurs when white blood cells, the immune cells of inflammation, begin to invade the muscle tissue. The muscles most severely affected are typically those closest to the trunk or torso. This results in weakness that can be severe. 
The above diseases are also referred to as inflammatory myopathies. They cause inflammation within muscle and muscle damage. Polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and juvenile myositis are all autoimmune diseases, meaning the body’s immune system is attacking the muscle. While the immune system may also cause muscle damage in inclusion body myositis, this may not be cause of this disease. 