1 See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 2  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 3  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 4  Send: E-mail your color to others. 5  Print: Print your color. 6  Add to Favorites: Add your color to your Favorites folder. 1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 5  Send: E-mail your color to others. 6
Roofing Slate Colors. In the slate industry, varieties of slate are distinguished by their color. Since slate is a 100% natural product there are no dye lots or exact mixes of pigments to be controlled, only the unique beauty created by Mother Nature. 
Slate can also contain abundant quartz and small amounts of feldspar, calcite, pyrite, hematite and other minerals. Most slates are gray in color and range in a continuum of shades from light to dark gray. Slate also occurs in shades of green, red, black, purple and brown. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock. The tectonic environment for producing slate is usually a former sedimentary basin that becomes involved in a convergent plate boundary.
Slate is frequently grey in color, especially when seen, en masse, covering roofs. However, slate occurs in a variety of colors even from a single locality; for example, slate from North Wales can be found in many shades of grey, from pale to dark, and may also be purple, green or cyan. 
Slate gray is a gray color with a slight azure tinge that is a representation of the average color of the material slate. As a tertiary color, slate is an equal mix of purple and green pigments. 1 The exterior shells of supercomputers are often colored various shades of slate gray. 2  The iPhone 5 and the iPad Mini comes in a Dark slate gray colored aluminum body contrasted with black. 3  Western Electric in their 25-pair (and multiples) cable for pairs 5-10-15-20-25 used the term SLATE for the color instead of gray.
This slate blends well with any type of stone or frame structure and is also used as the basic percentage, usually 50%, in roofs where several colors are mixed. Semi-Weathering Gray-A traditional slate-gray color ranging from a clear appearance to having small black markings. SLATE ROOFING COLORS. Unfading* Mottled Green and Purple-A Vermont slate of unusual color, ranging in soft shades of purple and green in each piece, from purple predominating to green predominating. Unfading* Red-A hard-vein red slate similar in color to Spanish mission tile. Canadian Black -. Mottled Gray-Black-Grayish background with mottled shades of darker Gray-Black, some weathering can occur. Sometimes called Strata Gray.. Royal Purple-A beautiful, nearly clear, dark purple slate
Slate Gray #708090. Be the first to review. 'Slate Gray' is a shade of Grey that is 22% saturated and 56% bright. For reference purposes, Slate Gray has the hex value #708090. Moreover, Slate Gray can be referenced by the string 'SlateGray' in CSS documents
Store SO SKU # 1000523792. Multi color is a natural stone slate that is formed in layers and split to expose vibrant colors and a unique texture. With a large selection of sizes and accessories to choose from, multi color can easily be laid in a pattern or single layout. 