In Exercise. A healthy muscle mass percentage is 28 percent, which is the  average. Some may have 36 percent or more, and that is fine too.  The more muscle mass you have, the higher the … number will be. Answered.
In comparison, the average adult female contains 36 percent muscle and 26 percent fat. Though women have a higher percentage overall of body fat, 15 percent of their body fat is regarded as essential, meaning it is necessary to the healthy functioning of the body. Nonfat tissues include muscle, bone and organ tissues. Differences in body composition between the sexes are evident even in childhood, though differences increase significantly after the onset of puberty. In the average adult male, the body comprises approximately 43 percent muscle and 15
This is because women naturally hold more body fat and men tend to have a larger amount of lean muscle mass. According to Medline Plus, the average woman in America holds about 22 to 25 percent body fat and the average American man holds approximately 17 to 19 percent body fat. Lean body mass includes more than two-thirds water, according to Medline Plus, and the remainder other lean tissues such as muscle, organs and bone. Body composition tests estimate body fat percentage. The average American&rsquo;s body fat percent is higher than what is recommended.
Fitness. Weight Loss. When it comes to the percentage of body fat and weight, what's normal depends on height and frame. In general, the average male's body fat weight should be made up of 2-4% essential body fat and the average female's weight should consist of 10-12% essential body fat weight. These percentages are different for athletes. Women should have 14-20% essential body fat weight and males should have 6-13% essential body fat weight. The acceptable range is 25-31% for females and 18-25% for males. 32% or more for females is considered obese and 25% or more is considered obese for mal
Instead of focusing on muscle itself, most medical professionals defer to body fat to determine if your muscle mass is at an ideal percentage for your height. Women should have a body fat percentage somewhere between 20 and 21 percent. Men should have far less, coming in at 13 to 17 percent. The National Institutes of Health provides a rough estimate of desirable body weight for height. Women should weigh approximately 100 lbs. at 5 feet and then another 5 lbs. for each inch over this height. Men should weigh a bit more, coming in at 106 lbs. at 5 feet and then an extra 6 lbs. for each inch over this height.
For women under 30, recommended body fat is between 14 percent and 21 percent, compared to 9 percent to 15 percent for men. Lower levels of lean muscle mass translate into comparatively lower strength capacity. Nonfat tissues include muscle, bone and organ tissues. Differences in body composition between the sexes are evident even in childhood, though differences increase significantly after the onset of puberty. In the average adult male, the body comprises approximately 43 percent muscle and 15 percent fat.
What is the average muscle mass? Muscle mass is important in maintaining a healthy body. Depending  on age and physical activity level, the average muscle mass  percentage lies between 38% and 54% for men a … nd between 28% and 39%  for women. Answered. I don't know the average, but I am 26, and workout 4 times a week doing lots of cardio (an hour or more). I have 24% fat and 38% muscle. I think the average woman is 25- … 30% muscle.
According to a 2003 review by the Journal of Adolescent Health, at the end of puberty males have 150 [percent] of the lean body mass of the average female and twice the number of muscle cells.. A surge in female estrogen causes the increase in essential body fat in women. Nonfat tissues include muscle, bone and organ tissues. Differences in body composition between the sexes are evident even in childhood, though differences increase significantly after the onset of puberty. In the average adult male, the body comprises approximately 43 percent muscle and 15 percent fat.