Incidental Damages Law & Legal Definition. Incidental damages are sometimes awarded in a lawsuit for a breach of contract as compensation for commercially reasonable expenses incurred as a result of the other party's breach, such as costs of inspecting and returning goods that do not conform to contract specifications. 
Incidental Beneficiary Law & Legal Definition. An incidental beneficiary is someone who indirectly obtains a benefit as the result of the main purpose of the trust. An incidental beneficiary is a beneficiary who is not an intended beneficiary. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. An incidental beneficiary is someone who benefits only because someone else benefits. While the term can be used generically in a wide range of circumstances, the insurance and finance industries usually use it in relation to the disposition of a will, trust or other similar agreement.
in•ci•den•tal. 1. happening or likely to happen in an unplanned or subordinate conjunction with something else. 2. incurred casually and in addition to the regular or main amount: incidental expenses. 3. something incidental. 4. incidentals, minor expenses.ncidental. adj. 1. happening in connection with or resulting from something more important; casual or fortuitous. 2. (foll by: to) found in connection (with); related (to). 3. (foll by: upon) caused (by).
incidental. adj. 1. happening in connection with or resulting from something more important; casual or fortuitous. 2. (foll by: to) found in connection (with); related (to).3. (foll by: upon) caused (by).
third-party beneficiary. Definition. A person who is neither a promisor nor promisee in a contractual agreement, but stands to benefit from the contract’s performance. 
Incidental beneficiary. An incidental beneficiary is a third party who benefits from a contract between two other parties, but it is not intended that the third party benefit. Therefore, the third party does not have any legal rights under the contract. wex: contracts
Incidental Beneficiary. It refers to the party or person (say A) who is benefited by the execution of a contract between the parties (Say B and C) other than himself but who will have no rights to claim anything from anyone if the contract does not get execute or is breached.
in·ci·den·tal. adj. 1. Occurring or likely to occur as an unpredictable or minor consequence: the principle that even annoying, intrusive, and offensive speech is to be protected by the courts and tolerated by the public as incidental to an open society (Frederick Schauer). See Synonyms at accidental. 2. incidental. adj. 1. happening in connection with or resulting from something more important; casual or fortuitous. 2. (foll by: to) found in connection (with); related (to). 3. (foll by: upon) caused (by).