(April 2010). False cognates are pairs of words that seem to be cognates because of similar sounds and meaning, but actually have different etymologies; these word pairs can be within the same language or be from different ones. This is different from false friends, which may in fact be related but have different meanings. Even though false cognates lack a common root, there may still be an indirect connection between them (for example through phono-semantic matching or folk etymology).
The term false cognate is sometimes misused to refer to false friends, but the two phenomena are distinct. False friends occur when two words in different languages or dialects look similar, but have different meanings. This is different from false friends, which may in fact be related but have different meanings. Even though false cognates lack a common root, there may still be an indirect connection between them (for example through phono-semantic matching or folk etymology).
An annotated German-English Glossary ofCommon False Cognates and Misleading Expressions. You are here: Introduction Confusing Words. A false cognate is a word in one language that is identical or similar to a word in another language, but does not mean the same thing. For instance, both German and English have the word fast, but the German word means almost.. 
As an example of false cognates, the Spanish words mucho and haber mean roughly the same as and look similar to the English words much and have, but are in fact unrelated. This is different from false friends, which may in fact be related but have different meanings. Even though false cognates lack a common root, there may still be an indirect connection between them (for example through phono-semantic matching or folk etymology).
Lesson of the Week: Amigos Falsos-False Cognates. Beware of words that are not what they seem! A word that looks or sounds similar to one in English but actually has a totally different meaning is called a false cognate. Below are some of these tricky little guys. 
A cognate is a word derived from the same root as another word. Cognates are words that have a common origin (source). They may occur in a language or in a group of languages. 