Cooler: If the temperature of the cooler is above 4˚C (40˚F), use a stem thermometer to check the temperature of any potentially hazardous foods in the cooler. oIf the temperature of the food has been above 4 o C (40 F) for less than two hours, immediately move all PHFs to a properly functioning cooler. Check both the built-in thermometer and the portable thermometer to ensure they agree. Temperatures should be: Cooler: 0 o C – 4 o C (32 o F – 40 o F) Freezer: at or below -18 o C (0 o F) If the temperature of the equipment not in this range, take corrective action and notify the supervisor immediately.
Freezer Storage. Keep your freezer at zero degrees (0°) or below to maintain the quality of frozen foods. Most foods will maintain good quality longer if the freezer temperature is -10 to -20°F. At temperatures between 0 and 32°F, food deteriorates more rapidly. Fluctuating temperatures, such as those in self-defrosting freezers, also may damage food quality
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5  Check temperatures periodically.
The purpose of a refrigerator is to keep foods at a cooler temperature in order to slow down the growth of bacteria, making them ideal for perishable foods such as produce and cooked meats, while a freezer is intended to completely stop the growth of bacteria. If temperatures are reading above normal try waiting 5 to 10 minutes with the door closed and then check the temperature again. Otherwise you may wind up paying for a service call that you don’t need. Manufacturers like Kool-It and True offer owner maintenance videos on their websites.
1 If an appliance thermometer was kept in the freezer, check the temperature when the power comes back on. 2  If the freezer thermometer reads 40°F or below, the food is safe and may be refrozen. 3  If a thermometer has not been kept in the freezer, check each package of food to determine its safety. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5  Check temperatures periodically.
It is not similar to a residential refrigerator. A household refrigerator is actually a freezer that uses some of the freezer’s air to cool the refrigerator part. A walk in cooler moves heat from the box to the space around the condenser. Typical temperature ranges are from 35 degrees Fahrenheit to 41 degrees. Below 35 degrees a forced defrost cycle is needed to avoid freeze ups
Besides, low temperature walk-in freezer room is not recommended to be used as higher temperature walk-in cooler room, because walk-in cold storage operates most efficiently at designed conditions. Walk-in cooler / freezer and walk-in warehouse refrigeration system are constructed with different materials. The walk-in coolers are walk-in freezers are used in a variety of temperature ranges. z High temperature walk-in cooler: used for holding fruits, vegetables, eggs, medicine and wood. Medium temperature walk-in freezer: used for holding meats, seafood and stuff that needs the. same temperature environment.
Here are some general guidelines for temperature ranges based on the type of refrigeration unit you have: 1  Reach-In Refrigerators 35F to 38F. 2  Walk-In Refrigerators 35F to 38F. 3  Reach-In Freezers +5F to -10F. 4  Walk-In Freezers 0F to -10F. 5  Ice Cream Freezers -10F to -20F. If temperatures are reading above normal try waiting 5 to 10 minutes with the door closed and then check the temperature again. Otherwise you may wind up paying for a service call that you don’t need. Manufacturers like Kool-It and True offer owner maintenance videos on their websites.