Inflammation. Sinonasal inflammatory disease with sinus ostial obstruction is a very common cause of an opacified paranasal sinus. An air-fluid level suggests acute sinusitis; in chronic sinus disease, one may see mucosal thickening and sclerosis of the bony sinus walls. 1 The sinus is normal in size. There are certain recurring patterns of inflammatory sinus disease that may be seen on sinus computed tomography (CT).
Overview. Sinusitis is an inflammation of the mucosal lining of the paranasal sinuses. As the mucosa of the sinuses is continuous with that of the nose, rhinosinusitis is a more suitable term. Sinusitis can be subdivided into acute, subacute, and chronic disease. Acute sinusitis is defined as disease lasting less than 1 month.
Sinus disease can affect one or more of the eight sinuses. Sinus diseases become diffuse when it spreads from one region and affects other sinuses. Diagnosis. Your doctor will order one or more tests to determine if you have diffuse sinus disease. CT scans provide a more detailed look than an X-ray, so many doctors prefer to use them for diagnosis. MRI scans are another more thorough option.
The currently accepted definition of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is inflammation of the nose and paranasal sinuses with objective evidence of disease by radiographs or nasal endoscopy and with a duration of symptoms and signs of at least 12 weeks. The gold standard for the diagnosis of an infectious agent in sinusitis is an antral tap of the maxillary sinus or the recovery of tissue from an infected sinus surgically. Recently endoscopically guided cultures have gained increased acceptance as a moderately good surrogate for invasive diagnostic procedures.
Sinusitis, also known as a sinus infection or rhinosinusitis, is inflammation of the sinuses resulting in symptoms. Common signs and symptoms include thick nasal mucous, a plugged nose, and pain in the face. Other signs and symptoms may include fever, headaches, poor sense of smell, sore throat, and cough. The cough is often worse at night. Serious complications are rare. Sinusitis (or rhinosinusitis) is defined as an inflammation of the mucous membrane that lines the paranasal sinuses and is classified chronologically into several categories: 1  Acute rhinosinusitis – A new infection that may last up to four weeks and can be subdivided symptomatically into severe and non-severe.
Treatment. Treatments for diffuse sinus disease can include endoscopic surgery, anti-inflammatory medications and nasal irrigation. Diseased tissues are removed and/or better sinus drainage openings are created. Reducing inflammation helps prevent further damage to the tissues. Diagnosis. Your doctor will order one or more tests to determine if you have diffuse sinus disease. CT scans provide a more detailed look than an X-ray, so many doctors prefer to use them for diagnosis. MRI scans are another more thorough option.
D EFINITION. Chronic sinusitis has traditionally been attributed to unresolved or improperly treated acute disease. In recent years, it has become apparent that a variety of causes and associations are present in the inflammatory condition of CRS. The gold standard for the diagnosis of an infectious agent in sinusitis is an antral tap of the maxillary sinus or the recovery of tissue from an infected sinus surgically. Recently endoscopically guided cultures have gained increased acceptance as a moderately good surrogate for invasive diagnostic procedures.
Diffuse panbronchiolitis (DPB) is an inflammatory lung disease of unknown cause. It is a severe, progressive form of bronchiolitis, an inflammatory condition of the bronchioles (small air passages in the lungs). In the early 1960s, a relatively new chronic lung disease was being observed and described by physicians in Japan. In 1969, the name diffuse panbronchiolitis was introduced to distinguish it from chronic bronchitis, emphysema, alveolitis, and other obstructive lung disease with inflammation.