Measuring. A few particular tools for measuring are used for installing ceramic tile. A level is necessary if you will be using self-leveling concrete topper or if you have an uneven floor surface. A tape measure long enough to measure the floor dimensions will also be needed. 
Step 4: Mix your thin-set. Thin-set mortar is the cement or bonding agent used to attach the tile to the backerboard or concrete subfloor. Use a large bucket and a drill with a mixing paddle. Be sure to clean the mixing paddle promptly so the mortar does not harden on it. The notches are called teeth. The type and size of tile you’re installing will determine the depth and width of the teeth your trowel should have. Check installation materials packaging for guidance. The size of the notch determines how much thin-set is left on the floor receiving the tile.
Once your surface is prepared, you will need to lay out the tiles on the floor before they are installed. No matter what kind of tile you are installing, the layout procedures will generally be the same. For detailed information about the types of tile available, watch our Tile Basics video or. The notches are called teeth. The type and size of tile you’re installing will determine the depth and width of the teeth your trowel should have. Check installation materials packaging for guidance. The size of the notch determines how much thin-set is left on the floor receiving the tile.
Since we have a plywood subfloor, we need to install concrete board so the tiles properly bond to the floor. Prior to installing the concrete board, mix up some latex-modified thinset mortar to use as a setting bed for the concrete board. Thinset mortar typically comes in powder form and is mixed with water. 
Preparing to Install Floor Tile. First, make sure you have prepared the subfloor properly before you begin laying tile. Before beginning, remove tiles from the different boxes and randomly mix them to ensure that minor color differences don’t form an unwanted pattern in your new floor. Step 2. Mix the grout following the manufacturer’s instructions. Make sure you use the proper water-to-mix ratio for a paste-like consistency. (If you have well water, purchase distilled water to mix the grout.).
2. Dry-fit the tiles on floor. Lay several porcelain tiles in a row, using spacers to simulate joints. Measure a 2-foot section of tile. Check the distance between tiles and note the location of the grout joint closest to the 2-foot mark on the tape measure. 
When installing porcelain tiles on walls, an aggressive adhesive is required to prevent tile slippage. While you can cut ordinary ceramic tiles with standard tile tools, you may need a wet diamond saw for cutting porcelain tiles cleanly. Although porcelain tiles are strong and durable, not all are rated for floor use. 
Adhesive. Tile adhesives hold the tile to the floor. Thin-set adhesive, also called Portland cement mortar, is a combination of cement, sand and methylcellulose. Thin-set adhesive is available as dry-set or latex-modified. It provides a thin, hard surface ideal for tile. You can install cement board over vinyl flooring, allowing for installation of ceramic floor tile without removing the vinyl flooring. Grout sealer is a clear, protective finish that helps prevent water absorption and staining of the grout.
To begin, you should do one test tile to ensure that the consistency of the mortar is appropriate. Put the first test tile onto the thin-set bed. Lay the tile flat and then with mild pressure, slide the tile 1/4 inch back against the thin-set ridges, then slide it back into place. The notches are called teeth. The type and size of tile you’re installing will determine the depth and width of the teeth your trowel should have. Check installation materials packaging for guidance. The size of the notch determines how much thin-set is left on the floor receiving the tile.
You can spread the adhesive on the concrete floor, but sometimes it is easier to apply it on the back of the tiles. Laying tile on concrete floor. Install the tile into place and use spacers around it, as to create an even gap between the rows. Tap the tile gently with your hand or by using a mallet. How to tile a concrete floor. Thin-set. First, we have to mix thin-set in a clean bucket. Therefore, you have to fill one forth of the bucket with clean water and pour the thinset mortar (in this way we avoid creating dust).