1 The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 2  These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 3  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 4  Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat. Carbon dioxide, water vapor (), methane (), nitorus oxide (), and a few other gases are greenhouse gases. They all are molecules composed of more than two component atoms, bound loosely enough together to be able to vibrate with the absorption of heat.
1 These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 2  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 3  Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat. Carbon dioxide, water vapor (), methane (), nitorus oxide (), and a few other gases are greenhouse gases. They all are molecules composed of more than two component atoms, bound loosely enough together to be able to vibrate with the absorption of heat.
The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat. The greenhouse effect refers to the way the sun's heat radiates up  from the warmed surface of the earth, where it is absorbed by the  greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Th … e more gases there are, the  more heat is absorbed.    The natural greenhouse effect is supported by the  water and carbon cycles.
There are other greenhouse gases that are not counted in United States or international greenhouse gas inventories: 1  Water vapor is the most abundant greenhouse gas. 2  Most scientists believe that water vapor produced directly by human activity contributes very little to the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere. The major greenhouse gases that the United States emitted as a result of human activity and their share of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2013: 1. 1  Carbon dioxide (CO2) = 82%. 2  Methane (CH4) = 10%.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: the greenhouse effect is the process of greenhouse gases trapping the heat on Earth. I am giving you this as a hint because this problem is a critical thinking one that you should do. The trapping of heat is also sometimes called Global warming. I believe that is enough hint to do your homework. 
Greenhouse gases are transparent to incoming (short-wave) radiation from the sun but block infrared (long-wave) radiation from leaving the earth's atmosphere. This greenhouse effect traps radiation from the sun and warms the planet's surface. The major greenhouse gases that the United States emitted as a result of human activity and their share of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2013: 1. 1  Carbon dioxide (CO2) = 82%. 2  Methane (CH4) = 10%.
The greenhouse effect is caused by the interaction of the sun's energy with greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases in the Earth's atmosphere. The ability of these gases to trap heat is what causes the greenhouse effect. If the amount of energy from the sun and the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere remain the same, then the average temperature on Earth will also be constant. But this is no longer the case. The amount of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere is the highest it has been in the last 3 million years.
There are other greenhouse gases that are not counted in United States or international greenhouse gas inventories: 1  Water vapor is the most abundant greenhouse gas. 2  Ozone is technically a greenhouse gas because it has an effect on global temperature. The major greenhouse gases that the United States emitted as a result of human activity and their share of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2013: 1. 1  Carbon dioxide (CO2) = 82%. 2  Methane (CH4) = 10%.
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F).