The seminal vesicles are a pair of glands that are positioned below the urinary bladder and lateral to the vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube folded and coiled on itself, with occasional diverticula in its wall. About 70-85% of the seminal fluid in humans originates from the seminal vesicles, but is not expelled in the first ejaculate fractions which are dominated by spermatozoa and zinc-rich prostatic fluid.
Seminal vesicle: One of two structures that are about 5 cm long and are located behind the bladder and above the prostate gland. The seminal vesicles contribute fluid to the ejaculate. 
Definition of SEMINAL VESICLE. : either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract and in the human male secrete a sugar-and protein-containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. Medical Definition of SEMINAL VESICLE. : either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract and that in human males secrete a sugar-and protein-containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about seminal vesicle.noun
The seminal vesicles (Latin: glandulae vesiculosae), vesicular glands, or seminal glands, are a pair of simple tubular glands posteroinferior to the urinary bladder of some male mammals. Seminal vesicles are located within the pelvis. About 70-85% of the seminal fluid in humans originates from the seminal vesicles, but is not expelled in the first ejaculate fractions which are dominated by spermatozoa and zinc-rich prostatic fluid.
Seminal gland. The seminal gland, more commonly referred to as the seminal vesicle, holds the liquid that mixes with sperm to form semen. Semen combines fluid elements from the epididymis, seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and vas deferens. Each body part plays a key role in semen production. The fluids help the sperm swim towards the egg and keep the sperm nourished during the transit process. The fluid also has clotting properties that make the semen sticky. This ensures that the semen clings inside the vagina long enough for the sperm to travel to the egg. Pain in the lower left section of the abdomen is an indicator that the seminal vesicle is inflamed. A dry orgasm is another symptom that can be caused by problems with the seminal vesicle
Each vesicle forms as an outpocketing of the wall of the ampulla of one vas deferens. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. About 70-85% of the seminal fluid in humans originates from the seminal vesicles, but is not expelled in the first ejaculate fractions which are dominated by spermatozoa and zinc-rich prostatic fluid.
In biology, a vesicle is a relatively small intracellular, membrane-enclosed sac that stores or transports substances. In geology, a vesicle is a void formed in solidified l … ava due to the decrease in pressure at eruption which allows dissolved gasses to come out of solution.