Noun. 1. sternocleidomastoid muscle-one of two thick muscles running from the sternum and clavicle to the mastoid and occipital bone; turns head obliquely to the opposite side; when acting together they flex the neck and extend the head. musculus sternocleidomastoideus, sternocleido mastoideus, sternocleidomastoid. 
In human anatomy, the sternocleidomastoid muscle (/ˌstɜrnɵˌklaɪdɵˈmaestɔɪd/), ˌstɜrnɵˌklaɪdɵˈmæstɔɪd also known as sternomastoid and commonly abbreviated AS, scm is a paired muscle in the superficial layers of the side of the. Neck it is one of the largest and most superficial cervical. muscles It travels obliquely across the side of the neck and inserts at the mastoid process of the temporal bone of the skull. The sternocleidomastoid is thick and narrow at its centre, and broader and thinner at either end.
In human anatomy, the sternocleidomastoid muscle (/ˌstɜrnɵˌklaɪdɵˈmaestɔɪd/), ˌstɜrnɵˌklaɪdɵˈmæstɔɪd also known as sternomastoid and commonly abbreviated AS, scm is a paired muscle in the superficial layers of the side of the. neck It travels obliquely across the side of the neck and inserts at the mastoid process of the temporal bone of the skull. The sternocleidomastoid is thick and narrow at its centre, and broader and thinner at either end.
During pathological changes of the sternocleidomastoid the clinical picture of the wryneck occurs (bending of the head to the affected muscle and rotation to the healthy side). A classic example for this condition is the muscular torticollis, a tonic spasm of the sternocleidomastoid. Function. A unilateral contraction of the sternocleidomastoid muscle flexes the cervical vertebral column to the same side (lateral flexion) and rotates the head to the opposite side. A bilateral innervation leads to an elevation of the head (dorsal extension).
The Strangest Muscle in the Body. The sternocleidomastoid muscle, or SCM is to me, one of the most fascinating muscles in the body. Most people are totally unaware of its existence, as it sits innocently in the front of the neck. It is also an auxiliary muscle of breathing, meaning it is used when you are breathing hard or in the chest, rather than with the diaphragm. Here is a list of activities that might create the problem: 1  Overhead activities. 2  Keeping your head turned to one side. 3  Forward head posture.
Anatomy and supply. The sternocleidomastoid muscle is a two-headed neck muscle. It is innervated by the accessory nerve (cranial nerve XI) and direct branches of the cervical plexus (C1-C2). The sternal head originates from the manubrium sterni, the clavicular head from the middle part of the clavicle. Function. A unilateral contraction of the sternocleidomastoid muscle flexes the cervical vertebral column to the same side (lateral flexion) and rotates the head to the opposite side. A bilateral innervation leads to an elevation of the head (dorsal extension).
Noun. 1. sternocleidomastoid muscle-one of two thick muscles running from the sternum and clavicle to the mastoid and occipital bone; turns head obliquely to the opposite side; when acting together they flex the neck and extend the head. musculus sternocleidomastoideus, sternocleido mastoideus, sternocleidomastoid. 
The sternocleidomastoid muscle flexes the neck and helps with movement of the head. Also, the muscle works with the scalene muscles in the neck during forced inspiration while breathing (inhaling), and it raises the sternum, the bone at the front of the rib cage. 
The sternocleidomastoid is innervated by the accessory nerve. It is given the name sternocleidomastoid because it originates at the manubrium of the sternum (sterno-) and the clavicle (cleido-), and has an insertion at the mastoid process of the temporal bone of the skull. It travels obliquely across the side of the neck and inserts at the mastoid process of the temporal bone of the skull. The sternocleidomastoid is thick and narrow at its centre, and broader and thinner at either end.