1 Place the ribs in the oven. 2  Cook ribs for 2-1/2 to 4 hours. 3  After about 2-1/2 hours, open a corner of one of your foil packets and test the ribs with a fork. 4  If they are tender, move on to step 5. 5  Otherwise, allow them to continue to cook until they are fork tender. 
How to Cook Pork Ribs In The Oven 2-1/4 pound slab of pork back ribs (12 bones) 4 tsp. each of Wee Willy’s Dry Marinade Formula #1, #3 and Sweet Formula mixed with 1/2 tsp. of salt. Fill a cake pan 2/3 full of hot water (be careful), place on lower oven rack. Heat oven to 275˚. Coat both sides of the rack of ribs with this mixture and place in a foil-lined shallow baking pan (you can use a cookie sheet). Place in a pre-heated 375 F degree oven for 1 hour to 1 hour 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and cover loosely with more foil. Let rest undisturbed for 15 minutes
1 Place ribs, meat side down, in baking dishes. 2  Cover the baking dishes with aluminum foil and place in the oven. 3  If you are using small baby back ribs, take out after 3.5 hours. 4  If you are using regular baby back or St. Louis style ribs, then take out after 4 hours. 1 Season your ribs with Dale's marinade, your favorite rib rub, grill seasoning, or simply salt and pepper. 2  Place ribs, meat side down, in baking dishes. 3  Cover the baking dishes with aluminum foil and place in the oven. 4
Lay a couple more pieces of foil on top of the ribs and crunch the edges together to make a big package. Do the same with your second rack of ribs. Now for the fun part-pop them into a 275 degree oven for 3 1/2 to 4 hours. Repeat with the other rack of ribs, dry rub and foil. Place both baking sheets of ribs into the preheated oven. Bake for 3 1/2 to 4 hours, or until ribs are falling-apart tender. 4. Open up the rib packages, gently transfer the ribs to a cutting board and cut into one or two-rib chunks. Drizzle with barbecue sauce.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a bowl combine all ingredients except ribs to make a sauce; season with salt and pepper. On a rack set in a roasting pan season ribs with salt and pepper and brush with a thick layer of sauce. Roast ribs, basting every 30 minutes, until tender and falling off the bone, about 1 1/2 hours. Slice into individual ribs before serving with potato salad
When the ribs are fork tender, all you need to do is remove them from the foil (save those juices for stock or soup later!) and put them on a baking tray. If your ribs are about 3 lbs, they’ll take about 3 hours 15 minutes and a 4 lb rack will take closer to 4 1/2 hours. Roughly speaking, they need to have at least 1 hour in the oven per pound, with about 15 – 30 minutes extra to make sure they’re super tender.
Broil the ribs: Heat the broiler and place an oven rack a few inches below the heating element. Make sure the meaty side of the ribs is facing up. Broil the ribs for about 5 minutes, until the sugar in the dry rub is bubbling and the ribs are evenly browned. Bake the ribs: Set the oven to 300°F. Move the ribs to an oven rack in the middle of the oven. Roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours for spare ribs or 1 1/2 to 2 hours for baby back ribs. Halfway through cooking, cover the ribs with aluminum foil to protect them from drying out. 
1 Cover the baking dish with foil and place on center rack of pre-heated oven. 2  Bake for approximately 2 1/2 - 3 hours (depending on the size of the ribs you are using). 3  Remove the ribs from oven and drain any grease from dish; reserving the foil for later use (waste not, want not). 