Steroids, such as the hormones estrogen and testosterone, are also considered to be sterols. Ergosterol is a fungal sterol whose synthesis serves as a target for antifungal drugs, while phytosterols are plant compounds that are sterols. Hopanoids are bacterial compounds that share some similarities with sterols. 
Over 3 weeks plant sterols and stanols can reduce cholesterol levels by up to 10% when taken at optimal doses and as part of a diet low in saturated fat. They are considered to be the most effective single food that can lower cholesterol as part of a healthy diet and lifestyle. Plant sterols and stanols (phytosterols) are found naturally in plants and are structurally similar to cholesterol.
STEROLS. Sterols may be found either as free sterols, acylated (sterol esters), alkylated (steryl alkyl ethers), sulfated (sterol sulfate), or linked to a glycoside moiety (steryl glycosides) which can be itself acylated (acylated sterol glycosides). FREE STEROLS Sterols form an important group among the steroids. Unsaturated steroids with most of the skeleton of cholestane containing a 3 b-hydroxyl group and an aliphatic side chain of 8 or more carbon atoms attached to position 17 form the group of sterols.
Plant sterols and stanols are substances that occur naturally in small amounts in many grains, vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, and seeds. Since they have powerful cholesterol-lowering properties, manufacturers have started adding them to foods. 
Plant sterols, or phytosterols, are naturally occurring plant molecules that are very similar to cholesterol. In the intestines, plant sterols interfere with cholesterol absorption. Researchers have found that when plant sterols are ingested, they are not well absorbed by the body but latch on to cholesterol receptors in your intestines. That cholesterol is instead excreted in your feces. Plant sterols are naturally occurring in many foods and some foods are fortified to include more plant sterols. They are also available in supplement form.
Fat-soluble vitamins, such as vitamin E, are made from sterols. Photo Credit vitamin e image by Margaret M Stewart from Fotolia.com. Sterols, also known as steroid alcohols, are a class of chemicals that play multiple important roles in the body. They have parts that can dissolve in fat-like molecules and parts that can dissolve in water.
Sterols of plants are called phytosterols and sterols of animals are called zoosterols. The most important zoosterol is cholesterol; notable phytosterols include campesterol, sitosterol, and stigmasterol. Sterols are a subgroup of steroids with a hydroxyl group at the 3-position of the A-ring. They are amphipathic lipids synthesized from acetyl-coenzyme A via the HMG-CoA reductase pathway. The overall molecule is quite flat.
Plant sterols and stanols are substances naturally found in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, nuts and seeds. If you have high cholesterol, eating plant sterols and stanols can help lower your LDL cholesterol while keeping your HDL cholesterol the same. Normally, your body’s small intestine absorbs cholesterol from the foods you eat.
They occur naturally in plants, animals, and fungi, with the most familiar type of animal sterol being cholesterol. Cholesterol is vital to animal cell membrane structure and function as a precursor to fat-soluble vitamins and steroid hormones. Sterols are a subgroup of steroids with a hydroxyl group at the 3-position of the A-ring. They are amphipathic lipids synthesized from acetyl-coenzyme A via the HMG-CoA reductase pathway. The overall molecule is quite flat.