Sand or Bead blasting stainless steel. What do you guys use for making stainless match the factory blasted barrels. I made a couple muzzle brakes for some of my shooting buddies and I need to know how to match the finish to the factory stainless barrels. 
The kind of medium used to blast the surface depends on how difficult the removal is and how much impact the material can withstand. Below are more instructions for how to choose the right sandblasting media. 1. Start with a gentle medium if you are uncertain. 4. Take care with cleanup if you use aluminum oxide, another gentler medium on the sandblasting palette. It is composed of small grains of aluminum oxide and is very long-lasting. The disadvantage of this medium is that you must carefully dispose of the material after it is used. 5.
It is important to know the differences in blasting media, since different abrasive blasting media are required for different applications. Blasting media can be used for purposes such as cleaning, stripping, etching, strengthening and polishing. Aluminum Oxide. Aluminum oxide is the most widely used abrasive in blast finishing and surface preparation Aluminum oxide is an extremely sharp, long-lasting blasting abrasive that can be recycled many times. In addition to the standard brown, aluminum oxide is available in 99.5% pure white grades.
Alternatively sandblasting can be used to roughen a surface or to shape it. Sandblast Media Types. 25 lb Medium Black Beauty Blast Media Sandblast Cabinet. Sandblasting is used for a various purposes from cleaning to polishing and etching for decorative purposes. Each of the uses requires different levels of abrasion therefore the choice of media for sandblasting cannot be the same. The media also causes corrosion on the sides of a blast gun which leads to faster wearing and tearing of machinery. The use of silica for abrasive blasting is also not economical since the media can only be used once or twice. Beads blasting. Medium Glass Bead Blasting Abrasive – 25 Lbs.
At IDS Blast, we stock all the most common types of sandblasting media, and whether you need it by the bag or the truck-load, we've got you covered. We are experts at finding ways for you to save money on your abrasive costs so call us or use the Add To Quote feature below to get started reducing your costs today. White Aluminum Oxide has higher hardness and slightly lower toughness compared to brown aluminum oxide. It is characterized by its high purity, ability to self-sharpen, better cutting, lower heat emissions, higher efficiency, acid and alkali resistance and good thermal stability.
Media blasting stainless steel. by Graham M » Mon Aug 10, 2009 9:35 pm. Hi, I am looking at using media blasting as a process to identify/mark items made from 1.6mm st st sheet using stencils to allow shielding of areas I don't want blasted (e.g. numbering items 1 - 8) The stainless steel is (was) highly polished. 
Glass Bead blasting can be used on a wide range of materials including aluminum, stainless steel, copper, steel, brass, titanium, sterling silver, bronze, metal, glass, plastic and rubber. It can be used in the restoration processes of cars and trucks. 
Steel shot should not be used as a blast medium on stainless steels. Sand blast media can contain iron / steel contamination and by preference should not be used. The texture of the blasted surfaces vary with the blast media, which include glass, ceramic or lead bead, silicon carbide, aluminium oxide, stainless steel shot or ground quartz. These finishing methods can be used in the specialist finishing shop or under site conditions ie either before or after fabrication.
Stainless media is available in 302-304 and 316 alloys. Stainless is a softer but heavier media that is a good choice for short blasting times, deburring, and rust free surfaces. It produces a brighter ﬁnish with reduced blast machine wear rates. Stainless shot obtains some the highest media recovery rates of up to 150-200 cycles through the blast system. 