Species that Live Longest. Many oak trees live longer than 150 years, although few reach the age of one southern live oak (Quercus virginiana) in Louisiana, which American Forests, a conservation organization, estimated to be 1,500 years old. Varieties that Live a Short Time. For oak trees, 50 years counts as short-lived. A native of the southeastern United States, laurel oak (Quercus laurifolia) lives 50 to 60 years and grows to about 65 feet tall. Also native to the Southeast, water oak (Quercus nigra) reaches 60 to 80 feet tall and lives 30 to 50 years
Quercus alba, the white oak, is one of the pre-eminent hardwoods of eastern and central North America. It is a long-lived oak of the beech family, native to eastern and central North America and found from Minnesota, Ontario, Quebec, and Nova Scotia south as far as northern Florida and eastern Texas. Large white oak in a revolutionary war-era cemetery. Normally not a very tall tree, typically reaching 80–100 feet at maturity, it nonetheless becomes quite massive and its lower branches are apt to extend far out laterally, parallel to the ground.
White Oak is a large tree, growing up to 100 feet tall. Its trunk can get up to four feet across. White Oaks usually grow in forests with other oaks, but can also be found on edges of lakes, ponds, and streams. Leaves of White Oak are four to nine inches long, with between five and nine lobes (finger-like parts). They are bright green on top, and whitish underneath
White Oak Genus: Quercus Species: alba The White Oak tree can grow from 80 to 100 feet tall ,3 to 4 feet in diameter around the trunk and can spread from 50 to 80 feet. The Oak tree grows upright and its bark is whitish gray. The life span of the Oak tree, if undisturbed is 500 to 600 years old.
Confidence votes 979. The many species of American oak trees often live for centuries if circumstances are favorable. Pin oaks are among the least vigorous with an average lifespan of only 100 years. In general the red oak varieties with open heartwood pores do not live as long as white oaks.
Comments. Submit. Oak trees are known to live for centuries, with the majority living at least 200 years. The oldest oak tree on record is estimated to be more than 1,000 years old. 
Hello, Well, it depends on which types of oak as there are various species of Oak Trees. American Oak lives for centuries if all circumstances are favourable with Pin oaks li … ving for only 100 years. Red Oak lives for about 200 years while White Oak lives for a century longer that the red. Pin oaks are among the least vigorous with an average lifespan of only 100 years. In general the red oak varieties with open heartwood pores do not live as long as white oaks.
Jennysita/iStock/Getty Images. With over 500 species, oaks (Quercus spp.) have a range of lifespans. Under ideal conditions, oak trees live an average of 150 years, with short-lived varieties lasting 50 to 60 years and long-lived varieties living more than 150 years. Varieties that Live a Short Time. For oak trees, 50 years counts as short-lived. A native of the southeastern United States, laurel oak (Quercus laurifolia) lives 50 to 60 years and grows to about 65 feet tall. Also native to the Southeast, water oak (Quercus nigra) reaches 60 to 80 feet tall and lives 30 to 
The Northern red oak (Quercus rubra) usually lives about 200 years but can be as old as 400 years and is hardy in U. S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 9. California Black Oak (Quercus kelloggii) may grow to reach a maximum age of about 500 years and is hardy in USDA zones 7 though 10. 