When you make a photo your profile picture or cover photo, a public copy of that photo is added to your Profile Pictures or Cover Photos album. To add photos to an album you created: 1  Go to the album you want to add photos to. 2  Click Add Photos in the top right. 3  Pick the image files you want to upload. 4  Check the blue progress bar and click Post Photos once it's complete
To add pictures to an existing album, click My Photos instead of that and edit an album to add pictures. To set a photo as your profile picture, click Edit beside Profile at the top, then click Picture. Click browse to pick a picture for your display photo. Hope I helped :) p.s. Make sure to tag yourself in your photos, because the pictures that only have you tagged in it will display in View Photos on your profile. 
The option to add a picture to your Facebook profile is in the Photos section. Your friends and family can comment on the picture after it is visible on your profile. Step 1. Log into your Facebook account, then click on your profile name in the upper-right corner of the page. Step 2. Click Photos on the left side of the page, then click the Upload Photosbutton in the upper-right corner of the page. The Upload Photos window opens. Related Reading: How to Change the Default Picture From Facebook Mobile.
Do not worry, here is the most straight forward way to upload photos to Facebook. 1  Login to your Facebook account, and from the top navigation menu select Profile, this should take you to your profile page. 2  Below your profile picture you will notice a series of boxes, click on the box that says Photos. 1 Click to select photos from your computer to upload. 2  Adding photos to your album is easy from the image upload screen that comes up. 3  Select multiple photos at a time by pressing Control and then clicking on a photo to add.
Edit your post. You can add a caption, tag any other people with you, and adjust the privacy settings. 1  If you choose to, you may add tags to your pictures. 2  Just go to the photo, and select Tag This Photo right below your picture. 3  Click somewhere on your picture, choose a person, then click Tag.. Here, you'll have the option to click Upload Photo/Video or Create Photo Album.. 4. Find the picture file on your hard drive and select it. A finder window should pop up, allowing you to search your hard drive for the photos.
1 Click Add Photos in the top right. 2  Pick the image files you want to upload. 3  Hold down the Control key on your PC or the Command key on your Mac while clicking the image files to upload multiple files at once. 4  Check the blue progress bar and click Post Photos once it's complete. To add photos to an album you created: 1  Go to the album you want to add photos to. 2  Click Add Photos in the top right. 3
1 Go to the album you want to add photos to. 2  Click Add Photos in the top right. 3  Pick the image files you want to upload. 4  Hold down the Control key on your PC or the Command key on your Mac while clicking the image files to upload multiple files at once. To add photos to an album you created: 1 
4) On the next page, select your photos. Click upload. OR 1) Go to your profile page, and click the 'Photos' tab. 3) Click on the photo album you wish to upload too, or click the top right button '+Create a Photo Album' to make a new one. 4a) If you chose to add to an existing album, click the button 'Add Photos' once you are in that album. Adding photos to Facebook is quite easy. There are a couple ways of getting to the final place of uploading pictures from your computer. Just follow these steps. 1) Click on the little 'photos' button on the bottom tool bar of facebook. 2) Click the '+Create a Photo Album' at the top right corner of the page.
1 From there a screen will come up that says Select Photos to Upload. 2  Click to select photos from your computer to upload. 3  Adding photos to your album is easy from the image upload screen that comes up. 4  Select multiple photos at a time by pressing Control and then clicking on a photo to add. 1 Click to select photos from your computer to upload. 2  Adding photos to your album is easy from the image upload screen that comes up. 3
1 Click on the Photo button. 2  You'll get a drop-down menu to upload your photo if you're looking to upload a single image as well as an option to upload a new album. 3  Click on your choice and you're ready to share your images with the world of Facebook users. 1 Click to select photos from your computer to upload. 2  Adding photos to your album is easy from the image upload screen that comes up. 3  Select multiple photos at a time by pressing Control and then clicking on a photo to add.