1 I pre-hydrate by drinking a liter of water just before I start hiking because carrying water inside you is lighter than carrying water on your back! 2  I start out with 2 liters and drink about 1 pint every hour. 3  I plan my route carefully so I know where there is water if I run out, and can carry more if necessary. It depends on how available it is. Even when it’s plentiful I still prefer to carry a quart in a Nalgene and a 100 oz Camelbk bladder. Last summer I was doing some hiking in some higher elevations that had no water. It was probably in the 80’s that day.
Keep the water coming into your body even if you don't really feel very thirsty. If you are hiking, you are losing moisture and you need to replenish it. By the end of a 4-hour hike, you should have drunk both quarts of water and you should be able to use the toilet. If you don't need to, then all that water came out as perspiration and you still need to drink more water to stay hydrated. After a hike, you should drink additional water until you need to use the toilet. I don't mean chug it down, I mean drink a 1/2 cup or so every 5 minutes or so. Water is THE most critical survival item-whether in the wild or at home. Rule of 3 : You'll have air to breathe unless you're under water or in a cave-in
Water is one of the heaviest things in your backpack at at 2 pounds per liter it can really weigh you down if you carry to0 much of it when you don’t need to. I used to do this all of the time, first as a day hiker and then later as a backpacker. It depends on how available it is. Even when it’s plentiful I still prefer to carry a quart in a Nalgene and a 100 oz Camelbk bladder. Last summer I was doing some hiking in some higher elevations that had no water. It was probably in the 80’s that day.
DAN: I cannot stress enough the importance of carrying the right amount of water. You should drink at least half a liter of water per mile, and more if you are going uphill or if you are in a very hot area. You should always carry between four and six liters of water with you, unless you are going on a very short hike. 
You can lose up to two quarts (almost 2 litre) of water per hour hiking in the desert in middle of the day, but you can only absorb around one quart (almost one litre) per hour, so that's the minimum you should shoot for if you're planning a hike. share | improve this answer. edited Apr 21 '13 at 16:37. I don't like carrying more than 1 gallon of water, so I plan my hikes accordingly. Depending on where exactly and the weather that day, that can be good enough for a all-day hike of 8 hours or more, or only 4 hours in some cases.
@LBell The same site also says Drink one-half to one full quart of water or sports drink each and every hour you are hiking in the heat.. At the one liter per hour mark, a gallon only lasts four hours. I don't like carrying more than 1 gallon of water, so I plan my hikes accordingly. Depending on where exactly and the weather that day, that can be good enough for a all-day hike of 8 hours or more, or only 4 hours in some cases.
In warm months each hiker should carry and drink about a gallon (4 liters) of water per day. Watch your ins and outs. Drink enough so that urine frequency, clarity, and volume are normal. You are not drinking enough water if your urine is dark, small in quantity, or non-existent in the course of a day's hiking. Your body can absorb only about one quart of fluid per hour. Drink one-half to one full quart of water or sports drink each and every hour you are hiking in the heat. Carry your water bottle in your hand and drink small amounts often. 1  Water Bottles. 2  Water Purification. 3  Water Filters.
Report Abuse. To maintain proper hydration you should consume approximately 1 quart/liter per hour while backpacking. That may seem like a lot, but you lose a lot of water while carrying a typical backpacking load of 25-30 pounds. In all honesty, I can't even say I am that religious about keeping my 1-quart-an-hour. To answer your question, your water requirements will depend on how much you need for hydration, preparing meals and cleaning food preparation utensils(pots,pans.forks). I normally drink about 2 litres per day so it would not be practical for me to carry enough water for a multi-day trip, way too heavy.
How much water you should drink depends on three main factors: climate, your level of exertion and your own individual needs. 1  Climate: When hiking in hot and/or humid conditions, one litre per hour is generally recommended. 1 Climate: When hiking in hot and/or humid conditions, one litre per hour is generally recommended. 2  Same goes for altitude, where although the temperature may be cooler, the air is drier and thinner. 3  In milder conditions at lower altitudes, half of the above mentioned quantity should normally suffice.