Master Ball (x5). Mew is a Psychic-type legendary Pokemon pokémon that can be found In Jungle m And Jungle hills biomes and can only be found in the. Day it is very rare to. find If a Mew spawns the game will notify you with a message on screen saying that a Legendary Pokemon has spawned in a Jungle (or whatever biome it spawns in biome. One will likely spawn every 500 hours you play and the chance of finding it is 100/10,000, so it is highly advised to attempt a capture if spotted.
Confidence votes 212. Mew never evolves it is a Pokemon with one form. Mewtwo was created using DNA from Mew, the first ever Pokemon to be created through science-this confirms that Mew does NOT evolve into Mewtwo. After you beat Rayquaza, Alakazam will eventually unlock Luminous Cave in Whiscash's Pond. Once you can leave all your teammates in their Friend Areas, you'll be able to enter … Luminous Cave and evolve.
mew evovle into mewtwo if you somehow make a egg so it evoves into mewtwo if you get lucky Actually, Mewtwo is NOT an evolution of Mew. Scientist created mewtwo out of DNA fro … m mew, so it is classified as an evolution. First of all, you missed the Nintendo Event for mew. But the only way is to use an action replay, and cheat. (I DON'T KNOW THE CHEAT CODES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) If you got … the codes, and set them on for the Old Sea Map, you should be able to talk to the ship lady in SlatePort, or Lilycove.
Mew never evolves it is a Pokemon with one form. Mewtwo was created using DNA from Mew, the first ever Pokemon to be created through science-this confirms that Mew does NOT … evolve into Mewtwo. Mew does not evolve. 3 people found this useful. First of all, you missed the Nintendo Event for mew. But the only way is to use an action replay, and cheat. (I DON'T KNOW THE CHEAT CODES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) If you got … the codes, and set them on for the Old Sea Map, you should be able to talk to the ship lady in SlatePort, or Lilycove.
Sorry to burst your bubble, but Mew does not evolve into Mewtwo. Whoever told you that either lied, or they didn't know themselves. Even if one evolved into the other, it'd be Mewtwo to Mew because of their Pokedex entries. Another thing, so far in the series, there's been no legendary Pokemon that evolves. Of course i don't know if there is a way, is just according to the movies, you can't evolve mew, and is not inaccurate to say that they're two separate pokemon. Guest said: 23rd Sep 2015 | REPORT. The real question is how did you get a Mew before you got a Mewtwo.
No mew never evolve into MEWTWO becuause I have 99 level mew and in mewtwo ka badla movie mew evolve in mewtwo because of humans. Guest said: 26th Sep 2015 | REPORT. Mew never evolves to the end. My mew I'd lv. 100. Of course i don't know if there is a way, is just according to the movies, you can't evolve mew, and is not inaccurate to say that they're two separate pokemon. Guest said: 23rd Sep 2015 | REPORT. The real question is how did you get a Mew before you got a Mewtwo.
1 This also supports the fact that Mew is the ancestor of all Pokemon. 2  Pokémon mew And ditto have similar normal and shiny. 3  Colours Despite'mew S dna being used to Create, Mewtwo mew comes After mewtwo in The.  pokedex pokédex Mew is a small cat-like Pokemon pokémon with large feet with three, toes blue, eyes small pointed ears and a, long skinny. Tail it is covered with a layer of fine pink, hair only visible with the aid of a. microscope
Guest answered: But how can Mew evolve in to mewtwo that mewtwo is a copy that scientes made from Mew in to mewtwo thits hole thing is wear I gust the Pokemon creators don't have no more ideas for new pokemons thats sad lol but in my reachers I found out that they do evolves but is crazy you tell me ..... Of course i don't know if there is a way, is just according to the movies, you can't evolve mew, and is not inaccurate to say that they're two separate pokemon. Guest said: 23rd Sep 2015 | REPORT. The real question is how did you get a Mew before you got a Mewtwo.