The orbicularis oculi is a muscle in the face that closes the eyelids. It arises from the nasal part of the frontal bone, from the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lacrimal groove, and from the anterior surface and borders of a short fibrous band, the medial palpebral ligament. 
Medical Definition of ORBICULARIS ORIS. : a muscle made up of several layers of fibers passing in different directions that encircles the mouth and controls most movements of the lips (as compressing, closing, or pursing movements). 
orbicularis oculi, the muscular body of the eyelid, encircling the eye and comprising the palpebral, orbital, and lacrimal muscles. It arises from the nasal part of the frontal bone, the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lacrimal groove, and the anterior surface of the medial palpebral ligament. The palpebral muscle functions to close the eyelid gently; the orbital muscle functions to close it more energetically, such as in winking.
The orbicularis oris is not a simple sphincter muscle like the orbicularis oculi; it consists of numerous strata of muscular fibers surrounding the orifice of the mouth, but having different direction. 
Synonyms: musculus orbicularis oris, musculus sphincter oris, orbicular muscle of mouth, sphincter oris. The definition information for orbicularis oris (muscle) is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
Orbicularis Oris. This section is about the Muscles of Face and Neck. The orbicularis oris is a circular muscle around the mouth that closes and compresses the lips. It is not a sphincter muscle, but consists of numerous strata of muscle fibres, having different directions, which surround the orifice of the mouth. The orbicularis oris is one of the muscles of the head, neck, and face taught as part of many courses in Indian Head Massage. As this is a popular therapy we have included several pages that may be of interest to students of Indian Head Massage. See, for example, the page about skeletal structures of the head and neck
Orbicularis oris. Located in the face, the orbicularis oris muscle controls movements of the mouth and lips. Specifically, it encircles the mouth, originating in the maxilla (upper jaw and palate) and mandible (lower jaw) bones. The muscle inserts directly into the lips. In common language, the orbicularis oris is often referred to as the kissing muscle.. It allows for facial expression, and more specifically, it is responsible for puckering the lips. While this action is a requirement for kissing, the puckering action is used in a number of other way
Medical Definition of ORBICULARIS OCULI. : the muscle encircling the opening of the orbit and functioning to close the eyelids. What made you want to look up orbicularis oculi? 
orbicularis oris, the muscle surrounding the mouth. It consists partly of fibers derived from other facial muscles such as the buccinator that are inserted into the lips and partly of fibers proper to the lips. It serves to close and purse the lips. 