Comparing normal and enlarged prostate glands. The prostate gland is located beneath your bladder. The tube that transports urine from the bladder out of your penis (urethra) passes through the center of the prostate. When the prostate enlarges, it begins to block urine flow. Most men have continued prostate growth throughout life
Enlarged Prostate Symptoms and Causes. In men, urine flows from the bladder through the urethra. BPH is a benign (noncancerous) enlargement of the prostate that blocks the flow of urine through the urethra. The prostate cells gradually multiply, creating an enlargement that puts pressure on the urethra -- the chute through which urine and semen exit the body. Eventually, the bladder muscle cannot overcome the effect of the narrowed urethra so urine remains in the bladder and it is not completely emptied. Symptoms of enlarged prostate can include: 1  A weak or slow urinary stream. 2  A feeling of incomplete bladder emptying.
1 It is caused due to irritation of the prostate gland due to infection. 2  Person may find pain at the time of ejaculation. 3  Inflammation of prostate of chronic origin may cause impotence. 4  Fever with rigors can be a presenting symptom of inflamed prostate caused due to bacterial infection. The symptom of inflamed prostate may depend on the cause which is responsible for causing the problem. 1  Pain in the pelvis is one of the common symptoms. 2  The pain can be severe or moderate. 3  The pain can radiate in the testes as well as in the penis.
FLU-LIKE SYMPTOMS. An inflamed prostate resulting from the abnormal presence of bacteria can cause flu-like symptoms to arise in certain men. These flu-like symptoms include fever, chills, body aches, nausea, vomiting or malaise, explains the Mayo Clinic. 
Prostatitis definition. Prostatitis is inflammation of the prostate gland. The inflammation can be due to an infection as well as other various causes. Prostatitis accounts for nearly 2 million visits per year to outpatient urology practices in the United States. The prostate gland is part of the male reproductive system, and it is a walnut-sized gland found in men that is located below the bladder and in front of the rectum. It surrounds the urethra, the tube through which urine and semen exit the body.
A. Prostatitis is often described as an infection of the prostate. It can also be an inflammation with no sign of infection. Just 5% to 10% of cases are caused by bacterial infection. It does not raise the risk of getting prostate cancer. Types of prostatitis include: 1  Acute bacterial prostatitis. 2  A sudden bacterial infection marked by inflammation of the prostate. 3  This is the least common form of prostatitis, but the symptoms are usually severe.
Inflammation of prostate can result either from bacterial infection or non bacterial infection. The inflammation can be either acute or chronic. Acute bacterial prostatitis is the most common form. It is generally caused due to bacteria in the urinary tract. The symptom of inflamed prostate may depend on the cause which is responsible for causing the problem. 1  Pain in the pelvis is one of the common symptoms. 2  The pain can be severe or moderate. 3  The pain can radiate in the testes as well as in the penis.
Prostatitis, which means inflammation of the prostate gland, is an equal opportunity disorder. Unlike prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), which predominantly affect older men, prostatitis affects men of all ages. 