Roosters are only needed in order for the egg to be FERTILIZED (to have a baby). Hens lay eggs with or without a rooster around. How long does it take a mother hen to hatch her eggs? It takes 20 day for a mother hen to hatch her eggs, and 21 days if your using an incubator. Do hens take care of their eggs? yes all mothers take care of their eggs and youngones...All the hens lays eggs in a safe and same place regularly. Best Answer: How long does it take for a hen to lay an egg? The average laying hen lays 257 eggs a year. The actual time it takes for a hen to make an egg and lay it is 24 to 26 hours. http://www.aeb.org/kidsandfamily/time_to... How Many Eggs Can a Chicken Lay in One Day? When a hen reaches eighteen to twenty weeks of age, she begins to lay eggs
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
Chickens never lay more than one egg per day. As a rule, chickens lay in the morning, but each day a little later. Sometimes the last egg of a series is produced in the early afternoon. When it gets too late, they take the next day off. My five commercial hybrids will sometimes lay for a series of 30 days or more. All chickens lay eggs in a series-never more than one per day. If the eggs are not collected, and a sufficient number of eggs are allowed to remain in the nest, the hen may stop laying eggs and start brooding. When the hen leaves the nest after laying an egg, it cools which suspends the development of the embryo inside.
A rooster is necessary to have fertilized eggs, but a hen will lay eggs even if no rooster is present. Incubation time for fertilized eggs is 21 days. Days 1-18 require an internal temperature of 99.5 F and a humidity of 50-60%. Days 18-21 require an internal temp of 99.5 and a humidity of 70-80%. She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes about 20 hours for an egg to be made inside her body. That's why she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg.
Original Answer: The chicken egg laying cycle lasts for exactly 21 days when the eggs will start to get cracking into chicks. Next Answer: The 21 days referred to in the prev … ious answer is how long it takes a fertile chicken egg to hatch if it is incubated (either by a hen or an incubator). The actual egg laying cycle of a chook can vary as not all breeds lay at the same rate.
A chicken may take from about 5 minutes to an hour to lay her egg. She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes about 20 hours for an egg to be made inside her body. That's why she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg. It takes 20 hours to make an egg and between 5 minutes and an hour to lay it, depending on the hen
Thus: 3 chickens will lay 1 egg in 1/2 of a day. Then it follows that 3 chickens will lay 2 eggs in 1 day. Now, if we allow those 3 chickens three times as long (3 days), they will produce 6 eggs. 3 chickens will lay 6 eggs in 3 days. One chicken will lay 1/3 of that number of eggs (1/3 * 6 = 2 eggs) in 3 days. Next Answer: The 21 days referred to in the prev … ious answer is how long it takes a fertile chicken egg to hatch if it is incubated (either by a hen or an incubator). The actual egg laying cycle of a chook can vary as not all breeds lay at the same rate.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
The actual formation of the egg inside the chicken takes about 24 hours, but when they sit down to lay the egg it can take anywhere from 15 minutes to a couple of hours. Next Answer: The 21 days referred to in the prev … ious answer is how long it takes a fertile chicken egg to hatch if it is incubated (either by a hen or an incubator). The actual egg laying cycle of a chook can vary as not all breeds lay at the same rate.