168 pages on this wiki. Canberra is the capital city of Australia and with a population of over 332,000, is Australia's largest inland city. The city is located at the northern end of the Australian Capital Territory, 300 kilometres (190 mi) southwest of Sydney, and 650 kilometres (400 mi) north-east of Melbourne. 
it looks as though the author of this plan ... had been carefully reading books upon town planning without having much more theoretical knowledge to go upon. Canberra, in the Australian Capital Territory, is Australia's capital city. 
Canberra is a city/town with a medium population in the state/region of Australian Capital Territory, Australia which is located in the continent/region of Oceania. Cities, towns and places near Canberra include City, Reid, Braddon and Turner. 
History [edit]. Canberra was established in 1913 as the capital for the newly federated Australian nation. The ACT was excised from New South Wales and put under the control of the federal government. The creation of the planned city was not without critics who claimed it was a waste of a good sheep pasture. 
Sign Up. It's not located in a state but in a territory, it is located in the Australian Capital Territory given that Canberra is the capital city of Australia :). Best Answer. Australian Capital Territory. Best Answer. so do i :). Best Answer
LATITUDE & LONGITUDE: RELATIVE LOCATION: Located directly to the south of Papua New Guinea, Australia is geographically positioned in both the southern and eastern hemispheres. Australia is completely surrounded by the Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean, and a series of bays, gulfs, seas and straits.
as my interests are far and wide. Canberra is in the Australian Capital Territory and is the capital city of Australia. The Australian Capital territory is completely surrounded by the state of New South Wales. The city lies 248km from Sydney and 483km from Melbourne, and about 150km inland from the coast. 
CANBERRA GEOGRAPHY. If you're interested in the geography of Canberra, Australia, then this article is for you. We'll look at the Climate, Tourism, River Systems and Coastline, Mountains, Nationally Parks and finally, the design. By the end, you'll have a good basic knowledge of Canberra. Canberra Climate. Sitting at 550 meters above sea level, Canberra has a typically dry climate with warm, dry summers and cold winters. Snow is very rare, however fog and overnight frosts are common. In Summer, the highest recorded temperature has been 42.2 Celsius and the humidity is generally low.
Our Location. Redbrow Garden is located on the north-western edge of Canberra between the historic Canberra suburb of Hall and the NSW village of Murrumbateman on the Barton Highway. Our address is: 1143 Nanima Road Murrumbateman NSW 2582 Australia. 