Cozumel: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Cozumel with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 24°C (75°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in May. The wettest month is September with an average of 247mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in August when the average sea temperature is 29°C (84°F).
This report describes the typical weather at the Cozumel International Airport (Cozumel, Mexico) weather station over the course of an average November. It is based on the historical records from 1991 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Wind Speed in November. View indashboard. The average daily minimum (red), maximum (green), and average (black) wind speed with percentile bands (inner band from 25th to 75th percentile, outer band from 10th to 90th percentile).
Over the course of November typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 15 mph (calm to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 23 mph (fresh breeze). The highest average wind speed of 8 mph (gentle breeze) occurs around November 8, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 15 mph (moderate breeze). Wind Speed in November. View indashboard. The average daily minimum (red), maximum (green), and average (black) wind speed with percentile bands (inner band from 25th to 75th percentile, outer band from 10th to 90th percentile).
© Caribeez.com. Cozumel Weather Forecast Cozumel weather in October, November, December Visitors will find that Cozumel weather in November is right between the worst months of the year and the coolest months of the year. Not that Cozumel is ever really cool. It’s just not as warm some months than other months. It rains on average about 15 days in September and October, but that total drops to 11 days in November. Whether to Go November is one of those months when going to Cozumel may be worth considering if prices are low enough to justify the slightly higher risk of rain.
77. In November, Cozumel enjoys a blend of rainy and sunny weather conditions with the average rain for the month measuring around 116mm. The average temperature in the island for the month is 25 C and this can be said to be one of the most moderate months as far as weather is concerned. The average high temperature stands at 28°C with a slight drop at night to stand at 22°C. The average high temperature stands at 28 C with a slight drop at night to stand at 22 C. There is no need of warm clothes during your visit although you could consider carrying a waterproof light jacket in case you are caught up in the rains.
Averages for Cozumel in November. In November, Cozumel enjoys a blend of rainy and sunny weather conditions with the average rain for the month measuring around 116mm. The average temperature in the island for the month is 25 C and this can be said to be one of the most moderate months as far as weather is concerned. The average high temperature stands at 28°C with a slight drop at night to stand at 22°C. The average high temperature stands at 28 C with a slight drop at night to stand at 22 C. There is no need of warm clothes during your visit although you could consider carrying a waterproof light jacket in case you are caught up in the rains.
In contrast, Cozumel temperatures in November have an average high of 85 degrees, which means it is still warm enough for beaches and swimming. The average low temperature is 71 degrees, which takes place mainly at night. It rains on average about 15 days in September and October, but that total drops to 11 days in November. Whether to Go November is one of those months when going to Cozumel may be worth considering if prices are low enough to justify the slightly higher risk of rain.
The probability that precipitation will be observed at this location varies throughout the month. Precipitation is most likely around November 1, occurring in 33% of days. Precipitation is least likely around November 27, occurring in 24% of days. Wind Speed in November. View indashboard. The average daily minimum (red), maximum (green), and average (black) wind speed with percentile bands (inner band from 25th to 75th percentile, outer band from 10th to 90th percentile).
Geography: Cozumel is located about 12 miles off the Yucatan Peninsula, 35 miles south of Cancun. It is Mexico's largest island, with a length of about 30 miles from north to south and a width of 10 miles from east to west. Most of Cozumel's development has taken place on the western side of the island. 