The Tree of Peace is a symbol of peace in the Iroquois culture. The Tree of Peace is an important symbol of peace in Iroquois tradition and in the historical record of diplomacy between the Iroquois and Westerners. Weapons would be buried under a tree to seal a peace agreement. Another Tree of Peace was planted in Latina, Italy in 2013, September 29 by Alex Levinci. As a symbol of peace, it was aimed to find common points in belief and to unite three monotheist religions: Christianity, Islam and Judaism.
In the Iroquois Constitution, what does the Tree of the Great Peace represent? a. strength in battle c. the constitution itself b. the lords’ council d. the confederacy of the Five Nations. Weegy: The Tree of the Great Peace represent the confederacy of the Five Nations. (More). Question. 
The replanted tree on top would become a tree of peace. A specific Eastern White Pine was the symbol of the Iroquois constitution known as the Gayanashagowa or Great Law of Peace given by The Great Peacemaker to the Iroquois people hundreds of years before the European arrival in America. Another Tree of Peace was planted in Latina, Italy in 2013, September 29 by Alex Levinci. As a symbol of peace, it was aimed to find common points in belief and to unite three monotheist religions: Christianity, Islam and Judaism.
Best Answer: All Puns Intended: I'm going out on a limb here, but to solve the root of the problem and plant firmly the new government watered by the U.S. Government, they want peace to branch out to all people. In non pun description, they want democracy to branch out and be embraced. 
Best Answer: The Tree of Peace is a symbol of unity of the tribes involved. There's a good deal of symbolism attached to to wampum, so that's harder to answer without knowing exactly what context you want. There's a lot of information in the second reference link I give. RE: help! in iroquois constitution, what does the tree of great peace symbolize? pleasee help! extra points if yuu also answer this question accordin to the iroquois constitution, what does the wampum symbolize?
White Pine Tree/ Great Tree of Peace. The white pine tree was the tree chosen by the Peacemaker as a symbol of the unity of the nations of the Haudenosaunee confederacy. Its needles which always grow in clusters of five are symbolic of the uniting of the nations.
In the Iroquois Constitutin, the Tree of Great Peace represents D. the confederacy fo the Five Nations. Its characteristic bundles of five needles became the symbol of the Five Nations joined together as one. 
Report Abuse. The tree of peace, a pine, was the symbol of peace among the tribes of the Iroquois confederacy. They buried the hatchet, or war club-depending on interpretation, under it to signify that they had quit warring with each other. RE: help! in iroquois constitution, what does the tree of great peace symbolize? pleasee help! extra points if yuu also answer this question accordin to the iroquois constitution, what does the wampum symbolize?