Full Definition of OVERHEAD. 1. : business expenses (as rent, insurance, or heating) not chargeable to a particular part of the work or product. 2. : ceiling; especially: the ceiling of a ship's compartment. 3. : a stroke in a racket game made above head height: smash. See overhead defined for English-language learners. 
AAA |. An accounting term that refers to all ongoing business expenses not including or related to direct labor, direct materials or third-party expenses that are billed directly to customers. Overhead must be paid for on an ongoing basis, regardless of whether a company is doing a high or low volume of business. It is important not just for budgeting purposes, but for determining how much a company must charge for its products or services to make a profit.
The term overhead is usually used when grouping expenses that are necessary to the continued functioning of the business but cannot be immediately associated with the products or services being offered (i.e., do not directly generate profits). Overheads are the expenditure which cannot be conveniently traced to or identified with any particular cost unit. Such expenses are incurred for output generally and not for particular work order e.g., wages paid to watch and ward staff, heating and lighting expenses of factory etc.
Overhead is those costs required to run a business, but which cannot be directly attributed to any specific business activity, product, or service. Thus, overhead costs do not directly lead to the generation of profits. Overhead and direct costs, when combined, equal all of the expenses incurred by a company. Similar Terms. Overhead is also known as burden or indirect costs. A subset of overhead is manufacturing overhead, which is all overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing process.
Overhead. Definition: Overhead is those administrative expenses of a business that are required to operate general corporate functions, and which cannot be definitively attributed to any revenue-generating activities or units of output (such as products to be sold). Overhead is a necessary part of a business, and must be paid for even when sales levels are low or nonexistent. The cost of overhead can be substantial, which is why managers tend to closely monitor it. Examples of overhead expenses are as follows: 1  Accounting. 2  Administrative salaries.
DEFINITION of 'Overhead'. An accounting term that refers to all ongoing business expenses not including or related to direct labor, direct materials or third-party expenses that are billed directly to customers. Overhead must be paid for on an ongoing basis, regardless of whether a company is doing a high or low volume of business. It is important not just for budgeting purposes, but for determining how much a company must charge for its products or services to make a profit.
The definition of overhead is relating to the operating costs of a business. An example of overhead used as an adjective is the phrase overhead projections, which means how much money a company thinks it will use in an upcoming month, term or year. Overhead is defined as something coming from above or the operating costs of a business. 1  An example of overhead is the light of the stars. overhead-Investment & Finance Definition. Expenses that aren’t directly related to the production of goods or services, but are more general and company-wide in nature. Examples of overhead are salaries for staff positions at headquarters and in human resources, accounting, payroll, and security departments.
overhead-Computer Definition. Data that is not part of the user data, but that is stored or transmitted with it. Overhead can be used for a wide variety of purposes, such as circuit monitoring, channel separation, addressing, error control, priority indication, and congestion management. overhead-Investment & Finance Definition. Expenses that aren’t directly related to the production of goods or services, but are more general and company-wide in nature. Examples of overhead are salaries for staff positions at headquarters and in human resources, accounting, payroll, and security departments.
For the computing term, see Overhead (computing) . In business, overhead or overhead expense refers to an ongoing expense of operating a business; it is also known as an operating expense. Overheads are the expenditure which cannot be conveniently traced to or identified with any particular cost unit. Such expenses are incurred for output generally and not for particular work order e.g., wages paid to watch and ward staff, heating and lighting expenses of factory etc.