Helicobacter Pylori (Definition). Helicobacter pylori (or h.Pylori) is a common bacteria which infects the lining of the stomach and can cause ulcers and stomach irritation, among other problems. It is fairly common on the United States and even more common in other parts of the world. 
The problem with this bacterium is that it causes Helicobacter pylori gastritis, an inflammation of the stomach lining, which may lead to stomach ulcer symptoms and ultimately ulcers or even gastric cancer in old age. 3. H pylori can be found in the drinking water in developing nations. Many developing nations do not treat H pylori as re-infection via drinking water is practically guaranteed. H pylori is usually not treated in these nations unless necessary, such as in the case of an advanced ulcer.
Helicobacter pylori bacteria, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Helicobacter pylori bacteria, can be transmitted: 1  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria. These germs can enter your body and live in your digestive tract. After many years, they can cause sores, called ulcers, in the lining of your stomach or the upper part of your small intestine. For some people, an infection can lead to stomach cancer. Infection with H. pylori is common.
Helicobacter Pylori, or H. Pylori, is a bacteria that lives in the stomach and can cause inflammation and irritation of the stomach lining and ulcers. It has also been linked to stomach cancer. However, many people have no symptoms and are unaware that they are harboring the bacteria. 
Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is the name of a bacteria that can cause peptic ulcers. It can infect the stomach lining, dissolving the mucus film that protects it from the highly acidic stomach contents. This causes a burning pain in the stomach. Helicobacter pylori is the most common human bacterial infection. H. pylori infection is a common cause of peptic ulcer disease in the United States. Peptic ulcer is a localized area of erosion occurring in the stomach or duodenal (the beginning of the small intestine) lining, resulting in abdominal pain, possible bleeding, and other gastrointestinal symptoms.
Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Helicobacter pylori bacteria is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Contagiousness has nothing to do with genetics or inheriting diseases from parents. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Helicobacter pylori bacteria, can be transmitted: 1  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc.