Inner shell membrane. These two membranes -- outer and inner -- are just inside the shell surrounding the albumen (white). The two membranes provide an efficient defense against bacterial invasion and are made partly of keratin. The outer membrane sticks to the egg shell while the inner membrane sticks to the albumen. When an egg is first laid, it is warm. As it cools, the contents contract and the inner shell membrane separates from the outer shell membrane to form the air cell (see 14 below).
An eggshell is the outer covering of a hard-shelled egg and of some forms of eggs with soft outer coats.
There are various ways in which the membrane of an eggshell is separated from the shell, including chemical, mechanical, steam and vacuum processes: see Eggshell and protein membrane separation. The isolated membrane is then partially hydrolyzed and dried to produce a powder, distributed as eggshell membrane (EM).
1 The outer membrane sticks to the egg shell while the inner membrane sticks to the albumen. 2  When an egg is first laid, it is warm. 3  As it cools, the contents contract and the inner shell membrane separates from the outer shell membrane to form the air cell (see 14 below).
1 Exterior albumen (outer thin albumen) — The outer thin albumen is a narrow fluid layer next to the shell membrane. 2  Middle albumen (inner thick albumen) -The inner thick white (chalaziferous layer) is a dense, matted, fibrous capsule of albumen around the vitelline membrane of the yolk.
The shell and shell membrane also function to keep the nutrients inside the egg. The inside of the shell is lined by the double-layered shell membrane. One of the functions of the shell membrane is to provide a barrier to disease organisms (for example bacteria).
1 The entry for the fertilization of the egg. 2  Shell Membrane: The egg's second line of defence against bacteria. 3  There are two membranes on the inside of the shell: one sticks to the shell and the other surrounds the albumen.
1 When an egg is first laid, it is warm. 2  As it cools, the contents contract and the inner shell membrane separates from the outer shell membrane to form the air cell (see 14 below). 3  Chalaza – are twisted in opposite directions and serve to keep the yolk centered.