Chicken Calabrese is essentially a cooked chicken dish that you might find in the Calabria region of Italy (Central) Made from chicken breast, you split the breast open and lay in some sun-dried tomatoes, pesto, and prosciutto. Roll up the breast to cover the enclosed ingredients, and brown lightly in a fry pan. Best Answer: Chicken Calabrese Authentic. Simply Delicious. This is a great mid-week meal that can be prepared fairly quickly and left in the oven to bake, so you can have more time to relax after work. This recipe can also be easily adapted for a slow-cooker stew.
Search billions of records on Ancestry.com. -. CALABRESE ORIGINS CALABRESE ORIGINS The origin of the surname Calabrese is a combination of regional and linguistic geography, originating in Calabria in the southern most region on the toe of the boot of the peninsula of Italia (Italy). 
calabrese. n. 1. (Plants) a variety of green sprouting broccoli. [C20: from Italian: Calabrian]. 1  Facebook. 
Where a calabrese produces green heads, broccoli produces white or purple heads. The head of a calabrese is also larger compared to that of broccoli. There is also a distinct difference in the taste between the two. Calabrese has a mild flavor with a texture that’s tender similar to that of asparagus. Broccoli has a slightly bitter taste that’s tougher than calabrese. Currently, modern breeding allows gardeners to harvest broccoli almost all throughout the year. One characteristic that defines a calabrese from a broccoli is the season when they are planted and harvested. Calabrese typically matures much faster than broccoli. They are planted early in the year and harvested on the same year which is usually in the summer.
Definition of CALABRESE. : a broccoli (Brassica oleracea italica) having a greenish terminal head and similar lateral heads that develop after the terminal one is cut. 
+ Click Photo to Enlarge. Calabrese salami is named after a region in Southern Italy. This coarsely ground pork salami is mildly hot, due to a generous addition of red pepper flakes-- perfect for sandwiches and antipasto. Made in Canada to exact Italian specifications, it is pressed into a flat shape during curing. 
The truth is, calabrese and broccoli are two different varieties of the same vegetable. And since they are of different varieties, they also have differences which will distinctly tell which is which. One characteristic that defines a calabrese from a broccoli is the season when they are planted and harvested. Calabrese typically matures much faster than broccoli. They are planted early in the year and harvested on the same year which is usually in the summer.
Calabrese. An Italian last name derived from the region of Calabria. People with this last name are typically fighters and will defend their honor no matter what. They typically live in the regions of New Jersey and Maryland. 
Print. An Italian dry sausage that is traditionally made with only pork meat, but at times is combined with a small amount of beef. Seasonings are added in addition to hot peppers, which assist to add a very spicy flavor to this type of salami