A colon polyp is a small clump of cells that forms on the lining of the colon. Most colon polyps are harmless. But over time, some colon polyps can develop into colon cancer, which is often fatal when found in its later stages. Anyone can develop colon polyps. 
A colorectal polyp is a polyp (fleshy growth) occurring on the lining of the colon or rectum. Untreated colorectal polyps can develop into colorectal cancer. Colorectal polyps are often classified by their behaviour (i.e. benign vs. malignant) and/or etiology (e.g. as a consequence of inflammatory bowel disease). They may be benign (e.g. hyperplastic polyp), pre-malignant (e.g. tubular adenoma) or malignant (e.g. colorectal adenocarcinoma).
Hyperplastic polyps are benign tumors of the small bowel, which in most cases grow slowly and remain asymptomatic. More rarely, the tumors might grow at a more rapid rate or grow larger than normal, causing symptoms such as pain and digestive problems. For some people, the development of polyps is part of hyperplastic polyposis syndrome, which leads to the growth of multiple polyps, often in all three sections of the small bowel. Ad. Like most benign small bowel tumors, hyperplastic polyps tend to be
A polyp is a projection (growth) of tissue from the inner lining of the colon into the lumen (hollow center) of the colon. Different types of polyps look different under the microscope. Polyps are benign (non-cancerous) growths, but cancer can start in some types of polyps. 
Polyps are often non-cancerous growths but some can develop into cancer. The two most common types of polyps found in the colon and rectum include: 1  Hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps. 2  Usually these polyps do not carry a risk of developing into cancer. 3  However, large hyperplastic polyps, especially on the right side of the colon, are of concern and should be completely removed. 
A polyp is a projection (growth) of tissue from the inner lining of the colon into the lumen (hollow center) of the colon. Different types of polyps have certain identifiable microscopic appearances. They are usually non-cancerous (benign) but, in some instances, cancer can arise in various types of polyps. 
These polyps are larger than hyperplastic polyps. Hamartomatous polyps and inflammatory polyps are two other types of benign colon polyps. Treatment Options The usual treatment for hyperplastic colon polyps is removal, which may be accomplished in one of several ways depending on their size and location. The last segment of the colon is called the rectum. Polyps are small clusters of extra tissue that form on the lining of the colon. These growths often resemble the cap of a mushroom and project outward from the wall of the intestine.
Hyperplastic polyps refer to benign tumors of the small bowel. Endoscopies commonly identify hyperplastic polyps. Removal of polyps may be achieved through an endoscopy. In rare cases, hyperplastic polyps can cause intestinal pain. The presence of multiple hyperplastic polyps may increase one's risk of colon cancer. For some people, the development of polyps is part of hyperplastic polyposis syndrome, which leads to the growth of multiple polyps, often in all three sections of the small bowel. Ad. Like most benign small bowel tumors, hyperplastic polyps tend to be asymptomatic.
Your Diagnosis Your doctor has determined that you have one or more hyperplastic colon polyps, which are generally benign, or non-cancerous, growths on the lining of your large intestine. The last segment of the colon is called the rectum. Polyps are small clusters of extra tissue that form on the lining of the colon. These growths often resemble the cap of a mushroom and project outward from the wall of th
Adenomatous polyps, or adenomas, are polyps that grow on the lining of the colon and which carry a high risk of cancer. The adenomatous polyp is considered pre-malignant, i.e., likely to develop into colon cancer. The other types of polyps that can occur in the colon are the hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps. They are unlikely to develop into colorectal cancer. About 5% of people aged 60 will have at least one adenomatous polyp of 1 cm diameter or great