Roughly speaking, the average hourly pay for a member of the United Auto Workers currently ranges from $28 to $38 or so for those hired before September 2007, and between $16 and $20 for workers hired afterward.
Much of the opposition to the bailout labored under the erroneous impression that auto workers were earning in the neighborhood of $70 or more an hour -- or as much as $150,000 annually for a 40-hour week.
In reality, according to several sources, the hourly wage of the average UAW worker going into the 2007 negotiations was about $28, and fringe benefits added another $10 or so to that figure.
It's estimated that GM workers earn an average $73 an hour when benefits including health care and pensions are added in. That appears to be about $25 an hour more than Toyota's U.S. workers. Toyota and GM workers earn about the same hourly wages. Benefits are what push the UAW members ahead.
In two white-collar major occupational groups, average hourly earnings were higher for nonunion than for union workers. The first was executive, administrative, and managerial occupations, in which nonunion earnings averaged $31.48 per hour, and union earnings averaged $26.73.
Oct. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Debbie Werner is the face of an American workers’ revolution. In a break with decades of U.S. auto-union tradition, the prevailing wage paid to new unionized autoworkers is less than that of the average laborer producing items ranging from metal and wood products to food and beverages.
A report from the conservative Heritage Foundation, opposing the auto industry bailout, said that members of the United Auto Workers union earn $75 an hour in wages and benefits – almost triple the earnings of the average private sector worker..
In 2002, full-time wage and salary workers who were union members had median usual weekly earnings of $740, compared with a median of $587 for wage and salary workers who were not represented by unions.
Union Salaries I believe the median salary for union workers in the U.S.is $17.00 per hour.