Éamon éamon is an Masculine irish given. Name it is An irish form of The English, edmund which is derived from An Old english name containing the elements (ēad, prosperity) riches and (mund). Protector an alternate form Éamon eamon Éaman is Éamann. éaman and eamann éamann 
Eamon /ea-mon/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced AY-mon. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Eamon is  wealthy protector . Variant of Edmund. The Gaelic forms are amon(n) and aman(n) . 
Origin of the name Eamon: Gaelic form of Edmund, which is derived from the Old English Eadmund (wealthy protection), a compound name composed of the elements ēad (prosperity, fortune, riches) and mund (hand, protection). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Eamon: | Edit. Is pronounced EE-mun (Modern English) like in the words east, easy, eagle and easel. Alternative is AY-mun (Gaelic). I dare say AY-mun is the regular pronunciation and EE-mun is the alternative-this is a Gaelic name, not an English one.
Irish name. In Irish, the name Eamon means-wealthy protector. Other origins for the name Eamon include-Irish, Gaelic, French.The name Eamon is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-wealthy protector. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-Gaelic French.
Eamonn's name origin is Old English, and the meaning of the name Eamonn is wealthy protector. Eamonn is a version of Eamon (Irish, Gaelic): form of Edmund. Eamonn /ea-monn/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Eamonn's name origin is Old English, and the meaning of the name Eamonn is wealthy protector. Eamonn is a version of Eamon (Irish, Gaelic): form of Edmund. Ehmann is a familiar last name.
In Gaelic the meaning of the name Eamon is: Rich protector. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Eamon is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Eamon is: Wealthy defender. French Meaning: The name Eamon is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Eamon is: Prosperous protector. A FrenchOld English name Eadmund, meaning rich or happy, and protection. Irish Meaning: The name Eamon is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Eamon is: Guardian. 
Meaning of the Irish name Eamon. MEANING: Is the Irish form of Old English ead “”rich”” + mund “”guardian””, and implies “”guardian of the riches.”” In more recent times the name has been given to honor Eamon De Valera who was President of Ireland for 14 years, the maximum allowed, from 1959 to 1973. GENDER: Boy | Male.
French name. In French, the name Eamon means-Variant of Edmond: Prosperous protector. A French variant of the Old English name Eadmund, meaning rich or happy, and protection.. Other origins for the name Eamon include-French, Irish, Irish, Gaelic.The name Eamon is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-Variant of Edmond: Prosperous protector. A French variant of the Old English name Eadmund, meaning rich or happy, and protection. Origin-French