The Townshend Act-The Boston tea party was December 6th, 1773 while the Townshend Act resulted in the Boston Massacre in 1770. On the same day as the massacre in Bosto … n, Parliament began to consider a motion to repeal the Townshend Acts. Most of the new taxes were repealed, but the tax on tea remained. the tea act of 1773 was passed by england to save the east india company from bankrupy. they put taxes on tea and the colonist didnt like it. so on december 16, 1773 the bosto … n tea party happens.
The Tea Act …was what ultimately compelled a group of Sons of Liberty. on the night of December 16, 1773 to disguise themselves as Mohawk Indians, board three ships moored in Boston Harbor, and destroy over 92,000 pounds of British East India Company tea. First edition of the Tea Act of 1773. With the passing of the Tea Act, the seventeen million pounds of unsold surplus tea the British East India Company owned could be sold to markets in the American colonies. The Boston Tea-Party, 1888. New York Public Library.
The Boston Tea Party (initially referred to by John Adams as  the Destruction of the Tea in Boston ) was a political protest by the Sons of Liberty in Boston, on December 16, 1773. The Tea Party was the culmination of a resistance movement throughout British America against the Tea Act, which had been passed by the British Parliament in 1773.
The Tea Act: The Catalyst of the Boston Tea Party. The Tea Act, passed by Parliament on May 10, 1773, granted the British East India Company Tea a monopoly on tea sales in the American colonies. With the passing of the Tea Act, the seventeen million pounds of unsold surplus tea the British East India Company owned could be sold to markets in the American colonies. The Boston Tea-Party, 1888. New York Public Library.
Introduction. The Tea Act of 1773 was one of several measures imposed on the American colonists by the heavily indebted British government in the decade leading up to the American Revolutionary War (1775-83). 
The Tea Act. The Tea Act, passed by Parliament on May 10, 1773, would launch the final spark to the revolutionary movement in Boston. 
This was the Tea Act, passed by the British parliament on May 10, 1773. This was an attempt by the British government to prop up the failing Dutch East India Company. It reduced taxes and removed all duties on the exportation of East India Company tea. 
The Intolerable Acts. The series of acts British Parliament passed in 1774 in reaction to the Boston Tea Party came to be known in the American colonies as the Intolerable Acts. This U.S. History website offers a brief description of the Intolerable Acts with a link to each specific act
Tea Act of 1773 (13 Geo 3 c 44) was an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain. The principal objective was to reduce the massive surplus of tea held by the financially troubled British East India Company in its London warehouses and to help the struggling company survive. Parliament passed the Taxation of Colonies Act 1778, which repealed a number of taxes (including the tea tax that underlay this act) as one of a number of conciliatory proposals presented to the Second Continental Congress by the Carlisle Peace Commission.