Processes that damage the optic nerve, including elevated intraocular pressure (ie, glaucoma), trauma, stroke, pressure from brain tumors, and hereditary conditions, often cause visual loss for which there is no treatment. The Optic Nerve Research Center of Maryland has been created to test novel neuroprotective drugs, gene therapies, and progenitor cell (ie, stem cell) replacement in animal models, in preparation for testing them in humans.
Optic nerve damage: Introduction. Optic nerve damage: Any damage either structurally or functionally to the eye that may result in permanent visual loss. See detailed information below for a list of 19 causes of Optic nerve damage, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Causes of Similar Symptoms to Optic nerve damage. Research the causes of these symptoms that are similar to, or related to, the symptom Optic nerve damage: 1  Blurred vision (982 causes). 2  Vision loss (688 causes). 3  Eye symptoms (5412 causes). 4  Multiple sclerosis. 5  Vasculitis (65 causes). 6  Lupus (14 causes). 7  Herepes zoster
The mission of the Optic Nerve Research Center of Maryland (ONRC) is to prevent vision loss from various disorders that damage the optic nerve—the nerve that carries visual information from the eye to the brain—and to restore vision that has been lost due to optic nerve damage. 
Optic Neuropathy Program. Vision loss from optic nerve injury due to trauma, multiple sclerosis or vascular disorders such as NAION is complex and multifaceted. 
This is most unfortunate, as a capacity for successful nerve regeneration is a necessity for restoration of function following damage, through accident or disease, to the human brain and spinal cord. Success of optic nerve regeneration might also open the door to future strategies of eye transplantation. Scientists around the world are working hard to find a way to regrow the optic nerve. In addition, because of its easy access, the optic nerve has long served as a standard model for the study of spinal cord injury and regeneration in lab animals.
Glaucoma causes damage to the optic nerve, which can result in an eventual loss of vision. The optic nerve is a cable of nerve fibers that carry electrical impulses from the retina to the brain. A layer of cells on the retina, called retinal ganglion cells, is one end of this cable..
The optic nerve is a cable of nerve fibers that carry electrical impulses, containing visual information, from the eye to the brain. Scientists around the world are working hard to find a way to regrow the optic nerve. In addition, because of its easy access, the optic nerve has long served as a standard model for the study of spinal cord injury and regeneration in lab animals.
Stem cells to replace the optic nerve. Supported in part by PHS Research Grant 02120 from the National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA, and by the Wagner Charitable Trust, New York, NY, USA. 
Glaucoma and Optic Neuropathies Program. Glaucoma is a group of disorders that shares a distinct type of optic nerve damage that leads to loss of visual function. The disease is manifested as a progressive optic neuropathy that, if left untreated, leads to blindness. 