Ideally a ewe will have twins. The first couple of years they usually have just one and as they get older have just one. Some ewes will have triplets but are often unable to rear them all without help. We had a ewe last year that had five but sadly they all died.
Thus, for some producers, it is commonplace to breed well-grown ewe lambs when they are 7 to 9 months of age. Other producers wait until their ewes are 18 months old before breeding them to lamb as 2 year olds. Different breeds of sheep reach puberty (sexually maturity) at different ages.
The weight of newborn lambs varies by breed, sex of lamb, litter number, and ewe nutrition. The lambs from medium to small breeds are similar in size to human babies, usually between 5 and 12 pounds, with an average of 8 to 10 pounds.
Confidence votes 56. Ideally a ewe will have twins. The first couple of years they usually have just one and as they get older have just one. Some ewes will have triplets but are often unable to rear them all without help. We had a ewe last year that had five but sadly they all died.
Twin births (two babies) is most common in well-managed flocks and with many breeds of sheep. First-time moms, especially yearlings, are more likely to have single births, though twins are not uncommon in some breeds. Ewes produce their largest litters of lambs when they are between the ages of 3 and 6.
Rams. A healthy, mature ram can probably mate 100 (or more) ewes during a breeding season, though a ratio of 1 mature ram to 35 to 50 ewes is more common to make sure lambing is not too spread out. Seven to 8 month old ram lambs that have achieved approximately 50 percent of their mature size can be used for breeding.
Every year 15% to 25% of the mothering sheep will be heartlessly culled if they have low fertility or lameness. The entire reproductive lives of sheep is manipulated and controlled in order to achieve the highest number of lambs, as it is the babies’ meat and wool that fetches the highest price at market.