He accepted Christianity and became one of the seven deacons chosen by the disciples to take care of the widows and the needy people in Jerusalem (Acts 6:1-5). Stephen is described as a man who was unusually full of faith and the Holy Spirit. His adversaries then grabbed him, dragged him out of the city and stoned him to death. (A man named Saul-who later became a Christian evangelist named Paul, was present at the stoning. He watched over the cloaks of the people who were stoning Stephen).
Stephen. The first Christian martyr. Stephen was one of seven men chosen from the Hellenists--a Greek-speaking wing of the church--to see that no widows were neglected in the daily distribution of food. He became known as a man full of grace and power whose speaking was inspired by the Spirit of God
Stephen defended himself against the accusations, but his defense made his adversaries even more angry (Acts 7:56). His adversaries then grabbed him, dragged him out of the city and stoned him to death. (A man named Saul-who later became a Christian evangelist named Paul, was present at the stoning. He watched over the cloaks of the people who were stoning Stephen). During the stoning, Stephen prayed to Jesus, asking that his adversaries not be charged with the sin of killing him. He then died (Acts 7:59-60
Stephen is first mentioned in Acts of the Apostles as one of seven deacons appointed by the Apostles to distribute food and charitable aid to poorer members of the community in the early church. According to Orthodox belief, he was the eldest and is therefore called archdeacon. Stephen is mentioned in Acts 6 as one of the Greek-speaking Hellenistic Jews selected to participate in a fairer distribution of welfare to the Greek-speaking widows. The Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Orthodox Churches venerate Stephen as a saint.
Stephen. Windows Media Player. Stephen was one of the great men of faith in the early church. Though he was not an apostle, he holds a special place in scripture because he was chosen to minister to the widows who were being cared for in Jerusalem. The young man who was consenting to Stephen's death was Saul of Tarsus. Read the story in Spanish Esteban, el Primer Cristiano Martir. Mártir read the story In. Amharic stephen was, brave and he was not afraid to speak the. truth
He was a follower of Jesus. He was later stoned by Jews, while Saul (later called Paul) was holding their clothes. He is considered to be the first Christian martyr. Right before he dies though, he sees Jesus sitting in heaven, and they say Stephen's was as britght as an angels. 
The stoning of Stephen is notable not simply because he is the first Christian martyr, but because of the presence of a man named Saul, who was consenting to his death (Acts 7:59), and at whose feet the witnesses laid down their garments (Acts 7:57). 
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford, England, to Frank (1905–1986) and Isobel Hawking (nee Née; walker–1915). 2013 his mother Was. Scottish despite their' families financial, constraints both parents attended The university Of, oxford Where frank studied medicine And, Isobel, Philosophy politics And. economics Stephen William Hawking CH, CBE, FRS, FRSA (/ˈstiːvən ˈhɔːkɪŋ/; born 8 January 1942) is an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, author and Director of Research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology within the University of Cambridge.