Lettuce spread to the Greeks and Romans, the latter of whom gave it the name  lactuca , from which the English lettuce is ultimately derived. By 50 AD, multiple types were described, and lettuce appeared often in medieval writings, including several herbals. Lettuce was first cultivated by the ancient Egyptians who turned it from a weed, whose seeds were used to produce oil, into a food plant grown for its succulent leaves, in addition to its oil-rich seeds.
Hello, Guest. Lettice is still occasionally heard in upper-class British families, but we fear it would cause too much salad-green teasing to be considered in the U.S. Calling your little Lettice Lettie could help make the name more user-friendly, or go all the way to the original Letitia. 
Lettice /let-tice/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin origin, and the name Lettice means joy. Lettice is an alternate form of Letitia (Latin): Latin version of the name. Compare last name Lettis. Kreatif forms: Leitice, Lettire, Lotice. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is a comparison of the usage of Lettice and related names. Prominent varying forms of Lettice (not ranked) ranked in the Top 1000 are Letta, Lettie, Tisha, Letitia, Leticia, Leda, Leta, Letha and Latisha.
Comments and insights on the name Lettice: | Edit. This is a pretty, classic English name, but it suffers from sounding too much like the word lettuce.
Latin Meaning: The name Lettice is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lettice is: Joy. Popular medieval British form of the name Letitia. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. 
Lettice is an equivalently unusual surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is a comparison of the usage of Lettice and related names. Prominent varying forms of Lettice (not ranked) ranked in the Top 1000 are Letta, Lettie, Tisha, Letitia, Leticia, Leda, Leta, Letha and Latisha.
Lettuce is very easy to grow, and as such has been a significant source of sales for many seed companies. Tracing the history of many varieties is complicated by the practice of many companies, particularly in the US, of changing a variety's name from year to year. Lettuce was first cultivated by the ancient Egyptians who turned it from a weed, whose seeds were used to produce oil, into a food plant grown for its succulent leaves, in addition to its oil-rich seeds.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Lettice families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. 
Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) is an annual plant of the daisy family Asteraceae. It is most often grown as a leaf vegetable, but sometimes for its stem and seeds. Lettuce was first cultivated by the ancient Egyptians who turned it from a weed, whose seeds were used to produce oil, into a food plant grown for its succulent leaves, in addition to its oil-rich seeds.
The female personal names Leticia, Lettice and Letizia were formed from this word, the latter being the name of Napoleon's mother. Leticia (without surname) appears in the 1206 Curia Regis Rolls of Essex. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of John Letice, which was dated 1247, witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Bedfordshire, during the reign of King Henry 111, known as The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.