Form of: Alicia. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Alecia and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Alecia and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Alecia has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Alecia are: 1  Germanic meaning: Noble kind; of the noble sort.
Alecia /ale-cia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Alecia's name origin is Old German, and the name Alecia means noble, exalted. Alecia is an alternate spelling of Alice (Old German). Alecia is also a derivative of Alicia (Old German). Kreatif forms: Alcia, Alelia. Shown below is the baby name popularity of Alecia for girls. Alecia entered the list in 1960-1969 and reached its apex position of #602 in the U.S. during 1980-1989, but is not in the Top 1000 currently.
The different meanings of the name Alecia are: The meaning of the name “Alecia” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. The meaning of Alecia has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Alecia are: 1  Germanic meaning: Noble kind; of the noble sort.
[ 4 syll. a-le-cia, al-ec-ia ] The baby girl name Alecia is pronounced as aa-L IY-Siy-aa- †. Alecia's language of origin is Germanic, and it is used largely in the English and Greek languages. Alecia is a variant form of Alice. Alecia is also a variant form of the English, Latinized, Spanish, French, and Scandinavian Alicia in the English and Greek languages. Alecia is unusual as a baby name for girls. Its usage peaked modestly in 1987 with 0.019% of baby girls being given the name Alecia
In Teutonic the meaning of the name Alicia is: Noble humor. Latin Meaning: The name Alicia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Alicia is: A Latinized form of the German Alice, from Adalheidis meaning nobility. Swedish Meaning: The name Alicia is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Alicia is: Truth. 
Alicia /ali-cia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ah-LEE-shah, ah-LEE-see-ah. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Alicia is noble, exalted. Modern Latinate form of Alice. Phonetic forms to ensure a particular pronunciation are popular. Actress Alicia Silverstone. 
Latin Meaning: The name Alecia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Alecia is: American Meaning: The name Alecia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Alecia is: SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Origin of the name Alicia: Variant of Alice, a name that has evolved through a series of variants of the Germanic Adalheidis, a compound name composed of the elements adal (noble, nobility) and heid (kind, sort): hence, noble one..