Mithun, also known as ‘Cattle of Mountain” is an important bovine species of north-eastern hill region of India and also of China, Myanmar, Bhutan and Bangladesh. This magnificent massive bovine is presently reared under free-range condition in the hill forests at an altitude of 1000 to 3000 m above mean sea level. Even today, Mithun is used as a holy sacrificial animal to appease the Gods by the tribesman. Mithun, a unique bovine species has a limited geographical distribution. It is mainly found in the tropical rain forests of North Eastern hilly states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram of India (Diagram 1).
Being a meat animal the growth rate of Mithun is the prime concern of farmers. With adequate feeding the growth rate of this animal varies from 300 to 600 g/ day, which is comparable with cattle and buffalo. Even today, Mithun is used as a holy sacrificial animal to appease the Gods by the tribesman. Mithun, a unique bovine species has a limited geographical distribution. It is mainly found in the tropical rain forests of North Eastern hilly states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram of India (Diagram 1).
7. What is the global milk production by species? Global milk production has been dominated by 5 animal species: dairy cattle, buffalo, goats, sheep, and camels. According to FAO 2013 statistics, 85% of total milk production comes from cows, followed by buffaloes with 11%, goats 2%, sheep 1% and camels 0.4%. This is unfortunate as some of the minor animals, such as donkey, reindeer, yak, Bactrian camel, moose, musk ox, llama, alpaca and mithun, are underutilized. In other words, the production of milk from these minor species has the potential to contribute to food security, health and nutrition and income generation. 7.
Like cattle, Mithun is a poly-estrus animal. The healthy adult female Mithun show repeated estrus cycles at an interval of 19 to 24 days unless it is pregnant. The Mithun breeds throughout the year and no definite breeding season is observed in this species. Even today, Mithun is used as a holy sacrificial animal to appease the Gods by the tribesman. Mithun, a unique bovine species has a limited geographical distribution. It is mainly found in the tropical rain forests of North Eastern hilly states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram of India (Diagram 1).
The gayal (Bos frontalis), also known as mithun, is a large semi-domesticated bovine distributed in Northeast India, Bangladesh, northern Burma and in Yunnan, China. The gayal differs in several important particulars from the gaur. It is somewhat smaller, with proportionately shorter limbs, and stands much lower at the withers. The ridge on the back is less developed, and bulls have a larger dewlap on the throat.
The nutrient composition of milk from minor dairy animals i.e. animals other than cows, buffalo, goats and sheep, has to date received little research attention. This is unfortunate as some of the minor animals, such as donkey, reindeer, yak, Bactrian camel, moose, musk ox, llama, alpaca and mithun, are underutilized. In other words, the production of milk from these minor species has the potential to contribute to food security, health and nutrition and income generation. 7.
The mithun is a poor milk yielder, but like buffalo, mithun milk contains a high fat content (Mondal et al 2001). At present, there is paucity of information on systematic evaluation of mithun as a milk producing animal. Persistency of lactation is the ability of a milk animal to maintain milk production at a high level after reaching the peak yield. High persistency is associated with a slow rate of decline in yield following peak milk yield and low persistency is associated with a rapid rate of decline (Appuhamy et al 2007).
This massive animal is reared primarily for meat purpose. However, mithun is also used as a milk animal. Mithun and mithun cow hybrid are reared for milk in many places of North-East India, Bhutan and Myanmar. The use of mithun bulls to breed with Siri cows is a common practice in those areas (Gupta et al 1999). Persistency of lactation is the ability of a milk animal to maintain milk production at a high level after reaching the peak yield. High persistency is associated with a slow rate of decline in yield following peak milk yield and low persistency is associated with a rapid rate of decline (Appuhamy et al 2007).
This is unfortunate as some of the minor animals, such as donkey, reindeer, yak, Bactrian camel, moose, musk ox, llama, alpaca and mithun, are underutilized. In other words, the production of milk from these minor species has the potential to contribute to food security, health and nutrition and income generation. Cow milk does not contain sufficient iron and folate (i.e. one of the B vitamins that is a key factor in the making of DNA) to meet requirements, and animal milks are not recommended for infants younger than 12 months.
However, Mithun milk is nutritionally superior to any other domesticated species as it contains high fat (8 to 13%), solid-not-fat (18 to 24%) and protein (5 to 7%). Hence, Mithun has a scope to be promoted as moderately good milk animal for home consumption in these hilly areas. Even today, Mithun is used as a holy sacrificial animal to appease the Gods by the tribesman. Mithun, a unique bovine species has a limited geographical distribution. It is mainly found in the tropical rain forests of North Eastern hilly states of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram of India (Diagram 1).