Symptoms of Rabies in Humans It takes some time (the incubation period) before a person exposed to rabies develops symptoms. The incubation period for rabies can vary. It can be anywhere from a week to over a year. An incubation period as long as 19 years has been reported. However, it usually lasts about one to two months.
1 The incubation period -- the period of time between exposure to a disease and the onset of clinical signs -- for rabies can vary greatly. 2  The typical incubation period is three to eight weeks, but it can be as little as nine days or as long as several years in some rare cases. 1 Transmission is usually through a bite wound, but the disease has been known to spread through a scratch or an existing open wound. 2 
The rabies incubation period is quick: Symptoms of rabies in cats can begin to manifest within a week to 10 days of infection. What symptoms and how they manifest vary on an individual basis; the size of the cat determines the progress of the rabies virus’ journey from the site of infection to the brain. 
Once bitten by an infected animal, the rabid cat may progress through one or more stages of infection. In most cases, the virus spreads through the cat's nerves towards its brain. The average incubation period of rabies in cats is about two to six weeks. After the virus reaches the brain, the rabid cat will begin to show symptoms. The phases of rabies infection are as follows: 1  The prodromal phase is the first phase
Rabies in Animals. The incubation period (time from exposure to signs of illness) of rabies in domestic animals such as dogs and cats can be quite variable, but averages three to six weeks. The first sign of rabies in animals is often a change in temperament or behavior. A dog, cat, or ferret may be infectious (have rabies virus in its saliva) for several days before it develops any outward signs of disease. Whether this is true, and for what time period, is unknown for other animal species.
Symptoms of rabies in cats: The incubation period of rabies is from 30-90 days, but may take as long as a year. As a general rule, the further from the brain the bite occurs, the longer the incubation period. The animal is not contagious during the incubation period. 
The animal does not appear ill during this time. The time between the bite and the appearance of symptoms is called the incubation period and it may last for weeks to months. A bite by the animal during the incubation period does not carry a risk of rabies because the virus has not yet made it to the saliva. Extensive studies on dogs, cats, and ferrets show that the rabies virus can be excreted in the saliva of infected animals several days before illness is apparent.
This can vary from ten days to one year or longer. Incubation in the cat is generally less than in the dog and is typically three to eight weeks. Death usually occurs within ten days from the first onset of signs. The speed at which clinical signs develop depends upon: 1. The site of infection. Rabies vaccination is required by law in most states and provinces. Rabies vaccination of cats is important for your safety as well as your cats. Rabies vaccines are very effective and are usually given to kittens at three to four months of age.
The Infectious Path of the Rabies Virus. 1  Raccoon is bitten by a rabid animal. 2  Rabies virus enters the raccoon through infected saliva. 3  Rabies virus spreads through the nerves to the spinal cord and brain. 4  The virus incubates in raccoon's body for apporximately 3-12 weeks. Extensive studies on dogs, cats, and ferrets show that the rabies virus can be excreted in the saliva of infected animals several days before illness is apparent.
It multiplies in the brain very quickly, causing the end of the rabies incubation period, and the beginning of rabies symptoms. Usually within three to five days, the rabies virus has caused enough damage to the brain that the animal will begin to show unmistakable signs of rabies. The rabies incubation period may vary from a few days to several years, but is typically one to three months. During this time, the rabies virus is multiplying within the body.