Michael Carbonaro (born circa 1976) is an Italian American actor, magician, and improv artist. He is known for his hidden-camera Magic Clerk segments on The Tonight Show, in which he tricks unsuspecting customers at a convenience store. This led to a television series with a similar premise, The Carbonaro Effect, which premiered on TruTV on May 15, 2014, following a preview episode on April 1, 2014. In 2004, he was featured on Chappelle's Show on Comedy Central. Following that, Carbonaro played Andy Wilson in the 2006 comedy Another Gay Movie. For his work, he won the Outfest Best Actor in a Feature Film award.
1. He’s the Master of The Carbonaro Effect. In case you haven’t seen it, The Carbonaro Effect is a new show on TruTV that showcases the magical pranks of Michael Carbonaro. Carbonaro is a talented magician, prankster, and actor, which makes his show truly come alive. Have a look at a clip from the show in the above video. The Magic Castle is an exclusive showplace for the greatest magicians on the planet. Carbonaro was actually fortunate enough to perform at The Magic Castle very early on in his career. A magician named Eugene Burger was his mentor and actually got him in.
Michael Carbonaro’s new TV series “The Carbonaro Effect” debuts on Wednesday (May 14) on TruTV. The magician is best known for his “Magic Clerk” segments on “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno,” and he applies that premise to a larger scope to create his new series. Zap2it spoke with Carbonaro about the show and what he thinks it does differently from other hidden camera and magic shows. I started doing hidden-camera magic segments for “The Tonight Show,” and Jay [Leno] was just the greatest guy to work for in the world. He just gets it, because he’s a comedian and an artist himself. So he gets the creative process, and he trusts when he finds somebody he believes in.
But hidden-camera television offers a slice of life that can seem less of a setup than people cast to play out their tiffs and friendships. Michael Carbonaro, star of The Carbonaro Effect, premiering tonight on truTV, is a magician, but he couches that magic in a combination of acting and hidden-camera trickery. If you recognize Carbonaro, 32, it may be from the Magic Clerk segments he delivered for Jay Leno on The Tonight Show.. First impressions. 
Watch Full Episodes for Free: http://full.sc/11eAcFr. Michael Carbonaro is a magician by trade, but a prankster by heart. In THE CARBONARO EFFECT, Michael performs baffling tricks on unsuspecting people in everyday situations, all caught on hidden camera. Everyone is left stunned and delighted, even though they have no idea what just hit them. 
Michael Carbonaro just wants to make your life a little more magical. In his new show, The Carbonaro Effect, the magician crafts elegant stunts so that people don't even realize magic is happening. Imagine if David Copperfield were your grocery clerk.
Hey guys, Would love to hear your thoughts and opinions on Michael Carbonaro's new show called Carbonaro Effect. I've DVR'd a few episodes and really like this style of show. I know David Regal and Johnny Thompson are in on it. 
Michael Carbonaro, a magician whose new show was inspired in part by the classic comedy of Candid Camera. NEW YORK — “With a hocus-pocus, you’re in focus. . .”. So went the theme song of Candid Camera, the quintessential TV prank show. The lyric is one that Michael Carbonaro took to heart: The magician, born and raised on Long Island, N.Y., puts hocus-pocus, presto and a little abracadabra into his own prank show, The Carbonaro Effect — premiering tonight on TruTV. His series, an offshoot of his frequent “Magic Clerk” segments on Jay Leno’s Tonight Show, finds Carbonaro, 38, mostly behind the counter at hotels and stores, confounding customers with sleight of hand for which he gives reasonable-sounding explanations — such as a new “vortex” technology.
(Getty). Michael Carbonaro will blow your mind. He’s a magician’s magician, a prankster like you’ve never seen, and he’s easy on the eyes. What’s most important is that Carbonaro knows how to keep a secret … He tells us: Rule number one in magic is never reveal a secret. The Magic Castle is an exclusive showplace for the greatest magicians on the planet. Carbonaro was actually fortunate enough to perform at The Magic Castle very early on in his career. A magician named Eugene Burger was his mentor and actually got him in.
In doing that, just in playing the magic clerk character, I was like, this is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of things I want to do with magic and hidden cameras. I developed all of these dreams and cool idea, and “The Carbonaro Effect” is happening. It’s getting to go into all new places. I started doing hidden-camera magic segments for “The Tonight Show,” and Jay [Leno] was just the greatest guy to work for in the world. He just gets it, because he’s a comedian and an artist himself. So he gets the creative process, and he trusts when he finds somebody he believes in.