Read More. The immensely talentd American news anchor, Bret Baier recently associated with fox news Channel was born on August 4, 1970 in New Jersey. He is performing his role as the host of the program special report with Bret Baier forecasted on fox news Channel. 
Date: 18 Nov, 2014 Report This. The very intelligent and very influential Bret Baier’s full name is William Bret Baier. He was born in the year 1970 on 4th of August which makes him 44 years old at the current moment. At this age he has gained it all from money, power to fame and appreciation. Daniel Baier, Paul Francis Baier. The very intelligent and very influential Bret Baier’s full name is William Bret Baier. He was born in the year 1970 on 4th of August which makes him 44 years old at the current moment.
(William) Bret Baier was born August 4, 1970 in Rumson, New Jersey. Baier began his television career with a local station in Rockford, Illinois before joining WRAL-TV, the CBS affiliate in Raleigh, North Carolina. He submitted an audition tape to Fox News in 1998 and was hired as the network's Atlanta bureau chief. 
Height: 5 Feet 11 Inch. The host of the one of the syndicated shows Special Report with Bret Baier on Fox News, William Bret Baier, is popular as the anchor of the Fox News Channel, Bret Baier. Bret was born in the year 1970 August 4 at Rumson, New Jersey, United States. He has an American nationality and belongs to white ethnicity. 
William Bret Baier (born August 4, 1970) is the host of Special Report with Bret Baier on the Fox News Channel and serves as the chief political anchor for Fox. 
William Bret Baier is the host of Special Report with Bret Baier on Fox News Channel. Bret Baier is one of the majorly paid off media people when it comes to his salary. Bret Baier is getting the annual salary of $ 7 million dollars from the Fox news network which is also considered as the highest salary being given to any reporter from his channel. Bret Baier minimum wage and net worth is displayed right under the light of the numbers pool of the viewing audience. Bret Baier is paid up $3.37 for every browser. According to a survey and his view hits there are around 2.076 million viewer of Bret Baier' report. With over 2 million hits and his rate of over $3 his salary exceeds to a maximum. It means Bret Baier is making enormous amount of money and fortune through his salary.