Atoms are neutral. This is because the number of electrons orbiting the nucleus = number of protons in the nucleus. The proton and electron carry equal but opposit charge. When an atom loses or gains electrons it is then negatively (gains electrons) or positively (loses electrons) charged.
The total number of electrons in an atom is always the same as the number of protons in the nucleus. This means atoms have no overall electrical charge. The number of protons in an atom is called its atomic number atomic number: The number of protons in the nucleus of an atom.
All atoms have neutral charge because they have the same number of protons and electrons. An ion is an atom which has a charge, either negative or positive.
Neutrons are neutral, but protons and electrons are electrically charged. Protons have a relative charge of +1, while electrons have a relative charge of -1. The number of protons in an atom is called its atomic number. In the periodic table atoms are arranged in atomic number order.
Atoms have no charge because the number of protons is equal to the number of electrons. Protons are positively charged, while electrons are negatively charged. An equal number of protons and electrons means the charge is cancelled out.
Atoms consist of electrons [electrons: Sub-atomic particles, with a negative charge and a negligible mass relative to protons and neutrons. ] surrounding a nucleus [nucleus: The central part of an atom. It contains protons and neutrons, and has most of the mass of the atom.
Confidence votes 572. Atoms have no charge because the number of protons is equal to the number of electrons. Protons are positively charged, while electrons are negatively charged. An equal number of protons and electrons means the charge is cancelled out.
Report Abuse. All atoms have neutral charge because they have the same number of protons and electrons. An ion is an atom which has a charge, either negative or positive. Atoms become ions through a process called ionic bonding, which is where an atom loses or gains an electron or two.