the base pairs. The rungs of the DNA ladder are formed by nucleotides (Adenine with Thymine, and Guanine with Cytosine) bonded together with Hydrogen bonds. 
Combinations of these atoms form the sugar-phosphate backbone of the DNA -- the sides of the ladder, in other words. Other combinations of the atoms form the four bases: thymine (T), adenine (A), cytosine (C), and guanine (G). These bases are the rungs of the DNA ladder. (It takes two bases to form a rung -- one for each side of the ladder.). A sugar molecule, a base, and a phosphate molecule group together to make up a nucleotide. Nucleotides are abundant in the cell's nucleus. Nucleotides are the units which, when linked sugar to phosphate, make up one side of a DNA ladder
The backbone of the DNA strand is made from alternating phosphate and sugar residues. The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar. The sugars are joined together by phosphate groups that form phosphodiester bonds between the third and fifth carbon atoms of adjacent sugar rings. These asymmetric bonds mean a strand of DNA has a direction.
(A grouping like this of a phosphate, a sugar, and a base makes up a subunit of DNA called a nucleotide.) These bases make up the 'rungs' of the ladder, and are attached to the backbone where the deoxyribose (sugar) molecules are located. The specific base pairing provides a way for DNA to make exact copies of itself. Each half of the original DNA still has a base attached to its sugar-phosphate backbone. A new strand of DNA is made by an enzyme called DNA polymerase. It reads the original strand and matches complementary bases to the original strand.
It has an alternating chemical phosphate and sugar backbone, making the 'sides' of the ladder. (Deoxyribose is the name of the sugar found in the backbone of DNA.) In between the two sides of this sugar-phosphate backbone are four nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), thymine (T), cytosine (C), and guanine (G). The specific base pairing provides a way for DNA to make exact copies of itself. Each half of the original DNA still has a base attached to its sugar-phosphate backbone. A new strand of DNA is made by an enzyme called DNA polymerase. It reads the original strand and matches complementary bases to the original strand.
The phosphate group of one nucleotide links to the deoxyribose unit of another to form the backbone of the DNA strand. The nucleobases form the ladder rungs when the two strands align and twist to form the classical double-helix structure. Nucleotides that form the strands of the DNA structure are complex molecules which consist of both a phosphate moiety and a nucleobase (adenine, guanine, cytosine or thymine) joined to a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose). In RNA, the five-carbon sugar ribose replaces deoxyribos
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. The structure of the double helix is somewhat like a ladder, with the base pairs forming the ladder’s rungs and the sugar and phosphate molecules forming the vertical sidepieces of the ladder. An important property of DNA is that it can replicate, or make copies of itself.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Deoxyribose (a sugar) and phosphate form the backbone. Adenine bonds with Thymine (and vice versa) via 2 hydrogen bonds. Guanine bonds with Cytosine (and vice versa) via 3 hydrogen bonds. Source(s): Graduate school in biomedical science. 
Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is a modified form of another sugar called ribose.