Dryland Salinity is the process that degrades land due to an increase in soil salt concentration. Being in excess of normal soil salt concentrations makes it harder for plants to take water from the soil and eventually they die from dehydration, leaving patches of soil with no ground cover. 1 Clearing deep-rooted perennial native vegetation and replacing it with shallow rooted annual plants. 2  The shallow roots are no longer able to utilise the excess runoff, and it now seeps past the roots zone to enter the groundwater system.
Dryland salinity occurs due to the replacement of deep-rooted perennial vegetation with shallow-rooted annual species. Long fallows in a cropping rotation can also be a cause. 
Dryland salinity. Causes of dryland salinity. Salinity problems in the soil and surface water bodies occur when more water enters the groundwater system (through a process called recharge) than is discharged from the system. This imbalance causes the water table to rise. Dryland salinity is essentially a water balance problem, since it is the movement of water that controls salt transport. Excess recharge into groundwater stores causes water tables to rise, carrying dissolved salts to the surface. Salinity management, therefore, focuses on reducing groundwater recharge.
Dryland salinity. Dryland salinity is the build up of salts in the soil surface and groundwater in non-irrigated areas. Although salts are a natural part of the Australian landscape, dryland salinity refers to excess salt that affects soil, native vegetation, biodiversity, crops and water quality. Salt near the soil surface makes it harder for plants to take water from the soil and eventually they die from dehydration. With agricultural crops, a yield loss of up to 30% can occur before the evidence of salinity becomes visible. Salinity rarely occurs in isolation from other natural resource problems.
Dryland salinity is usually the result of three broad processes-groundwater recharge, groundwater movement and groundwater discharge. Groundwater recharge occurs naturally, but is often accelerated by excessive clearing of native vegetation, particularly on hill slopes. Salt near the soil surface makes it harder for plants to take water from the soil and eventually they die from dehydration. With agricultural crops, a yield loss of up to 30% can occur before the evidence of salinity becomes visible. Salinity rarely occurs in isolation from other natural resource problems.
Dryland salinity is a natural process for soil, just like other processes such as wind erosion. Salinity degrades land by an increase in soil salt concentration in the environment, watercourse or soil in unirrigated landscapes, being in excess of normal soil salt concentrations in dryland regions. Dryland salinity is a sign that the water balance of the nearby area of land or catchment has been altered. Clearing as little as 25% of a catchment can cause salinity to occur.
Dryland salinity. Dryland salinity is caused by rising water tables precipitated by clearing deep rooted perennial native vegetation and replacing it with shallow rooted annual plants. Print this page. Dryland salinity is caused by rising water tables precipitated by clearing deep rooted perennial native vegetation and replacing it with shallow rooted annual plants.
Dryland salinity is caused by rising water tables. Some ways this can occur: 1  Clearing deep-rooted perennial native vegetation and replacing it with shallow rooted annual plants. 2  The shallow roots are no longer able to utilise the excess runoff, and it now seeps past the roots zone to enter the groundwater system. 1