Deleterious Materials Definition. Deleterious Materials Definition: Materials or building techniques which are dangerous to health, or which are environmentally unfriendly, or which tend to fail in practice. 
CALCULATIONS 5.1 Calculate the percentage of each or a combination of deleterious materials: PDW 100 Where: P = Percentage of deleterious matter by weight D = Weight of deleterious substances, g W = Weight of total sample (retained on No. 4 [4.75 mm] or No. 8 [2.36 mm]), g. Test the material retained on the No. 8 (2.36 mm) sieve for compliance with the specification requirements if the sample contains an aggregate that predominately passes the No. 4 (4.75 mm) sieve. 8.7 Remove any material other than coated particles of aggregate that will slake down during the test.
SCOPE 2.1 Use this procedure to determine the percent by weight of deleterious material in coarse aggregate. 3. APPARATUS 3.1 Balance, class G2 in accordance with Tex-901-K, with a minimum capacity of 4000 g. 3.2 Heating oven, capable of attaining a temperature of at least 200 ± 5°F (93 ± 3°C). Test the material retained on the No. 8 (2.36 mm) sieve for compliance with the specification requirements if the sample contains an aggregate that predominately passes the No. 4 (4.75 mm) sieve. 8.7 Remove any material other than coated particles of aggregate that will slake down during the test.
However, it should be noted that all materials can be considered deleterious under the wrong circumstances (for example water can be very damaging and can cause extensive pollution), and whatever materials are selected for use, it is vitally important that the manufacturer’s instructions are followed. The list of deleterious materials has always remained fluid because as technology advances new products come onto the market and medical research establishes new risks to health. Clauses in contracts and appointment documents often refer to compliance with 'Good Practice in the selection of construction materials'.
Test the material retained on the No. 8 (2.36 mm) sieve for compliance with the deleterious material requirements if the sample contains an aggregate that predominately passes the No. 4 (4.75 mm) sieve. 4.6 Weigh the aggregate particles retained on the No. 4 (4.75 mm) sieve to the nearest 0.1 g. Test the material retained on the No. 8 (2.36 mm) sieve for compliance with the specification requirements if the sample contains an aggregate that predominately passes the No. 4 (4.75 mm) sieve. 8.7 Remove any material other than coated particles of aggregate that will slake down during the test.
This article needs development. To help develop this article, click 'Edit this article' above. The term ‘ deleterious materials ’ is a broad one, encompassing not only materials that are dangerous to health or which are the causes of failures in buildings, but increasingly, materials which are environmentally damaging. The list of deleterious materials has always remained fluid because as technology advances new products come onto the market and medical research establishes new risks to health. Clauses in contracts and appointment documents often refer to compliance with 'Good Practice in the selection of construction materials'.