This is why they're known as contingent beneficiaries. For example, if you list your spouse as your primary beneficiary on your brokerage account -- or any other asset, for that matter -- then you might list your children as contingent beneficiaries. Think of the contingent beneficiary as sort of a Plan B -- and an important one. How one Seattle couple secured a $60K Social Security bonus -- and you can tooA Seattle couple recently discovered some little-known Social Security secrets that can boost many retirees' income by as much as $60,000.
A contingent beneficiary is someone who receives the proceeds of an insurance policy if the person named as the primary beneficiary ... If both the primary and contingent beneficiaries are unavailable, what happens to ... One of the most common mistakes in estate planning is not keeping beneficiary designations up to date on life insurance policies ...
A contingent beneficiary is a person who will receive a payout from a will, trust, life insurance policy or other annuity, based on a specific condition. For an insurance policy, the contingency ... If both the primary and contingent beneficiaries are unavailable, what happens to ... One of the most common mistakes in estate planning is not keeping beneficiary designations up to date on life insurance policies ...
Contingent beneficiaries are individuals, trusts, or estates that are designated to receive the assets of a deceased person in the event that the primary beneficiary is no longer able to assume those assets for some reason. Naming at least one contingent beneficiary in all insurance policies, as well as in a will, is one way of ensuring that loved ones or a cause that is close to the heart is provided for once the death of an individual takes place.
So, for example, you could name your spouse as the primary beneficiary of 100% of the account, and your two children could be contingent 50% beneficiaries. Or you could name your spouse as primary beneficiary of 50% of the account, with the two kids each named 25% primary beneficiaries. You could name a nonprofit charitable organization as your primary or contingent beneficiary, although you will likely have to talk to an account representative about how to do that.
Essentially, a contingent beneficiary is second in line after the primary beneficiary or beneficiaries to inherit assets from accounts such as 401(k)s, individual retirement accounts, life insurance and annuity policies and trust accounts. With a 401(k) or IRA, changing a beneficiary is as easy as calling your plan administrator or broker and completing some simple paperwork. If the life insurance policy or trust is revocable, the named beneficiaries can be changed by the account holder at any time. It is important to keep beneficiaries up to date.
DEFINITION of 'Contingent Beneficiary'. 1. A beneficiary specified by an insurance contract holder who will receive the benefits if the primary beneficiary has died at the time the benefit is to be paid. If both the primary and contingent beneficiaries are unavailable, what happens to ... One of the most common mistakes in estate planning is not keeping beneficiary designations up to date on life insurance policies ...
Contingent beneficiary. A contingent beneficiary receives the proceeds of an insurance policy, term-certain annuity, individual retirement account (IRA), employer-sponsored retirement savings plan, will, or trust if the primary beneficiary dies before the benefit is paid or if he or she declines to accept the benefit. For example, if you name your spouse as the primary beneficiary of your IRA, you might name your children as contingent beneficiaries. Then, if your spouse is not alive at your death, your children inherit your IRA directly.
A contingent beneficiary is the person or thing that receives the benefits of your account if the primary beneficiary can not. Think of contingent beneficiaries as a back-up plan. When you invest in a beneficiary-named financial account, such as an Individual Retirement Account, 401(k) , insurance policy or trust, you name the person or people you want to receive the assets in the account should you pass away. These are primary beneficiaries. Or you could name your spouse as primary beneficiary of 50% of the account, with the two kids each named 25% primary beneficiaries. You could name a nonprofit charitable organization as your primary or contingent beneficiary, although you will likely have to talk to an account representative about how to do that.