Carbohydrates or ‘carbs’ are an energy source in food that comes from starch, sugar and cellulose. Carbohydrates provide vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and fiber in the diet. The current recommendations suggest 45 to 65 percent of daily calories come from these types of foods. You can find healthful carbohydrate sources in foods like wheat, corn, rice, oats, barley, quinoa, sorghum, spelt, rye and in fruits, vegetables and legumes. Read on to learn more about the importance of including the right type of carbohydrates in your diet.
Whole Wheat Bread. Whole wheat bread, and other breads made from 100 percent whole wheat grains are another good source for healthy carbohydrates. Unlike white bread, whole wheat bread still contains the bran and germ of the grains, which is where a majority of the nutrients in bread can be found. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one:
Excellent Sources of Complex Carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrate foods are basically those in wholegrain form such as wholegrain breads, oats, muesli and brown rice. Complex carbs are broken down into glucose more slowly than simple carbohydrates and thus provide a gradual steady stream of energy throughout the day. Products that contain a large portion of these staple ingredients are usually a good high complex carbohydrate source, see the second list. Still, the best way to provide your diet with complex carbohydrates is to consume foods in their most natural state such as oatmeal, bran and brown rice. The food list below shows healthy sources of processed complex carbohydrates
Here is a quick overview of some useful information about carbohydrates: 1  They are made up of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen to create a sugar molecule. 2  The three most common forms of carbohydrates are sugars, fibers and starches. 3  They are grouped into two categories: simple and complex. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one:
1 They are grouped into two categories: simple and complex. 2  Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 3  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one:
1 Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 2  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals. 3  They are broken down and are turned into glucose to be used as a source of energy for cells. Essential nutrients for the body include vitamins, essential fatty and amino acids, water, oxygen and dietary minerals like iron or calcium. Carbohydrates are still useful to the body because they act as a source of energy, and with these 10 sources of healthy carbohydrates, your body will benefit in more ways than one:
Simple carbohydrates are a major source of energy for the body and are found in many nutrient-dense foods, including fruit, fruit juice and dairy products. All of these foods also contain a substantial amount of vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals and should be consumed as part of a healthy and well-balanced diet. 
Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. You can find healthful carbohydrate sources in foods like wheat, corn, rice, oats, barley, quinoa, sorghum, spelt, rye and in fruits, vegetables and legumes. Read on to learn more about the importance of including the right type of carbohydrates in your diet.