Do not confuse elderberry with American Elder, Elderflower, or Dwarf Elder. Elderberry is used for “the flu ” (influenza), H1N1 swine flu, HIV /AIDS, and boosting the immune system. It is also used for sinus pain, back and leg pain (sciatica), nerve pain (neuralgia), and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) . BY MOUTH 1  : The flu: one tablespoon (15 mL) 4 times daily of a specific elderberry juice-containing syrup (Sambucol, Nature’s Way) daily for 3-5 days. 2  A dose of 15 mL (1 tablespoon) twice daily for 3 days has been used in children.
Introduction. Elderberry, or elder, has been used for centuries to treat wounds, when applied to the skin. It is also taken by mouth to treat respiratory illnesses such as cold and flu. In many countries, including Germany, elder flower is used to treat colds and flu. Elderberry is available as a liquid, syrup, and tincture, as well as in capsule and lozenge forms. Dried elder flower is usually standardized to at least 0.8% flavonoids. Sambucol is standardized to 38% elderberry extract for adults and 19% for children.
Sambucus nigra is the variety of Elderberry that is most often used for health benefits as it is the only variety considered to be non-toxic even when not cooked, but it is still recommended to cook the berries at least a little to enhance their taste and digestibility. 1. Elderberry is used for its antioxidant activity, to lower cholesterol, to improve vision, to boost the immune system, to improve heart health and for coughs, colds, flu, bacterial and viral infections and tonsillitis.
When cooking elderberries for sauce, some may prefer a little extra sweetness. Elderberries freeze in a glass jar after washing and patting dry. For sauce or syrup, dissolve honey in warm water, chill well, and then pour over the elderberries packed in freezer containers. The dark berries are the good ones, with a history of treating conjunctivitis, cold and flu symptoms, reducing congestion, relieving arthritis pain, soothing upset stomachs, relieving gas, and for detoxification.
Elderberry is used as a delicious remedy for the flu. It prevents the flu virus from attaching to our cells and therefore, it shortens the duration and severity of the flu. Latin Name: Sambucus nigra. Common Name: Elderberry is extremely useful for fighting the flu. It contains compounds that keep the flu virus from attaching to the cell, so it can shorten the duration of your illness and possibly lesson the severity. Elderberries make a wonderfully tasty remedy. You can use them fresh or dried equally well.
Elderberries (Sambucus) have been a folk remedy for centuries in North America, Europe, Western Asia, and North Africa, hence the medicinal benefits of elderberries are being investigated and rediscovered. Elderberry is used for its antioxidant activity, to lower cholesterol, to improve vision, to boost the immune system, to improve heart health and for coughs, colds, flu, bacterial and viral infections and tonsillitis.
Sambucus (elder or elderberry) is a genus of flowering plants in the family Adoxaceae. It was formerly placed in the honeysuckle family, Caprifoliaceae, but was reclassified due to genetic evidence. It contains between 5 and 30 species of deciduous shrubs, small trees and herbaceous perennial plants. 
ELDERBERRY Side Effects & Safety. Taking an elderberry juice extract is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth for up to 12 weeks. It’s not known if taking elderberry juice extract is safe when used for long periods of time. Elderberry is POSSIBLY UNSAFE when the leaves, stems, unripened fruit, or uncooked fruit is consumed. The cooked elderberry fruit seems to be safe, but raw and unripe fruit might cause nausea, vomiting, or severe diarrhea. BY MOUTH 1  : The flu: one tablespoon (15 mL) 4 times daily of a specific elderberry juice-containing syrup (Sambucol, Nature’s Way) daily for 3-5 days. 2  A dose of 15 mL (1 tablespoon) twice daily for 3 days has been used in children.
1 Dried elderberries or elder flowers can be used to make a delicious tea (I’d add honey or stevia since it is somewhat sour). 2  A pre-made syrup is available for acute flu symptoms, but the homemade version works just as well and is much less expensive in my experience. 