Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. Continue roasting the meat until the internal temperature has reached 5 or 10 degrees below the desired doneness.
1 Cook the roast for about 10 to 15 minutes and then turn it over in the pan. 2  Continue to cook it for another 10 to 15 minutes for every pound. 3  Remove the tenderloin from the oven when the internal temperature of the meat reaches 140°F, as indicated on a meat thermometer inserted into the center of the roast.
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures.
The proper beef roast cook times and the correct beef cooking oven temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various beef roasts can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef roasts.
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice.
1 Season the roast with salt and pepper and place in a roasting pan or baking dish. 2  Do not cover or add water. 3  Place the roast in the preheated oven. 4  Reduce the temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C).
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast.