A chemical formula is a way of expressing information about the proportions of atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound, using a single line of chemical element symbols, numbers, and sometimes also other symbols, such as parentheses, dashes, brackets, commas and plus (+) and minus (−) signs. A chemical formula identifies each constituent element by its chemical symbol and indicates the proportionate number of atoms of each element. In empirical formulas, these proportions begin with a key element and then assign numbers of atoms of the other elements in the compound, as ratios to the key element.
A chemical formula contains information on the types and spatial  arrangement of bonds in the chemical.    It also tells you what elements are in the chemical, and how … many  atoms of each. The spatial arrangement is not necessarily very  obvious from the formula, e.g. 
(September 2011). A chemical equation is the symbolic representation of a chemical reaction in the form of symbols and formulae, wherein the reactant entities are given on the left-hand side and the product entities on the right-hand side. 
The Meaning of a Chemical Equation. How to balance a modern chemical equation. The Law of Conservation of Mass. Return to Equations Menu. Chemical equations give information in two major areas. First, they tell us what substances are reacting (those being used up) and what substances are products (those being made). Second, the coefficients of a balanced equation tell us in what ratio the substances react or are produced
A chemical equation is used in the means of writing out and describing a chemical reaction, such as the reactants and the substance that forms after the reaction (called the p … roduct)   P.S: it took me a little to find out the question since i had it too. The reactions in which heat is given out are called exothermic reactions. This information is provided by adding a heat term only the product-side (right hand side) of the chemical equation. For example, (a) When carbon is burnt in air (or oxygen) heat is evolved.
A chemical reaction is the process in which atoms present in the starting substances rearrange to give new chemical combinations present in the substances formed by the reaction. These starting substances of a chemical reaction are called the reactants, and the new substances that result are called the products. A properly written chemical equation provides information about reactants, products, molecule-to-molecule relationships between reactants and products, and mole-to-mole relationships. between reactants and products. ***What are three pieces of information that a chemical equation
A chemical reaction equation gives the reactants and products, and a balanced chemical reaction equation shows the mole relationships of reactants and products. Often, the amount of energy involved in the reaction is given. Dealing with the quantitative aspect of chemical reactions is called reaction stoichiometry. The most important aspect of a chemical reaction is to know what are the reactants and what are the products. For this, the best description of a reaction is to write an equation for the reaction.
(iv) Concentration of the reactants and products:   This information is added to the chemical equation by adding the word dil. (for dilute) or conc.(for concentrated) before the formulae of the reactants and products. The reactions in which heat is given out are called exothermic reactions. This information is provided by adding a heat term only the product-side (right hand side) of the chemical equation. For example, (a) When carbon is burnt in air (or oxygen) heat is evolved.
A chemical equation can be made more informative by adding additional information to the chemical equation. This is done as follows:   (i) Reaction conditions:   The in … formation regarding temperature, pressure, and catalyst etc. is provided above the arrow (→ or =) separating the reactants and products. The reactions in which heat is given out are called exothermic reactions. This information is provided by adding a heat term only the product-side (right hand side) of the chemical equation. For example, (a) When carbon is burnt in air (or oxygen) heat is evolved.