Collapse this image Expand this image. 1  Close all Internet Explorer windows. 2  Start Internet Explorer. 3  A dialog box appears that contains the This add-on can cause Internet Explorer to stop responding or crash warning. 4  Select the Always open Internet Explorer without this add-on option, and then click OK.
For users who commonly encounter intermittent connectivity issues or download failure, a download manager may help. Download managers are a third-party application that can monitor, and if needed, resume a download from where it stopped previously.
1 Close all Internet Explorer windows. 2  Start Internet Explorer. 3  A dialog box appears that contains the This add-on can cause Internet Explorer to stop responding or crash warning. 4  Select the Always open Internet Explorer without this add-on option, and then click OK.
Usually, these issues result in high latency or lag, which in turn cause your download to fail. When this occurs, it is problematic in that your Internet cache may think the download was completed, thus making the browser not want to resume.
Why does my download stop before it is finished? When a user experiences an issue while downloading files, it is usually a problem with the connection to their Internet service. Consequently, the best solution is to contact your ISP for further information. However, there are a few situations where the issues can be cleared up on the user's end.
This will cause the video to pause or buffer until enough of it can download for you to view. All you can really do, if this is causing your video to slow down, is wait until a time when requests to the content provider have slowed down and try to play the video again.
To resolve this issue you need to determine what is causing Windows Explorer to stop working, try the troubleshooting steps below to help determine the issue. Outdated or corrupt video drivers can cause Windows Explorer to stop working. Downloading and installing the latest video driver can solve many of these issues. You can do this from using Windows Update or by visiting your system manufacturer’s website or by contacting them directly.