1. Open the Windows Explorer folder or library window that you wish to change the view of the icon sizes in. 2. Click on the View menu bar item and select either the Sort By or Group by arrangement options, then select a column name and Ascending or Descending order for how you want the window arranged by. 1. Open the library folder that you wish to change the Arrange by view of the files in. 2. Click on the View menu bar item and select Arrange by and the option for how you want the library folder files arranged. (See screenshot below) OR.
To Set Group by Column View for Items in a Folder or Library in File Explorer. OPTION TWO. 1. In File Explorer, open a folder or library that you want to group items by a column in, and do step 2 or 3 below. 2. Click/tap on the View tab, click/tap on Group by in the Ribbon, select (dot) the detail (ex: Type) you want items to be grouped by, and go to step 4 below. 1. In File Explorer, open a library (ex: Pictures) that you want to arrange items by a column in. 2. Right click or press and hold on a empty area in the opened library, click/tap on Arrange by, and select (dot) the detail (ex: Folder) you want items to be arranged by.
Here's how to change the default template for a folder: http://www.vistax64.com/tutorials/70819-windows-explorer-folder-view-settings.html. Default behaviour is to select the template based on the first type of file placed in the folder (it has to choose something). I am trying to transfer a playlist from Itunes over to a folder, but I can't figure out how to keep the order of the songs as I had them in the Itunes playlist. I can only get the .mp3 files to be in alphabetical order for the artist, album, or genre. Or numerical order by track number # or Rating.
By default, the sort order in Vista considers strings in file and folder names as numeric content, not text. Numerals in folder and file names are sorted according to their numeric value. In the example below, 401 is a numerically higher value than 6. 
To Set Sort by Column View for Items in a Folder or Library in File Explorer. OPTION ONE. 1. In File Explorer, open a folder or library that you want to sort items by a column in, and do step 2 or 3 below. 2. Click/tap on the View tab, click/tap on Sort by in the Ribbon, select (dot) the detail (ex: Name) you want items to be sorted by, and go to step 4 below. 1. In File Explorer, open a library (ex: Pictures) that you want to arrange items by a column in. 2. Right click or press and hold on a empty area in the opened library, click/tap on Arrange by, and select (dot) the detail (ex: Folder) you want items to be arranged by.
Shares & Saves. Save. Windows Explorer allows files in a folder to be sorted alphabetically by the file's name. The files may be sorted in ascending or descending order. The following steps will show how to sort a file list in Windows Explorer and determine how a file list is sorted. Instructions. Bring up a Windows Explorer window and view your files in detail mode by clicking on the View menu item and then clicking on Details. Move the mouse cursor over the name column in the file list and left-click on it. The file list will now be sorted by file name.
To get started, locate the files you want to rename and place them in the same folder. Use the columns at the top of the list in details view to order the files how you’d like them – Windows Explorer will number the files starting from the top at the list. Select all the files you want to rename, right-click the first one and select Rename. Type your desired base file name and press Enter. Windows Explorer will take your base name and add a number to each file’s name
By default, the newer sort order considers strings in file and folder names as numeric content, not text. Numerals in folder and file names are sorted according to their numeric value. In this example, 401 is a numerically higher value than 6. MORE INFORMATION. The sort order that is used by Windows Vista, Windows XP, and Windows Server 2003 for files and folders whose names contain numerals differs from the sort order that is used by Windows 2000. The following example shows the difference.
Bruce Hagen ~ MS-MVP [Mail]. You could rename then in alpha order. Put a 1 or A in front of the first one. 2 or B in front of the second, etc. I believe one of these tools will rename a batch at one time, but you will need to experiment. 