From the Forgotten Realms Heroes Lorebook. Drizzt Do'Urden. Drow male 16th-level ranger. ARMOR CLASS: -8 MOVE: 12 HIT POINTS: 92 THAC0: 5 NO. OF ATTACKS: 5 DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1d8+7 (x3), 1d8+5 (x2) MAGIC RESISTANCE: 82%; +2 on saves vs. magic ALIGNMENT: Chaotic good STR 13 DEX 20 CON 15 INT 17 WIS 17 CHA 14.
This bonus adventure for, The Legend of Drizzt, is based loosely on the events and characters of the novel, Legacy of the Drow, written by R.A. Salvatore, and also utilizes the Vierna Do’Urden Promo Card. I've play tested this bonus adventure several times, and would now like some input from the community. A cooperative game of adventure for 1-5 players set in the world of Dungeons & Dragons. It is named after the book series by the same name recounting the adventures of the dark elf Drizzt Do'Urden and his friends.
Description Edit. Drizzt Do'Urden was a drow. He stood about 5′4″ (1.63 m) tall and weighed about 130 pounds (59 kg). His handsome features were sharp and well proportioned and, like other drow, Drizzt's skin was black and his stark white hair was long, thick, and flowing. Combat and tactics Edit. Drizzt battling Entreri. Drizzt fought in the two long-weapon style common among drow warriors. When tides turned bad, or when facing opponents such as dragons or frost giants, he conjured a globe of darkness that neither himself nor his opponent could see through.
What level are Drizzt and his companions? I've put some thought into this, and suspect they are all around level 10, probably a bit under, though I can't be sure. Assuming they are all of close to the same level (which makes sense since they have similar fighting ability), and assuming that they haven't leveled much (Drizzt at least seems to still be about the same level as he was during the Hunter's Blades books), I'd put them all around level 10, or a bit lower.
From a stats perspective, Drizzt and Jarlaxle are about on the same level skill-wise, except Drizzt has about 2 or 3 times more durability, which tracks well with his feats--Drizzt blacks out and goes into zerker mode after taking significant damage. Assuming they are all of close to the same level (which makes sense since they have similar fighting ability), and assuming that they haven't leveled much (Drizzt at least seems to still be about the same level as he was during the Hunter's Blades books), I'd put them all around level 10, or a bit lower.
From Wikipedia: Drizzt Do'Urden is a fictional character in the Forgotten Realms setting based on the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy role-playing game. Drizzt was originally created by author R. A. Salvatore as a supporting character in the Icewind Dale Trilogy. 
This stunning new release of the classic R.A. Salvatore novel recounts the origins of Salvatore's signature dark elf character, Drizzt Do'Urden. This title kicks off The Legend of Drizzt series, which will showcase the classic dark elf novels in these new audiobook editions. The Legend of Drizzt: The Collected Stories expands upon the epic legend of the dark elf with 12 tales performed by the all-star cast of Felicia Day, Dan Harmon, Greg Grunberg, Tom Felton, Danny Pudi, Sean Astin, Melissa Rauch, Ice-T, Wil Wheaton, Al Yankovic, Michael Chiklis, and David Duchovny!
Objects in mirror may be closer to Mary Sues than they appear. Drizzt do'Urden is a character from the Forgotten Realms universe within the game canons of Dungeons & Dragons, written by R. A. Salvatore. 
16,792 pages on this wiki. Drizzt Do'Urden, also called Drizzt Daermon N'a'shezbaernon, was a male drow ranger. He was an atypical drow who had forsaken both the evil ways of his people and their home in the Underdark, to become the legendary hero of the North. Combat and tactics Edit. Drizzt battling Entreri. Drizzt fought in the two long-weapon style common among drow warriors. When tides turned bad, or when facing opponents such as dragons or frost giants, he conjured a globe of darkness that neither himself nor his opponent could see through.
Drizzt Do'Urden is a drow and is a great hero in the Forgotten Realms. The party can meet him when they are visiting a area close to Beregost. He is then ambushed by a large group of gnolls, but he demonstrates his amazing abilities by killing many or all of them without taking any damage. 