BACKGROUND: To determine if women with a bilateral tubal ligation (BTL) were more likely to experience hormonal changes indicative of the transition to menopause or an increase in menopausal symptoms compared to women without a BTL. METHODS: Menopausal symptoms and hormone profiles of 134 women reporting a BTL were compared throughout the course of a 4-year follow-up study to 172
Women who have had a hysterectomy (or tubal ligation) leading to dysfunction of the ovaries generally enter into a state of estrogen dominance where a woman can have deficient, normal, or excessive estrogen but has little or no progesterone to balance its effects in the body. Even endometriosis has been known to occur after surgical sterilisation. These women post tubal ligation often go into early menopause, or experience perimenopausal problems such as hot flushes, sleep disturbances, anxiety attacks and all the estrogen dominant symptoms that are commonly listed. Some common characteristics to consider
Even endometriosis has been known to occur after surgical sterilisation. These women post tubal ligation often go into early menopause, or experience perimenopausal problems such as hot flushes, sleep disturbances, anxiety attacks and all the estrogen dominant symptoms that are commonly listed. 
1 Tubal Ligation. 2  Often women that have undergone a tubal ligation procedure enter menopause at an earlier age. 3  Tamoxifen. 4  Tamoxifen used to be prescribed after you were diagnosed for breast cancer -- and, as with other forms of chemo, you would run a risk for premature menopause as a side effect. 1 Fallopian tubes removal causes early menopause. 2  Hormone and egg production is dramatically interrupted, leading to the onset of early or premature menopause. 3  Tubal Ligation. 4  Often women that have undergone a tubal ligation procedure enter menopause at an earlier age.
To determine if women with a bilateral tubal ligation (BTL) were more likely to experience hormonal changes indicative of the transition to menopause or an increase in menopausal symptoms compared to women without a BTL. Follicular phase hormone levels and menstrual status in the early transition to menopause. Fertil Steril (in press)] and the goals of this report. Interactions between time since entry into the study (in months) and tubal ligation status were also examined.
The verdict: bilateral tubal ligation has no effect on the following sex hormone levels: estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, testosterone, DHEAS, and Inhibin. In addition, a bilateral tubal ligation has no effect on timing or severity of menopausal symptoms. So add, “Your tubal ligation is affecting your hormone levels” to the caravan of hormonal snake oil along with salivary hormone testing and the hCG diet.
Menopause. Women who had a tubal ligation were 9 % more likely to report hot flashes (95 % CI: 1.06–1.12) and 10 % more likely to have other symptoms of menopause (e.g., poor sleeping, night sweats, irritability, depression) (95 % CI: 1.07–1.13) compared with women who did not have a tubal ligation (Table 2). 
to the tube and/or ovary are possible causes for post-tubal ligation menstruation problems. Many women experience memory loss, general decline in feeling of well-being, lethargy, and loss of libido after tubal ligation, indicating a spontaneous iatrogenic menopause. 