Zinc is a metal. It is called an “essential trace element” because very small amounts of zinc are necessary for human health. Zinc is used for treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency and its consequences, including stunted growth and acute diarrhea in children, and slow wound healing. It is also used for boosting the immune system, treating the common cold and recurrent ear infections, and preventing lower respiratory infections. 1 Zinc deficiency. 2  Zinc deficiency might occur in people with severe diarrhea, conditions that make it hard for the bowel to absorb food, liver cirrhosis and alcoholism, after major surgery, and during long-term use of tube feeding in the hospital.
However, when carefully formulated with other ingredients for healthy skin, zinc oxide can soothe skin and protect it from irritants. Zinc Oxide in Skin Care. One of the more popular uses for zinc oxide is to reduce occurrences of diaper rash by forming a protective barrier on the infant’s delicate skin. This mitigates the effects on the skin of bacteria and other irritants that can be present in urine or other excrement. Before you use products with zinc oxide, it’s a good idea to visit your dermatologist, or at least stop by the skin care counter at your local department store. What is Zinc Oxide. Zinc oxide derives its name from zincite the mineral from which it is produced when it is combined with oxygen molecules.
Zinc: The mineral zinc is an important component of healthy skin, especially for acne sufferers. In fact, acne itself may be a symptom of zinc deficiency. Zinc acts by controlling the production of oil in the skin, and may also help control some of the hormones that create acne. Zinc is also required for proper immune system function, as well as for the maintenance of vision, taste, and smell. Zinc consumption is also strongly linked to a reduction of prostate cancer.
Zinc is one element that is essential for healthy skin. In addition, to wound healing, zinc acts as an astringent and may help in the treatment of acne among other benefits. Wound Healing. One benefit of zinc for skin is in the area of wound healing. Oral zinc supplements help heal bed sores, skin ulcers, cold sores, canker sores, surgical incisions, burns, and a variety of other skin irritations. Topical treatments are also used for wound healing. Zinc is a mineral that the body requires for the synthesis of collagen, which is a requirement for the healing of skin wounds. Zinc is also a component in the proper functioning of enzymes that are required by the body to repair skin wounds. Mild Astringent. The benefit of zinc as a mild astringent is well noted.
Zinc deficiency is caused by inadequate intake or absorption, increased zinc excretion, or increased bodily need for zinc. Zinc deficiency symptoms include growth and development problems, hair loss, diarrhea, impotence, eye and skin conditions, and loss of appetite. Zinc taken by mouth or applied to the skin seems to be a safe and effective treatment for acne. However, some results are conflicting, and many studies used combination treatments. More research on the effects of zinc alone are needed.
1 Zinc may help nip zits in the bud by reducing the amount of natural oil, or sebum, produced in the skin. 2  It may also help heal damaged skin around acne that does develop. 3  Some research has indicated that acne formation results in part from a lack of zinc in the diet [source: Bouchez ]. To stay healthy, your body needs a daily dose of the right vitamins and certain minerals. One of those crucial minerals is zinc, which affects a variety of your physiological processes and body parts, including your skin [source: MedlinePlus ]. Zinc is like a 24-hour, on-call skin mechanic.
And it’s especially important for clear skin. [1]. In fact, taking zinc or eating zinc-rich foods is a simple way to cover your bases for clear skin… and there’s a good chance that you’re deficient! Turns out zinc deficiency is much more common than previously thought. Here are some symptoms of zinc deficiency: 1  White spots on your fingernails. Zinc won’t cure acne – fixing your diet is much more important – but it can help acne if you’re deficient. Let’s get right down to it. While zinc isn’t a magical cure-all for acne (a comprehensive diet plan is much more effective), it turns out that many acne sufferers are deficient in zinc.
Zinc's potential advantages for your skin include the following: 1  Acne -- Using zinc topically and taking it orally has shown some potential in preventing and alleviating the inflammation and scarring associated with acne. To stay healthy, your body needs a daily dose of the right vitamins and certain minerals. One of those crucial minerals is zinc, which affects a variety of your physiological processes and body parts, including your skin [source: MedlinePlus ]. Zinc is like a 24-hour, on-call skin mechanic.
Zinc is a workhorse nutrient that's involved in almost every biochemical reaction in your body, but it's especially important for skin-cell renewal. Zinc isn't hard to find -- shellfish, lean ham, beef, and lamb are full of it (vegetarians need to work a bit harder to get enough). 