The American (North and South America) horned owls and the Old World eagle-owls make up the genus Bubo, at least as traditionally described. This genus, depending on definition, contains about one or two dozen species of typical owls (family Strigidae) and is found in many parts of the world. Some of the largest living Strigiformes are in Bubo. 
The first division of classification is into Kingdom. Birds are classified into the Kingdom Animalia (i.e. Animals). The kingdom is further divided into the Phylum. Birds are in the Phylum Chordata (Animals with a backbone). Next in classification is the Class. The Class for birds is Aves. From this stage we will be dealing purely with the classification of birds i.e. How the Class Aves is divided up. 
Classification. Domain: Eukarya. The Barred Owl is classified as a Eukarya because it has a true nucleus and possesses membrane-bound organelles. Kingdom: Animalia. The kingdom Animalia consists of organisms that are multicellular as well as heterotrophic. Multicellularity allows for the development of organs and tissues while being heterotrophic makes animals seek out food because they cannot make it on their own.
The deer belongs to the Chordata phylum. I will list the entire classification structure below for the red stag deer, just in case you need it. Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chor … data Class: Mammalia Infra-class: Eutheria Order: Artiodactyla Suborder: Ruminantia Infraorder: Pecora Family: Cervidae. All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Classification and Evolution of Owls. Owls belong to the phylogenetic class Aves. There are 2 distinct families of owls. One is the family of Barn Owls, and the other consists of all other types of owls. The 17 known species of Barn Owls throughout the world belong to the family Tytonidae, and the other 161 known species of owls belong to the family Strigidae.
Phylum: Chordata. Barred Owls belong to the phylum chordata because it possesses the five unique traits of the phylum. Chordates have a notochord and a dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal pouches, an endostyle, and a postanal tail. Kingdom: Animalia. The kingdom Animalia consists of organisms that are multicellular as well as heterotrophic. Multicellularity allows for the development of organs and tissues while being heterotrophic makes animals seek out food because they cannot make it on their own.
All owls are birde and birds belong to class aves. All aves are vertebrates which also include mammals reptiles amphibia and fishes .Vertebrates belong to phylum Chordata, he … nce owl is chordate. Share to: 1  A Guide to Keeping an Owl as a Pet Some people think that keeping an owl as a pet is a simple process, that isn?t going to be much more work than your run-of-the-mill parrot.
PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY. TEACHING AND RESEARCH EXPERIENCE 26 YEARS. All owls are birde and birds belong to class aves. All aves are vertebrates which also include mammals reptiles amphibia and fishes .Vertebrates belong to phylum Chordata, hence owl is chordate. All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7.
Furthermore, organisms in the stem group of a phylum can possess the body plan of the phylum without all the characteristics necessary to fall within it. This weakens the idea that each of the phyla represents a distinct body plan. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7.