Flickr/Jason Tester Guerrilla Futures. Uber has made some lofty claims about just how much its drivers can make a year. Uber has said its UberX drivers can make a median income of $90,000 a year in New York, as long as they drive over 40 hours per week. It s ays drivers can make up to $60,000 per year in Dallas. UberX is the startup's cheaper tier service.
This post originally appeared in Business Insider. Uber has made some lofty claims about just how much its drivers can make a year. Uber has said its UberX drivers can make $90,000 a year in New York. It says drivers can make up to $60,000 per year in Dallas. “Clean money” is how Uber drivers explain their salaries after taking into account for things like gas fees, car payments, and of course, Uber’s 20 percent cut. “They say you could make up to $90,000, but nobody can drive 60 plus hours a week,” another UberX driver told us. “You’ll kill yourself.”.
Q: How much uber drivers make in dallas? I am an UBERX driver. Before the price drop in fares, we used to take home about $10/hr (not counting the tear and wear on your car-also I hope your car is paid off) After the fare cut, we are barely making minimum wage. I`ve seen out daily pay cut by at least $25-$40. 
If you want to make a living off of Uber, you're going to have to drive an insane number of hours. In order to make $75,000 a year driving for uberX in San Francisco, you'd have to work 3,000 hours per year, which is effectively a 58-hour work week, financial journalist Felix Salmon concluded. With uberX, essentially anyone with a car can sign up to be a driver. And Uber makes it pretty easy to do. The first step is to head on over to this website. If you're at least 21 years old, have a license, personal auto insurance, and a four-door car in good condition, you
Driving for Uber can be an incredibly lucrative career, according to Uber. Back in May, Uber released data showing at least half of its New York City uberX drivers earn more than $90,000 a year. In San Francisco, Uber claims its uberX drivers can earn up to $70,000 a year. With uberX, essentially anyone with a car can sign up to be a driver. And Uber makes it pretty easy to do. The first step is to head on over to this website. If you're at least 21 years old, have a license, personal auto insurance, and a four-door car in good condition, you
In New York, one UberX driver who has been driving for about 11 months, tells us he doesn’t expect to make more than $50,000 this year, even though he works a little over 40 hours per week on average. “You can make $4,000 clean a month,” he said. “Clean money” is how Uber drivers explain their salaries after taking into account for things like gas fees, car payments, and of course, Uber’s 20 percent cut. “They say you could make up to $90,000, but nobody can drive 60 plus hours a week,” another UberX driver told us. “You’ll kill yourself.”.
Uber has made some lofty claims about just how much its drivers can make a year. Uber has said its UberX drivers can make $90,000 a year in New York. “Clean money” is how Uber drivers explain their salaries after taking into account for things like gas fees, car payments, and of course, Uber’s 20 percent cut. “They say you could make up to $90,000, but nobody can drive 60 plus hours a week,” another UberX driver told us. “You’ll kill yourself.”.
Sunday, July 20, 2014 4:42pm. Getty Images. Uber has made some lofty claims about just how much its drivers can make a year. The company has said its UberX drivers can make $90,000 a year in New York and up to $60,000 in Dallas. We put Uber's salary claims to the test by talking to a half dozen UberX drivers in New York City and Dallas. The max that I've made on an hourly basis is about $45 to $55 an hour, one Dallas UberX driver told us. The average on it is about $27 an hour..
Flickr/Jason Tester Guerrilla Futures. Uber has made some lofty claims about just how much its drivers can make a year. Uber has said its UberX drivers can make a median income of $90,000 a year in New York, as long as they drive over 40 hours per week. It s ays drivers can make up to $60,000 per year in Dallas. UberX is the startup's cheaper tier service. 