Circulating in the bloodstream, triglycerides are a type of stored fat comprised of fat and sugar molecules bound together. The University of Massachusetts Medical School notes that triglycerides are closely connected with “good” blood cholesterol, or HDL. Any food that lowers HDL tends to raise triglycerides. Foods high in cholesterol and saturated fat elevate triglyceride levels, so limit your intake of fatty red meat, poultry skin, butter, lard, high-fat dairy products and shellfish. Replace these with leaner cuts of meat and polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats such as olive oil, canola oil, avocados, nuts and nut butters and low-or non-fat dairy products. Foods containing trans fat also raise triglyceride levels.
Triglycerides are consumed in the diet, with certain “culprit” foods containing more of these triglycerides than others. We know that triglycerides have little nutritional value but a significant number of calories. There are associations with obesity and hypertriglyceridemia, or high triglyceride levels. 
Since triglycerides are found in the body, blood and in foods, for people diagnosed with high triglycerides foods that contain triglycerides or are converted to triglycerides easily should be avoided. This includes foods that contain saturated fat and trans fat. 
Blueberries contain high concentrations of this triglyceride-lowering compound as well. 4. Beans. High-fiber foods such as beans and legumes lower triglycerides by slowing digestion, enabling the body to absorb more of the food’s nutrients. Here’s a list of five foods that lower triglycerides: 1. Salmon. Cold water fish such as salmon, tuna, and cod, have omega-3 fatty acids that help lower triglycerides. Among these, salmon is credited with the most triglyceride-lowering power. If you don’t care for fish, fish oil supplements also lower triglyceride
If the excess blood triglycerides are a result of eating foods high in triglycerides, then it is possible to bring down the triglyceride level quickly before it goes up too high and begins to initiate cholesterol elevation, heart diseases, kidney failure, liver diseases, diabetes and many other serious health issues. 
Triglycerides are fats from the food we eat that are carried in the blood. Most of the fats we eat, including butter, margarines and oils, are in triglyceride form. Excess calories, alcohol or sugar in the body turn into triglycerides and are stored in fat cells throughout the body. Foods that contain Omega-3 fatty acids have been found to be very powerful in lowering triglycerides. To get more omega-3 fats in your diet, choose fatty fish for two or more meals each week. Examples of fatty fish are mackerel, salmon, sardines, tuna, herring and trout.
Refined carbohydrates raise blood sugar, stimulating insulin production, which in turn raises triglycerides. Bauer goes on to note that if you have been diagnosed with high triglyceride levels, limit your intake of grain foods to one or two servings per meal. Replace these with leaner cuts of meat and polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats such as olive oil, canola oil, avocados, nuts and nut butters and low-or non-fat dairy products. Foods containing trans fat also raise triglyceride levels.
3. Grapes. Eating candy and other sugary foods fuel triglyceride levels, but eating naturally sweet grapes can lower them. Grapes contain pterostilbene, a compound that acts similarly to ciprofibrate, a commercial product that lowers triglycerides, according to the USDA. Here’s a list of five foods that lower triglycerides: 1. Salmon. Cold water fish such as salmon, tuna, and cod, have omega-3 fatty acids that help lower triglycerides. Among these, salmon is credited with the most triglyceride-lowering power. If you don’t care for fish, fish oil supplements also lower triglycerides
Triglycerides are the most common type of fat in your body, making up most of your stored fat as well as the fat circulating in your bloodstream. High triglyceride levels -- 200 milligrams per deciliter or greater -- increase your risk of heart disease and stroke. While a high-fat diet contributes to high blood triglyceride levels, you might be surprised to learn that eating foods high in sugar causes a more rapid rise in triglycerides.