Report Abuse. That means that it can help you increase the amount of muscle you have on your body. If you lose 5 pounds of fat and gain 5 pounds of muscle, you will stay the same weight. If you lose 5 cubic inches of fat and gain 5 cubic inches of muscle, you will be a little heavier. For your goal, it is best not to worry about what the scale says. Kevin g · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Muscle car is an American term used to refer to a variety of high-performance automobiles. The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines muscle cars as any of a group of American-made 2-door sports coupes with powerful engines designed for high-performance driving.. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: muscle (Noun). A contractile form of tissue which animals use to effect movement. Muscle consists largely of actin and myosin filaments. muscle (Noun). An organ composed of muscle tissue. The muscles in his legs strained under the load. muscle (Noun). Strength. 
Meronyms (parts of muscle): muscle cell; muscle fiber; muscle fibre (an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of muscle): anatomical sphincter; sphincter; sphincter muscle (a ring of muscle that contracts to close an opening). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of muscle): striated muscle tissue (muscle tissue characterized by transverse stripes). cardiac muscle; heart muscle (the muscle tissue of the heart; adapted to continued rhythmic contraction).
• SKELETAL MUSCLE (noun). The noun SKELETAL MUSCLE has 1 sense: 1. a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes. Familiarity information: SKELETAL MUSCLE used as a noun is very rare. 
Normal Tone. Normal tone means that there is the right amount of “tension” inside the muscle at rest, and that the muscle is inherently able to contract on command. Put simply, you can “tell” your muscle to stop and start and it does what you want, when you want! High Muscle Tone. High tone means there is too much tension in the muscle at rest. In other words, the muscle is tight and tense even though it is not doing anything. A child with spastic cerebral palsy has high tone, which causes the arms and legs to be tightly contorted.
A tissue composed of fibers capable of contracting to effect bodily movement. 2. A contractile organ consisting of a special bundle of muscle tissue, which moves a particular bone, part, or substance of the body: the heart muscle; the muscles of the arm. 3. Muscular strength: enough muscle to be a high jumper. 4. Informal Power or authority: put some muscle into law enforc
1. one of the contractile organs of the body. 2. animal tissue consisting predominantly of contractile cells. 3. a bully employed as a thug or bodyguard. 4. authority or power or force (especially when used in a coercive way). 5. possessing muscular strength. Familiarity information: MUSCLE used as a noun is common. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of muscle): striated muscle tissue (muscle tissue characterized by transverse stripes). cardiac muscle; heart muscle (the muscle tissue of the heart; adapted to continued rhythmic contraction).