Higher than normal blood glucose levels are not uncommon in cats, especially older cats. It's important that you learn the signs, symptom and treatments for high blood glucose levels because the sooner you diagnose and begin treatment, the more likely you can prevent related complications. The most common cause of elevated blood glucose levels, also called hyperglycemia, in felines is a malfunction within a cat's endocrine system. Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas that facilitates the passage of glucose into an animal's cells.
Normal blood glucose levels for the average cat are between 70 - 100 mg/dL) before a meal, and remain below 150 mg/dL after eating. An insulin-dependent cat's optimal range would be thirty or so points higher overall, for safety. In a normal digestive system, the arrival of food stimulates the organ called the pancreas to secrete insulin into the bloodstream to regulate glucose levels. More food, more insulin. More insulin, less glucose in the blood (and more in cells to use for energy). At its simplest, diabetes is a disorder of this process.
1 When your cat's blood glucose levels are above 180 mg/dl, glucose will spill over into the urine. 2  The amount of sugar in the urine is not a measure of the blood glucose at that moment, but rather an average of the blood glucose over the several hours during which the urine was being produced. * If you test blood glucose at any time and the glucose level is 50 or lower, do not give insulin! Give your cat approximately one tablespoon of Karo syrup or honey and retest blood glucose levels in one hour. Repeat the oral sugar dosing if the blood glucose level is still 50 or lower.
The glucose levels considered normal in felines are from 80 to 120 mg/dl. There may be slight variations according to the cat’s age and breed. Your vet will establish the normal glucose levels. If the insulin dose is suited for your diabetic pet, it will lower the glucose levels and maintain them at a normal level. However, the glucose levels should be monitored, as it may happen that the cat needs a change in the insulin dose.
Hyperglycemia in Cats. The term hyperglycemia refers to higher than normal levels of glucose in the blood. A simple carbohydrate sugar that circulates in the blood, glucose is a major source of energy for the body, of which normal levels range between 75-120mg. Middle aged and older cats are more at risk for developing hyperglycemia, but otherwise, no breed is particularly disposed to this condition. Neutered male cats are at increased risk. Cats in general are prone to high blood sugar, typically during times of stress, where glucose levels may reach 300-400mg.
If you notice any of these symptoms, it's time for a visit to your veterinarian. He likely will perform blood and urine tests to determine your cat's glucose levels. Normal blood glucose levels range between 75 and 120 mg/dL, and anything higher than 200 mg/dL is considered hyperglycemia. The most common cause of elevated blood glucose levels, also called hyperglycemia, in felines is a malfunction within a cat's endocrine system. Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas that facilitates the passage of glucose into an animal's cells.
Normal Glucose Levels in Cats. The glucose (sugar) in the blood can be measured by taking a blood sample from the cat. The normal glucose levels in cats are between 80 and 120 mg/dL or 4.4 to 6.6 mmol/L; however, these levels may vary according to the age and the breed of the cat. Some cats may have an increased level of glucose due to stress or excitement. Diabetes can be caused by an increased production of glucose and an insufficiency of insulin to assimilate the glucose. The levels of glucose in the blood of a feline with diabetes may be as high as 600 mg per dL.
The normal level of glucose in the blood is 80-120 mg/dl. It may rise to 250-300 mg/dl following a meal or when the cat is very excited or stressed (as most are with veterinary visits). However, diabetes is the only common disease that will cause the blood glucose level to rise above 400 mg/dl. This means that cats with a normal blood glucose level will not have glucose in the urine. Diabetic cats, however, have excessive amounts of glucose in the blood, so it will be present in the urine. The diagnosis of diabetes seems rather simple, and in most cats it is.
G lucose levels have a normal range in healthy felines. If the cat has high glucose, also known as hyperglycemia, the pet may easily develop diabetes. A low glucose level, or hypoglycemia, can be indicative of blood loss or a low body temperature, but may also be a result of an insulin overdose in diabetic cats. Some cats may have an increased level of glucose due to stress or excitement. Diabetes can be caused by an increased production of glucose and an insufficiency of insulin to assimilate the glucose. The levels of glucose in the blood of a feline with diabetes may be as high as 600 mg per dL.