Federalist No. 70 argues in favor of the unitary executive created by Article II of the United States Constitution. According to Alexander Hamilton, a unitary executive is necessary to: 1  ensure accountability in government. 2  enable the president to defend against legislative encroachments on his power. It was originally published on March 15, 1788 in The New York Packet under the pseudonym Publius as part of The Federalist Papers and as the fourth in Hamilton’s series of eleven essays discussing executive power. Hamilton argues that unity in the executive branch is a main ingredient for both energy and safety.
And lest apologists for Obama argue that the nuclear deal with Iran is not actually a “treaty,” but merely an “executive agreement,” Hamilton leaves no doubt as to the scope of arrangements to which the Senate’s review power applies. Big Government, National Security, Hillary Clinton, iran deal, Clinton Foundation, nuclear Iran, foreign policy, Alexander Hamilton, federalist papers, treaty power, Federalist No. 75. Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook.
4 ibid 5 ibid. to influence a majority of that body.” 6 Hamilton sees the executive as the ultimate check on the potential irrationality of the legislative branch. A recurring issue used by Hamilton as a means of demonstrating his argument of a strong executive is the war-making powers of the federal government. Jefferson sees the major war-powers as residing with the legislative branch while the power to make peace rests with the executive. In a letter to James Madison in 1801, Jefferson writes, “The constitution has authorized the ordinary legislature alone to declare war against any foreign nation.
That and his subsequent opposition to Burr’s bid to become governor of New York led to his death at Burr’s hands in a duel in 1804. Broadus Mitchell, Alexander Hamilton, 2 vols. (1957, 1972); Clinton Rossiter, Alexander Hamilton and the Constitution (1964). Edward Countryman. The Reader’s Companion to American History. Introduction. Though he never attained the highest office of his adopted country, few of America’s founders influenced its political system more than Alexander Hamilton (1755-1804). Born in the British West Indies, he arrived in the colonies as a teenager, and quickly embarked on a remarkable career.
Alexander Hamilton, author of Federalist No. 70. Federalist No. 70, titled “The Executive Department Further Considered,” is an essay written by Alexander Hamilton arguing for the unitary executive provided for in the United States Constitution. It was originally published on March 15, 1788 in The New York Packet under the pseudonym Publius as part of The Federalist Papers and as the fourth in Hamilton’s series of eleven essays discussing executive power. Hamilton argues that unity in the executive branch is a main ingredient for both energy and safety.
The role of an expending executive has a rich historical context. The US History of Federal Government teacher can easily trace the expansion of presidential powers from Jackson to Lincoln to Wilson, FDR, Reagan, and George W. Bush. Jefferson sees the major war-powers as residing with the legislative branch while the power to make peace rests with the executive. In a letter to James Madison in 1801, Jefferson writes, “The constitution has authorized the ordinary legislature alone to declare war against any foreign nation.
Born out of wedlock, raised in the West Indies, and orphaned as a child, Hamilton pursued a college education through the help of local wealthy men. Recognized for his abilities and talent, he was sent to King's College (now Columbia University), in New York City. Hamilton played a major role in the American Revolutionary War. At the start of the war in 1775, he joined a militia company. In early 1776, he raised a provincial artillery company, to which he was appointed captain. He soon became the senior aide to General Washington, the American forces' commander-in-chief.
Executive Power: Hamilton and Jefferson on the Role of the Federal Executive One of the great debates surrounding the creation of the United States Constitution focused on the distribution of power between the Federal Government and the individual state governments. Jefferson sees the major war-powers as residing with the legislative branch while the power to make peace rests with the executive. In a letter to James Madison in 1801, Jefferson writes, “The constitution has authorized the ordinary legislature alone to declare war against any foreign nation.
Hamilton's core argument revolves around unity in the executive, meaning the Constitution's vesting of executive power in a single president by Article II of the United States Constitution. His argument also centers upon unity's promotion of executive energy. In Federalist No. 70, Alexander Hamilton writes: It was originally published on March 15, 1788 in The New York Packet under the pseudonym Publius as part of The Federalist Papers and as the fourth in Hamilton’s series of eleven essays discussing executive power. Hamilton argues that unity in the executive branch is a main ingredient for both energy and safety.