Koumbi Saleh. For centuries, the Sahel boasted some of Africa's most influential civilizations. Anarrow band of semi-arid land south of the Sahara, the Sahel attracted both Arabs looking for gold from Sudan and Europeans looking for slaves from West Africa.
The Sahel is a transition zone between the Sahara Desert to the north and the African Savannah regions to the south. The Sahel is characterised by a marked change in vegetation (between the sparse Sahara) and the temporal Savannah.
The Sahel stretches from the Atlantic Ocean on the west, eastward through northern Senegal, southern Mauritania, the great bend of the Niger River in Mali, Burkina Faso, southern Niger, northeastern Nigeria, south-central Chad, and through the nation of Sudan to the Red Sea coast.
Timbuktu. Djenne. Djenné Koumbi. Saleh for, centuries The sahel boasted some Of'africa s most influential. Civilizations anarrow band of-semi arid land south of The, sahara The sahel attracted Both arabs looking for gold From sudan And europeans looking for slaves From West. africa
The Sahel (/səˈhɛl/) is the ecoclimatic and biogeographic zone of transition in Africa between the Sahara Desert to the north and the Sudanian Savanna to the south. Having a semi-arid climate, it stretches across the south-central latitudes of Northern Africa between the Atlantic Ocean and the Red Sea.
The Sahel is a zone of transition between the Sahara desert in the North and the Sudanian Savannas in the south of Northern Africa. Essentially a strip of land running across … Africa just south of the Sahara.
The Region: The Sahel region is an eco-climate zone located on the southern edge of the Sahara desert. The region spans across Nigeria, Sudan, Senegal, Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, and Chad (Ethiopia and Somalia are sometimes included in the Sahel region).
The Sahel is a zone of transition between the Sahara desert in the North and the Sudanian Savannas in the south of Northern Africa. Essentially a strip of land running across … Africa just south of the Sahara.
The Sahel spans 5,400 km (3,360 mi) from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Red Sea in the east, in a belt that varies from several hundred to a thousand kilometers (620 miles) in width, covering an area of 3,053,200 square kilometers (1,178,850 sq mi).