Construct Validity. Criterion-Related Validity – AI compared to the Index of the Co-operating Clinics Committee of the American Rheumatism Association, r=0.89. Responsive to Change Over Time – Index detected difference in joint tenderness in double-blind cross-over study using aspirin, prednisolone and placebo. Difference demonstrated for major analgesic effect of prednisolone (compared to placebo) but also the minor analgesic effect of aspirin (compared with placebo).
Medical Definition of ARTICULAR. : of or relating to a joint. 
Primary outcome measures were pain while walking and standing and at rest during the previous 24 hour, recorded on a 100 mm Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and pain or tenderness, produced under firm digital pressure and with movement of the affected knee, scored according to Doyle's. 
The aim of an articular cartilage repair treatment is to restore the surface of an articular joint 's hyaline cartilage. Over the last decades, surgeons and researchers have been working hard to elaborate surgical cartilage repair interventions. Rehabilitation following any articular cartilage repair procedure is paramount for the success of any articular cartilage resurfacing technique. The rehabilitation is often long and demanding. The main reason is that it takes a long time for the cartilage cells to adapt and mature into repair tissue.
A simplified twenty-eight-joint quantitative articular index in rheumatoid arthritis. Fuchs HA(1), Brooks RH, Callahan LF, Pincus T. Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN 37232. We describe a joint index that includes only 28 joints: 10 proximal interphalangeal joints of the fingers, 10 metacarpophalangeal joints, and the wrists, elbows, shoulders, and knees. These joints are evaluated for swelling, tenderness, and limited motion, with the findings scored as abnormal or normal
A physical examination is crucial in the assessment of finger injuries. Common signs of injury are local swelling, erythema, pain, deformity, and tenderness to palpation. The assessment should also include finger alignment, ligament integrity, neurovascular status, and flexion and extension of the joints. The PIP joint is the most commonly dislocated finger joint. 5 Injuries to the MCP joint often occur in the thumbs. 6 Dislocations of DIP joints are commonly traumatic and often complicated by fracture and soft tissue injury.
articular membrane. (invertebrate zoology). A flexible region of the cuticle between sclerotized areas of the exoskeleton of an arthropod; functions as a joint. 1  Facebook. 
It is the sum of the grades of tenderness (0 = not tender, 1 = tender, 2 = tender and causes wince, and 3 = tender, causes wince and effort to withdraw) elicited by applying firm pressure over the joint margin of articular joints (shoulders, elbow, wrists, hips). 
Arthroscopic lavage is a cleaning up procedure of the knee joint. This short term solution is not considered an articular cartilage repair procedure but rather a palliative treatment to reduce pain, mechanical restriction and inflammation. Rehabilitation following any articular cartilage repair procedure is paramount for the success of any articular cartilage resurfacing technique. The rehabilitation is often long and demanding. The main reason is that it takes a long time for the cartilage cells to adapt and mature into repair tissue.