1 Xanthine oxidase inhibitors, to decrease production of uric acid by the body. 2  Colchicine, to prevent flare-ups during the first months that you are taking medicines that lower uric acid. 3  Pegloticase (Krystexxa).
Gout medications can be used to treat acute attacks and prevent future attacks as well as reduce your risk of complications from gout, such as the development of tophi from urate crystal deposits.
1 Medication that improves uric acid removal. 2  Probenecid (Probalan) improves your kidneys' ability to remove uric acid from your body. 3  This may lower your uric acid levels and reduce your risk of gout, but the level of uric acid in your urine is increased.
1 Colchicine is used to treat acute flares of gouty arthritis and to prevent recurrent acute attacks. 2  Colchicine does not cure gout or take the place of other medicines that lower the amount of uric acid in the body. 3  The drug prevents or relieves gout attacks by reducing inflammation.
These medicines may include: 1  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, indomethacin, or naproxen. 2  Do not take aspirin, which should never be used to relieve pain during a gout attack. 3  Aspirin may change uric acid levels in the blood and may make the attack worse. 4  Be safe with medicines.
1 Medication that improves uric acid removal. 2  Probenecid (Probalan) improves your kidneys' ability to remove uric acid from your body. 3  This may lower your uric acid levels and reduce your risk of gout, but the level of uric acid in your urine is increased. 4  Side effects include a rash, stomach pain and kidney stones.
Options include: Medications that block uric acid production. Drugs called xanthine oxidase inhibitors, including allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) and febuxostat (Uloric), limit the amount of uric acid your body makes. This may lower your blood's uric acid level and reduce your risk of gout.
Gout is characterized by sudden, severe attacks of pain, redness and tenderness in joints, often the joint at the base of the big toe. Gout — a complex form of arthritis — can affect anyone. Men are more likely to get gout, but women become increasingly susceptible to gout after menopause.
Options include: Medications that block uric acid production. Drugs called xanthine oxidase inhibitors, including allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) and febuxostat (Uloric), limit the amount of uric acid your body makes. This may lower your blood's uric acid level and reduce your risk of gout.