Born in Baghdad, Iraq in 1950, Zaha Hadid was the first woman to win a Pritzker Architecture Prize. Her work experiments with new spatial concepts and encompasses all fields of design, ranging from urban spaces to products and furniture. Born: October 31, 1950 in Baghdad, Iraq. Education: 1 Zaha Hadid worked at the Office for Metropolitan Architecture with her former teachers, Rem Koolhaas and Elia Zenghelis. 2  In 1979, Zaha Hadid opened her own practice, Zaha Hadid Architects.
The opening words of the citation when Zaha Hadid was named as the first woman to win the prestigious Pritzker Prize for architecture in 2004 were: ‘Her architectural career has not been traditional or easy’. An understatement. When Hadid graduated in 1977, Koolhaas offered her a job as a partner in his and Elia Zenghelis’s new firm, the Office for Metropolitan Architecture.
Zaha Hadid (http://www.pritzkerprize.com/full_new_site/hadid.htm)Zaha Hadid has the distinction of being the first woman ever to be honored with the prestigious Pritzker Architecture Prize. This award was presented to her on May 31, 2004 at the beautiful State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. 
Profile: Zaha Hadid, founder of Zaha Hadid Architects, was awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize (considered the Nobel Prize of architecture) in 2004 and is internationally known for her built, theoretical and academic work. 
The first woman to win the Pritzker Prize for Architecture, Zaha Hadid (1950–) has defined a radically new approach to architecture by creating buildings such as the Rosenthal Center for Contemporary Art in Cincinnati, with multiple perspective points and fragmented geometry to evoke the chaos of modern life. When Hadid graduated in 1977, Koolhaas offered her a job as a partner in his and Elia Zenghelis’s new firm, the Office for Metropolitan Architecture.
Zaha Hadid. The first woman to win the Pritzker Prize for Architecture, Zaha Hadid has defined a radical new approach to architecture with multiple perspective points and fragmented geometry to evoke the chaos of modern life. When Hadid graduated in 1977, Koolhaas offered her a job as a partner in his and Elia Zenghelis’s new firm, the Office for Metropolitan Architecture.
Hadid was born on 31 October 1950 in Baghdad. She grew up in one of Baghdad's first Bauhaus-inspired buildings during an era in which  modernism connoted glamour and progressive thinking in the Middle East. She received the Stirling Prize in 2010 and 2011. In 2012 she was made a dame. In 2014 the Heydar Aliyev Cultural Centre, designed by her, won the Design Museum Design of the Year Award, making her the first woman to win the top prize in that competition.
Dame Zaha Hadid is the uncrowned queen of contemporary iconic architecture. Her buildings practically scream, I'm a Hadid. A bona fide autrice, Hadid is without a doubt the world's most famous woman in a starchitect stratosphere strangely dominated by her masculine peers. 
Confidence votes 282. Zaha Hadid is from one of the most famous and creative architect of the world she was born in 1950 in Baghdad (Iraq) and her work is usually considered as the most finest work of architecture, she introduced new aspects of this field and unlocked many new doors and did great experimen. In 2002 Hadid won the international design competition to design Singapore's one-north masterplan. In 2004 Hadid became the first female recipient of the Pritzker Architecture Prize, architecture's equivalent of the Nobel Prize.
Zaha Hadid is among the most famous architects working today. A designer of buildings and objects, a celebrity and a diva, architect and artist, Hadid is a polarizing figure, to say nothing of her rarefied position as a woman among many, many men. Zaha Hadid is among the most famous working architects today, a distinction well deserved given her largely impressive track record. Above: The Vitra Fire Station (1994), Hadid’s first major built commission, remains one of her finest efforts.