Arepa (. [aˈɾepa]) is a flatbread made of ground maize dough or cooked flour prominent in the cuisine of Colombia and Venezuela. It is eaten daily in those countries and can be served with various accompaniments such as cheese (cuajada), avocado, or (especially in Venezuela) split and used to make sandwiches. Larger arepas can be found, made with either white or yellow maize. In the western Andes they are flatter, typically a quarter of an inch (0.6 cm) or less in thickness and three to four inches in diameter, and are made of wheat flour.
An arepa is a bread made of corn originating from the northern Andes in South America, and which has now spread to other areas in Latin America (e.g. Costa Rica, and the Dominican Republic, where it is now popular). Larger arepas can be found, made with either white or yellow corn. In the western Andes, arepas are flatter, and are typically quarter of an inch or less in thickness and 3 to 4 inches (100 mm) in diameter. An arepa can be eaten with a filling, similar like a Salvadorean pupusa.
Definition: Masarepa is precooked, ground corn flour that is used to prepare arepas. Arepas are a type of corn cake popular in both Venezuela and Colombia. Arepas were traditionally made by soaking the corn and then manually pounding the grains to remove the seed germ and the outer lining.
(720) 432-4205. An arepa is the daily bread of Venezuela handed down generations from the Timoto-Cuicas (a local tribe). Made of white cornmeal, water and salt, the dough is formed into a patty, grilled, baked, split open and stuffed with a variety of ingredients like a sandwich. Arepa styles in Venezuela vary by region. Although arepas can be found in Colombia, Panama, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic and the Canary Islands, Quiero Arepas® makes traditional Venezuelan style arepas with varied influences. Guasacaca sauce is one of the most popular choices to season your arepa and comes standard on many of Quiero Arepas® menu items.
Arepas is one the most typical foods in Venezuela. Arepas are made of corn flour and they are like bread in other countries. You can eat them anytime, everywhere and with whatever you want. Arepas are typically stuffed with different kinds of fillings like in a sandwich. Larger arepas can be found, made with either white or yellow corn. In the western Andes, arepas are flatter, and are typically quarter of an inch or less in thickness and 3 to 4 inches (100 mm) in diameter. An arepa can be eaten with a filling, similar like a Salvadorean pupusa.
The arepa is a flat, round, unleavened patty made of soaked, ground kernels of maize, or—more frequently nowadays—maize meal or maize flour which can be grilled, baked, fried, boiled or steamed. The characteristics vary by color, flavor, size, and the food with which it may be stuffed, depending on the region. Larger arepas can be found, made with either white or yellow maize. In the western Andes they are flatter, typically a quarter of an inch (0.6 cm) or less in thickness and three to four inches in diameter, and are made of wheat flour.
HISTORY OF THE AREPA. The Venezuelan AREPA has its origins hundreds of years ago, cooked by the various indigenous tribes across the country (Arawak, Carib, Timoto-Cuica, Cumanagoto, Karina, among others). What was initially made with fresh corn is today usually made using pre-cooked white corn flour. 
Arepa flour is usually made from white maize, but yellow maize varieties are available. Arepa flour was first developed and produced by Empresas Polar of Venezuela, owner of the PAN brand and the primary distributor in the country. Larger arepas can be found, made with either white or yellow maize. In the western Andes they are flatter, typically a quarter of an inch (0.6 cm) or less in thickness and three to four inches in diameter, and are made of wheat flour.
In Eastern Venezuela, the most common variety of arepa is usually about 3 to 8 inches (200 mm) in diameter and 3/4 inches thick. Larger arepas can be found, made with either white or yellow corn. In the western Andes, arepas are flatter, and are typically quarter of an inch or less in thickness and 3 to 4 inches (100 mm) in diameter. An arepa can be eaten with a filling, similar like a Salvadorean pupusa.