Karl Landsteiner and Erwin Popper discovered poliovirus in 1908 by proving that it was not a bacterium that caused the paralysis, but a much smaller entity—a virus. 
Even before another successful vaccine was discovered, Dr. Salk's discovery had reduced polio and its effects by 97 percent. Today, polio is not a familiar disease to younger Americans, and many have difficulty appreciating the magnitude of the disorder that the Salk vaccine virtually wiped from the face of the Earth. 
Two polio vaccines are used throughout the world to provide immunity to the virus that causes poliomyelitis (or polio). The first was developed by Jonas Salk through the use of HeLa cells and first tested in 1952. Announced to the world by Dr Thomas Francis Jr. on 12 April 1955, it consists of an injected dose of inactivated (dead) poliovirus. An oral vaccine was developed by Albert Sabin using attenuated or weakened poliovirus. Oral polio vaccines were developed by several groups, one of which was led by Albert Sabin. Other groups, led by Hilary Koprowski and H.R. Cox, developed their own attenuated vaccine strains. In 1958, the National Institutes of Health created a special committee on live polio vaccines.
Polio also known as Poliomyelitis is a virus that can cause paralysis, and even death. Polio comes from the poliovirus, a picornatvirus, a RNA virus, that bond to receptor CD 155, it is an immunoglobulin like-molecule with three domains. 
In about 98% of cases, polio is a mild illness, with no symptoms or with viral-like symptoms. In paralytic polio, the virus leaves the digestive tract, enters the bloodstream, and then attacks nerve cells. Fewer than 1%-2% of people who contract polio become paralized. Poliomyelitis, shortened, became polio. For a time, polio was called infantile paralysis, though it did not affect only the young. Cause of Polio. Polio is caused by one of three types of poliovirus (which are members of the Enterovirus genus).
Top of Page. Two types of vaccine protect against polio: oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) and inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) (given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age). Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a crippling and potentially deadly infectious disease. It is caused by the poliovirus. The virus spreads from person to person and can invade an infected person’s brain and spinal cord, causing paralysis (can’t move parts of the body). 
Who Discovered the Cure for Polio?, 8.0 out of 10 based on 11 ratings. Polio or poliomyelitis is an infectious disease, the symptoms of which are acute flaccid paralysis and muscle weakness. It is primarily caused by poliovirus. The risk of acquiring polio infection increases through these factors, namely tonsillectomy, malnutrition and immune deficiency. Who discovered the cure for polio? In 1952, an American medical researcher named Jonas Salk became the very first person to discover the cure for polio. In April 1955, he announced the medicine, which is basically made up of an injected dose of dead or inactivated
Well like many medical breakthroughs, there were a succession of findings by many scientists which led to an ultimate polio vaccine. But it was a scientist by the name of Dr Jonas Salk who, with the help of his colleagues at University of Pittsburgh Medical School, discovered the polio vaccine itself. Dr Jonas Salk was the son of Orthodox Polish-Jewish immigrants and was born in New York in 1914. However there are other notable scientists who were either directly or indirectly involved with the discovery of the polio vaccine... Perhaps the most notable were Harvard’s Johns Enders and his team, who collectively discovered how to grow polio in test tubes a few years before the polio vaccine was discovered.
It was Karl Landsteiner, an Austrian biologist and physician, who discovered the poliovirus in 1909 along with Erwin Popper. Today we all know that polio is a contagious disease which has the potential to be fatal if it infects the respiratory system. 
1894, first outbreak of polio in epidemic form in the U.S. occurs in Vermont, with 132 cases. 1908, Karl Landsteiner and Erwin Popper identify a virus as the cause of polio by transmitting the disease to a monkey. 1916, large epidemic of polio within the United States. 1921, Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR) contracts polio at age 39. 