If the “HBsAg” was positive, this means that you are either chronically infected with hepatitis B or were recently infected. If only the “anti-HBc” was positive, it is most likely that you either had a “false-positive” test or are immune to hepatitis B infection (had hepatitis B infec-tion sometime in the past). 
Hepatitis C Overview. Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from infection with the Hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C has been called a silent epidemic because most people with Hepatitis C do not know they are infected. Hepatitis C is usually spread when blood from a person infected with the Hepatitis C virus enters the body of someone who is not infected. This can happen through multiple ways. Before widespread screening of the blood supply began in 1992, Hepatitis C was spread through blood transfusions and organ transplants.
To answer your question about HBSag: it is Hepatitis B surface antigen. This tests for the presence of virus. A positive or reactive HBsAg test result means that the person is infected with the hepatitis B virus, which can be an acute or a chronic infection. Infected people can pass the virus on to others through their blood and infected bodily fluids.
A positive test may also mean you have chronic hepatitis B infection. If you do not recover in six months, the virus may stay in your blood, cause liver problems, and can infect others. Your doctor may give you medications if you don't recover after six months. Even if your test results are different from the normal value, you may not have a problem. To learn what the results mean for you, talk with your health care provider. Normal results are negative or nonreactive, meaning that no hepatitis B surface antigen was found. If your test is positive or reactive, it may mean you are actively infected with HBV
1 A Non-reactive or a negative Hepatitis C antibody test result means that a person does not have Hepatitis C. However, if a person has been recently exposed to the Hepatitis C virus, he or she will need to be tested again. Hepatitis C is usually spread when blood from a person infected with the Hepatitis C virus enters the body of someone who is not infected. This can happen through multiple ways. Before widespread screening of the blood supply began in 1992, Hepatitis C was spread through blood transfusions and organ transplants.
Results. Hepatitis A virus (HAV) test is a blood test that looks for proteins (antibodies) made by the body in response to the virus that causes hepatitis A. Negative results of hepatitis virus testing mean that no antibodies against the hepatitis virus were found. Positive results mean that hepatitis A antibodies were found. Results are usually available in 5 to 7 days. 
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests may be used for a variety of reasons. Some of the tests detect antibodies produced in response to HBV infection; some detect antigens produced by the virus, and others detect viral DNA. The main uses for HBV tests include: 
Report Abuse. Hepatitis B ANTIGEN tests to see if you have the actual hepatitis B infection or not. If you want to see if someone has been vaccinated you have to check hepatitis B SURFACE ANTIBODY, not the antigen. A positive antibody test means either you have had hepatitis B in the past and got over it. OR you have been vaccinated.
A negative test for hepatitis B antigen only means that you are NOT a chronic carrier and DONT have acute hepatitis. It tells you nothing about your prior vaccination. If you want to know if you are immune (by vaccination or by prior infection), then you need to knwo what your hepatits B ANTIBODY status is. I'm sure your doctor did this test at the same time as the antigen test. If your hepatitis B antibody is also negative, youre not immune and need vaccination. If the antibody is positive, you are immune and dont need a vaccination. If you want to see if someone has been vaccinated you have to check hepatitis B SURFACE ANTIBODY, not the antigen. A positive antibody test means either you have had hepatitis B in the past and got over it. OR you have been vaccinated.