Many scholars, such as Biblarz et al., argue that occupational segregation is most likely caused by gender-based discrimination that often occurs in patterns, either horizontally (across occupations) or vertically (within the hierarchy of occupations). Both of these contribute to the gender pay gap. Occupational segregation levels differ on a basis of perfect segregation and integration. Perfect segregation occurs where any given occupation employs only one group. Perfect integration, on the other hand, occurs where each group holds the same proportion of positions in an occupation as it holds in the labor force.
Occupational segregation is the distribution of people across and within occupations and jobs, based upon demographic characteristics, most often gender. Occupational segregation levels differ on a basis of perfect segregation and integration. Perfect segregation occurs where any given occupation employs only one group. Perfect integration, on the other hand, occurs where each group holds the same proportion of positions in an occupation as it holds in the labor force.
Gender Segregation in the Labor Market and the Gender Wage Gap. by Ariane Hegewisch, Hannah Liepmann, Jeff Hayes, Ph.D., Heidi Hartmann, Ph.D. (August 2010). Occupational gender segregation is a strong feature of the US labor market. 
The term “sex” in “sex segregation” refers to apparent biological distinctions between men and women, used in contrast to “gender”. The term “segregation” refers to separation of the sexes, which can be enforced by rules, laws, and policies, or be a de facto outcome in which people are separated by sex. Sex segregation is the physical, legal, and cultural separation of people according to their biological sex. This is distinct from gender segregation, which is the separation of people according to social constructions of gender. In certain circumstances, sex segregation is controversial.
gender segregation (in employment) This term refers to the unequal distribution of men and women in the occupational structure—sometimes also (and more accurately) called ‘occupational segregation by sex’. 
occupational segregation The division of labour, in the context of paid employment, as a result of which men and women (or members of different ethnic or religious groupings) are channelled into different types of occupational roles and tasks, such that there are two (or more) separate labour forces. Researchers are increasingly aware that any single number index of occupational segregation is unlikely to reveal patterns of change within the occupational structure. One alternative is to measure the differences between integrated and segregated occupations in terms of their relative importance across groups and time.
the level that persons of the same sex or ethnic background are rendered jobs in some professions when others are not. OCCUPATIONAL SEGREGATION: Occupational segregation is a form of discrimination and should not be tolerated in any workplace.. 
occupational segregation noun [U]. › the fact that some ​jobs are more typically done by men or women, by ​people of particular races, religions, etc.: The ​pilot ​study looked at ​occupational segregation and ​career ​differentiation of men and women. Compare horizontal segregation vertical segregation. Compare
Desegregation policies often seek to prevent sex discrimination, or alleviate occupational segregation. These policies encourage women and men to participate in environments typically predominated by the opposite sex. Sex segregation is the physical, legal, and cultural separation of people according to their biological sex. This is distinct from gender segregation, which is the separation of people according to social constructions of gender. In certain circumstances, sex segregation is controversial.
occupational segregation noun [U]. › the fact that some ​jobs are more typically done by men or women, by ​people of particular races, religions, etc.: The ​pilot ​study looked at ​occupational segregation and ​career ​differentiation of men and women. Compare horizontal segregation vertical segregation. Compare.