Political rights are those which may be exercised in the formation or administration of the government they are distinguished from civil, rights, which are the rights which a man enjoys, as regards other individuals, and not in relation to the government. A political corporation is one which has principally for its object the administration of the government, or to which the powers of government, or a part of such powers, have been delegated. 1 Bouv. Inst. n. 182, 197, 198.
The political environment of business is one that deals with the concepts of politics and the way they influence how business operate. Its key to understand laws are the … outcome of the political process, therefore they are fundamentally a core issue concerning business managers. A political and legal environment comprises of both political and legal issues, it is a type of environment that gives the opportunity to the masses for the resolution of such … issues.
Such a programme for a treatise on government might lead us to expect in the Politics mainly a description of a Utopia or ideal state which might inspire poets or philosophers but have little direct effect upon political institutions. A political corporation is one which has principally for its object the administration of the government, or to which the powers of government, or a part of such powers, have been delegated. 1 Bouv. Inst. n. 182, 197, 198.
Political rights are the rights exercised in the formation and administration of a government. They are given to citizen by the constitution. These rights give the citizen power to participate directly or indirectly in the administration. 
Political corruption means the abuse of political power by the government leaders to extract and accumulate for private enrichment, and to use politically corrupt means to maintain their hold on power. The second form of political corruption is one in which extracted resources (and public money) are used for power preservation and power extension purposes. This usually takes the form of favouritism and patronage politics.
Full Definition of POLITICAL. 1. a: of or relating to government, a government, or the conduct of government b: of, relating to, or concerned with the making as distinguished from the administration of governmental policy. 2. : of, relating to, involving, or involved in politics and especially party politics. 3. 4
Andrew Lubin is a foreign policy-defense analyst and author specializing in military, foreign policy, and defense issues. A 'political legal environment' is the system of government instituted by each country's central government. Think of the differences between the US-UK-German governments; all are democracies, but their governments are elected, govern, and are replaced in different ways. A political and legal environment comprises of both political and legal issues, it is a type of environment that gives the opportunity to the masses for the resolution of such … issues.
Marketing decisions are highly affected by changes in the political/ legal environment. The environment is made up of laws and government agencies that influence and constrain … t various organizations and individuals in society. A political and legal environment comprises of both political and legal issues, it is a type of environment that gives the opportunity to the masses for the resolution of such … issues.