Roman family name, which was itself derived from the Roman name MARIUS ... [more]. MARINUS m Ancient Roman, Dutch. From the Roman family name Marinus, which derives either from the name MARIUS or from the Latin word marinus of the sea. Roman name which was derived from Latin hilaris meaning cheerful ... [more]. HORATIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was possibly derived from Latin hora hour, time, season, though the name may actually be of Etruscan origin ...
Roman Houses. Roman houses were so well built, if you were rich, that many examples of Roman houses exist throughout the Roman Empire. If you were poor in Rome, you lived in simple flats or apartments – the inside of these places was symbolic of your lack of wealth
AELIA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of AELIUS. AELIANA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of AELIANUS. AELIANUS m Ancient Roman. Roman cognomen which was a derivative of AELIUS. AELIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was possibly derived from the Greek word ‘ηλιος (helios) meaning sun ... Roman family name which was possibly derived from Latin hora hour, time, season, though the name may actually be of Etruscan origin ... [more]. HORTENSIA f Ancient Roman, Spanish. Feminine form of the Roman family name Hortensius, possibly derived from Latin hortus garden.
Fishbourne Roman Palace is in the village of Fishbourne, Chichester in West Sussex. The large palace was built in the 1st century AD, around thirty years after the Roman conquest of Britain on the site of a Roman army supply base established at the Claudian invasion in 43 AD. The rectangular palace surrounded formal gardens, the northern half of which have been reconstructed. Fishbourne is by far the largest Roman residence known north of the Alps. At about 500 feet (150 m) square, it has a larger footprint than Buckingham Palace. A modern museum has been built by the Sussex Archaeological Society, incorporating most of the visible remains including one wing of the palace.
Overlooking the Forum Romanum is the Flavian Palace which was built largely during the reign of the Flavian dynasty (69 – 96) – Vespasian, Titus and Domitian. This palace, which was extended and modified by several emperors, extends across the Palatine Hill and looks out over the Circus Maximus. The building of the greater part of the palace visible from the Circus was undertaken in the reign of the emperor Septimius Severus (146 – 211). [paelaeˈt̪iːno]) päläˈt̪iːno is the centermost of The Seven hills Of rome and is one of the most ancient parts of the. City it stands 40 metres above The Forum, romanum looking down upon it on one, side and upon The Circus maximus on the. other
Feminine form of CLAUDIUS ... [more]. CLAUDIUS m Ancient Roman. From a Roman family name which was possibly derived from Latin claudus meaning lame, crippled ... [more]. CLOELIA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of CLOELIUS ... [more]. CLOELIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name of unknown meaning. Roman family name which was possibly derived from Latin hora hour, time, season, though the name may actually be of Etruscan origin ... [more]. HORTENSIA f Ancient Roman, Spanish. Feminine form of the Roman family name Hortensius, possibly derived from Latin hortus garden.
Augustus Museo della Civilta Rome. Augustus-The first Emperor Augustus was the first emperor of Rome. His real name was Octavian but he was given the name 'Augustus' by the senate as an honour for his great achievements. He avenged the death of Caesar together with Mark Antony, before falling out with him. 
The Flavian Palace (Domus Flavian) on Rome’s prestigious Palatine Hill was an Ancient Roman palace built by the Emperor Domitian in the first century AD. A place where official functions were held, the Flavian Palace was the public counterpart to Domus Augustana, which served as the private home of Rome’s emperors. 