However, the Belgians claim to have invented French fries. They were prepared as early as the 1700s and were simply referred to as fried potatoes. Thomas Jefferson first sampled them in Paris and brought the recipe home with him. United States' world-wide influence French fries have been widely popularized world-wide by US-originated fast-food chains like McDonald's and Burger King. This came about through the introduction of the frozen French fry invented by the J.R. Simplot Company in the early 1950s.
According to Jo Gerard, a historian of Belgium, early traces on who invented french fries can be seen during the 1680s. In Gerard’s findings, poor inhabitants of Belgium usually had small fried fish with their meals. According to this legend, some American or British soldiers went to Belgium on World War I, and were able to taste the Belgian french fries. Since the official language of the army of Belgium was French, the term “French” was attached to the dish of fried potatoes and initially used by these soldiers.
Best Answer: French-fried potatoes were probably invented in France or Belgium during the 18th century, and the name French was applied to them in English in the 19th century. United States' world-wide influence French fries have been widely popularized world-wide by US-originated fast-food chains like McDonald's and Burger King. This came about through the introduction of the frozen French fry invented by the J.R. Simplot Company in the early 1950s.
By 1795, potatoes were being grown on a very large scale in France, including at the royal gardens at Tuileries, where the gardens were converted into potato fields. Within that span of time, the French either invented or learned to make fries. Once discovered/invented French fries became extremely popular in France, particularly in Paris, where they were sold by push-cart vendors on the streets and called “frites”. 1 According to many of the “Belgian origin” supporters, French fries are called French fries because, during WWI, American soldiers were introduced to fries by the Belgians. 2  At the time, the Belgian Army spoke French.
Today I found out about the history of French fries. Exactly who introduced these golden strips of goodness to the world isn’t entirely known. Among the various theories, it’s generally accepted that the French fry was invented by either the Belgians or the French. 1 According to many of the “Belgian origin” supporters, French fries are called French fries because, during WWI, American soldiers were introduced to fries by the Belgians. 2  At the time, the Belgian Army spoke French.
Bonus Facts: 1  While the Belgians may or may not have invented the French fry, today, they do consume the most French fries per capita of any country in Europe. 2  In most of the English speaking world, thin cut and thick cut fries are called two different things, fries and chips, respectively. 1 According to many of the “Belgian origin” supporters, French fries are called French fries because, during WWI, American soldiers were introduced to fries by the Belgians. 2  At the time, the Belgian Army spoke French.
One enduring origin story holds that French fries were invented by street vendors on the Pont Neuf bridge in Paris in 1789, just before the outbreak of the French revolution. However, a reference exists in France from 1775 to a few pieces of fried potato and to fried potatoes. In France and other French-speaking countries, fried potatoes are formally pommes de terre frites, but more commonly pommes frites, patates frites, or simply frites. The word  aiguillettes  or allumettes is used when the French fries are very small and thin.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: French-fried potatoes were probably invented in France or Belgium during the 18th century, and the name French was applied to them in English in the 19th century. However, there are various more-or-less plausible alternative theories. United States' world-wide influence French fries have been widely popularized world-wide by US-originated fast-food chains like McDonald's and Burger King. This came about through the introduction of the frozen French fry invented by the J.R. Simplot Company in the early 1950s.
French fries (American English), chips, fries, finger chips, or French-fried potatoes are batons of deep-fried potato. In France and other French-speaking countries, fried potatoes are formally pommes de terre frites, but more commonly pommes frites, patates frites, or simply frites. The word  aiguillettes  or allumettes is used when the French fries are very small and thin.