Hippotherapy. I want you to see me, as I want to see myself, for what I can do, and not for what I cannot.. - Edwin A. McCabe. Hippotherapy is a treatment that uses the multidimensional movement of the horse as an avenue to complete a physical, occupational, or speech therapy session. The horse's movement has rhythm, symmetry, bilateralism, a dynamic base of support and multiple planes of movement. The American Hippotherapy Association suggests that Hippotherapy can improve balance, posture, mobility and function. It may also affect psychological, cognitive, behavioral and communication functions for clients of all ages.
3, No. 2). By its very nature, therapeutic riding influences the whole person and the effect on all the body's systems can be profound. It was, therefore, a natural progression for therapeutic riding in North America to branch into the medical application of the horse -- hippotherapy. Developmental Riding Therapy. Developmental riding therapy is distinguished from either classic hippotherapy or hippotherapy by its broader professional participation, more diverse client population, and equine skills/training specific to the areas of dressage, horse-handling and vaulting.
Equine-assisted therapy, hippotherapy, therapeutic riding ... these are all terms for physical and psychological therapeutic process that utilize horses as co-facilitators in the treatment process. 
Hippotherapy is a treatment strategy in which the movement of the horse is utilized by specially trained, certified occupational therapists, physical therapists, and speech language pathologists to address a variety of impairments and limitations with the goal of achieving functional outcomes. Hippotherapy. Ben is pictured here in the Hatton Riding Center with his horse (another Ben!) and his therapist, Lauren Warm. Here's what his mom has to say, “ Hippotherapy has been WONDERFUL for my son Ben. He is a 7 year old with CHARGE Syndrome and Cerebral Palsy.
Hippotherapy, also known as therapeutic horseback riding, equine-facilitated therapy, or horse therapy, is the passive use of the physical movements of the horse in the treatment of patients with neurological or other disabilities. In an article on hippotherapy, Tuttle (1987) stated that research on the effect and application of the various forms of therapeutic horseback riding is needed to refine program planning, and to support funding and third party reimbursement.
Today, hippotherapy is being used on a global scale with 650 centers in the United States to treat children with an array of disabilities (Lane). Through every rhythmic stride the 1100 pound animal takes, the horse proves its medicinal benefits in more ways than one. Hippotherapy has shown improvements in every area of physical functions such as balance, coordination, strength, and posture. However, the physical advantages aren’t the only benefit children reap. Jazzy suffers from spastic cerebral palsy, and for the past thirteen years, has received hippotherapy treatment with the infallible Stormy—an 1100 pound black Missouri Fox-Trotter. Horses have long been known as the “helper and healer of humans” (Meregillano). It dates back to the 5th century to the days of Hippocrates.
In classic hippotherapy, it is purely the horse's movement that influences the client. The client may be positioned astride the horse facing forward, backward, prone or supine. The client passively interacts with, and responds to, the horse's movement. Developmental Riding Therapy. Developmental riding therapy is distinguished from either classic hippotherapy or hippotherapy by its broader professional participation, more diverse client population, and equine skills/training specific to the areas of dressage, horse-handling and vaulting.
Down Syndrome. When a horse's movement is transferred to a patient through hippotherapy, it produces a combination of sensory, motor and neurological input that we use to treat a wide variety of diagnoses. Horses create a dynamic, three-dimensional movement that cannot be reproduced in a traditional clinic setting. 
This form of therapy is known as hippotherapy: “treatment with the help of the horse” (Meregillano). This paper will focus on the effects of this modern therapy in children with mental and physical impairments. It will present studies that will provide a better insight into the recent success of hippotherapy. Jazzy suffers from spastic cerebral palsy, and for the past thirteen years, has received hippotherapy treatment with the infallible Stormy—an 1100 pound black Missouri Fox-Trotter. Horses have long been known as the “helper and healer of humans” (Meregillano). It dates back to the 5th century to the days of Hippocrates.