The stamen (plural stamina or stamens) is the pollen-producing reproductive organ of a flower. The stamens in a flower are collectively called the androecium. The androecium in various species of plants form a great variety of patterns, some of them highly complex. It surrounds the gynoecium and is surrounded by the perianth.
1 the male reproductive organ of a flower, consisting of a stalk (filament) bearing an anther in which pollen is produced. 
The 'stamen' is the male part of a flower and consists of a  'filament' and 'anther' where 'pollen' is produced.     The 'pistil' is the female part, which consists … of the 'stigma',  'style', and 'ovary' containing 'ovules'. After fertilization the  ovules mature into seeds. The two parts of a stamen are the anther and filament. found this useful. Ramkishore Singh Rathore. 1  A Look at the Different Parts of Speech English grammar can be confusing, especially if you are trying to determine what part of speech a word in a sentence is.
The male parts are called stamens and usually surround the pistil. The stamen is made up of two parts: the anther and filament. The anther produces pollen (male reproductive cells). The filament holds the anther up. During the process of fertilization, pollen lands on the stigma, a tube grows down the style and enters the ovary. The female part is the pistil. The pistil usually is located in the center of the flower and is made up of three parts: the stigma, style, and ovary. The stigma is the sticky knob at the top of the pistil. It is attached to the long, tubelike structure called the style.
Lesson Summary. The stamen is a very important part of the flower because it contains the male reproductive organs. The stamen is comprised of the filament, which is the long, slender stalk, and the anther, which is at the top of the filament and is where pollen grains are produced. Self-pollination is the more simple method, whereby pollen from the anther of a flower is transferred to the pistil of the same flower. The pollen is often transferred by falling from the anther, which is held above the pistil by the filament, down to the top of the pistil.
stamen, one of the four basic parts of a flower. The stamen (microsporophyll), is often called the flower's male reproductive organ. It is typically located between the central pistil and the surrounding petals.
A stamen typically consists of a stalk called the filament and an anther which contains microsporangia. Most commonly anthers are two-lobed and are attached to the filament either at the base or in the middle portion. The stamens in a flower are collectively called the androecium. The androecium in various species of plants form a great variety of patterns, some of them highly complex. It surrounds the gynoecium and is surrounded by the perianth.
Definition of STAMEN for Kids. : the part of a flower that produces pollen and is made up of an anther and a filament. : a microsporophyll of a seed plant; specifically: the pollen-producing male organ of a flower that consists of an anther and a filament — see flower illustration. See stamen defined for English-language learners.
Sepal: The outer parts of the flower (often green and leaf-like) that enclose a developing bud. Petal: The parts of a flower that are often conspicuously colored. Stamen: The pollen producing part of a flower, usually with a slender filament supporting the anther. Anther: The part of the stamen where pollen is produced. Pistil: The ovule producing part of a flower. The ovary often supports a long style, topped by a stigma. The mature ovary is a fruit, and the mature ovule is a seed. Stigma: The part of the pistil where pollen germinates. 
Flowers house the female and male reproductive structures. The female reproductive part is called the pistil and is comprised of the stigma, style, and ovary. The male reproductive part of a flower is referred to as the stamen and consists of the filament and the anther. Self-pollination is the more simple method, whereby pollen from the anther of a flower is transferred to the pistil of the same flower. The pollen is often transferred by falling from the anther, which is held above the pistil by the filament, down to the top of the pistil.