Grill the ribs. You can place the beef ribs on a broil pan and grill them in the oven, or you can place them on the grill and grill them over an open flame. Allow the ribs to grill for about five to seven minutes before you flip them. Flip the ribs.
Once the ribs have been on the grill for 30 minutes, it is time to move on to the second stage. The ribs should be browned on all sides. If they appear raw on the surface anywhere continued grilling for another 10 to 15 minutes, otherwise, move on to the second phase. 
1 Grill the ribs for 2 hours, bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 minutes. 3  Don't be afraid to add an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
Start your grill about 30 minutes prior to cooking. Prepare the grill for indirect grilling. Stabilize the temperature at 225 to 235-degrees F. Place ribs bone side down on the grill grate, away from the fire. If cooking several racks of ribs, use a rib rack and place the meat side of the ribs facing the fire. Add the smoking chips and cover the grill. On average, beef ribs will need about 3 to 5 hours of cooking time, depending on the thickness of the meat and other factors such as weather conditions. Your main goal at this point is to watch and adjust the temperature. The heat will have a tendency to climb up to the 300-degree F range rather quickly
The real secret to our traditional barbecue beef rib recipe is to maintain a low heat (225-250°F/107-121°C) for an extended cooking period. This is not fast, but the best way to get them tender! You'll need a full bucket load of this virtue when cooking ribs on a charcoal grill. Figure about 1.5 hours/pound. Cook 'Em... 1  Place the ribs on the grill, opposite side of the fire, bone side down, to begin cooking. 2  Avoid the ribs touching. 3  When cooking beef ribs on a charcoal grill, never let the meat overlap the fire. 4  You cannot undo crispy or burnt barbecue beef ribs!
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
2. About 30 minutes before cooking beef ribs remove from the refrigerator, unwrap to bring it to room temperature. Soak 1-2 three inch wood chunks covered in cold water for 1 hour and drain or soak 2 cups wood chips 15 minutes and drain, place chips in an aluminum or tinfoil container. 5. Place ribs on the cool side of the grill and cover. Cook for 2 hours turning every 30 minutes until the meat easily pulls away from the bones and has a rosy glow exterior. When turning the ribs work quickly to close cover and retain as much heat as possible in the grill. 6
At the restaurant we dust the ribs up to a day in advance. Place ribs on grill and cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hours. About 10 minutes before you remove the ribs from the grill, mop them with sauce. When you take them off the grill, mop again with sauce and sprinkle some more Magic Dust on them. Serve immediately. 