Amazon Prime offers 2-day delivery, while Google Express guarantees your purchases on the same day or overnight. While Amazon Prime offers same or next-day delivery in select cities, there's a $5.99 charge per delivery. Google's is included in the membership. Non-members pay $4.99 per delivery — about half what Amazon currently charges for the same service. Google Express The service launched in San Francisco this year. Google is expanding its delivery service to Boston, Washington DC, and Chicago. The service, which is already in some California cities and New York, costs $10 per month, or $95 a year, according to The Wall Street Journal. The fee gets you unlimited same-day or overnight delivery on orders over $15.
Well, if you live in San Francisco, West Los Angeles, or Manhattan, Google Shopping Express is there to help you out. They are now offering same day delivery from Costco as well as a whole host of other retailers for just $4.99 (per store). Unfortunately, Google is only doing same day delivery in those three areas right now, but they are looking to expand, so they could be coming to an area near you.
$4.99 delivery means $4.99 shipping & service fees. Eligible orders (a) meet store minimums before taxes & fees in select delivery areas, (b) exclude restricted items, (c) are not scheduled for delivery during a 2-hour window, and (d) are placed by someone with active membership subject to terms & conditions. 
For now, Google is limiting its NYC-area service to Manhattan, though there are plans to expand to the outer boroughs in the future. Same-day delivery will cost $4.99 per store with no minimum price of purchase and no limit on how much you buy. So whether you want $200 worth of groceries or just an enormous box or Corn Flakes, Google is only charging you $4.99. 
Google Shopping Express: From Costco to your door in just a few hours. Google Shopping Express has an easy to use online shopping site with all of the stores and products available in a specific zip code listed. They are now offering same day delivery from Costco as well as a whole host of other retailers for just $4.99 (per store). Unfortunately, Google is only doing same day delivery in those three areas right now, but they are looking to expand, so they could be coming to an area near you.
That’s on top of an annual subscription fee. Like Amazon Prime, Google Express is available via subscription, priced at $95 per year (just a smidge under the cost of Prime) or $10 per month. Members then get free same-day delivery of all orders with a minimum purchase of $15. On Monday, Google announced that the express online shopping-and-shipping service it has been testing for months in northern California and parts of Los Angeles and New York City is expanding to three more cities: Boston, Chicago, and Washington, D.C.
Courtesy of Google. Google on Monday announced a brilliant bit of marketing for its same-day delivery service, Google Shopping Express. The service, which launched in the San Francisco Bay Area last year, is rolling out to consumers in Manhattan and West Los Angeles. And while I'm drawing comparisons, it's also important to remember that Google Shopping Express and Amazon Prime aren't entirely the same. Amazon, for instance, sells some goods directly to customers from its warehouses and has a tremendous selection of items.
Same-Day Delivery from Costco now available on Google Shopping Express. Just in time for Thanksgiving, Costco members in the San Francisco Bay Area can now get their favorite items delivered same-day with Google Shopping Express. With the same prices online as in-store, plus six-months of free same-day delivery*, Google Shopping Express is a great way to access the value and quality for which Costco is known.