Runners can benefit from gently stretching the calf muscles and Achilles tendon before working out. An ankle brace can provide support and stability to an injured Achilles tendon. The contraction of the calf muscles pulls upwards on the Achilles tendon. Using crutches can help ensure that no additional damage is done to the achilles tendon injury. A diagram of the Achilles tendon and common tendon problems. A physical therapist may use various stretching techniques to treat a pulled achilles tendon. View slideshow of images above. 
1 Rest your Achilles tendon. 2  Avoid all activities that strain the tendon, such as stair climbing or running. 3  Try other activities, such as swimming, while you give your tendon the days, weeks, or months it needs to heal. 4  Your doctor will tell you what you can and cannot do. Follow these steps to rest, heal, and strengthen your Achilles tendon and prevent further injury: 1  Rest your Achilles tendon. 2  Reduce pain by icing your Achilles tendon and taking nonprescription pain relievers such as acetaminophen or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) as directed. 3  Follow your physical therapy program if one has been ...
Achilles tendon rupture. No matter how you treat an Achilles tendon rupture, after treatment it's important to follow your rehab program. This program helps your tendon heal and prevents further injury. Follow these steps to rest, heal, and strengthen your Achilles tendon and prevent further injury: 1  Rest your Achilles tendon. 2  Reduce pain by icing your Achilles tendon and taking nonprescription pain relievers such as acetaminophen or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) as directed. 3  Follow your physical therapy program if one has been ...
email. Knowledge center. Achilles tendinitis (tendonitis) or Achilles tendon inflammation occurs when the Achilles tendon becomes inflamed, as a result, of the Achilles tendon being put under too much strain. The Achilles tendon joins the calf muscles to the heel bone, and is found at the back of a person's lower leg. It is the largest tendon in the body and can endure great force, but is still susceptible to injury. Achilles tendinitis is usually the result of strenuous, high impact exercise, such as running.
If your Achilles is sore you are likely to have either Achilles tendinitis (or Achilles tendonitis) or Achilles tendinosis. Achilles tendinitis (or sometimes spelled tendonitis) is more of an acute injury, whereby the tendon make-up is disrupted and results in inflammation. 
Achilles tendinopathy. Follow these steps to rest, heal, and strengthen your Achilles tendon and prevent further injury: 1  Rest your Achilles tendon. 2  Avoid all activities that strain the tendon, such as stair climbing or running. Follow these steps to rest, heal, and strengthen your Achilles tendon and prevent further injury: 1  Rest your Achilles tendon. 2  Reduce pain by icing your Achilles tendon and taking nonprescription pain relievers such as acetaminophen or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) as directed. 3  Follow your physical therapy program if one has been ...
When they are injured, you definitely know, as this foot injury can be particularly painful. Below you'll find additional information about this condition and some suggestions for how to treat injured tendons. Tendinitis is the inflammation, stiffness, and swelling that result when a tendon is strained or torn. You can experience this problem in tendons anywhere in the foot, including those within the arch along the bottom of the foot. Tendinitis is, in fact, often related to arch problems. 
Heal Your Achilles Tendon Injury. An Achilles Tendon injury is a prime example of a condition that involves chronic re-injury. This re-injury takes place whenever you do any activity that puts a strain on your Achilles, or when you attempt to stretch the fragile tissue in the newly healed Achilles. 
Save. Your Achilles tendon is the band of tissue that goes from your calf muscles to your heel. When you contract your calf muscles the Achilles tendon is pulled causing your foot to be pushed down. It allows you to walk, run, jump and stand on your toes. 
Achilles tendinitis is a common condition that causes pain along the back of the leg near the heel. The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the body. It connects your calf muscles to your heel bone and is used when you walk, run, and jump. 