1 Role of alcohol in the progression of liver disease caused by hepatitis C virus infection. 2  Hepatology 1998;27(6):1730-5. 3  Harris DR, Gonin R, Alter HJ, et al. 4  The relationship of acute transfusion-associated hepatitis to the development of cirrhosis in the presence of alcohol abuse. Patients with chronic hepatitis C infection likely should not drink alcohol. Heavy alcohol use has been found in multiple studies to be associated with fibrosis progression and cirrhosis. Light and moderate alcohol consumption also seem to contribute to liver disease.
Worldwide, viral hepatitis is the most common cause of liver inflammation. Other causes include autoimmune diseases and ingestion of toxic substances (notably alcohol), certain medications (such as paracetamol), some industrial organic solvents, and plants. Acute hepatitis can be self-limiting (healing on its own), can progress to chronic hepatitis, or, rarely, can cause acute liver failure. Chronic hepatitis may have no symptoms, or may progress over time to fibrosis (scarring of the liver) and cirrhosis (chronic liver failure).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Alcoholic hepatitis is hepatitis (inflammation of the liver) due to excessive intake of alcohol. It is usually found in association with fatty liver, an early stage of alcoholic liver disease, and may contribute to the progression of fibrosis, leading to cirrhosis
Hepatitis can have numerous causes, such as excessive alcohol consumption or infection by certain bacteria or viruses. One common cause of hepatitis is infection with one of several types of viruses (e.g., hepatitis A, B, or C viruses). With the development of new diagnostic tools, infections with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) have received increasing attention in recent years.
Alcoholic hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver. It is typically caused by excessive alcohol consumption over a long period of time. If you develop this condition, you must stop drinking alcohol. Continued drinking can lead to additional health problems, such as cirrhosis (scarring) of the liver or liver failure. 
It is caused by the virus HCV (hepatitis C Virus). The liver can swell and become damaged. In hepatitis C, unlike hepatitis B, liver cancer risk is only increased in people with cirrhosis and only 20% of hep C patients get cirrhosis. 1 Person can become infected with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) by drinking contaminated water. 2  Hepatitis that cannot be attributed to one of the viral forms of the disease is called hepatitis X. 3  Hepatitis G is another type of hepatitis caused by a specific virus (HGV).
Most liver damage is caused by 3 hepatitis viruses, called hepatitis A, B and C. However, hepatitis can also be caused by alcohol and some other toxins and infections, as well as from our own autoimmune process (the body attacks itself). 1 Person can become infected with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) by drinking contaminated water. 2  Hepatitis that cannot be attributed to one of the viral forms of the disease is called hepatitis X. 3  Hepatitis G is another type of hepatitis caused by a specific virus (HGV).
The name of each type of viral hepatitis condition corresponds to the virus that causes it. For example, hepatitis A is caused by hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis B is caused by hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C is caused by hepatitis C virus (HCV). 
Hepatitis C is an infectious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV). The virus, which causes inflammation in the liver and can lead to more serious illness, primarily is spread by intravenous contact with the blood of an infected person. Role of alcohol in the progression of liver disease caused by hepatitis C virus infection. Hepatology 27:1730–1735, 1998. Pessione, F.; Degos, F.; Marcellin, P.; et al. Effect of alcohol consumption on serum hepatitis C virus RNA and histological lesions in chronic hepatitis C. Hepatology 27(6):1717–1722, 1998.