This study explored dialectical tensions and metaphors throughout relational development. Participants identified stages of relationships with stages of beginning/attraction, insecurity/decision-making, and contentment/stability being most prevalent in relational development. Third, interpersonal researchers must examine the dialectical tensions that exist in relationships. Duck (1990) and Duck and Pittman (1994) advance the need for scholars to look at dyadic dilemmas of resolving contradictions.
*Certainty and Uncertainty. Relational partners need predictability along with a sense of assurance in their interpersonal relationships. However, without the spice of variety that comes from novelty, mystery, and spontaneity in relationships (featuring too much predictability), they become bland and monotonous. 
Being a Human Communication Major, I have fallen in love with Relational Dialectics. Chapter 8 in our textbook encourages healthy relationships to understand and to be comfortable with relational dialectics. Relational dialectics are the opposing forces, or tensions that are normal in relationships (pg. 200). Autonomy vs. Connection is the struggle of wanting to be independent and the desire to be connected with others. For example, if you are in a romantic relationship, you want to have shared interests and spend quality time together.
Transcripted data were coded in terms of the six dialectical tensions.^ One key finding was that the tension of autonomy-connection was the most frequently experienced contradiction; this result suggested that individuals often struggle with the need to be with their partner and the need to be by themselves. Donna R Pawlowski, Dialectical tensions in marital couples' accounts of their *relationships (January 1, 1995). ETD collection for University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Paper AAI9609433.
Relational Dialectics is the emotional and value-based version of the philosophical Dialectic. It is rooted in the dynamism of the Yin and Yang. Like the classic Yin and Yang, the balance of emotional values in a relationship is always in motion, and any value pushed to its extreme contains the seed of its opposite. Contradictions are the core concept of Relational Dialectics. It is the dynamic interplay between unified oppositions. A contradiction is formed whenever two tendencies or forces are interdependent (unity) yet mutually negate one another (negation).
Relational dialectics is a communication theory. The theory could be interpreted as a knot of contradictions in personal relationships or an unceasing interplay between contrary or opposing tendencies.. Contradictions are the core concept of Relational Dialectics. It is the dynamic interplay between unified oppositions. A contradiction is formed whenever two tendencies or forces are interdependent (unity) yet mutually negate one another (negation).
The Relational Dialectic is an elaboration on Mikhail Bakhtin’s idea that life is an open monologue and humans experience collisions between opposing desires and needs within relational communications. Contradictions are the core concept of Relational Dialectics. It is the dynamic interplay between unified oppositions. A contradiction is formed whenever two tendencies or forces are interdependent (unity) yet mutually negate one another (negation).
Abstract. Dialectical tensions, defined as opposing forces that people experience in their relationships, are important for relational development. Predictability-novelty, for instance, is an example of a tension manifested by partners simultaneously desiring predictability and spontaneity in their relationships. Donna R Pawlowski, Dialectical tensions in marital couples' accounts of their *relationships (January 1, 1995). ETD collection for University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Paper AAI9609433.
Novelty vs. Predictability is also referred to as Uncertainty vs. Certainty. The internal tension is a part of six other relational dialects popularized by researcher L. A. Baxter. Predictability vs. Novelty refers to the “routine and uncertainty of perceptions and behaviors in relationships. .” This tension focuses on the partners’ needs for spontaneity, stimulation, novelty, on one hand, and the need for certainty, routinization and predictability on the other.
Answers. Best Answer: Dialectical tensions, defined as opposing forces that people experience in their relationships, are important for relational development. A study explored psychometric relationships among three dialectical tensions (connection/autonomy, openness/closedness, and novelty/predictability). 