1 Hiring a professional pressure-washer costs about $0.08-$0.35 per square foot (depending on local rates), but can go as high as $0.40-$0.80 a square foot depending on the amount and type of stains, dirt, mold or other problems. She pressure washed my driveway, walkway and sidewalk all for $85.00. She also done my neighbor house. The next week she went and done my parents driveway whose is a long type driveway on the side of the house along with their walkway and sidewalk all for $150.00.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Driveway Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Driveway ranges between $4.56 - $6.34 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Driveway Cleaning ServiceBrevard Pressure and Roof Cleaning provides power washing of concrete, painted, paver, and textured driveways. Keeping this surface clean can prevent injuries due to slippery algae or just keep your home looking bright and good looking. Keeping Brevard Beautiful. Complimentary pressure washing included with the concrete, painted or paver driveway cleaning service.You get extra value for your dollar using my company. Exterior walls attached to your front patio area are get the dust knocked of them.
Overall the cost of a driveway will depend on what materials you decide to use for your project. For some people a driveway is just a way to drive to the garage, but for others it's a prominent viewpoint in front of the house that needs to have the same curb appeal as the yard or exterior of the home. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost of a driveway installation is $3,647, with most homeowners spending between $2,026 and $5,278. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. If you're thinking about installing a driveway, it's important to consider a couple of different things
do you need to know the average cost to clean a concrete driveway in your zip code do you need a fair trustworthy and easy to understand 2015 estimate of driveway cleaning material and labor costs just enter your project size job options and zip code and then select update driveway cleaning pricing notes includes time and materials commonly needed to remove accumulated surface dirt dust grime and non permanent stains from the driveway
Sealcoating Is Less Than I Expected: When people find out how affordable sealcoating really is, they are often elated and surprised. An average driveway, from start to finish, typically costs around $200. That includes everything, cleaning and prepping and application of the sealcoating material. 
Yorkshire Driveway Cleaning & Sealing Services is a wholly independent company renowned for their pressure cleaning, sealing and effective maintenance of all types of external hard surfaces. Established in 2005, we offer a fast, safe service that's great value for money and hassle free. This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Here is a short video we made when we first started out a number of years ago on how we pressure wash a block paved driveway in Yorkshire by http://www.yorkshiredrivewaycleaning.... that had never been cleaned since it was laid.
You could power wash the driveway stains but that only gets rid of the dirt on top -- not the deep oil stain especially if it has been there a while. If you hire a professional cleaner that does driveway cleaning they will charge hundreds of dollars but the result as it pertains to oil spill clean up will be the same. You can use detergents that claim, to remove grease from driveways and scrub the stains clean but that takes hours. 