The optimum pH of pepsin is pH2. Pepsin is found in the stomach and it is protease enzyme that digest protein into smaller molecule. The stomach is suitable place for it becau … se it is acidic, so it's activity increases in the acidic environment. 21 people found this useful.
7 For general digestion of proteins, suggestedconditions are a 0.4% solution of pepsin in10 mM HCl, and digestion for 30-90 minutes at 37 °C.Pepsin has optimal activity with native proteins atapproximately pH 1.0, but with some denaturedproteins the optimal activity is at approximatelypH 1.5-3.5. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The optimum temperature for pepsin is between 30 degrees Celsius and 40 degrees Celsius. Activity has been reported outside of this range. The optimum pH of pepsin is pH2. Pepsin is found in the stomach and it is protease enzyme that digest protein into smaller molecule. The stomach is suitable place for it becau … se it is acidic, so it's activity increases in the acidic environment. 21 people found this useful.
Above or below an enzyme’s optimum pH, its activity is lower. The optimum pH of a particular enzyme corresponds to the pH of its natural environment. For many enzymes, this corresponds to pH values of around 7. For pepsin, which is active in the stomach, the optimum pH is 2 (the pH of the stomach). 
Nature of Pepsin: Pepsin functions in acidic environment with pH of 1.5 to 2. Pepsin gets denatured if the pH is more than 5.0. Pepsin needs optimum temperature of range 37 degree C to 42 degree C (ideal temperature in the human body). It is potently inhibited by the peptide inhibitor pepstatin. 
8. For general digestion of proteins, suggested conditions are a 0.4% solution of pepsin in 10 mM HCl, and digestion for 30-90 minutes at 37 °C. Pepsin has optimal activity with native proteins at approximately pH 1.0, but with some denatured proteins the optimal activity is at approximately pH 1.5-3.5. 9,10. Kinetics, Solubility and Solution Stability. Pepsin is soluble in deionized water at 1% (10 mg/ml) and at 0.4% (4 mg/ml) in cold 10 mM hydrochloric acid. Solutions at pH 4.4 are stable at -20 °C for about 2-3 months. 12 The pH optimum for activity for porcine pepsin is ~2.2.
Accordingly, its primary site of synthesis and activity is in the stomach (pH 1.5 to 2). Pepsin exhibits maximal activity at pH 2.0 and is inactive at pH 6.5 and above, however pepsin is not fully denatured or irreversibly inactivated until pH 8.0. Pepsin will digest up to 20% of ingested amide bonds by cleaving preferentially after the N-terminal of aromatic amino acids such as phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine. Pepsin exhibits preferential cleavage for hydrophobic, preferably aromatic, residues in P1 and P1' positions.