the mitochondria cellular respiration begins with gylcolysis-in the cytosol if oxygen is present..... then aerobic cellular repiration takes place in the mitochodria (pyruvate oxidation, Krebs cycle, electron transport chain&chemiosmosis. --------- · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. the mitochondria cellular respiration begins with gylcolysis-in the cytosol if oxygen is present..... then aerobic cellular repiration takes place in the mitochodria (pyruvate oxidation, Krebs cycle, electron transport chain&chemiosmosis. --------- · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The first step takes place in the cytoplasm of the cell. The last two steps take place in the mitochondria(or if cellular resp … iration is taking place inside of a plant then the last two steps would take place in the chloroplasts) of the cell. Cellular respiration is of two types, most important being aerobic respiration with f our phases out of them 3 occur solely in mitochondria but glycolysis also occurs in cytoplasm while anaerobic respiration only takes place in cytoplasm.
The mitochondria. The Krebs cycle occurs in the mitochondrial matrix whereas the electron transport chain takes place in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. Cellular respiration is of two types, most important being aerobic respiration with f our phases out of them 3 occur solely in mitochondria but glycolysis also occurs in cytoplasm while anaerobic respiration only takes place in cytoplasm.
Photosynthesis involves the chloroplasts, which contain pigments that absorb the sunllight and then transmute them to sugars the plant can use. Cellular respiration takes plac … e in the lysosome, an organelle that contains similar processes. Food energy is converted into energy the animal can use. Photosynthesis happens in the chloroplast of plant cells and cellular respirations happens in the mitochondria of animal and human cells. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in organisms' cells to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions that involve the oxidation of one molecule and the reduction of another. The main organelle in which respiration takes place is the mitochondria, more specifically the inner membrane of the mitochondria. Source(s):
Confidence votes 240. Cellular Respiration takes place in the mitochondria. cellular respiration takes place in the mitochondria of the cell or the power house of the cell in laymans terms cellular respirations formula is c6h12o6+6o2= 6co2+6h2o+energy. where energy is ATP or adenosine tri phosphate. Cellular respiration is of two types, most important being aerobic respiration with f our phases out of them 3 occur solely in mitochondria but glycolysis also occurs in cytoplasm while anaerobic respiration only takes place in cytoplasm.
cellular respiration takes place in the mitochondria of the cell or  the power house of the cell in laymans terms cellul … ar respirations  formula is c6h12o6+6o2= 6co2+6h2o+energy. where energy is ATP or  adenosine tri phosphate. + 16 others found this useful. Photosynthesis happens in the chloroplast of plant cells and cellular respirations happens in the mitochondria of animal and human cells. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
(organelle: organism). Photosynthesis occurs within the organelle called the chloroplast. Photosynthesis happens in the plant kingdom called for example a sun flower uses the process of photosynthesis to make food for itself. 