A. At present, the diagnosis of diabetes or prediabetes is based in an arbitrary cut-off point for a normal blood sugar level. A normal sugar level is currently considered to be less than 100 mg/dL when fasting and less than 140 mg/dL two hours after eating. But in most healthy people, sugar levels are even lower. During the day, blood glucose levels tend to be at their lowest just before meals. For most people without diabetes, blood sugar levels before meals hover around 70 to 80 mg/dL. In some, 60 is normal; in others, 90
Usually, low blood glucose levels will only last for a few hours, but can last up to 24-72 hours. Once your baby’s levels become normal, he shouldn’t have further problems with hypoglycemia (another name for low blood glucose). If your baby is at-risk (see above) but doing well, blood glucose will be checked around 2 hours of age and then again before your baby feeds. In total, it will be checked about 3 to 5 times during the first and second days of life.
Your baby's blood sugar levels go down in the first few hours after birth, which is completely normal (Unicef 2013) . Your baby gets his glucose from milk. When your baby has just had a feed, his sugar levels will go up. As the next feed draws closer, his sugar levels will start to dip. Keeping the right level of sugar in the blood is a delicate balancing act.
Normal level. The normal blood glucose level in full-term babies is 40 mg/dL to 150 mg/dL. In premature infants, it is 30 mg/dL to 150 mg/dL. Hypoglycemia is a blood glucose level lower than the normal range. Hypoglycemia in infants may be transient (short-term) or persistent (long-term).
1 In healthy full-term babies (babies born after 37 weeks), blood glucose levels are at their lowest 1 to 2 hours after birth. 2  After this, the levels usually start to rise as your baby’s body starts to use healthy sugar and fat stores. If your baby is at-risk (see above) but doing well, blood glucose will be checked around 2 hours of age and then again before your baby feeds. In total, it will be checked about 3 to 5 times during the first and second days of life.
If your baby's blood sugar levels are still low after feeding, a paediatrician will see him and give him a sugar solution, or glucose, through a drip (Sidwell 2009, Unicef 2013) . Once your baby's blood sugar levels have stabilised, he can start taking feeds again and gradually come off the sugar drip. Your baby gets his glucose from milk. When your baby has just had a feed, his sugar levels will go up. As the next feed draws closer, his sugar levels will start to dip. Keeping the right level of sugar in the blood is a delicate balancing act.
If your baby's blood sugar level is quite low he will be seen by a paediatrician and will be given a sugar solution, or glucose, through a drip (Sidwell 2009; WHO 2008) . Once your baby has stabilised, he can start taking feeds again and gradually come off the glucose (dextrose) drip. If your baby's blood sugar is low, and it is not treated, it could put his health at serious risk. If it stays low for a long time, it even could cause brain damage (Cranmer 2007, Lissauer 2006, WHO 2008) . However, if your baby is not premature, and otherwise healthy, he is unlikely to have low blood sugar.
1 Healthy full-term babies do not need blood glucose checks. 2  Blood glucose is checked with just a few drops of blood, usually taken from your baby’s heel. 3  The most natural way to feed your baby and keep a normal blood glucose level is early and frequent breastfeeding. If your baby is at-risk (see above) but doing well, blood glucose will be checked around 2 hours of age and then again before your baby feeds. In total, it will be checked about 3 to 5 times during the first and second days of life.