Bermuda grass is a turf grass. This is the species commonly planted on sports fields, public lawns, parks and golf courses in warm areas. It is also grown as livestock forage. Bermuda grass is used in more than 100 countries in warm and tropical climates. Warning. Bermuda grass is an invasive species and will creep into flower beds, gardens or over pavement. This grass spreads through stolons and rhizomes that root in the soil and create new plants. Bermuda grass will replant itself if left on moist soil after it has been cut.
Bermuda grass is a grass or weed that originally came from African savannas, but can be found mostly in dry and warmer countries of the world. Sometimes bermuda grass is called Bahama grass, couch grass in Australia and Africa, wire grass, or devil’s grass in India. Bermuda grass comes from the genus “cynodon” with the species “dactylon” as the most common. It grows mostly on tropical and sub-tropical countries and widely used for its “persistent” growth properties.
Overview. The scientific name for Bermuda grass is Cynodon dactylon. It is also known as couch grass, devil grass, wiregrass and dogtooth grass. Bermuda grass creates a vigorous, fast-growing lawn with medium to fine texture. Warning. Bermuda grass is an invasive species and will creep into flower beds, gardens or over pavement. This grass spreads through stolons and rhizomes that root in the soil and create new plants. Bermuda grass will replant itself if left on moist soil after it has been cut.
Preparing to Plant Bermuda Grass Lawns. Bermudagrass is a warm season turf grass and is best planted in spring to late spring or early summer. Plant Bermudagrass seeds when soil temperatures are consistently above 65° F (18°C) -- this soil temperature is reached when daytime air temperatures are 80° or higher. Bermuda Grass Seed Planting Depth. It is is very important to cover the Bermuda grass seeds with soil or mulch (1/8 to 1/4 inch) – a bare, open-to-the-air seed lying on the soil surface with no protection from wind or dry air or hot sun, cannot be kept moist enough to germinate well.
Bermuda grass pictures can be helpful for selecting a common lawn grass or eliminating a troublesome weed. Many people find a weed invading their lawn or garden areas and want to verify its identity before they try to get rid of it. The runners of bermuda grass are the most typical feature that people recognize. It is also the most common reason why they don’t like it. Common bermuda can be very invasive. It puts down roots from the nodes or joints as it spreads, which is why it is difficult to pull up.
Bermuda grass needs lots of sunlight to grow well. It does not like low light conditions and is not considered a species to plant in shady areas. Bermuda grass does well in temperatures above 75 degrees F, and it thrives where temperatures remain at 95 to 100 degrees for long periods of time. Warning. Bermuda grass is an invasive species and will creep into flower beds, gardens or over pavement. This grass spreads through stolons and rhizomes that root in the soil and create new plants. Bermuda grass will replant itself if left on moist soil after it has been cut.
(Redirected from Bermuda grass). Cynodon dactylon, also known as dūrvā grass, Dhoob, Bermuda grass, dubo, dog's tooth grass, Bahama grass, devil's grass, couch grass, Indian doab, arugampul, grama, and scutch grass, is a grass that originated in the Middle East. Although it is not native to Bermuda, it is an abundant invasive species there. 
Bermuda. Common bermudagrass is drought resistant, grows on many soils, and makes a good turf if fertilized and mowed right. Common bermudagrass produces many unsightly seedheads, but in spite of this fault, it frequently is used on home lawns due to the ease and economy of establishment. 