Applies To: System Center 2012 - Orchestrator, System Center 2012 R2 Orchestrator, System Center 2012 SP1 - Orchestrator. The System Center 2012 - Orchestrator web service is a REST based service that exposes Orchestrator resources and relationships through Open Data Protocol (OData). 
System Center 2012 Orchestrator is a Runbook Automation (RBA) tool, also known as an IT Process Automation (ITPA) tool. It’s arguably the most important part of the System Center 2012 suite. Orchestrator is the new version of Opalis Integration Server that Microsoft acquired in December 2009. Learning to use and understand the concepts of Orchestrator could mean the difference between being invaluable or replaceable to the business.
Microsoft System Center Orchestrator is a workflow automation software product that allows administrators to automate the monitoring and deployment of data center resources. Utilizing snapshots to solve VM management headaches. Microsoft offers add-ons for System Center Orchestrator that extend its functionality, including the Microsoft System Center 2012 Orchestrator Integration Toolkit and the Microsoft System Center 2012 Orchestrator Integration Pack.
To determine the version of System Center Orchestrator Runbook Servers, start the Runbook Designer application, connect to the desired Management Server and then click Runbook Servers in the Connections pane. 
Microsoft System Center Orchestrator was introduced as part of the Microsoft System Center 2012 suite as a rebranding of Microsoft’s previous workflow automation software, Opalis vNext. Microsoft offers add-ons for System Center Orchestrator that extend its functionality, including the Microsoft System Center 2012 Orchestrator Integration Toolkit and the Microsoft System Center 2012 Orchestrator Integration Pack.
OIS to Orchestrator. Microsoft announced the rebranding of Orchestrator in March 2011 at the Microsoft Management Summit in Las Vegas. Officially called System Center 2012 Orchestrator, this is the first major release developed wholly by Microsoft. As such, the functionality is migrated into a Microsoft codebase. 
Posted on August 8, 2013 by Damian Flynn in System Center with 0 Comments. If the thought of automating your most common mundane tasks so that you’ll never need to repeat them again sparks excitement and anticipation, then the new System Center 2012 – Orchestrator component should make you very happy. Through the use of a simple drag-and-drop interface, Orchestrator quickly enables you to visually represent the flow of activities you wish to execute to achieve your automation objectives, in quick and intuitive manner.
About This Video. The next version of Opalis will be known as System Center Orchestrator. In this session, we cover the new capabilities that Orchestrator will bring to the System Center integration, orchestration and automation solutions, and how these align to the Microsoft Private Cloud offerings. Session level: 200
In this article, I’ll provide an overview of Microsoft’s System Center 2012 – Orchestrator and how this automation tool can work for you. Through the use of a simple drag-and-drop interface, Orchestrator quickly enables you to visually represent the flow of activities you wish to execute to achieve your automation objectives, in quick and intuitive manner.