Tigers once lived throughout Asia but now live only in Southeast Asia. The largest tiger population is in India, but population numbers continue to decrease everywhere. There seems to be a common misconception that Tigers are native to Africa. They are not. 
Tigers are a large species of the cat family with 9 different subspecies. All tiger species can be identified by their stripy coats of fur and feline like features. They are the national animal of many Asian countries and are recognized as strong, mighty creatures. These tigers live in mainly mountainous and hilly areas of forest. Many of these tigers are hunted and killed to stock Chinese pharmacies. The Malayan Tiger is only found in the southern part of the Malayan Peninsula. They are found in the forested areas near Kelantan, Terengganu, Pahang, and Johor.
Do Tigers Live in Africa. Tigers actually never lived in the wild in Africa but they are certainly found in zoos, national parks or special reserves where they’re kept in captivity. Sadly speaking, tigers are running out of their numbers. Tigers never lived in Africa; they are found in altogether different continent, Asia. Although they belong to the family of Felidae which also includes lions and leopards, and they also share common ancestor but tiger had never shared habitats or distribution with these big cats.
Siberian tigers live in eastern Russia, Indochinese tigers and Malayan tigers live in southeastern Asia, Bengal tigers live in India, the South China tiger (from southern China), and Sumatran tigers which live on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, southeast of mainland Asia. There are also Bengal tigers, which live in India, the South China tigers, Indochinese and Malayan tigers, which live in southeast Asia, and Sumatran tigers, which live in Sumatra (an island in Indonesia, southeast of the Asian mainland). tigers live in jungles in Asian countries such as India, Russia and china. They live in throughout eastern Asia in Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, and Indonesia (Sumatra), a tigers habitat is the forest and the wild
Well, this is a wrong answer! Tigers never lived in Africa; they are found in altogether different continent, Asia. Although they belong to the family of Felidae which also includes lions and leopards, and they also share common ancestor but tiger had never shared habitats or distribution with these big cats.
Habitat. Tigers live in Asia. Larger subspecies, such as the Siberian tiger, tend to live in northern, colder areas, such as eastern Russia and northeastern China. Smaller subspecies live in southern, warmer countries, such as India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia.
The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to 3.38 m (11.1 ft) over curves and exceptionally weighing up to 388.7 kg (857 lb) in the wild. 
Distribution of the Tiger. Ever wonder where Tigers live! Well... Most Tigers live in Asia, specifically throughout Southeast Asia, China, Korea and Russia. Tigers like to live in swamps, grasslands,and rain forests. Usually where Tigers live there are trees, bushes, and clumps of tall grass