After the league merged, it was reorganized into two conferences: the National Football Conference (NFC), consisting of most of the pre-merger NFL teams, and the American Football Conference (AFC), consisting of all of the AFL teams as well as three pre-merger NFL teams. The NFL consists of 32 clubs divided into two conferences of sixteen teams each. Each conference is divided into four divisions of four clubs each. During the regular season, each team is allowed a maximum of 53 players on its roster; only 46 of these may be active (eligible to play) on game days.
When the NFL expanded to 32 teams in 2002, the league realigned, changing the division structure from three divisions in each conference to four divisions in each conference. As each division champion gets a playoff bid, the number of wild card teams from each conference dropped from three to two. The NFL consists of 32 clubs divided into two conferences of sixteen teams each. Each conference is divided into four divisions of four clubs each. During the regular season, each team is allowed a maximum of 53 players on its roster; only 46 of these may be active (eligible to play) on game days.
The NFL's roots began in 1920. The League was then known as the  APFA, American Professional Football Association. The APFA changed  its name two years later to the National … Football League.    In 1920, there were 14 members of the APFA. However there are two  teams from the APFA who are still playing in the NFL today, The  Chicago Cardinals and the Decatur Staleys.    The Chicago Cardinals are now known as the Arizona Cardinals and  the Decatur Staleys are now the Chicago Bears. Anson Wind. 15 Contributions.
Home USA Howmanyarethere 11 May 2011. There are 32 NFL teams comprised by AFC (American Football Conference) and NFC (National Football Conference). AFC has 16 and NFC has 16 teams.AFC and NFC both split as north, east, south and west. List of NFL Teams. AFC – American Football Conference.
NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League.
To start with, the 32 NFL teams rack up a total of 37,485,580 total likes on Facebook. This crushes the competition by 15 million fans. The NBA's 30 teams' likes tally up to 22,666,440 while MLB's 30 teams come in a close third with 22,238,860. 
The National Football League (NFL) is a professional American football league consisting of 32 teams, divided equally between the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference (AFC). The NFL consists of 32 clubs divided into two conferences of sixteen teams each. Each conference is divided into four divisions of four clubs each. During the regular season, each team is allowed a maximum of 53 players on its roster; only 46 of these may be active (eligible to play) on game days.
There are 32 teams in the NFL, 16 in the National Football Conference (NFC) and 16 in the American Football Conference (AFC). Each of the conferences is broken up into 4 divisions; East, North, South, and West. Each division has four teams. 1 Several of the top 10 most valuable sports franchises are NFL teams. 2  There is currently (2010) no team in Los Angeles even though it is the second largest city in the United States. 3  New York, the largest city, has two teams, the Giants and the Jets. 4  The Indianapolis Colts were the first team to have cheerleaders.
© 2015 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC