Dermographism is in basic terms...... It is a medical condition that is best described as skin writing. Most people have a reaction to their skin being rubbed, often resulting in their skin will turning red. Dermographism is when that red marking also results in a hives type of reaction. 
Dermographism is among the most common type of urticaria. This skin condition is characterized by wealing of the skin in a rather exaggerated manner. Dermographism is also referred to as dermatographic urticaria, dermatographism and skin writing. The rash or the hives produced in urticaria are very similar to the appearance of the rash in dermographism which is a raised bump that is itchy and pale red in color. Dermographism is not a serious and life-threatening disease. It is not a contagious skin disease although it is a life-long disease. The disease however has a good prognosis, especially the simple dermographism which is asymptomatic
Medical Definition of DERMOGRAPHISM. : a condition in which pressure or friction on the skin gives rise to a transient raised usually reddish mark so that a line traced on the skin becomes visible—called also dermatographia, dermatographism. — der·mo·graph·ic \ˌdər-mə-ˈgraf-ik\ adjective. What made you want to look up dermographism? 
by Hivesguy. Dermatographism (also called dermatographic urticaria, or dermographism), is a skin disorder which is characterized by the skin producing a hypersensitive reaction when scratched, scraped, rubbed, or otherwise traumatized. Dermographism pictures and images like the one below show how the skin forms a wheal on its surface after being stroked or rubbed with a rigid object. Notice how the letters and numbers are very distinct, which is where the term “skin writing disease” get’s its name.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dermatographic urticaria (also known as dermographism, dermatographism or  skin writing ) is a skin disorder and one of the most common types of urticaria, in which the skin becomes raised and inflamed when stroked, scratched, rubbed, and sometimes even slapped. Contents. The underlying cause of dermographism is not known, and can last for many years without relief. Five percent of chronic cases are never solved. Increased incidence has been observed following prolonged exposure to microwaves. The condition may subside and be effectively cured; however, it is often a lifelong ailment.
Dermographism is in basic terms...... It is a medical condition that is best described as skin writing. Most people have a reaction to their skin being rubbed, often resulting in their skin will turning red. Dermographism is when that red marking also results in a hives type of reaction. The red in combination with the raised hives, make it look like you have been writing on your skin.
Dermographism is a baffling skin condition that affects many young adults. While it may not be life-threatening, it remains a source of general discomfort. Here's what you can do to combat this ailment. Advertisement. Dermographism is a form of urticaria or hives, and it is also referred to as dermatographic urticaria. Dermographism is a skin disorder, which makes the sufferer's skin extremely sensitive to any kind of pressure or friction. In simple terms, it is also known as 'skin writing' , as its foremost symptom is inflammation of the skin, when scratched or rubbed
dermographism or skin writing on forearm. Appearance of the word Dermatographia on a human arm 15 minutes after the letters have been traced with a blunt object on the skin. A type of urticaria or hives, also known as dermatographic urticaria, dermatographism, or skin writing. Approach Considerations. Dermographism can be distressing but is not life threatening. Patients with simple dermographism are asymptomatic and require no therapy. Patients with symptomatic dermographism should be treated until the problem is adequately controlled or resolved.
Dermographism is a condition in which people will experience a wheal reaction after the skin is rubbed or touched in a way that produces a response. In some people, the reaction can burn, sting, and even itch. For others, it may not hurt at all, and only provides a cosmetic embarrassment. Dermographism pictures and images like the one below show how the skin forms a wheal on its surface after being stroked or rubbed with a rigid object. Notice how the letters and numbers are very distinct, which is where the term “skin writing disease” get’s its name.