Perineoplasty: the pre-operative aspect (left), and the post-operative aspect (right) of the surgical correction of the perineum. Perineoplasty (also perineorrhaphy) denotes the plastic surgery procedures used to correct clinical conditions (damage, defect, deformity) of the vagina and the anus. Perineoplasty is occasionally associated with posterior colporrhaphy, and can be performed in conjunction with the procedure. A perineoplasty procedure first involves a V-shaped incision to the posterior wall of the vagina. Incisions atop the V-incision can be flat, curved, or angled upwards, which incision is applied is determined by the degree of vaginal tightening to be achieved
The perineum area between the vagina and the rectum may become damaged due to childbirth. Perineoplasty has been known to address issues of sexual dysfunction. The perineum is the area between the vagina and the rectum. Performing gentle stretching and kegel exercises during pregnancy may help strengthen the perineum muscles prior to giving birth. For many patients, a perineoplasty is done as a cosmetic surgery to restore the physical appearance of the vagina. Sometimes called a perineorrhaphy, perineoplasty has also been known to address issues of sexual dysfunction and enhance feelings of sexual pleasure.
Perineoplasty. Perineoplasty is a medical operation that is required when the perineum is rather loose and requires tightening up. Sometimes Perineoplasty is used to tighten the vagina to increase sexual pleasure for the patient and her husband or partner. 
Perineoplasty. The area between the vaginal opening (introitus) and the anus, known as the perineum or by the slang term “taint,” can tear during childbirth or become scarred from a surgical episiotomy or become stretched out as a result of obesity. About Perineoplasty. During childbirth, it’s not uncommon for physicians to perform an episiotomy, an incision made through the perineum that temporarily widens the introitus to allow an easier birthing process and preemptively prevent the possibility of a spontaneous tear.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A perineoplasty is an umbrella term used to describe several different surgical procedures that treat conditions of the vagina or anus. For many patients, a perineoplasty is done as a cosmetic surgery to restore the physical appearance of the vagina. Sometimes called a perineorrhaphy, perineoplasty has also been known to address issues of sexual dysfunction and enhance feelings of sexual pleasure.
The perineum is the area of tissue between the vagina and the rectum. Childbirth can cause tearing and scarring of the perineal tissue. Oftentimes, the healing process of these tears leads to uneven scarring and disfiguration of the perineum. This condition often results in vaginal looseness.
You are here: Home » Perineoplasty/Perinealplasty 1. Perineoplasty is a surgical procedure capable of restoring torn perineum muscles (the visible area located between the rectum and the vagina). If these muscles are torn, the vaginal opening becomes much wider than normal. 
Perineoplasty can help improve the physical appearance of the perineal area as well as tighten the introitus. When performing perineoplasty, Dr. Placik repairs damage to the perineum, addressing both the upper layers of skin and the lower muscle layers that are most commonly damaged during an episiotomy. About Perineoplasty. During childbirth, it’s not uncommon for physicians to perform an episiotomy, an incision made through the perineum that temporarily widens the introitus to allow an easier birthing process and preemptively prevent the possibility of a spontaneous tear.
To perform loosening perineoplasty, a triangle of skin is excised from below the vulvar vestibule with its base near the vestibule and its apex near the anus. This allows the removal of genital warts and the adjustment of musculature necessary to increase the size of the vagina. Perineoplasty is occasionally associated with posterior colporrhaphy, and can be performed in conjunction with the procedure. A perineoplasty procedure first involves a V-shaped incision to the posterior wall of the vagina. Incisions atop the V-incision can be flat, curved, or angled upwards, which incision is applied is determined by the degree of vaginal tightening to be achieved