Report Abuse. By car, I would say twenty to thirty minutes. In the event you have to take the city bus,take the 550 or 551 (The Looper) and tell the driver you want to go to Lackland Air Force Base. There's a La Quinta about a quarter mile away from the base on S.W. Militarty Drive. Best Answer: That would be about 20 miles. Take 410 west around to Valley Hi drive exit, turn left to the west gate of Lackland.. Main gate and Wilford Hall are at Hwy. 90 and Military Dr. Hwy 90 is one exit before Valley Hi drive on 410, go east on 90.
Nearest major airport to Lackland Air Force Base: The closest major airport to Lackland Air Force Base is San Antonio International Airport (SAT / KSAT). This airport is in San Antonio, Texas and is 19 miles from SKF. If you're looking for international or domestic flights to SAT, check the airlines that fly to SAT. 
Closest Airport to Lackland Air Force Base, TX. The closest airport is San Antonio International Airport (SAT). Distance from San Antonio International Airport to Lackland Air Force Base is 21,8 kilometers (13,5 miles). San Antonio International Airport is located approximately 12,4 kilometers (7,7 miles) north of San Antonio and about 15,0 kilometers (9,3 miles) west of Converse.
Lackland Air Force Base is located in southwest San Antonio. In October 2010, Joint Base San Antonio was established to stream-line services for Fort Sam Houston, Lackland Air Force Base, and Randolph Air Force Base. Although governed by a central unit, these three bases maintain separate installations in the San Antonio area.
Airports. Lackland Air Force Base is served by San Antonio International Airport. The airport is served by several major airlines including Delta, Southwest, United, US Airways, American, and Continental. The airport is located 7 miles from Lackland Air Force Base. San Antonio borders Lackland Air Force Base. The Greyhound Bus station is located at 500 N St. Mary's Street, San Antonio, Texas. Save 15% when you book your tickets online.
If you want great value while you’re on the road in Texas, Rodeway Inn ® at Lackland AFB hotel in San Antonio near Lackland Air Force Base has you covered wherever you travel. 
Greyhound Bus provides service to San Antonio, Texas. San Antonio borders Lackland Air Force Base. The Greyhound Bus station is located at 500 N St. Mary's Street, San Antonio, Texas. Save 15% when you book your tickets online.
Airports. Lackland Air Force Base is served by San Antonio International Airport. The airport is served by several major airlines including Delta, Southwest, United, US Airways, American, and Continental. The airport is located 18 miles from Lackland Air Force Base. Travel from the airports is via four lane divided highway on Interstate 410 or by shuttle service. San Antonio International Airport: http://www.sanantonio.gov/Aviation. Lackland Air Force Base is located on the west side of San Antonio. Take Exit 4 from I-410W and enter through Airman’s Gate. The gate is opened 24 hours a day.