TLC Stains. For colorless compounds, a visualizing technique is needed to observe TLC results. Stains can be applied by spraying or by dipping of a plate into solution. The latter is by far more convenient. However, in order to work, the right the stain solution SHOULD NOT dissolve analyte spots. Prepare a well-closed chamber with a few crystals of elemental iodine. Let it sit for 30 min to equilibrate. Put a TLC plate inside, keep the plate for 2 sec to 10 min inside (trial and error) and then take the plate out. Watch the color change.
Simple Stain. The simple stain can be used to determine cell shape, size, and arrangement. True to its name, the simple stain is a very simple staining procedure involving only one stain. You may choose from methylene blue, Gram safranin, and Gram crystal violet. Basic stains, such as methylene blue, Gram safranin, or Gram crystal violet are useful for staining most bacteria
1 DAPI-a fluorescent nuclear stain that is excited by ultraviolet light, showing blue fluorescence when bound to DNA. 2  DAPI can be used in living of fixed cells. 3  Eosin-a counterstain to haematoxylin, this stain colors red blood cells, cytoplasmic material, cell membranes, and extracellular structures pink or red. 1 Nile blue-stains nuclei blue and may be used on living cells. 2  Nile red/Nile blue oxazone-this stain is made by boiling Nile blue with sulfuric acid, which creates a mix of Nile red and Nile blue. 3  The red accumulates in intracellular lipid globules, staining them red.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. 4-Anisaldehyde (also: p-anisaldehyde, anisic aldehyde, anise aldehyde) is an organic compound that is commonly encountered in the fragrances, both synthetic and natural. The compound consists of a benzene ring with an aldehyde and a methoxy group. It is a clear liquid with a strong aroma. 
A TLC stain is used in TLC development to reveal compounds that are not visible by UV. Also, selective detection of compounds is possible by choosing the appropriate TLC stain. This stain can be kept for months on the bench and in the fridge. To a cold (0 °C) clear colorless solution of vanillin (15 g) in absolute EtOH (250 mL) was slowly added sulfuric acid (2.5 mL). The resulting clear solution was warmed to rt and used as is.
TLC Stains Iodine The plate can be stained with iodine. This can be achieved rapidly, by shaking the plate in a bottle containing silica and a few crystals of iodine. The iodine will stain any compound that reacts with it and so is especially good for visualizing unsaturated compounds.
p-Anisaldehyde is an organic compound that is a clear to slightly yellow oily liquid. Its molecular formula is C8-H8-O2. It occurs naturally in the fennel and anise plants. It is a high volume chemical with production over 1 million pounds annually. 
It is recommended that the stain be stored in a 100 mL wide mouth jar wrapped with aluminum foil to ensure a long life time. Recipe To 135 mL of absolute ethanol was added 5 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid, 1.5 mL of glacial acetic acid and 3.7 mL of p-anisaldehyde. The Stain List. Iodine. The staining of a TLC plate with iodine vapor is among the oldest methods for the visualization of organic compounds. It is based upon the observation that iodine has a high affinity for both unsaturated and aromat
1 Fill a spray bottle with cold water (if you don’t have a spray bottle, you can wet a white cloth and apply it to the stain.). 2  Spray the cold water onto the blood stain. 3  If the stain is rather large, spray the stain from the outside, working your way in. If you’re not a fan of using dishwashing detergent or ammonia to get blood out of carpet, here is another way to tackle removing the stain. 1  Fill a spray bottle with cold water (if you don’t have a spray bottle, you can wet a white cloth and apply it to the stain.). 2  Spray the cold water onto the blood stain.