Reply. I’m afraid to say, that i had my tonsils out as a kid, I’m now an adult and i get tonsil stones-so i dont think a tonsillectomy can guarantee that you will be rid of them! Even though i have no tonsils, i still seem to have litte holes where the tonsils should be, and the tonsil stones form there. 
Report Abuse. Once you've had your tonsils taken out you can't get 'true' tonsillitis. However, the tissue beds at the back of his throat from where your tonsils were removed could still become infected. Source(s): http://www.netdoctor.co.uk/ate/childrens... sweetcaroline · 8 years ago.
1 Sore throat. 2  When a tonsil stone and tonsillitis occur together, it can be difficult to determine whether the pain in your throat is caused by your infection or the tonsil stone. 3  The presence of a tonsil stone itself, though, may cause you to feel pain or discomfort in the area where it is lodged. 4  White debris. 
Read More. Tonsil can be swollen on one side if there is repeated trauma to them such as in gastric reflux or due to allergic reaction or due to infection. Cancer of tonsils and tonsil stones can be the other reasons for this. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. Yes, it is possible.: It is possible to have only one swollen tonsil, but it should not be so bug that it is blocking tour throat or airway. Just because there are no tonsil stones doesn't mean there is nothing wrong. I only have one tonsil that is swollen, my left and it has been for a long time. 7. Get help from a doctor now ›. Possibly: Sometimes it only appears one tonsil is more swollen because of its position even though they are equal in size.
Common symptoms. The most common symptoms that alert people of tonsil stones include: Bad breath: Tonsil stones are caused by a buildup of smelly sulfur-producing bacteria and debris that become lodged in the tonsils, so chronic bad breath is one of the surefire signs that you may have tonsil stones. Sore throat: Tonsil stone sufferers will likely feel a dull soreness in the area where it is stuck. 
Most of the time, we just fight off those alien bugs. If you don't have tonsils, you can't get tonsillitis, but you can get a viral infection, but it does not mean it will be identical to your son who has a different immune system. can a person get tonsilitis if they nolonger have tonsils. my son had tonsilitis.tonsilitis is a viral infection and does not require an antibiotic.However, tonsilitis can be caused by strep which is bacterial which requires
He or she can examine the back of your throat closely and determine if you need tested for strep. If you have strep (which you can still get with no tonsils), then you will need antibiotics. If you don't, then you will just need medication to help with your symptoms. Good luck. In other words, having your tonsils removed will never prevent a sore throat or an infection in your throat. It only helps to prevent enlargement of the lymphoid tissue during an infection that can cause discomfort and difficulty with breathing and swallowing.
Best Answer: Yes! you can get tonsillitis in the remnant of the tonsil-sometimes during tonsillectomy-small piece of tonsillar tissue may be left behind-which can get infected after some time! Once you've had your tonsils taken out you can't get 'true' tonsillitis. However, the tissue beds at the back of his throat from where your tonsils were removed could still become infected. Source(s): http://www.netdoctor.co.uk/ate/childrens... sweetcaroline · 8 years ago.
The nurse took one look at my throat and said I had Tonsillitis. She said even though my tonsils had been removed, I had Tonsillitis in the Tonsil tissue. I have looked it up on the internet and all correspondence says that you cant get Tonsillitis after having your Tonsils removed. Pls help...I'm confused!! Add your answer. 