Biomass is fuel that is developed from organic materials, a renewable and sustainable source of energy used to create electricity or other forms of power. Some examples of materials that make up biomass fuels are: 1  scrap lumber; 2  forest debris; 3  certain crops; 4  manure; and. 5  some types of waste residues. 
Biomass is a versatile energy source. It can be used anywhere. All around the world people are using wood stoves to heat their building and for cooking, making biomass the mos … t common energy source. It is produced from living or recently living organisms. Biomass energy generally refers to using energy from resources such as animal waste and municipal waste, or resources such as corn or sugar cane. Instead of using energy stored in large deposits under ground, biomass energy uses energy stored in the enviroment
Biomass is any organic matter-wood, crops, seaweed, animal wastes-that can be used as an energy source. Biomass is probably our oldest source of energy. For thousands of years, people have burned wood to heat their homes and cook their food. Biomass gets its energy from the sun. Conversion. Biomass can be converted into gas or liquid fuels by using chemicals or heat. In India, cow manure is converted to methane gas to produce electricity. Methane gas can also be converted to methanol, a liquid form of methane.
Many different kinds of biomass, such as wood chips, corn, and some types of garbage, are used to produce electricity. Some types of biomass can be converted into liquid fuels called biofuels that can power cars, trucks, and tractors. When biomass is burned, this stored energy is released as heat. Burning biomass releases carbon dioxide. However, plants also take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and use it to grow their leaves, flowers, branches, and stems.
Biomass can be used to make electricity. Many towns burn their garbage in waste-to-energy plants. Instead of putting the garbage in landfills, they burn it to make electricity.    Biomass can be used to make an energy-rich gas called biogas. Biogas is like the natural gas we use in our stoves and furnaces. Biomass energy generally refers to using energy from resources such as animal waste and municipal waste, or resources such as corn or sugar cane. Instead of using energy stored in large deposits under ground, biomass energy uses energy stored in the enviroment
No. As a renewable and reliable energy source, biomass can be used to generate energy on demand with virtually no net contributions to global greenhouse gas. Burning biomass to create clean electricity releases no new carbons back into the atmosphere. The use of biomass energy provides a multitude of environmental benefits. It can help mitigate climate change; reduce acid rain; prevent soil erosion and water pollution; minimize pressure on landfills; provide wildlife habitat; and help maintain forest health through better management.
Confidence votes 193. Biomass energy generally refers to using energy from resources such as animal waste and municipal waste, or resources such as corn or sugar cane. Instead of using energy stored in large deposits under ground, biomass energy uses energy stored in the enviroment
Some kinds of biomass can be burned to produce energy. One common example is wood. Biomass contains stored energy. That's because plants absorb energy from the sun through the process of photosynthesis. When biomass is burned, this stored energy is released as heat. Burning biomass releases carbon dioxide. However, plants also take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and use it to grow their leaves, flowers, branches, and stems. That same carbon dioxide is returned to the air when the plants are burned
Biomass is any organic matter that can be used as an energy source. Wood, crops, and yard and animal waste are examples of biomass. People have used biomass longer than any other energy source. For thousands of years, people have burned wood to heat their homes and cook their food.Biomass gets its energy from the sun. Plants absorb sunlight in a process called photosynthesis. 