6 Months Ago. The Hillsborough County Aviation Authority's governing board on Thursday unanimously approved increasing parking fees at its short-and long-term garages. Parking for less than one hour will still be free. The plan doubles the cost of parking in either garage from $1 per 20 minutes to $2 per 20 minutes. Anyone who stays longer than an hour will have to pay for the first hour — $6 — plus $2 for every 20 minutes after that. Under the new rates, parking in the long-term garage will max out at $16 per day, an increase of $1. Parking in the short-term garage will remain a maximum of $20 per day. Fees for parking in the economy lot near the post office and cellphone lot will also stay the same, $9 per day. The new rates take effect Oct. 1
Board members approved an increase in fees ranging from $1 to $5, depending on the garage. The short-term maximum daily rate will climb by $2 to $22, long-term will be $18 a day, the economy garage will be $10 and valet parking will be $30. Tampa ranked as one of the lowest priced airports of its size. Current parking fees are $20 for a maximum daily rate in the short-term garage, long-term is $16, the economy garage is $9 and valet parking is $25.
More Info. Global Airport Parking offers convenient and affordable parking for your travels out of (TPA) Tampa International Airport. Reserve your parking now at our one of our off airport parking facilities and save big with rates starting at $2.99 per day. Compare that to $9.00 per day at Tampa Airport long term economy parking lots. All our locations feature complimentary shuttle service to and from your airport terminal.
Short-term runs 86 percent full and economy 44 percent. The study also found that TIA is on the low end of parking rates when compared to 13 other domestic airports. For instance, San Francisco International Airport charges twice that of TIA's $9-per-24-hours for economy parking. Denver International's short-term parking is $96-per-24-hours compared to Tampa's $20. In long-term parking, Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport costs $25 to TIA's $16. Rashid chided the LeighFischer representative for not presenting detailed revenue projection
A1 Express (a1expressairportparking.com) has parking less than one mile from the Tampa International Airport. You are charged per 24-hour period that your car is in the covered garage, with a two-hour grace period if you return just a bit late on pick-up day. The long-term parking closest to Tampa International Airport's terminals is at the airport itself. If you leave your car at this long-term parking garage you can walk to and from the airport, or use the airport monorail, and are guaranteed 24-hour access to your vehicle. You can park here for up to 45 days. Tampa International Airport's long-term parking garage is located adjacent to the airport terminal, just south of the short-term parking garage. The pedestrian walkway in long-term parking is on Level 2, and the monorail can be accessed from Level 5
For many years we have worked with lot operators across the entire country to ensure we can offer our customers discount parking at almost every major airport in the country. We are confident you will be happy with our Tampa International Airport parking rates whether your require short or long term parking stays. Use our service to compare and save. We work hard to ensure our rates remain low and our customers are satisified. Compare and save today, its quick, easy and your space is guaranteed! Our Tampa Airport Parking service enables you to save on on-airport parking at TPA.
Airport parking will still be free for the first 60 minutes in the short-term and long-term garages and remain $1 per 20 minutes in the economy garage. The increases occur in 24-hour maximums: from $20 to $22 in short-term parking, $16 to $18 in long-term; and $9 to $10 in economy. For instance, San Francisco International Airport charges twice that of TIA's $9-per-24-hours for economy parking. Denver International's short-term parking is $96-per-24-hours compared to Tampa's $20.
2:33 PM, Aug 1, 2013. TAMPA-It's official: Parking rates at Tampa International Airport will go up. Something that airport officials say hasn't happened since 2007. By a unanimous vote, the Aviation Authority at TIA decided Thursday morning they had no other option than to raise parking rates.