CDC recommends routine administration of a quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine MenACWY for all people aged 11–18 years. A single dose of vaccine should be administered at age 11 or 12 years, and a booster dose should be administered at age 16 years. Routine immunization is not recommended for other age groups in the United States, with the exception of people at increased risk for meningococcal disease. 
On October 18, 2007, FDA approved expanding the age range for Menactra, a bacterial meningitis vaccine, to include children ages 2 to 10 years. The vaccine was first approved by FDA in January 2005 for people ages 11 to 55 years. Until now, Menomune was the only meningococcal vaccine available in the United States for use in children ages 2 and older. Menactra and Menomune are manufactured by sanofi pasteur Inc. of Swiftwater, Pa.
When quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine was first recommended for preteens and teens in 2005, the expectation was that protection would last for 10 years; however, currently available data suggest protection declines in most teens within 5 years. All 11–12 year olds should be vaccinated with a quadrivalent (protects against serogroups A, C, W, and Y) meningococcal conjugate vaccine (Menactra® or Menveo®). A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years.
Teens age 16 through 18 years can get the booster dose at any time. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose. All 11–12 year olds should be vaccinated with a quadrivalent (protects against serogroups A, C, W, and Y) meningococcal conjugate vaccine (Menactra® or Menveo®). A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today expanded the approved age range for Menactra, a bacterial meningitis vaccine, to include children ages 2 to 10 years. Meningitis is a serious inflammation of the lining that surrounds the spinal cord and brain. Now there are two vaccines available for children between 2 and 10 years of age who may be at increased risk of meningitis,” said Jesse L. Goodman, M.D., M.P.H., director of FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
One type of MCV4, Menveo, is licensed for use in people aged 2 to 55. Another version, Menactra, is approved for those 9 months to 55 years old. MPSV4 is the only vaccine licensed for use in people over 55 as well as people 2 to 55. Both vaccines protect against four types of meningococcal disease. 
Serogroup B meningococcal vaccine is also available for preteens and teens, but it is only recommended for certain people at increased risk of meningococcal disease. Physicians can still use serogroup B meningococcal vaccines for people 10 through 25 years old consistent with the labeled indication. All 11–12 year olds should be vaccinated with a quadrivalent (protects against serogroups A, C, W, and Y) meningococcal conjugate vaccine (Menactra® or Menveo®). A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years.
FDA approved this vaccine for use in people 10 through 25 years old as a 2-dose series. Clinicians can use serogroup B meningococcal vaccines for people 10 through 25 years old consistent with the labeled indication. Vaccines are now available that help protect against all three serogroups (B, C, and Y) of meningococcal disease that are commonly seen in the United States: 
MPSV4 and MCV4 can prevent four types of meningococcal disease, which make up about 70% of the cases in the U.S. The MenB vaccines prevent the Meningococcal B strain. MCV4 is preferred for people age 55 and younger. The recommendation for teens is one dose at age 11 and one dose at age 16. The doctor or nurse injects one dose into the muscle. Meningitis is a dangerous inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. Two meningitis vaccine s protects against four types of meningococcal disease. An additional type of vaccine protects against serotype B, which also causes meningitis.