Once you have earned a degree in radiology, there still may be other obstacles to getting a career. Most medical jobs require licensure for those providing care, even in the radiologic area. However, there is no national license exam or test for radiologists. One of the best known accrediting agencies for those interested in a radiology degree is the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology. They have a database where you can search by type of program, alternative learning, by degree level from certificate to master’s, and even by location.
Types of business degrees to consider. The areas in which you can earn a degree to pursue a career in business could be almost infinite, so it’s important to narrow it down. Here are some common specializations worth considering that can help you decide which career is right for you. 
The most common college degree in radiology is the associate’s degree. This is a two year degrees that is offered by many schools, colleges, and vocational institutes across the country. One of the best known accrediting agencies for those interested in a radiology degree is the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology. They have a database where you can search by type of program, alternative learning, by degree level from certificate to master’s, and even by location.
Many professionals choose to pursue an Associate of Science degree in radiology; in fact, the BLS reports that the most common educational path for radiologic technicians and technologists is the radiology associate degree. However, not every radiologic technician or technologist majors in radiology. The first category is for those entering the field, and the second is for those looking to expand their skills. Here is a list of the more common certificates you can find in radiology school programs: 1  X-ray technician. 2  Medical assistant with x-ray focus.
Bachelor's degree programs in radiology generally require an associate degree, not necessarily in radiology. There are some exceptions made to these rules. For example, a school may allow radiology professionals with several years of on-the-job experience to substitute it for certain educational prerequisites. The first category is for those entering the field, and the second is for those looking to expand their skills. Here is a list of the more common certificates you can find in radiology school programs: 1  X-ray technician. 2  Medical assistant with x-ray focus.
Students learn professional etiquette and the protocols of interacting with patients and medical professionals. While an associate's degree is the most common type of qualification for this field, a bachelor's degree in radiology may lead to managerial opportunities with higher levels of pay. Students entering this program should be high school graduates. The classes in a bachelor's degree in radiology program prepare students for advanced healthcare management positions. The curriculum offers hands-on radiologic training and instructional theory.
Radiology certificates fall into two categories. The first category is for those entering the field, and the second is for those looking to expand their skills. Here is a list of the more common certificates you can find in radiology school programs: 1  X-ray technician. 2  Medical assistant with x-ray focus.
Introduction to Types of Radiology Degrees. If you are interested in a radiology degree, it may not surprise you to learn that there are many types of degrees in radiology. The easiest and fastest credential to get is a radiology certificate. One of the best known accrediting agencies for those interested in a radiology degree is the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology. They have a database where you can search by type of program, alternative learning, by degree level from certificate to master’s, and even by location.
Once you know what kind of radiology degree you are interested in, finding an accredited one is a vital step to getting a career in radiology. Accredited schools are those who have met or exceeded standards set by the U.S. Department of Education and are guaranteed to give students the education they pay for. One of the best known accrediting agencies for those interested in a radiology degree is the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology. They have a database where you can search by type of program, alternative learning, by degree level from certificate to master’s, and even by location.