Ryōko or Ryouko is a Japanese female given name, The meanings of Ryoko vary depending on which kanji is used to write the name. 
-The homage meaning is that Ryuuko’s name is a direct reference to the protagonist of Otokogumi; as you may remember from the original interview, Kill la Kill started as a big homage to Otokogumi. Otokogumi’s hero was called 流, Nagare. They added the 子 so it would become a girl name: 流子 = Nagare-ko = Girl Nagare; the reason they decided on the Ryuuko reading of the kanji makes it even cooler as a homage and you will see why on the eight meaning.
1 The name of Ryuko makes you very idealistic, sensitive, and inspirational. 2  If these qualities are not understood and properly directed through music, art, or other creative expression, you could become jealous and possessive of those close to you. Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. 1 
It’s interesting to note that Ryuuko’s name has like 8 symbolic meanings to it. First, her name in kanji, hiragana and romaji: 流子 = りゅうこ = Ryuuko. -The straightforward meaning is: 流 れ 子 = Wandering child, stray child. -The sad hidden meaning is: 流 された 子 = Child that was washed away, abandoned child. Otokogumi’s hero was called 流, Nagare. They added the 子 so it would become a girl name: 流子 = Nagare-ko = Girl Nagare; the reason they decided on the Ryuuko reading of the kanji makes it even cooler as a homage and you will see why on the eight meaning.
List of Japanese baby names, Japanese baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Japanese names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Japanese baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Ryuko in Japanese origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. © Copyright 2015 Babynology. Mother recognition by a baby. Although babies are able to sense the smell and voice of their mother, but they are not able to make out the difference between their and mother and other adults quite quickly, this takes time.
Ryuko is a common Japanese name (male version, female version is spelled with 2 u's, like Ryuuko). The Japanese meaning behind Ryuko (both for male and female) can be either … dragon-spirited child or just dragon child. Ryuko in Japanese kanji is shown as 竜子. Ryu (and Ryuu) mean dragon and ko means child Hope this helps (^_^).
Do not choose a baby first name based on these short name descriptions. Your baby's name must be in harmony with: your baby's birthdate (inner potential) and your family's surname (last name) It is essential that you understand the qualities of your family name. Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. 1  The name of Ryuko makes you very idealistic, sensitive, and inspirational.
-The clever meaning is: りゅうこ = Ryuuko = Two big rivals. -The homage meaning is that Ryuuko’s name is a direct reference to the protagonist of Otokogumi; as you may remember from the original interview, Kill la Kill started as a big homage to Otokogumi. Otokogumi’s hero was called 流, Nagare. They added the 子 so it would become a girl name: 流子 = Nagare-ko = Girl Nagare; the reason they decided on the Ryuuko reading of the kanji makes it even cooler as a homage and you will see why on the eight meaning.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ryuko is a common Japanese name (male version, female version is spelled with 2 u's, like Ryuuko). The Japanese meaning behind Ryuko (both for male and female) can be either dragon-spirited child or just dragon child. Ryuko in Japanese kanji is shown as 竜子. Ryu (and Ryuu) mean dragon and ko means child. If your name meaning starts out w … ith goddess of... as the name meaning, then it was either derived from the name of a mythological goddess or is the same name as the goddess in a given mythology.