Autoclaved aerated concrete is cured in an autoclave-a large pressure vessel. In aircrete production the autoclave is normally a steel tube some 3 metres in diameter and 45 metres long. Steam is fed into the autoclave at high pressure, typically reaching a pressure of 800 kPa and a temperature of 180 A°â. c The pulverised flyash is usually milled to achieve adequate fineness. A small amount of anhydrite or gypsum is also often added. Autoclaved aerated concrete is quite different from dense concrete (ie: normal concrete) in both the way it is produced and in the composition of the final product.
Autoclaved aerated concrete is quite different from dense concrete (ie: normal concrete) in both the way it is produced and in the composition of the final product. Autoclaved aerated concrete blocks are excellent thermal insulators and are typically used to form the inner leaf of a cavity wall. Autoclaved aerated concrete is easily cut to any required shape. Aerated concrete blocks also have good acoustic properties and it is durable, with good resistance to sulfate attack and to damage by fire and frost. The low density is achieved by the formation of air voids to produce a cellular structure.
Autoclaved Aerated Concrete (AAC). AAC is a lightweight cellular material which is formed by a chemical reaction between finely divided calcareous and siliceous materials. The calcareous component is usually lime and/or cement. 
The sand, inert when used in dense concrete, behaves as a pozzolan in the autoclave due to the high temperature and pressure. Autoclaved aerated concrete is cured in an autoclave-a large pressure vessel. In aircrete production the autoclave is normally a steel tube some 3 metres in diameter and 45 metres long. Steam is fed into the autoclave at high pressure, typically reaching a pressure of 800 kPa and a temperature of 180 A°â. c Autoclaved aerated concrete is easily cut to any required shape. Aerated concrete blocks also have good acoustic properties and it is durable, with good resistance to sulfate attack and to damage by fire and frost. The low density is achieved by the formation of air voids to produce a cellular structure.
The blocks are made from cement, lime, sand, pulverised fuel ash (PFA) and water. PFA is mixed with sand and water to form a slurry. This is then heated before being mixed with cement, lime and a small amount of aluminium sulphate powder. The aluminium reacts with the lime to form bubbles of hydrogen. • Pulverised fuel ash (PFA) is now routinely used as a cement substitute – 15% being the optimum in maintaining the compressive strength of aggregate blocks and 50% in aerated blocks. Products are available on the market that incorporate recycled aggregate to replace virgin quarried aggregate.
Autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC, Aircrete). Autoclaved aerated concrete is a versatile lightweight construction material and usually used as blocks. Compared with normal (ie: “dense” concrete) aircrete has a low density and excellent insulation properties. Production. Autoclaved aerated concrete is cured in an autoclave-a large pressure vessel. In aircrete production the autoclave is normally a steel tube some 3 metres in diameter and 45 metres long. Steam is fed into the autoclave at high pressure, typically reaching a pressure of 800 kPa and a temperature of 180 °C
2 3 The material Aircrete Autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC, Aircrete) Introduction Autoclaved aerated concrete is a versatile lightweight construction material and usually used as blocks. Compared with normal (ie: “dense” concrete) aircrete has a low density and excellent insulation properties. Dense concrete is typically a mixture of cement and water, often with slag or PFA, and fine and coarse aggregate. It gains strength as the cement hydrates, reaching 50% of its final strength after perhaps about 2 days and most of its final strength after a month.
Autoclaved aerated concrete is quite different from dense concrete (ie: “normal concrete”) in both the way it is produced and in the composition of the final product. Dense concrete is typically a mixture of cement and water, often with slag or PFA, and fine and coarse aggregate. Production. Autoclaved aerated concrete is cured in an autoclave-a large pressure vessel. In aircrete production the autoclave is normally a steel tube some 3 metres in diameter and 45 metres long. Steam is fed into the autoclave at high pressure, typically reaching a pressure of 800 kPa and a temperature of 180 °C
Introduction. Autoclaved aerated concrete is a versatile lightweight construction material and usually used as blocks. Compared with normal (ie: dense concrete) aircrete has a low density and excellent insulation properties. The pulverised flyash is usually milled to achieve adequate fineness. A small amount of anhydrite or gypsum is also often added. Autoclaved aerated concrete is quite different from dense concrete (ie: normal concrete) in both the way it is produced and in the composition of the final product.