What does Connor mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Connor is of Irish origin. The meaning of Connor is lover of hounds. It is also of Scottish origin, where its meaning is wise and English origin, where its meaning is hound, wolf lover. Connor is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Co-nnor. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 52 in baby name popularity for boys with 7195 occurrences.
Connor /con-nor/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAH-ner. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Connor is  hound-lover . Anglicized form of Conchobhar (Gaelic), which was the name of a legendary king of Ulster who lived at the time of Christ. Connor is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#1138 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Connor for boys. Connor entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its peak rank of #38 in the U.S. in 2004, and is presently at #52
Connor is a form of the name Conchobhar. Variants of the name Connor include Conner, Conor, Konner, Konnor. The names Konna, Konnyr are all forms of Connor. Connor falls into the animal name category. Connor is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Co-nnor. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 52 in baby name popularity for boys with 7195 occurrences.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Connor is a baby boy name. The name Connor comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Connor is: Strong willed or wise 'Hound-lover.' Also from the Irish 'Coachuhhar', meaning high desire. Famous bearers: In Irish mythology Connor was an early king of Ulster.; 20th century Irish diplomat Conor Cruise O'Brien. Similar Names:
The name Connor is of Irish origin, and it means Wolf lover . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. Connor Paolo is an actor with the most prominent portion of his career being from 2 to present. 
Origin of the name Connor: Anglicized form of the Irish Gaelic Conchobhar, a compound name composed of the ele-ments conn (wisdom, counsel, strength) or con (hound, dog) and cobhair (aid). “High, will, desire” and “hound lover” are other definitions attributed to the name. Var: Conner. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Origin of the name Connor: Anglicized form of the Irish Gaelic Conchobhar, a compound name composed of the ele-ments conn (wisdom, counsel, strength) or con (hound, dog) and cobhair (aid). “High, will, desire” and “hound lover” are other definitions attributed to the name. 
Connelly is a patronymic surname, the shortened form O’Connor, which in turn is an Anglicization of the Gaelic O ó conchobhair OR O, ó conchuir conchúir Meaning.. Descendant of Conchobhar the name conchobhar is thought to mean, lover of Hounds from, the gaelic con meaning, hound or, wolf, and cobhair.. aid or desiring Connelly is a patronymic surname, the shortened form O’Connor, which in turn is an Anglicization of the Gaelic O ó conchobhair OR O, ó conchuir conchúir Meaning.. descendant of