Ingestion of estrogen. Feminization or gynecomastia may be associated with normal estrone and estradiol levels in males with low bioavailable testosterone levels caused by primary or secondary testicular failure. 
Estradiol is essential for the development and maintenance of female reproductive tissues but it also has important effects in many other tissues including bone. While estrogen levels in men are lower compared to women, estrogens have essential functions in men as well. Estradiol is found in most vertebrates as well as many crustaceans, insects, fish, and other animal species. Estradiol, or more precisely, 17β-estradiol, is a steroid and estrogen sex hormone, and the primary female sex hormone. It is named for and is important in the regulation of the estrous and menstrual female reproductive cycles.
Normal testosterone and oestrogen levels in women. Although testosterone is better known as a male hormone, it still plays an important role for women's bodies and is produced in relatively small quantities by the ovaries and adrenal glands. The hormone best known in women is oestrogen, which is produced in larger quantities in a woman's body. The amount and levels of hormones change daily. The sex hormones, oestrogen and testosterone, are secreted in short bursts (pulses) which vary from hour to hour and even minute to minute.
Estrogen Levels. There are three type of estrogen: estrone, estradiol and estriol. The levels of each type of estrogen present, varies at different times in a woman's life. Estradiol is about 80 times more active than estriol. At BodyLogicMD, we can test for each of the different types of estrogen using blood and saliva tests.
While its importance is normally attributed to women, estrogen in men plays an important role. As teenagers, men have high levels of testosterone and low levels of estrogen. As they age, testosterone levels in men decrease while their estrogen levels increase. Not surprisingly, high levels of estrogen in men usually correspond to low levels of testosterone.
The amount and levels of hormones change daily. The sex hormones, estrogen and testosterone, are secreted in short bursts -- pulses -- which vary from hour to hour and even minute to minute. Hormone release varies between night and day and from one stage of the menstrual cycle to another. There are many reasons why estrogen levels fall, including: 1  Hypogonadism. 2  Hypopituitarism. 3  Pregnancy failure (estriol). 4  Perimenopause and menopause (estradiol). 5  Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). 6  Anorexia nervosa (eating disorder). 7  Extreme exercise or training.
Ranges of normal estrogen levels are measured in parts pg/ml of estradiol. In normal reproductive age women, during the menstrual cycle, estradiol levels range from 50-400 pg/ml. The actual normal level of estrogen varies during different parts of the menstrual cycle. In menopause, the general range may be 10-20 pg/ml. Value ranges of normal estrogen levels under 100 pg/ml can be associated with hot flashes, and may signal perimenopause. Estrogen and the regular menstrual cycle. Estrogen also rises again during this phase, but normal progesterone levels should now be almost twice as high as normal estrogen levels. If pregnancy does not occur within 10 to 12 days after ovulation, estrogen and progesterone levels fall abruptly, triggering menstruation, and the cycle begins anew.
Normal Levels. The normal range of estrogen varies depending upon the patient's age. Typically a women aged 20 to 29 will have an average level of 149 pg/ml (pictograms per milliliter). A female aged 30 to 39 will average a level of 210 pg/ml. And those over 40 but not in menopause will have an average level of 152 pg/ml. Estrogen is a female hormone that is mainly produced by the ovaries. It serves many purposes including helping to regulate the menstrual cycle, preserving bone density and increasing uterine growth. An imbalance in estrogen levels can cause many problems and symptoms.