Save. dragonfly /ˈdraegənˌflaɪ/ ˈdrægənˌflaɪ. noun plural. dragonflies. /dragonfly/. ˈdraegənˌflaɪ. ˈdrægənˌflaɪ noun. Plural'dragonflies learner s DEFINITION. [of]. : dragonfly count a large insect that has a long thin body and four wings and that is often seen — near water see color picture on. this page 
Full Definition of DRAGONFLY. : any of a suborder (Anisoptera) of odonate insects that are larger and stouter than damselflies, hold the wings horizontal in repose, and have rectal gills during the naiad stage; broadly: odonate. See dragonfly defined for English-language learners. See dragonfly defined for kids.
dragonfly noun [C]. › a ​flying ​insect with a ​long, ​thin ​body and two ​pairs of ​transparent ​wings. (Definition of dragonfly from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). › a ​large ​insect with a ​long, ​thin, brightly ​coloured ​body and two ​pairs of ​transparent ​wings. (Definition of dragonfly from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus
A dragonfly is an insect belonging to the order Odonata, suborder Anisoptera (from Greek ανισος anisos uneven + πτερος pteros, wings, because the hindwing is broader than the forewing). Fossils of very large dragonfly ancestors in the Protodonata are found from 325 million years ago (Mya) in Upper Carboniferous rocks; these had wingspans up to about 750 mm (30 in).
Dragonfly. A dragonfly is an insect belonging to the order Odonata, the suborder Epiprocta or, in the strict sense, the infraorder Anisoptera. It is characterized by large multifaceted eyes, two pairs of strong transparent wings, and an elongated body.
dragonfly noun [C]. › a ​large ​insect with a ​long, ​thin, brightly ​coloured ​body and two ​pairs of ​transparent ​wings. (Definition of dragonfly from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
dragonfly noun [C]. › a ​large ​insect with a ​long, ​thin, ​brightly ​coloured ​body and two ​pairs of ​transparent ​wings. (Definition of dragonfly from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. 
noun (plural dragonflies). A fast-flying long-bodied predatory insect with two pairs of large transparent wings which are spread out sideways at rest. The voracious aquatic larvae take up to five years to reach adulthood. 1 A woodchat's prey is mainly insects, beetles, damsel flies, dragonflies, grasshoppers, wasps and bees. 2  The wings were held horizontally, as in dragonflies (Odonata, Anisoptera). 3  Thrushes, ladybirds, dragonflies, spiders and hoverfly larvae will snack on aphids, snails and other pests, saving you time, work and money.
dragonfly. n, pl-flies. 1. (Animals) any predatory insect of the suborder Anisoptera, having a large head and eyes, a long slender body, two pairs of iridescent wings that are outspread at rest, and aquatic larvae: order Odonata. See also damselfly. 2. (Animals) any other insect of the order Odonata. n. Any of numerous predatory insects of the order Odonata, having large eyes, a long slender body, and two pairs of transparent veined wings, especially those of the order Anisoptera, which hold the wings outstretched when at rest, as distinguished from the damselflies.