The Vice President of the United States is the designated President of the Senate as is set forth in the US Constitution. However when the Vice President is away then the Sena … te's president pro tempore (or any others so designated) is the acting President of the Senate. The President of the Senate is the position filled by the VIce-President of the US, currently Joseph Biden (D) Delaware whose salary (as of 2011) was $230,700. per year. 2 people found this useful.
According to the United States Constitution, the Vice President of the United States is the President of the Senate, despite not being a senator, and the Senate must choose a president pro tempore to act in his absence. Byrd returned as president pro tempore, and Stevens became the third president pro tempore emeritus, when the Democrats gained control of the Senate in 2007.
The President of the Senate is the presiding officer of the Senate of Nigeria, elected by its membership. The current President of the Senate is Dr Bukola Saraki, who represents Kwara State for the APC. The President of the Senate of Trinidad and Tobago, who is generally elected from the government benches, chairs debates in the chamber and stands in for the country's president during periods of absence or illness (Constitution, section 27).
Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Vice President of the United States, became President of the Senate on January 20, 2009. He is not a member of the Senate but can vote in case of a tie vote. The Vice President of the United State s presides over the US Senate. He cannot vote unless there is a tie vote. But on a daily basis, this role is fulfilled by a senior senator, the President pro tempore, or his designates. Joe Biden is the current US Vice President. His term will expire on Jan. 20, 2017. Patrick Leahy, from Vermont is the senate president pro tempore which is a position elected by the Senate and filled by a senior senator. 
Orrin Hatch, a Republican and senior senator from Utah, is the president pro tempore of the Senate, having assumed office in January 2015. Byrd returned as president pro tempore, and Stevens became the third president pro tempore emeritus, when the Democrats gained control of the Senate in 2007.
The Senate President is elected at the beginning of each two-year General Assembly. The current President of the Ohio Senate is Keith Faber of Celina, Ohio, who was first elected President. of the Senate in 2013. His current term will end in 2014 at the close of the 130th General Assembly. 
Best Answer: Joe Biden (the Vice President of the United States) is the President of the Senate. EDIT PER ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: The President of the Senate in Australia is John Hogg (Labour). Source(s): Jack · 7 years ago. 
The President of the Senate in the United States is also the Vice President of the US. He is allowed to vote only when a particular Senate vote is tied. He is not a senator. H … e is not allowed to vote to create a tie. There is also a president pro tempore of the Senate. The President of the Senate is the position filled by the VIce-President of the US, currently Joseph Biden (D) Delaware whose salary (as of 2011) was $230,700. per year. 2 people found this useful.
The President is a senator, usually with some years of experience, who is elected to the position by the members of the Senate. The election, duties and responsibilities of the President reflect the original and independent nature of the Senate itself, as entrenched in the Australian Constitution at federation. The President is also the spokesperson for the Senate, who represents the Senate in dealings with the Governor-General, the executive government, the House of Representatives and persons outside the Parliament, and overseas.