1. Chelated Zinc. This form of zinc has undergone a process called chelation, whereby the organic molecules have been given an electrical charge that allows them to positively attract the charged mineral (in this case zinc). It is also a common ingredient in sunscreens. This type is a non-chelated, inorganic form of zinc. Studies show mixed results on the body’s ability to absorb and metabolize this form of inorganic zinc.
Chelated vs. Regular Zinc. Chelation occurs when an organic substance binds with a mineral. Zinc chelates are made by attaching zinc to two groups of organic substances: amino acids or other organic acids, such as citric acid. The benefit of chelated zinc is that the organic substances help carry zinc through the intestinal wall and into your bloodstream. Regular forms of zinc may be combined with other substances to form supplements like zinc oxide and zinc sulfate
When zinc is combined with amino acids or other organic acids, the result is a zinc chelate. The chelating agent boosts the amount of zinc absorbed into your system, which is important because zinc helps produce proteins and supports the immune system. Zinc chelates are made by attaching zinc to two groups of organic substances: amino acids or other organic acids, such as citric acid. The benefit of chelated zinc is that the organic substances help carry zinc through the intestinal wall and into your bloodstream.
Potential Problems with Zinc Chelate. Zinc may be chelated with a variety of compounds. Depending on what that compound is, Larsen writes, zinc chelate may be not absorbed well.. You should consult a pharmacist or other medical professional to determine what form of zinc your system can assimilate most efficiently. Because chelate can refer to a variety of chemical compounds that have been bound to zinc, some experts suggest that a supplement isn't so easily absorbed as you might think, depending on what compound zinc is chelated with.
For this reason, some zinc supplements come in zinc chelate form. Because chelate can refer to a variety of chemical compounds that have been bound to zinc, some experts suggest that a supplement isn't so easily absorbed as you might think, depending on what compound zinc is chelated with.
As such, chelated zinc refers to elemental or atomic zinc attached to another molecule, such as picolinic acid. Once in your body, zinc is important for strong immune response, growth and balancing blood sugars. Zinc is an essential mineral needed by your body in relatively small amounts, 20 mg or less per day, depending on your body size.
Zinc supplements are available in chelated form for better absorption. Photo Credit ilkab/iStock/Getty Images. Zinc is a metal that is required by the human body for many of its normal functions, from neural activity to immune-system efficiency to sexual maturation. For a variety of reasons, however, some people have difficulty absorbing zinc. Because chelate can refer to a variety of chemical compounds that have been bound to zinc, some experts suggest that a supplement isn't so easily absorbed as you might think, depending on what compound zinc is chelated with.
Forms of Zinc. Chelated zinc is divided into two main types: organic acids and amino acids. The organic acids that are usually attached to zinc include picolinic acid, orotic acid, citric acid and gluconic acid. Amino acids that are commonly attached to zinc include methionine, monomethionine and aspartic acid. Zinc is an essential mineral needed by your body in relatively small amounts, 20 mg or less per day, depending on your body size.
However, taking chelated zinc lozenges or using zinc nasal spray at the first signs of illness has not been adequately proven to dramatically reduce the duration and severity of symptoms. More research is needed to better understand what forms of supplemental zinc may be most effective against viruses and bacteria. Zinc is an essential mineral needed by your body in relatively small amounts, 20 mg or less per day, depending on your body size.
Zinc is a metal. It is called an “essential trace element” because very small amounts of zinc are necessary for human health. Zinc is used for treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency and its consequences, including stunted growth and acute diarrhea in children, and slow wound healing.