The type of covalent bond in a diamond is a 'giant covalent' bond in a crystalline structure. Actually, I think it's called a covalent network solid. I don't think chemists … and physicists would like to use a layman's term like giant. 1 person found this useful. 1 Determining the bond yield is a matter of determining the 2  …. Bond Duration: What Every Bond Fund Investor Needs To Know If you have money invested in fixed income bond funds, it essential to understand the concept of bond duration. 3  What is bond duration, why is it so important and why could a….
Properties of Covalent Molecules. The covalent bonds between atoms in a given molecule are very strong, as strong as ionic bonds. However, unlike ionic bonds, there is a limit to the number of covalent bonds to other atoms that a given atom can form. For example, carbon can make four bonds-not more. Oxygen can form two bonds.
Answer by The Unknown Hitchhiker. Confidence votes 135. The type of covalent bond in a diamond is a 'giant covalent' bond in a crystalline structure. Actually, I think it's called a covalent network solid. I don't think chemists and physicists would like to use a layman's term like giant. It depends on the type of molecule. Ionic bonds are found in molecules of a metal (alkali or alkaline) and a non metal (The group starting with Boron through halogens). Usuall … y all other molecules are covalent. Examples: CO2, CH4, CF4, H2O.
GIANT COVALENT STRUCTURES This page decribes the structures of giant covalent substances like diamond, graphite and silicon dioxide (silicon(IV) oxide), and relates those structures to the physical properties of the substances. In diamond, each carbon shares electrons with four other carbon atoms-forming four single bonds. In the diagram some carbon atoms only seem to be forming two bonds (or even one bond), but that's not really the case. We are only showing a small bit of the whole structure.
Structure and bonding-Higher tier. Diamond has a giant molecular structure. Each carbon atom is covalently bonded to four other carbon atoms. A lot of energy is needed to separate the atoms in diamond. This is because covalent bonds are strong, and diamond contains very many covalent bonds. This makes diamond's melting point and boiling point very high.
Hide. The carbon atoms in diamond are bonded with covalent bonds. Covalent bonds are generally stronger than the other types of bonds (ionic, metallic, and Van der Waals), and contribute to the extremely high hardness of diamond (10 on the Mohs scale). 1  For CrystalMaker users, use the bond angle tool to determine the bond angle between any C atom and its two nearest neighbors.
An excellent example is diamond, which is pure carbon, with each carbon atom bonding to four others, to form a huge molecule containing many millions of millions of atoms. This shows a part of a diamond molecule: In diamond, all the carbon atoms share one electron with each of their four neighbouring carbon atoms. However, unlike ionic bonds, there is a limit to the number of covalent bonds to other atoms that a given atom can form. For example, carbon can make four bonds-not more. Oxygen can form two bonds.