A phosphodiester bond occurs when exactly two of the hydroxyl groups in phosphoric acid react with hydroxyl groups on other molecules to form two ester bonds. Phosphodiester bonds are central to all life on Earth, as they make up the backbone of the strands of nucleic acid. In DNA and RNA, the phosphodiester bond is the linkage between the 3' carbon atom of one sugar molecule and the 5' carbon atom of another, deoxyribose in DNA and ribose in RNA. Strong covalent bonds form between the phosphate group and two 5-carbon ring carbohydrates (pentoses) over two ester bonds.
Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is a modified form of another sugar called ribose. 
1. The DNA double helix is held together by two types of bonds, covalent andhydrogen. Covalent bonds occur within each linear strand and strongly bond thebases, sugars, and phosphate groups (both within each component and betweencomponents).
In double-stranded DNA, the molecular double-helix shape is formed by two linear sugar-phosphate backbones that run opposite each other and twist together in a helical shape. The sugar-phosphate backbone is negatively charged and hydrophilic, which allows the DNA backbone to form bonds with water. A sugar-phosphate backbone (alternating grey-dark grey) joins together nucleotides in a DNA sequence.
DNA is a polymer. The monomer units of DNA are nucleotides, and the polymer is known as a polynucleotide.. Each nucleotide consists of a 5-carbon sugar (deoxyribose), a nitrogen containing base attached to the sugar, and a phosphate group. The DNA backbone is a polymer with an alternating sugar-phosphate sequence. The deoxyribose sugars are joined at both the 3'-hydroxyl and 5'-hydroxyl groups to phosphate groups in ester links, also known as phosphodiester bonds.
What bond hold the backbone of DNA together (sugar-phosphate)? Hydrogen bonds hold the base pairs, but I don&#39;t know the outside of the double helix. 
See Fig. 1. The nucleotides within each strand are held together by the phosphodiester bonds between the 5' carbon of one nucleotide and the 3 ' carbon of the adjacent nucleotdie. These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific. James Watson and Francis Crick proposed a structure for the DNA molecule that suggested the basic mechanism of DNA replication. The model proposes that DNA is composed of two strands of DNA running anti-parallel (remember the 5' and 3' ends!!) to each other.
Image courtesy of the National Human Genome Research Institution. The sugar and phosphate group make up the backbone of the DNA double helix, while the bases are located in the middle. A chemical bond between the phosphate group of one nucleotide and the sugar of a neighboring nucleotide holds the backbone together. Chemical bonds (hydrogen bonds) between the bases that are across from one another hold the two strands of the double helix together. Bases. 
The bases give DNA their variety. The bases are the rungs in the double helix ladders and the  … handlesof the double helix are composed of deoxyribose sugar and phosphate. Hydrogen bonds hold all of these components together.. (This answer was copy and pasted from another answer.).