Definition: Genes are segments of DNA located on chromosomes. Genes exist in alternative forms called alleles. Alleles determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring. The process by which genes are transmitted was discovered by Gregor Mendel and formulated in what is known as Mendel's law of segregation.
Genes contain the codes for the production of specific proteins. The information contained within DNA is not directly converted to proteins, but must first be transcribed in a process called DNA transcription. This process takes place within the nucleus of our cells. Alleles determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring. The process by which genes are transmitted was discovered by Gregor Mendel and formulated in what is known as Mendel's law of segregation.
Gene. Definition. noun, plural: genes. (cell and molecular biology). The fundamental, physical, and functional unit of heredity. Supplement. It is because a gene is a segment of DNA (on a specific site on a chromosome) that is responsible for the physical and inheritable characteristics or phenotype of an organism. It also specifies the structure of a protein, and an RNA molecule. A gene is formerly called a factor.
Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases. Most genes are the same in all people, but a small number of genes (less than 1 percent of the total) are slightly different between people. Alleles are forms of the same gene with small differences in their sequence of DNA bases.
Much of the answer lies in the genes, the basic units of heredity. Each gene is a specific segment of DNA, occupying a fixed place on a chromosome. Genes contain the chemical information needed to create different kinds of proteins. A segment of DNA, occupying a specific place on a chromosome, that is the basic unit of heredity. Genes act by directing the synthesis of proteins, which are the main components of cells and are the catalysts of all cellular processes.
In general, biology recognizes the cell as the basic unit of life, genes as the basic unit of heredity, and evolution as the engine that propels the synthesis and creation of new species. Biology is a natural science concerned with the study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, evolution, distribution, and taxonomy. Modern biology is a vast and eclectic field, composed of many branches and subdisciplines.
Genes are the primary units of inheritance in all organisms. A gene is a unit of heredity and corresponds to a region of DNA that influences the form or function of an organism in specific ways. All organisms, from bacteria to animals, share the same basic machinery that copies and translates DNA into proteins. Biology is a natural science concerned with the study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, evolution, distribution, and taxonomy. Modern biology is a vast and eclectic field, composed of many branches and subdisciplines.
gene. A segment of DNA, occupying a specific place on a chromosome, that is the basic unit of heredity. Genes act by directing the synthesis of proteins, which are the main components of cells and are the catalysts of all cellular processes.
Chromatin is the “packaged” form of DNA in the nucleus and its regulation is central to transcription – creating the RNA copy of a DNA sequence. Chromatin helps assure that the DNA/RNA copy is precise – any deviation can result in stunted gene expression or proteins that no longer function properly. 
Gene therapy. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gene therapy is the use of DNA as a pharmaceutical agent to treat disease. It derives its name from the idea that DNA can be used to supplement or alter genes within an individual's cells as a therapy to treat disease. Gene. Gene. The term  gene  refers to a functional segment of DNA, which in eukaryotic cell s would be a part of a chromosome in the nucleus of the cell. Gene duplication occurs when an error in DNA replication leads to the duplication of a region of DNA containing a (generally functional) gene.