Crystallization is therefore an aspect of precipitation, obtained through a variation of the solubility conditions of the solute in the solvent, as compared to precipitation due to chemical reaction. 1 Sample production: small production of tiny crystals for material characterization. 2  Controlled recrystallization is an important method to supply unusual crystals, that are needed to reveal the molecular structure and nuclear forces inside a typical molecule of a crystal.
Polymer crystallization kinetics can be quantitatively described by a two-range equation, based on a simple nucleation model which is in agreement with experimental observations; it accounts in a unitary form for various possible nucleation mechanisms. 
Crystallization Equilibrium Solubility Heat of crystallisation Rate of Crystal Growth Stage-equilibrium Crystallization Crystallization Equipment Crystallization is an example of a separation process in which mass is transferred from a liquid solution, whose composition is generally mixed, to a pure solid crystal. The equilibrium is established between the crystals and the surrounding solution, the mother liquor. The manufacture of sucrose, from sugar cane or sugar beet, is an important example of crystallization in food technology.
EXAMPLE 9.8. Crystallization of sodium chloride If sodium chloride solution, at a temperature of 40°C, has a concentration of 50% when the solubility of sodium chloride at this temperature is 36.6 g / 100 g water, calculate the quantity of sodium chloride crystals that will form once crystallization has been started. The equilibrium is established between the crystals and the surrounding solution, the mother liquor. The manufacture of sucrose, from sugar cane or sugar beet, is an important example of crystallization in food technology.
Recrystallization can be defined as the process in which grains of a crystal structure are come in new structure or new crystal shape. A precise definition of recrystallization is difficult to state as the process is strongly related to several other processes, most notably recovery and grain growth. The annealing temperature has a dramatic influence on the rate of recrystallization which is reflected in the above equations. However, for a given temperature there are several additional factors that will influence the rate.
Crystallization Temperature. The crystallization temperature of a brine is the temperature at which a solid phase begins to form, resulting in a mixture of solid particles and solution. These solids may be salt crystals or water crystals (ice). Figure 18 shows a typical crystallization temperature curve for a brin
Crystallization is also a chemical solid–liquid separation technique, in which mass transfer of a solute from the liquid solution to a pure solid crystalline phase occurs. In chemical engineering crystallization occurs in a crystallizer. 1 Sample production: small production of tiny crystals for material characterization. 2  Controlled recrystallization is an important method to supply unusual crystals, that are needed to reveal the molecular structure and nuclear forces inside a typical molecule of a crystal.
Crystallization refers to the formation of solid crystals from a homogeneous solution. It is essentially a solid-liquid separation technique and a very important one at that. Crystals are grown in many shapes, which are dependent upon downstream processing or final product requirements. The salt that will not dissolve will help the first step in crystallization begin. This first step is called nucleation or primary nucleation. The salt resting at the bottom of the pot will provide a site for nucleation to occur. Primary nucleation is the first step in crystallization.
The second chief mechanism in crystallization is called secondary nucleation. In this phase of crystallization, crystal growth is initiated with contact. The contact can be between the solution and other crystals, a mixer blade, a pipe, a vessel wall, etc. This phase of crystallization occurs at lower supersaturation (than primary nucleation) where crystal growth is optimal. Secondary nucleation requires seeds or existing crystals to perpetuate crystal growth. In our salt example, we bypassed primary nucleation by seeding the solution with a final teaspoon of salt. The salt that will not dissolve will help the first step in crystallization begin. This first step is called nucleation or primary nucleation. The salt resting at the bottom of the pot will provide a site for nucleation to occur. Primary nucleation is the first step in crystallization.