Just keep in mind that this type of renovation doesn't come cheap. Even a minor kitchen remodel averages $19,588, according to Remodeling magazine's annual Cost vs. Value report, though homeowners can expect to recoup 72% of the cost at resale. 
Costs, materials and best practices for the example Small Kitchen Remodeling project will help you answer these questions. Use this information to develop a budget, bid requirements, hiring contracts and a project plan. Actual returns vary widely and are affected by the range of home prices in your neighborhood, the overall condition of your home and sensible design choices. A good quality Small Kitchen Remodeling project in the right neighborhoods can return 61% - 72% of its initial cost.
The cost of remodeling a kitchen can vary widely depending on the size and scope of your project, with the national average coming in around $17,000 and most homeowners spending between $12,000 and $19,000. This guide can help estimate your costs and give you a starting point for various upgrades and services. The average cost of having new countertops installed is $3,401, but it is important to realize how much this can vary from project to project. The price will be dependent on the size of your kitchen, the simplicity of the layout and the materials used.
1 These are averages; actual costs may be higher or lower. 2  In contrast, DoItYourself.com estimates that the cost of a typical kitchen remodel can start around $5,000 with some do-it-yourself work included, and averages $15,000-$26,000. 1 The cost of remodeling a kitchen depends on the current layout, size and condition of the room, as well as the quality of replacement products chosen.
1. Decide how much you want to spend, and stick to it. Setting a budget for your kitchen remodel and staying within it sounds so obvious and simple, but it's harder than you think. The average cost of an upscale kitchen remodel is more than $80,000, but three factors should determine whether you want to spend that much. The first is how much you can afford to spend. Take a look at your finances to determine this number. The second is how long you plan to stay in your house. If you are planning on selling the home within five years, then your kitchen renovation should be viewed as an improvement on a real estate investment.
How much did your kitchen renovation cost, and where did you spend it? According to Today, the average cost for a kitchen remodel is $15,000 to $20,000 — without the appliances. Costs can be driven by location, size of the kitchen, and the quality of appliances. You can opt for less expensive IKEA cabinets, or have them built by hand to be completely custom to your kitchen. You can also do demolition and much of the installation yourself, or contract everything out. So, we're curiou
1 In contrast, DoItYourself.com estimates that the cost of a typical kitchen remodel can start around $5,000 with some do-it-yourself work included, and averages $15,000-$26,000. 1 The cost of remodeling a kitchen depends on the current layout, size and condition of the room, as well as the quality of replacement products chosen.
When you're working with a $15,000 to $30,000 kitchen remodel budget, you can leave more work to the professionals instead of doing much of it yourself. This might include refinishing or refacing your countertops, painting the walls and ceilings, installing new lighting and rewiring some electrical work. For example, cabinets take up almost 30 percent of the kitchen remodel budget, but you can save by investing in stock kitchen cabinets rather than custom cabinets. Also, you can do some of the installation and replacement yourself. You can also break up the projects over time so you can save for one project at a time.