Most prefer to leave the hassle to the professionals however the probate solicitors’ fees that are usually charged are quite high. These are often as much as 1% to 2% of the value of the assets. A fee of 2% of an estate worth 400k would be €8,000.00 plus vat @ 23%- €1,840.00 = €9,840.00 plus outlays!!! Would you like to save €1,000’s In Probate Fees in Ireland. We at O’Shea Legal provide you with a fixed fee and low cost probate service for sorting out the affairs of a person, who has died with or without a will, no matter how small or large the estate.
Instead we charge a simple easy to understand fixed fee. As we specialise in Probate we are able to give you a fixed fee quote for the cost of probate at the beginning of the case. If you would like a fixed fee quote, please call us on 0844 740 1637 or e-mail here. Probate Solicitors. Another choice is for you (and your co-executors if there are more than one) is to employ a professional to do the work on your behalf. This person will almost certainly be a lawyer, either a solicitor or a member of his/her staff.
Most Solicitors charge hourly rates and a percentage of the estate, however the feedback from our clients is that such a method of charging for probate is unfair. Instead we charge a simple easy to understand fixed fee,. As we specialise in Probate we are able to give you a fixed fee quote for the cost of probate at the beginning of the case. If you would like a fixed fee quote, please call us on 0844 740 1637 or e-mail here. 
Probate solicitors fees. Probate is the process of obtaining the official approval of a last will and testament. (If you’re wanting to make a Will, go here. .) Probate solicitors help in the administration of your will when you die. Most choose to employ a probate solicitor or other professional. A solicitor may be named in the will as an executor – in which case, they will generally administer the estate and the cost of probate will be charged according to their scale at the time. The executor’s job is to gather in all your assets, and after paying off any debts, they obtain a ‘Grant of Probate’ on your estat
We focus on the legal aspect of obtaining probate, which relates to the application to the probate registry and completion of inheritance tax returns which must be completed in every case. We charge a fixed fee that ranges from £400-£500 plus vat and court fees of £150. We can typically obtain within 3-5 weeks. 
Bank’s fees for probate can generally work out at between 4% and 5%, so are generally not good value. Solicitor’s Probate fees are usually based on guidance from the Law Society which sets an initial fee of 0.75% of the value of the property, plus 1.5% of the value of other assets, and other charges on top of that. Most choose to employ a probate solicitor or other professional. A solicitor may be named in the will as an executor – in which case, they will generally administer the estate and the cost of probate will be charged according to their scale at the time. The executor’s job is to gather in all your assets, and after paying off any debts, they obtain a ‘Grant of Probate’ on your estate
Lawyers can charge from £100 per hour to £250 per hour or more for probate work, depending on the seniority of the person on your case. If a simple estate took 10 hours it would be much cheaper than a more complex will taking 20 hours’ work – and a solicitor would have to quote depending on your circumstances. Most choose to employ a probate solicitor or other professional. A solicitor may be named in the will as an executor – in which case, they will generally administer the estate and the cost of probate will be charged according to their scale at the time. The executor’s job is to gather in all your assets, and after paying off any debts, they obtain a ‘Grant of Probate’ on your estate