Diwali is the Hindu festival of lights which celebrates the New Year. It is India's most important holiday. Diwali is celebrated by Hindus and Sikhs in Britain and all over the world.
Confidence votes 14.6K. Diwali falls on the one new moon night (Amavasya) between mid-October and mid-November. Diwali is celebrated for five days according to the lunisolar. It begins in late Ashvin (between September and October) and ends in early Kartika (between October and November).
Diwali is celebrated by Hindus in Britain and all over the world. Diwali is perhaps the most well-known of the Indian festivals. It is a five day celebration which occurs on the fifteenth day of the Hindu month of Kartika (during October/November in the Gregorian calendar).
The actual day of Diwali is traditionally celebrated on the festival's third day, which this year falls on Thursday, October 23. The festival usually falls between the middle of October and the middle of November, although this is decided upon by the Hindu lunar calendar.
Diwali, also known as Deepavali, Dipavali, Dewali, Deepawali or the Festival of Lights, marks the beginning of the Hindu New Year. It is celebrated on the 15th day of Kartika (October/November) in the Hindu calendar. Diwali celebrations can last for about five days.
Diwali is mainly a Hindu festival. It is also celebrated by Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists for different reasons. There are several reasons to celebrate Diwali depending on the group … celebrating it. Diwali or Deepavali is a significant festival in Hinduism, Sikhism, and Jainism.
A Hindu couple celebrates Diwali. Getty Images. Diwali is also celebrated outside of India mainly in Guyana, Fiji, Malaysia, Nepal, Mauritius, Myanmar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Trinidad & Tobago, Britain, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Africa, Australia and the US among the Hindus across the world.
Diwali, also known as Devali or Deepawali, is an Indian festival of light and colors celebrated in the month of October or November every year. Falling among some of the most auspicious dates of the Hindu calendar, Diwali holds an important place among masses of Indian origin all over the world.