Iron is an important mineral that the body needs to produce red blood cells. Vitamin C improves the absorption of iron from the stomach. Vitamin B12 is important for normal blood, cells, and nerves. Folic acid is needed to form healthy cells, especially red blood cells.
Iron polysaccharide is a form of the mineral iron. Iron is important for many functions in the body, especially for the transport of oxygen in the blood. Ascorbic acid is used to treat and prevent vitamin C deficiency. Iron polysaccharide is used as a dietary supplement, and to prevent and to treat iron deficiencies and iron deficiency anemia. Ascorbic acid and iron polysaccharide may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Iron Glycinate™ Clinical Applications Iron Glycinate™ Discussion Albion¨ fully-reacted chelates are absorbed as foods (i.e. Protein) and as such this form of Iron will not cause the constipation seen with inorganic iron supplements. The (heme) component of hemoglobin is re-sponsible for delivering iron and oxygen to peripheral tissues. Iron deÞciency presents as fatigue and is most common in individuals who experience loss of blood (menstruation, ulcers).
Product Description. Most of the body's iron is found in hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying molecule in red blood cells. Smaller amounts are found in the tissues as myoglobin and as cofactors for many enzymes. Because of its central role in the hemoglobin molecule, iron is essential for formation of red blood cells.*. 
Uses. This combination product contains a mineral (iron) along with 3 vitamins (vitamin C, vitamin B12, and folic acid). It is used to treat or prevent a lack of these nutrients which may occur in certain health conditions (e.g., anemia, pregnancy, poor diet, surgery recovery). Vitamin C improves the absorption of iron from the stomach. Vitamin B12 is important for normal blood, cells, and nerves. Folic acid is needed to form healthy cells, especially red blood cells.
Iron is a trace mineral essential for health. According to the National Institutes of Health, iron is used by the body to make the proteins hemoglobin (in red blood cells) and myoglobin (in muscles). They help carry and store oxygen in the body. Vitacost Chelate Iron-Albion® Ferrous Bisglycinate Chelate -- 18 mg - 120 Capsules 4.7 5 26 35. No stomach upset This iron is great. I did not experience any stomach upset and it was easily absorbed. August 13, 2013. Best iron supplement if you have digestive problem This iron supplement has worked very well for me.
Iron Bis-Glycinate is a dietary supplement that provides iron in a highly absorbable form*. This product is recommended to support athletes, Red Blood Cell formation, Hemoglobin production, menstrual and energy*. 
Iron supplements are used to treat iron deficiency and iron-deficiency anemia; parenteral irons can also be used to treat functional iron deficiency, where requirements for iron are greater than the body's ability to supply iron such as in inflammatory states. Since iron stores in the body are generally depleted, and there is a limit to what the body can process (about 2–6 mg/kg of body mass per day; i.e. for a 100 kg/220 lb man this is equal to a maximum dose of 200–600 mg/per day) without iron poisoning, this is a chronic therapy which may take 3–6 months.
Blood Booster™ contains the highly superior iron bisglycinate, a true protein/iron complex. The form of iron in this vitamin supplement is 100% safe, highly absorbable, and does not induce iron-related digestive distress or free-radical problems.*. Tweet. Ferrous sulfate can break up in the blood, is only 3% absorbed, and can cause digestive problems. Iron bisglycinate is a far superior and safe iron form.* It is the form of iron we use in Blood Booster™ . Iron is the backbone nutrient for enhancing the building of oxygenated blood. Vitamins B6, B12, and folic acid are also needed to make healthy blood