Decaffeinated Tea refers to black or green tea that has had most of its natural caffeine removed. It's important to note that decaffeinated does not mean caffeine-free . There is still a small amount of caffeine in most decaffeinated teas unless the product is highly processed. Decaffeinated Black Tea can contain about 4-6mg of caffeine per tea bag.
When your coffee label states that the beans are naturally decaffeinated, it is referring to this process, specifically using ethyl acetate. Although it doesn't sound like a natural process, it can be labeled as such because the solvent occurs in nature. If your coffee is labeled naturally decaffeinated or Swiss water processed, you can be assured that no harmful chemicals are used. If you are uncertain, you can ask or call your coffee processor to learn about the method used.
Decaffeinated tea is a great option for tea lovers who wish to avoid much of the caffeine naturally found in the tea leaf. All forms of tea (black, oolong, green, white, and pu-erh) can be decaffeinated; but really only black and green tea are regularly decaffeinated. It must be noted that decaffeinated tea is NOT caffeine free. The decaffeination process leaves a minute amount of caffeine in the leaf. 
Photos.com/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images. Naturally decaffeinated coffee may mean a variety of things. However, coffee producers do not necessarily have to disclose in what way the coffee was decaffeinated, even if it says naturally decaffeinated on the label. The most common methods of removing caffeine are the Swiss Water method, methyl chloride and ethyl acetate. In 2004 a coffee plant which naturally contains little or no caffeine was discovered by researchers in Brazil. The hope is that this plant can be crossed with already commercially popular varieties of coffee to produce beans that are decaffeinated without the need for any process to remove the caffeine.
The most commonly available decaffeinated green tea is naturally decaffeinated. It is made using a chemical solvent called ethyl acetate. During this process, tea leaves are soaked in water to release caffeine and other tea compounds. Tea leaves are soaked in a carbon dioxide solution to release caffeine. This is followed by separating the tea leaves from the solution, and filtering out the caffeine using active carbon or charcoal. Finally tea leaves are re-immersed into the solution to reabsorb the lost tea nutrients.
The naturally decaffeinated simply means that we employ a non chemical process with pure effervescence to remove the caffeine content of our tea to maximize the antioxidant level. The process is 100 % non-chemical and safe. The result is a full-bodied, richly colored and highly aromatic tea. 
For a tea to be legally labeled decaffeinated in the United States, 98% of the caffeine must be removed. This means one cup should contain less than 5 milligram of caffeine or 0.4% in dry weight. For caffeine sensitive individuals, drinking decaffeinated tea may seem an ideal way to enjoy tea health benefits without its side effects. Unfortunately, things do not quite work out this way. Tea leaves are soaked in a carbon dioxide solution to release caffeine. This is followed by separating the tea leaves from the solution, and filtering out the caffeine using active carbon or charcoal. Finally tea leaves are re-immersed into the solution to reabsorb the lost tea nutrients.
Decaffeination is the removal of caffeine from coffee beans, cocoa, tea leaves and other caffeine-containing materials. Decaffeination processes for coffee [edit]. In the case of coffee, various methods can be used. The process is performed on unroasted (green) beans and starts with steaming of the beans. They are then rinsed with a solvent that extracts the caffeine while leaving other constituents largely unaffected.
Arbor Teas Decaffeination Process. Decaffeinated tea is a great option for tea lovers who wish to avoid much of the caffeine naturally found in the tea leaf. All forms of tea (black, oolong, green, white, and pu-erh) can be decaffeinated, but only black and green tea are regularly decaffeinated. 
Best Answer: Tea (White, Green, and Black) can be decaffeinated right at home. All you have to do is put your tea leaves in your infuser and put it in a mug. Boil your water to the correct temperature for the tea that you are going to brew. Pour the water on the leaves so it covers them. Leave it for 30 seconds only. Remove the infuser from the mug. Throw the water out that is in the mug