The word pericardium literally means 'about' or 'around' (peri-) the 'heart' (cardia). This layer is composed of three membranous layers that encircle the exterior of the heart: the outer fibrous pericardium, the parietal pericardium, and the inner epicardium (also referred to as the visceral pericardium).
The endocardium is the most inner layer of the heart. It forms the inner layer of all four heart chambers and is directly connected to all the inner cardiac appendages, such as the bicuspid valve, the tricuspid valve, the pulmonary valve, the aortic valve, the chordae tendineae and the papillary muscles.
Each layer is specialized in its structure and function. Thus, all three layers function together to ensure proper functioning of the heart and to ensure that it pumps blood properly to all the organs in the body.
The epicardium is the layer of muscle found covering the external surfaces of the heart. It is directly fused with the myocardium internally and is in contact with the serous layer of the pericardium. It is sometimes considered as a division of the inner
Lesson Summary. The heart wall is composed of three main layers: the epicardium, myocardium, and endocardium. The pericardium (which is formed by the fibrous pericardium, the parietal pericardium and the epicardium) forms the outermost protective layer.
2. Myocardium-Cardiac muscle layer is the bulk of the heart: this is the thick layer of cardiac muscle which is responsible for the contraction and relaxation of the ventricles and atria. 3. Endocardium-the inner lining of the heart (lines chambers and valves). *Pericardium-.
The heart's outer wall consists of three layers. The outermost wall layer, or epicardium, is the inner wall of the pericardium. The middle layer, or myocardium, contains the muscle that contracts.
The myocardium is the middle muscular layer of the heart's walls and it functions by providing a scaffolding for the heart chambers, assisting in contraction and relaxation of the cardiac walls so that blood can pass between the chambers and electrostimulation conduction through its own tissues and into the epicardium.