According to Rare, the developers of Donkey Kong Country, there are multiple Donkey Kongs, and the modern one who appears in Donkey Kong Country onward is actually a grown-up version of Junior himself. However, the Donkey Kong Country manual stated that Cranky is the grandfather of the game's titular character. Lanky Kong (ランキーコング, Rankī Kongu) is a Sumatran Orangutan who is a distant cousin to the Kong family. Lanky's first appearance was in Donkey Kong 64 as one of the game's five playable Kongs. He was freed by Donkey Kong in the Angry Aztec level in the Llama's Temple.
In the original Donkey Kong game, the player's character, Mario (originally called Jumpman in Japan), must jump over barrels thrown by Donkey Kong while climbing ladders up a crooked construction site to reach the top of the screen to rescue his girlfriend Pauline (who was originally called Lady in Japan). But the first Donkey Kong was made before the idea of DK was released in America. In short, Donkey means 'stupid' and Kong means 'monkey'... Literally combining into what DK Jr. is, a stubborn primate.
The original Donkey Kong (later established to be Cranky Kong from the Donkey Kong Country series) made his first appearance as the titular antagonist of the 1981 arcade game Donkey Kong alongside protagonist Mario (then known as Jumpman) and damsel in distress, the Lady (later renamed Pauline). The Donkey Kong Country series introduced the setting Donkey Kong Island and a backstory for the character. The series also introduced Diddy Kong as Donkey's sidekick, and King K. Rool, king of the Kremlings, as his nemesis who steals his banana hoard.
Shigeru Miyamoto, the character's creator, used the English word  donkey to evoke the animal's stereotypical stubbornness. (There  was no translation error; the game has t … he same name, Donkii  Kongu, in Japan.) Kong is because, in Japan, King Kong has  become a generic term for any large ape. Answer 1: Donkey Kong from the popular video game is a gorilla. I base this solely off of the fact that he has no tail, a buff body shape, and a chest pounding habit. Answer 2: No, it's a capuchin monkey
Donkey Kong is a mountain gorilla and is the main protagonist. Donkey Kong first appears in Donkey Kong as the kidnapper of Pauline (this was later retconned where Cranky Kong was the original Donkey Kong that kidnapped Pauline). Lanky Kong (ランキーコング, Rankī Kongu) is a Sumatran Orangutan who is a distant cousin to the Kong family. Lanky's first appearance was in Donkey Kong 64 as one of the game's five playable Kongs. He was freed by Donkey Kong in the Angry Aztec level in the Llama's Temple.
1,110 pages on this wiki. Animal Buddies are different types of creatures that aid Donkey Kong and his friends on many of their adventures against the Kremling Krew and other villains. They are found in Animal Crates. 
Donkey Kong (ドンキーコング, Donkī Kongu) (DK) is an anthropomorphic gorilla appearing in the Donkey Kong and Mario video game franchises. A popular character, he has appeared in many video games. Donkey Kong was Mario 's first opponent in the game of the same name, Nintendo 's popular 1981 arcade game, Donkey Kong. The Donkey Kong Country series introduced the setting Donkey Kong Island and a backstory for the character. The series also introduced Diddy Kong as Donkey's sidekick, and King K. Rool, king of the Kremlings, as his nemesis who steals his banana hoard.
Mario is the protagonist of the original Donkey Kong game, the 1994 Game Boy Donkey Kong game, and the Mario Vs. Donkey Kong games, and the antagonist of Donkey Kong Jr. He also makes a cameo appearance in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. Lanky Kong (ランキーコング, Rankī Kongu) is a Sumatran Orangutan who is a distant cousin to the Kong family. Lanky's first appearance was in Donkey Kong 64 as one of the game's five playable Kongs. He was freed by Donkey Kong in the Angry Aztec level in the Llama's Temple.
Cranky Kong is Donkey Kong's grandfather who is the original Donkey Kong. He is elderly and frequently berates the younger generation of heroes. Diddy Kong was first introduced in Donkey Kong Country and featured in Diddy's Kong Quest as the main character. In Donkey Kong Country, the original Donkey Kong's grandson, also called Donkey Kong, was the hero and he and his sidekick Diddy Kong had to save his hoard of bananas from the thieving King K. Rool and his Kremling Krew.