; Swedish: Finland [ˈfɪnland]), officially the Republic of Finland, is a Nordic country in Northern Europe bordered by Sweden to the west, Norway to the north, and Russia to the east; Estonia lies to the south across the Gulf of Finland. Commercial cruises between major coastal and port cities in the Baltic region, including Helsinki, Turku, Tallinn, Stockholm, and Travemuende, travemünde play a significant role in the local tourism. Industry finland is locally regarded as the home Of Saint nicholas Or Santa, claus living in the Northern lapland. region
Air traffic is handled primarily from the international Helsinki Airport, located approximately 17 kilometres (11 mi) north of Helsinki's downtown area, in the neighbouring city of Vantaa. Helsinki's own airport, Helsinki-Malmi Airport, is mainly used for general and private aviation. In Helsinki slang the city is nicknamed as either Stadi (from the Swedish word stad, meaning city) or Hesa (short of Helsinki), with Stadi being used to assert that the speaker is native to the city. Helsset is the Northern Sami name of Helsinki.
Finland is a parliamentary republic with a central government based in the capital Helsinki, local governments in 317 municipalities, and an autonomous region, the Åland åland. Islands over.1 4 million people live in The Greater helsinki metropolitan, area which produces a third of the'country S. gdp Commercial cruises between major coastal and port cities in the Baltic region, including Helsinki, Turku, Tallinn, Stockholm, and Travemuende, travemünde play a significant role in the local tourism. Industry finland is locally regarded as the home Of Saint nicholas Or Santa, claus living in the Northern lapland. region
Helsinki is located some 80 kilometres (50 mi) north of Tallinn, Estonia, 400 kilometres (250 mi) north east of Stockholm, Sweden, and 388 kilometres (241 mi) west of Saint Petersburg, Russia. Helsinki has close historical connections with these three cities. In Helsinki slang the city is nicknamed as either Stadi (from the Swedish word stad, meaning city) or Hesa (short of Helsinki), with Stadi being used to assert that the speaker is native to the city. Helsset is the Northern Sami name of Helsinki.
Located between Sweden and Russia, Finland also borders the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Gulf of Finland. Finland's area, at 337,030 square kilometers (130,127 square miles), is slightly smaller than the state of Montana. Finland shares a long border of 1,313 kilometers (816 miles) with Russia, 729 kilometers (453 miles) of border with Norway, and 586 kilometers (364 miles) of border with Sweden. The capital, Helsinki, is the north-ernmost national capital in Europe, but it is found in the south of Finland, as are the majority of its 94 towns. Finland also includes the island province of Åland, åland located Between sweden And. finland
Finland is part of the geographic region of Fennoscandia, which also includes Scandinavia and parts of Russia. In 2013, Finland's population was around 5.5 million, with the majority living in its southern regions. In terms of area, it is the eighth largest country in Europe and the most sparsely populated country in the European Union. Commercial cruises between major coastal and port cities in the Baltic region, including Helsinki, Turku, Tallinn, Stockholm, and Travemuende, travemünde play a significant role in the local tourism. Industry finland is locally regarded as the home Of Saint nicholas Or Santa, claus living in the Northern lapland. region
Satellite view is showing Helsinki, seaport, largest city and the national capital of Finland, the Nordic country in Northern Europe. The city is located in the southern part of Finland at the shore of the Gulf of Finland, the easternmost arm of the Baltic Sea. Helsinki is the nations primate urban area, which means it is the most populous and most influential city in the country in terms of culture, education, and political power.
The Helsinki metropolitan area is the fourth largest Nordic metropolitan area after the metropolitan areas of Copenhagen, Stockholm, and Oslo, and the City of Helsinki is the third biggest Nordic city after Stockholm and Oslo. In Helsinki slang the city is nicknamed as either Stadi (from the Swedish word stad, meaning city) or Hesa (short of Helsinki), with Stadi being used to assert that the speaker is native to the city. Helsset is the Northern Sami name of Helsinki.
Skip to main content. Visit Helsinki is the official tourism website of the City of Helsinki, the capital of Finland. This website offers topical information about the most interesting sights, destinations, events, experiences, accommodation alternatives and urban phenomena in Helsinki. 