A: Prilosec (omeprazole) is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) used in the treatment of dyspepsia, peptic ulcer disease (PUD) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). With the widespread use of PPIs, the long-term safety issues need to be considered. A: Prilosec (omeprazole) belongs to a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). PPIs decrease or block the production of stomach acid. Prilosec is used to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), to promote healing of erosive esophagitis, and to treat or prevent ulcers.
You should not take this medication if you are allergic to omeprazole or to any other benzimidazole medication such as albendazole or mebendazole. Ask a doctor or pharmacist if it is safe for you to take omeprazole if you have liver disease or heart disease, or if you have low levels of magnesium in your blood. Do not use over-the-counter omeprazole (Prilosec OTC) without the advice of a doctor if you have: 1  trouble or pain with swallowing; Omeprazole can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. You should not breast-feed while you are taking omeprazole. Do not give this medication to a child younger than 1 year old without the advice of a doctor.
Omeprazole is usually taken before eating. Follow all directions on your prescription label. Do not take this medicine in larger or smaller amounts or for longer than recommended. Prilosec OTC (over-the-counter) should be taken only once every 24 hours for 14 days. Take the medicine in the morning before you eat breakfast. It may take up to 4 days for full effect. Do not take more than one tablet every 24 hours. Omeprazole can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. You should not breast-feed while you are taking omeprazole. Do not give this medication to a child younger than 1 year old without the advice of a doctor.
Prescription omeprazole is also used to treat ulcers (sores in the lining of the stomach or intestine) and it is also used with other medications to treat and prevent the return of ulcers caused by a certain type of bacteria (. Prescription omeprazole is used to treat the symptoms of GERD, allow the esophagus to heal, and prevent further damage to the esophagus. Prescription omeprazole is also used to treat conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
Ask your doctor if you have any questions. Take omeprazole capsules or delayed-release capsules before a meal, preferably in the morning. Omeprazole tablets may be taken with food or on an empty stomach. Take omeprazole powder for oral suspension on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal. 1 To treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD): 2  Adults—20 milligrams (mg) once a day before a meal. 3  Your doctor may want you to take omeprazole for more than 8 weeks for certain conditions. 4  Children 1 year of age and older—Dose is based on body weight and must be determined by your doctor.
Omeprazole is a medicine that helps the stomach make less acid. It is used to treat patients with reflux disease, inflammation of the throat or stomach lining, or bleeding in the stomach. It may also be used with antibiotics to treat ulcers. 
1 Your doctor may want you to take omeprazole for more than 8 weeks for certain conditions. 2  Children 1 year of age and older—Dose is based on body weight and must be determined by your doctor. 3  The dose is usually 5 to 20 mg once a day before a meal. 1 To treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD): 2  Adults—20 milligrams (mg) once a day before a meal. 3  Your doctor may want you to take omeprazole for more than 8 weeks for certain conditions. 4
Nonprescription (over-the-counter) omeprazole comes as a delayed-release capsule or tablet to take by mouth. The delayed-release capsules and the granules should be taken at least 1 hour before a meal. Prescription omeprazole is used to treat the symptoms of GERD, allow the esophagus to heal, and prevent further damage to the esophagus. Prescription omeprazole is also used to treat conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
Prescription omeprazole is used alone or with other medications to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a condition in which backward flow of acid from the stomach causes heartburn and possible injury of the esophagus (the tube between the throat and stomach). Prescription omeprazole is used to treat the symptoms of GERD, allow the esophagus to heal, and prevent further damage to the esophagus. Prescription omeprazole is also used to treat conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
You should take omeprazole exactly as directed by your doctor or as instructed on the package label. Typically, this will be once a day, at least 30 minutes before a meal. 