Hydromorphone is a more common synonym for dihydromorphinone (not to be confused with dihydromorphine, which is a different derivative of the morphine family), commonly a hydrochloride (brand names Palladone, Dilaudid, and numerous others). It is a very potent centrally acting analgesic drug of the opioid class. Hydromorphone is much more soluble in water than morphine and, therefore, hydromorphone solutions can be produced to deliver the drug in a smaller volume of water.
Best Answer: I take 1-2 2mg dilaudid 3 times a day, I also take one 30 mg ms contin (extended release morphine) once a day. The dilaudid is suppose to be for breakthrough pain. The dilaudid personally does not work as well for my pain as percocet or vicodin, but my doc insists its stronger. 
Side Effects of Each. The most common side effects of oxycodone and hydromorphone are similar. Hydromorphone is very potent, so its side effects can be more intense. Side effects for these drugs can include: 1  shallow or light breathing. 2  constipation, which can be severe, especially with extended-release forms. 3  drowsiness. 
Hydromorphone is in a group of drugs called narcotic pain relievers, also called opioids. It is similar to morphine. Hydromorphone is used to treat moderate to severe pain. The extended-release form of this medication is for around-the-clock treatment of pain. Hydromorphone may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. Hydromorph Contin® is a Canadian brand name for the continuous release formulation of hydromorphone, an opioid analgesic and antitussin used for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. Off label it is used as a cough suppressant.
Dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrochloride) and Dilaudid Injection (also termed Dilaudid HP) are the tablet, liquid and IV forms of an opioid analgesic used for control of moderate to severe pain. It is available as a generic named hydromorphone hydrochloride. 
Dilaudid is the brand name of the drug hydromorphone, which is used to relieve pain. This medicine is in a class of drugs called opiate analgesics. It works by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved hydromorphone in 1984. A: Dilaudid (hydromorphone) is a narcotic pain reliever similar to morphine commonly used to treat moderate to severe pain, bone pain, dental pain, and migraines. Hydromorphone may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for. Do not drink alcohol
Dilaudid, the trade name for hydromorphone, is a strong analgesic drug of the opiate class. It was first synthesized in Germany in 1924 and introduced to the market in 1926. Dilaudid is usually prescribed for the relief of moderate to severe pain as an alternative to morphine as well as other medical uses. Amongst recreational users Dilaudid is also known as dust, juice, smack, D and other names.
Uses of This Medicine. Hydromorphone oral liquid and tablets are used to relieve pain. The hydromorphone extended-release capsules and extended-release tablets are used to relieve moderate to severe pain in opioid-tolerant patients who require around-the-clock pain relief for a long period of time. 
Uses. This medication is used to help relieve moderate to severe pain. Hydromorphone belongs to a class of drugs known as narcotic (opiate) analgesics. It works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain.