8 to 10 seconds; 250°F to 325°F. Once you drop to around the 300°F mark, you're dealing with a fire that isn't going to brown anything. If you're working with direct grilling, it's time to replenish those coals and get the grill back up to temperature. Medium-High. 4 to 5 seconds; 375 to 450 °F. The second the charcoal is lit and spread out, it starts loosing heat. It will only take about 5 to 10 minutes to go from high heat to medium-high, and a lot of your direct grilling will most likely be done in this range. This is the temperature that makes things like burgers, sliced veggies, and fish really shin
Get your grill up to temperature and then adjust the heat down to around 350 to 375 degrees F. (177 to 190 degrees C.). Now we are going to put the chicken on the grill. We want to put the larger pieces closer to higher temperature and the smaller pieces as far from the high temperature as possible. What we want to do is make one side of your grill hotter than the other. On a charcoal grill we accomplish this by banking the bulk of the hot coals to one side of the grill. This gives us a hot side and a warm side. On a gas grill we want one burner on high and other, set at a lower temperature.
The temperature gauge on the cooker should go up to 250 degrees fairly rapidly.Try to keep the temperature at approximately 250 degrees for about 2 hours by opening and closing the vents. A closed vent will reduce the temperature and an open vent will increase the temperature. If it is too hot, the pig will burn: if too cool, the meat won't cook and you'll delay your party. The first thing that you do, of course, is put the pig on the BBQ grill with the meat side down, skin side up. Next, either start a small fire in a pit or another BBQ grill or brazier and pour in the charcoal.
If you are cooking at high temps, carryover can be up to 10°F. If you are cooking at low temps, it might not go up the full 5°F. But 5°F is a good rule of thumb for most roasts. Medium rare is the best temp for beef, lamb, venison steaks, roasts, and duck breasts. Food scientists have equipment to measure tenderness and juiciness.
Controlling the temperature of your grill is a challenge for even the most experiencing BBQ chef. Most men will grunt and tell you the hotter the better, but the truth is that temperature matters. Here's some tips on how to tell what temperature your grill is, and info on the ideal for different types of meat. The temperature also varies inside the grill. The part of the grill that is directly over the heat source is called direct heat. Areas of the grill that are not directly over the heat are called indirect heat. Depending on the meat you are cooking, you may need to use one or the other, or even both.
After the first two hours, bring the temperature up on your cooker to approximately 300-325 degrees for an additional 4 hours. The time required to cook the pig would depend on the size of the pig and the temperature that the pig is being cooked. It should take about 6 hours to cook a 130 lb. pig. If it is too hot, the pig will burn: if too cool, the meat won't cook and you'll delay your party. The first thing that you do, of course, is put the pig on the BBQ grill with the meat side down, skin side up. Next, either start a small fire in a pit or another BBQ grill or brazier and pour in the charcoal.
By about 30 minutes the chicken should be mostly cooked and ready for sauce. If you are not going to be putting barbecue sauce on your chicken then continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.) Go to step 9 for more details. What we want to do is make one side of your grill hotter than the other. On a charcoal grill we accomplish this by banking the bulk of the hot coals to one side of the grill. This gives us a hot side and a warm side. On a gas grill we want one burner on high and other, set at a lower temperature.