Newsmax is a famous and the most popular American news site. It is owned and operated by Newsmax Media, Inc. The site was established by journalist Christopher Ruddy in 1998. 
Ruddy started Newsmax.com on September 16, 1998, supported by a group of investors, including the family of the late Central Intelligence Agency Director William J. Casey. Later, Richard Mellon Scaife, Ruddy's former employer at the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review invested in the fledgling company. On their website Newsmax said they expected to have up to 21 hours of original programming a day by the end of the summer. They named the network Newsmax TV. It's available on DirecTV and also for free on their website.
Newsmax Media, commonly called Newsmax, is a conservative American news media organization founded by Christopher Ruddy and based in West Palm Beach, Florida. It operates the news website Newsmax.com, publishes the Franklin Prosperity Report and Newsmax magazine, and runs a conservative cable news channel Newsmax TV. In 2008, a profile in The Palm Beach Post on Newsmax and founder Ruddy indicated the company generated revenues of approximately $25 million per year, and, according to the company, has been profitable for the past five years.
Newsmax Media, commonly called Newsmax, is a conservative American news media organization founded by Christopher Ruddy and based in West Palm Beach, Florida. It operates the news website Newsmax.com, publishes the Franklin Prosperity Report and Newsmax magazine, and runs a conservative cable news channel Newsmax TV. On their website Newsmax said they expected to have up to 21 hours of original programming a day by the end of the summer. They named the network Newsmax TV. It's available on DirecTV and also for free on their website.
Newsmax covers the latest developments in politics, national and world news, health, faith, personal finance, and technology with a unique American perspective and topics that the major media often ignore. Newsmax TV is America's fastest growing digital 24/7 news channel. Show less. 
The New York Times cited right-wing magazine Newsmax in an article discussing how President Obama chooses to interact with the news media and highlighted his criticism of the media's reliance on false balance.. In an August 2009 editorial, Newsmax argued : Dobbs does not believe Obama was born outside the U.S., nor does Newsmax. The evidence indicates he was born in Hawaii. But the indisputable fact is that Obama has not released his birth certificate, which the state of Hawaii issues for all citizens born there.
Among early investors in NewsMax were Richard Mellon Scaife, Ruddy's former boss at the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, and Texas businessman Michael Ruff. Scaife and Ruddy have since bought out the other investors, and Ruddy is majority owner. NewsMax.com (NewsMax Media, Inc.) serves up the news with a conservative slant.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Newsmax Media is a media organization founded by journalist Christopher W. Ruddy and based in West Palm Beach, Florida, United States. It runs the Newsmax.com website, publishes Newsmax Magazine, as well as a host of health and financial newsletters. Source(s): Fair & Balanced
Newsmax is a conservative Republican-oriented global news portal, whose website, Newsmax.com, has more than 13 million readers a month. It is run by wingnut hack and conspiracy theorist Christopher Ruddy. Newsmax principally lives on the Internet on news site sidebars. Its website is dominated by shock news, moral outrage, conspiracies, and trashy advertising for dubious get rich quick schemes, quack medicines/workout programmes, and publications that feature ads for similar products. Distinguished contributors to Newsmax include David Limbaugh (brother of Rush), Michael Reagan (the adopted son of Saint Ronnie), Doctor Laura Schlessinger, and (quack) Doctor Russell Blaylock. They'll also spend some time now and again giving airtime to bunk medicine, like chelation therapy.