Causes of Spotting before Period. The menstrual cycle lasts approximately 28 days with the period occurring for 4-7 days at the end of the cycle. It is not uncommon for the cycle to be longer or shorter than this time period and your period can last for up to 8 days. Spotting refers to light bleeding that typically occurs between 10-15 days before the beginning of a new menstrual cycle. This can occur for a variety of reasons and most women experience spotting at some point.
The most common causes of spotting a week before period are irregular period and implantation bleeding. A normal menstrual cycle can last for about 28 days and a regular period may last for 4 to 7 days. If you have an irregular period, the menstrual cycle may be shorter or longer than 28 days. So menstrual bleeding or spotting may occur at different times each month. Implantation bleeding usually occurs a week or so before periods are due. Menstrual bleeding is red in color, whereas implantation bleeding can be pink or brown in color. It is not a proper flow, but restricted to spotting, which can last for a few minutes, 1 or 2 days at the most.
Spotting before Period. Spotting refers to light bleeding that typically occurs between 10-15 days before the beginning of a new menstrual cycle. This can occur for a variety of reasons and most women experience spotting at some point.
1 Remember the date of your last period. 2  With a stable menstrual cycle of 28-30 days, ovulation occurs on the 13 th -16 th day and implantation is possible within the next 10 days after ovulation. 3  Implantation bleeding may be experienced 2-7 days before the beginning of the regular menstruation. 
Hi last moth i have been spotting before my period for about 3 days this month i am spotting again i am on my 4th day. I am on no birth control and always use condoms. I am a heavy drinker for the last 3 months. is this spotting normal. 
A normal menstrual cycle occurs every 28 days and menstrual bleeding usually lasts for about 4-7 days. However, it is not unusual to find women whose entire menstrual cycle is longer or shorter than the usual 28 days, and for their period to last eight days. Spotting and Menstrual Cycles. Occasional spotting that occurs before a period or in the middle of a cycle is not a reason to be worried, as it is usually normal. However, make sure that the bleeding is from your vagina and not from your urine or rectum.
Spotting Before Your Menstrual Period. The first question is when actually implantation bleeding can occur. The entire menstrual cycle lasts for 28 days, and regular bleeding may last for up to 4 or 7 days in most women. For those who have an irregular period, their menstrual cycle may be shorter or longer than 28 days.
“Normal” Spotting. Normal spotting is what may occur at the very end of your bleeding days. A day or two of spotting after 3 to 5 days of bleeding is normal, and just the end of the bleeding period. Spotting before your menstruation is common but not ideal. A period ideally should freely flow once started. Spotting that occurs in the middle of your cycle or spotting that occurs some ten to fourteen days prior to the start of the next cycle is normal too. This spotting may occur during ovulation