In general, common examples of multicellular organisms are the following: Animals, plants, fungi, human-beings, and as mentioned, a specialized type of parasitic animal called Myxozoa. 1. Unicellular organisms have one cell, while multicellular organisms are composed of many different types of cells. 2. Unicellular organisms are mostly prokaryotes, while multicellular organisms are generally classified as eukaryotes. 3. Generally, unicellular organisms fall under the umbrella of the prokaryotes, or prokaryotic entities. They are termed as prokaryotes because they are not that specialized, unlike the more complex eukaryotes. Unicellular organisms and the prokaryotes do not have the structure called the cell nuclei.
The number of cells in the body varies with different organisms. In some lower forms of life (Example: Euglena, Amoeba) The body is formed of a single cell; these organism are described as unicellular. In a unicellular organism, all life activities are carried out by itself with its internal structures. They are called multicellular organisms. A multicellular organism is actually an aggregation of cells. Here a group of cells functions in a same way to form a tissue or an organ (Example: Xylem vessels, cork cells, cells in the skin).
Uni-cellular: an organism with one Cell (uni = one). multi-cellular: an organism with 2 or more Cells (multi = many). A multicellular organism is an organism made up of more than one Cell, such as you, me, dogs, cats, birds, bugs, etc. They are complex. They are much much bigger than unicellular organisms and have more body functions. 
Unicellular Organisms. As the name suggests, the main difference between multicellular and unicellular organisms is the number of cells that are present in them. This leads to the development of all other characteristics and properties of these living organisms. Read about the distinction between these two types in this Buzzle article. Multicellular Vs. As the name suggests, the main difference between multicellular and unicellular organisms is the number of cells that are present in them. This leads to the development of all other characteristics and properties of these living organisms.
Some of the examples of unicellular organisms are bacteria, yeast, amoeba and paramecium. Multicellular Organisms. These are organisms that have more than one cell (in fact have millions of cells). They are bigger in size and have a complex structure. Multicellular vs Unicellular. All living things are made up of cells that are the building blocks of life. You would be surprised to know that there are organisms with billions of cells like animals and human beings while there are organisms that have only single cell.
A unicellular organism and a multicellular organism are different because, those that are unicellular consist of only a single cell. Those cells are very simple because they lack a nuclei and their DNA is not separated from the rest of the cell. Any injury or death of cell in unicellular organism leads to death's. A multicellular organism is an organism made up of more than one cell, such as you, me, dogs, cats, birds, bugs, etc. They are complex. They are much much bigger than uinicell … ular organisms and have more body functions. A unicellular organism (also called single cell organism) is an organism made up of only one cell. Algae, some types of fungus, and bacteria are some examples. These organisms are not very complex, and all their body functions are carried out in that single tiny cell
In the vast majority of plants and animals, the body is made up of numerous cells. They are called multicellular organisms. A multicellular organism is actually an aggregation of cells. Here a group of cells functions in a same way to form a tissue or an organ (Example: Xylem vessels, cork cells, cells in the skin). Multicellular organisms have a great capacity to survive than unicellular organism
Examples of unicellular organisms are bacteria and archea. On the other hand, multicellular organisms are those that house a multiple number, or many, cell types. These organisms are usually larger in size, have more specialized functions, and are classified as the eukaryotes. Generally, unicellular organisms fall under the umbrella of the prokaryotes, or prokaryotic entities. They are termed as prokaryotes because they are not that specialized, unlike the more complex eukaryotes. Unicellular organisms and the prokaryotes do not have the structure called the cell nuclei.