To make shichimi togarashi: 1  1 Combine 2 tablespoons sansho (or 1 tablespoon black peppercorns), 1 tablespoon dried tangerine peel, 1 tablespoon ground red chile pepper, 2 teaspoons flaked nori, 2 teaspoons black sesame seeds, 2 teaspoons white poppy seeds or black cannabis seeds, and 2 teaspoons minced garlic. called seven spice (shichi is “seven” in Japanese), because seven ingredients are generally used. It works well with fatty foods such as unagi (broiled eel), tempuras, shabu shabu (small bits of food cooked in rich broth), noodle dishes, and yakitori (grilled dishes).
Togarashi is the Japanese word for red chili peppers and a general name for a group of condiments that blend chili pepper with other ingredients. Shichimi-Togarashi: (schee-CHEE-mee) A peppery Japanese condiment. Shichimi-togarashi is available in hot, medium and mild strangths in most Asian markets, and is sprinkled over noodle and nabe(communal one-pot meals) dishes and yakitori.
Five spice, fragrant with sweet and spicy anise flavors, is the perfect compliment to meaty Chinese braises and barbecues. On the other hand, seven spice powder, or what the Japanese call shichimi togarashi, is practically built for the grilled meats, noodles, rice, and soups that so characterize Japanese cooking. 
Togarashi, the Japanese word for “chiles,” is a group of condiments always including chiles that bring out the clean, simple flavors of Japanese food. Shichimi togarashi is also. called seven spice (shichi is “seven” in Japanese), because seven ingredients are generally used. It works well with fatty foods such as unagi (broiled eel), tempuras, shabu shabu (small bits of food cooked in rich broth), noodle dishes, and yakitori (grilled dishes).
About. This blend is used throughout Japan as a table condiment, occupying much the same place that salt and pepper do in the American household. Togarashi has a special affinity for Japanese noodles and soups, but can also perk up fish, poultry and beef. We love it on spinach sauteed sautéed in a touch of sesame. Oil Contains chinese, chile orange, peel, seaweed, ginger poppy, seeds and sesame. seeds 
Yagenbori Shichimi Togarashi Shin-Nakamise Head Store (Asakusa, Tokyo.). It dates back at least to the 17th century, when it was produced by herb dealers in Edo, current day Tokyo, and sometimes it is referred to as Yagenbori (薬研堀, from the name of the original place of production) . A jar of commercially produced shichimi. Shichi-mi tōgarashi (七味唐辛子, seven-flavor chili pepper) , also known as nana-iro tōgarashi (七色唐辛子, seven-color chili pepper) or simply shichimi, is a common Japanese spice mixture containing seven ingredients.
So reading up on it on the web I found a recipe to make your own. From the Honolulu Advertiser. This is from the article 3/12/03...Togarashi is the Japanese word for red chili peppers and the generic name for a family of condiments that blend chili pepper with other ingredients. 
Tōgarashi (唐辛子) is Japanese for genus Capsicum, or specifically the species Capsicum annuum, and commonly translated as chili pepper. When the term is used in English, it refers to any number of chili peppers or chili pepper-related products from Japan, including: 
Top 10 facts about the world. Shichimi togarashi is a coarsely-ground, seven-spice seasoning blend that is widely used in Japanese cuisine. Red chili peppers are the primary ingredient in the shichimi togarashi spice mixture. Another common ingredient in shichimi togarashi is nori, the dried laver of the algae Porphyra tenera. The sheets of nori, which are commonly used to make sushi rolls, are ground into coarse flakes for the togarashi blend.