What High Levels Mean. MCH levels in blood tests are considered high if they are 35 or higher. A normal hemoglobin level is considered to be in the range between 26 and 33 picograms per red blood cell. High MCH levels can indicate macrocytic anemia, which can be caused by insufficient vitamin B12. Macrocytic RBCs are large so tend to have a higher MCH, while microcytic red cells would have a lower value.”. MCH is one of three red blood cell indices (MCHC and MCV are the other two). The measurements are done by machine and can help with diagnosis of medical problems.
1 Red blood cell indices. 2  There are three red blood cell indices: mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). 3  They are measured by a machine, and their values come from other measurements in a CBC. 1 There are three red blood cell indices: mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). 2  They are measured by a machine, and their values come from other measurements in a CBC. 3  The MCV shows the size of the red blood cells
A simple calculation is used to determine the mean corpuscular hemoglobin level in blood. According to Med Friendly, the total amount of hemoglobin in the sample is multiplied by ten and then divided by the number of red blood cells present. Macrocytic RBCs are large so tend to have a higher MCH, while microcytic red cells would have a lower value.”. MCH is one of three red blood cell indices (MCHC and MCV are the other two). The measurements are done by machine and can help with diagnosis of medical problems.
Best Answer: The mean corpuscular volume, or MCV, is a measure of the average red blood cell volume. The mean corpuscular hemoglobin, or mean cell emoglobin (MCH), is a measure of the mass of hemoglobin contained by a red blood cell. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) measures the amount of urea nitrogen, a waste product of protein metabolism, in the blood
MCV, along with mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) , is a part of RBC indices (erythrocyte indices), which are measurements and/or calculations for determining the size, content, and hemoglobin concentration. 
The mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) , or mean cell hemoglobin (MCH), is the average mass of hemoglobin per red blood cell in a sample of blood. It is reported as part of a standard complete blood count. 
1 Hemoglobin-the total amount of hemoglobin in the blood. 2  MCV (Mean Corpuscular Volume) - this is an indication of the size of the red cells. 3  MCHC (Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration) - this is the amount of hemoglobin per liter of fluid in each cell. 4  Hematocrit-The total volume of red blood cells in the blood. A MCH hematology test is a test that is carried out to diagnose the average amount of hemoglobin in the red blood cells. The term MCH in MCH hematology test stands for Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin. A MCH hematology test determines the average amount of hemoglobin in a red blood cell or erythrocyte. Hemoglobin is the oxygen carrying element in red blood cells
A CBC (complete blood count) blood test can be used to monitor MCH levels in blood. Lab Tests Online explains that the MCH aspect of a CBC test “is a measurement of the average amount of oxygen-carrying hemoglobin inside a red blood cell. Macrocytic RBCs are large so tend to have a higher MCH, while microcytic red cells would have a lower value.”. MCH is one of three red blood cell indices (MCHC and MCV are the other two). The measurements are done by machine and can help with diagnosis of medical problems.