Full Definition of PUMICE. : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very low in density that is used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. — pu·mi·ceous \pyue-pyü-ˈmi, shəs-\ ˌpə. Adjective see pumice defined For-english language. learners
pumice. n. 1. (Geological Science) Also called: pumice stone a light porous acid volcanic rock having the composition of rhyolite, used for scouring and, in powdered form, as an abrasive and for polishing. vb. 2. (Tools) (tr) to rub or polish with pumice. [C15 pomys, from Old French pomis, from Latin pūmex ]. pum·ice. n. A light, porous, glassy lava, used in solid form as an abrasive and in powdered form as a polish and an abrasive. tr.v. pum·iced, pum·ic·ing, pum·ic·es. To clean, polish, or smoot
Pumice is a light-colored, extremely porous igneous rock that forms during explosive volcanic eruptions. It is used as aggregate in lightweight concrete, as landscaping aggregate, and as an abrasive in a variety of industrial and consumer products. The abundant vesicles in pumice and the thin walls between them give the rock a very low specific gravity. It typically has a specific gravity of less than one, giving the rock an ability to float on water.
Density of specimen approximately 0.25 g/cm 3; scale in centimeters. Pumice /ˈpʌmɨs/ , called pumicite in its powdered or dust form, is a volcanic rock that consists of highly vesicular rough textured volcanic glass, which may or may not contain crystals. It is typically light colored. Scoria is another vesicular volcanic rock that differs from pumice in having larger vesicles, thicker vesicle walls and being dark colored and denser. Pumice is created when super-heated, highly pressurized rock is violently ejected from a volcano.
Full Definition of PUMICE. : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very low in density that is used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. — pu·mi·ceous \pyue-pyü-ˈmi, shəs-\ ˌpə. adjective : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very low in density that is used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. — pu·mi·ceous \pyue-pyü-ˈmi, shəs-\ ˌpə. Adjective see pumice defined For-english language. learners
1 A light, porous type of pyroclastic igneous rock, formed during explosive volcanic eruptions when liquid lava is ejected into the air as a froth containing masses of gas bubbles. 2  As the lava solidifies, the bubbles are frozen into the rock. pumice ‎(uncountable). 1  A light, porous type of pyroclastic igneous rock, formed during explosive volcanic eruptions when liquid lava is ejected into the air as a froth containing masses of gas bubbles. 2  1912, Katherine Mansfield, The Woman at the Store, Oxford World's Classics 2002, page 10.
Medical Definition of PUMICE. : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very light in weight used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very low in density that is used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. — pu·mi·ceous \pyue-pyü-ˈmi, shəs-\ ˌpə. Adjective see pumice defined For-english language. learners
The pore spaces (known as vesicles) in pumice are a clue to how it forms. The vesicles are actually gas bubbles that were trapped in the rock during the rapid cooling of a gas-rich frothy magma. The material cools so quickly that atoms in the melt are not able to arrange themselves into a crystalline structure. Thus, pumice is an amorphous volcanic glass known as a  mineraloid . The abundant vesicles in pumice and the thin walls between them give the rock a very low specific gravity. It typically has a specific gravity of less than one, giving the rock an ability to float on water.
Wikipedia. pumice ‎(uncountable). 1  A light, porous type of pyroclastic igneous rock, formed during explosive volcanic eruptions when liquid lava is ejected into the air as a froth containing masses of gas bubbles. 2  1912, Katherine Mansfield, The Woman at the Store, Oxford World's Classics 2002, page 10.
Full Definition of PUMICE. : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very low in density that is used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. — pu·mi·ceous \pyue-pyü-ˈmi, shəs-\ ˌpə. Adjective see pumice defined For-english language. Learners see pumice defined for. kids : a volcanic glass full of cavities and very low in density that is used especially in powder form for smoothing and polishing. — pu·mi·ceous \pyue-pyü-ˈmi, shəs-\ ˌpə. Adjective see pumice defined For-english language. learners