Example: Incomplete dominance is seen in cross-pollination experiments between red and white snapdragon plants. The allele that produces the red color (R) is not completely expressed over the recessive allele that produces the white color (r) .
Dominance is a form of inheritance in which only one allele of a gene expresses itself in a heterozygous condition whereas incomplete dominance is a form of intermediate in … heritance in which one allele for a specific trait is not completely dominant over the other allele.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Incomplete dominance is a form of intermediate inheritance in which one allele for a specific trait is not completely expressed over its paired allele. This results in a third phenotype in which the expressed physical trait is a combination of the dominant and recessive phenotypes.
Confidence votes 44. Incomplete dominance is where the phenotype of the heterozygote is intermediate to both the heterozygotes. The classic example of this phenomenon is pink snapdragons. If you cross red and white snapdragons, you get pink snapdragons, because neither the red or white allele is dominant to the other.
With incomplete dominance we get a blending of the dominant & recessive traits so that the third phenotype is something in the middle (red x white = pink). In COdominance, the recessive & dominant traits appear together in the phenotype of hybrid organisms.
Incomplete dominance is where the phenotype of the heterozygote is intermediate to both the heterozygotes. The classic example of this phenomenon is pink snapdragons. If you c … ross red and white snapdragons, you get pink snapdragons, because neither the red or white allele is dominant to the other.
During incomplete dominance both the allelic genes in a chromosome  in dominant condition inherit a character in the off-springs. When  only one gene out of the allelic pair … is dominant and its  counterpart is recessive, we get incomplete expression.
A snapdragon is an example of an incomplete dominance because when  a snapdragon plant having red flowers is crossed with another plant  having white flowers, all F1 plants … bear red flowers but in F2  generation, the plant population segregates in to 1 red: 2 pink :  1 white flowered plants ratio.