Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. With a Roth IRA, contributions are not tax-deductible, but earnings can grow tax-free. Roth IRA withdrawal and penalty rules vary depending on your age. Age 70½ and over. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you haven’t met the five-year holding requirement, your earnings will be subject to taxes but not penalties. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had more
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. 
Roth IRA withdrawal Rules. Don’t treat your Roth IRA like an ATM! In general, you can make tax and penalty free withdrawals of the principal (contributions) at any time. However, the earnings from your principal cannot normally be withdrawn under age 59½ without paying the 10% early withdrawal penalty. Roth IRA 5 year rule. Withdrawals from your Roth IRA will only be classified as qualified distributions if it has been at least 5 years since you first opened and contributed to your Roth IRA, regardless of your age when you opened it.
A qualified distribution from a Roth IRA is tax-free and penalty-free, provided that the five-year aging requirement has been satisfied and one of the following conditions is met: 1  Over age 59½. 2  Death or disability. 3  Qualified first-time home purchase. 
5-Year Rule. Any earnings distribution prior to the first day of the fifth year after your first Roth was established will be taxed as ordinary income, at whatever your tax rate is at the time. Example: You open a Roth IRA on May 18, 2009. The 5-Year Rule will be satisfied as of January 1, 2014
Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. The whole point of an IRA (Roth or otherwise) is to save for retirement. Unfortunately, things don’t always go as planned, and you may find yourself needing to withdraw money from your Roth IRA before age 59½. Any earnings distribution prior to the first day of the fifth year after your first Roth was established will be taxed as ordinary income, at whatever your tax rate is at the time. Example: You open a Roth IRA on May 18, 2009.
It is normally subject to taxes and a 10% early-withdrawal penalty if you’re under age 59½ when you take the money. If you’re a first-time home buyer, however, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings from your Roth IRA without the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, even if you’re under age 59½. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings. As you mentioned, you can take your contributions tax-free and penalty-free at any time.
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. 
However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. Age 70½ and over. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you haven’t met the five-year holding requirement, your earnings will be subject to taxes but not penalties. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had more
If you take a distribution from the conversion money in your Roth IRA within five years after the conversion, the early distribution penalty will apply even though the distribution isn’t taxable. Example: You convert your traditional IRA, with a value of $20,000, to a Roth IRA, paying tax on the entire amount. Two years later, when you are under age 59½, you withdraw $5,000 from the Roth IRA, and the distribution comes from conversion money because you haven’t made any regular contributions to your Roth IRA. 