is a vast desert area that goes from Yemen to the Persian Gulf, from the Oman to Jordan and to Iraq. The desert occupies most of the Arabian Peninsula and stretches over 222,070 square km. The Rub 'al-Khali houses at the center and it is one of the largest stretches of sand on the planet. Its fauna includes gazelles, oryx, sand cat, lizard, uromastyx, and more others.
Arabia, the largest peninsula of Asia, in the southeastern part of the continent. It is washed on the west by the Red Sea, on the south by the Gulf of Aden and the Arabian Sea, and on the east by the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf. 
The Arabian Peninsula consists of the countries Yemen, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates as well as parts of southern Iraq and Jordan. The northern portion of the peninsula merges with the Syrian Desert with no clear border line, although the northern boundary of the Arabian Peninsula is generally considered to be the northern borders of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
Desert is the most prominent feature of Arabian Peninsula of which Saudi Arabia is the largest country. The country has three major deserts. Rub’ al Khali (The Empty Quarter) extends over much of the southeast and beyond the southern frontier. 
The desert is found mainly in Saudi Arabia and extends in neighboring Egypt (the Sinai Peninsula), southern Iraq, southern Jordan and Saudi Arabia. The Arabian Desert is bordered by 5 countries. The desert near the Persian Gulf includes part of Qatar and most of the Abu Dhabi in United Arab Emirates (UAE). The main desert Rub 'al-Khali extends west from the Oman to the east and Yemen. The desert occupies most of the Arabian Peninsula and stretches over 222,070 square km. The Rub 'al-Khali houses at the center and it is one of the largest stretches of sand on the planet. Its fauna includes gazelles, oryx, sand cat, lizard, uromastyx, and more others.
Arabian Peninsula, simplified Arabia (Arabic: الجزيرة العربية ‎ al-jazīra al-ʿarabiyya, « Island of Arabs ») is a peninsula of Western Asia situated north-east of Africa on the Arabian plate. From a geological perspective, she is considered a subcontinent of Asia. The northern portion of the peninsula merges with the Syrian Desert with no clear border line, although the northern boundary of the Arabian Peninsula is generally considered to be the northern borders of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
The Arabian Desert is the fourth largest desert in the world, with an area of about 2,330,000 square kilometers. The Arabian Desert is situated on the Arabian peninsula, and makes up parts of Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen. Both the Sahara and Arabian Deserts are known for their sand and sand dunes, which are typical images of desert landscapes. The third largest desert in the world, and the largest non-polar desert is the Sahara. Situated in North Africa, the Sahara makes up parts of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Eritrea, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia, and Western Sahara.
Arabian Desert: The Arabian Desert, one of the largest deserts on the planet, is a vast desert wilderness stretching from Yemen to the Persian Gulf and from Oman to Jordan and Iraq. It occupies most of the Arabian Peninsula, with an estimated area of 2,330,000 sq km (900,000 sq mi). Ar Rub' Al Khali Desert: Known as the Empty Quarter, it's the largest (only sand) desert in the world and famed for huge sand dunes that can extend for over 25 miles. A large part of the Arabian Desert, it covers most of southern Saudi Arabia, and is almost moistureless.
The most prominent feature of the peninsula is desert, but in the southwest there are mountain ranges which receive greater rainfall than the rest of the Arabian Peninsula. The peninsula's constituent countries are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Yemen and Saudi Arabia. 1 Arabia Deserta (Desert Arabia): signified the desert interior of the Arabian peninsula. 2  As a name for the region, it remained popular into the 19th and 20th centuries, and was used in Charles M. Doughty's Travels in Arabia Deserta (1888).
What is the name of the major desert on the Arabian Peninsula? A. Arabian Desert B. Sahara Desert C. Syrian Desert D. Yemen Desert. 