Moldavite SiO2 + Al,Ca,Fe,K,Na Moldavite is a naturally occurring glass, originally found along the Moldau River in Czechoslovakia in 1787. It is usually a dark olive green color but can also occur in muted yellows and browns. It is one of a handfull of gems that can claim an extraterrestrial origin*.
99% of all moldavite finds have come from the South Bohemian localities, 1% were found in South Moravian localities. Only tens of pieces were found in the Lusatian area (near Dresden), Cheb basin area (West Bohemia) and Northern Austria (near Radessen). Moldavite is also found to be compatible with borosilicate glass and can be fused to it with ease. The museum grade has a distinct fern-like pattern and is much more translucent than the regular grade. There is usually a fairly big difference in the price between the two.
Moldavite Informations Origin The Impact Classification History Occurrence hunting for Moldavite chemical composition physical properties Books-Origin: Moldavite is one of the rarest material on earth! It is a natural glass which is made by a huge meteorite impact in central Europe about 14,2 million years ago. 
LOCALITIES. MOLDAVITE is only found in the Czech Republic in the strewnfield areas of the Reis Impact Crater created by the impact of a meteorite/asteroid approximately 14.8 million years ago. These are some of the localities they are found in. 
Moldavite (Czech: Vltavin) vltavín is an-olive green or dull greenish vitreous substance possibly formed by a meteorite, impact which would make it one kind of. tektite Moldavite is also found to be compatible with borosilicate glass and can be fused to it with ease. The museum grade has a distinct fern-like pattern and is much more translucent than the regular grade. There is usually a fairly big difference in the price between the two.
Moldavite is found in only one area of the world. A meteorite of enormous size and incredible impact is known to have crashed in the Czechoslovakian mountain region around 15 million years ago. This event is believed to have created melted material that fell to earth and created these beautiful green crystals. Once you begin the journey there will be no going back as Moldavite is a stone of transformation! Natural Moldavite crystal. During meditation it may be used on its own or with other crystals as it will also raise the vibration of other stones that it is combined with.
Moldavites For Sale Moldavite tektites are found in an area called the Central European strewnfield. Europe is home to what may be the most beautiful of all tektite glass. Moldavite tektites are green over most of the dispersed strewnfield though rare brown types are found in some areas. 
Moldavite is considered the only gem to be from space. Moldavite was found in the Bohemian sites near the Moldau River Valley, north of Prague, Czech Republic and are believed to have come from a meteorite crater in Germany. Thus, they were named after the location and the surrounding areas. 
Moldavite. Moldavite (Czech: Vltavin) vltavín is an-olive green or dull greenish vitreous substance possibly formed by a meteorite. Impact it is one kind of. Tektite it was[named citation] needed By. A dufrnoy for the town Of (Moldauthein: Czech týn Nad) vltavou In (bohemia The Czech), republic where it. occurs
Zippe (1836) first used the term “moldavite” derived from the town of Moldauthein (Czech: Týn nad Vltavou) - now in Bohemia (the Czech Republic), from where the first described pieces came. Moldavite is also found to be compatible with borosilicate glass and can be fused to it with ease. The museum grade has a distinct fern-like pattern and is much more translucent than the regular grade. There is usually a fairly big difference in the price between the two.