The 400 spacious, newly furnished rooms and suites, paired with state-of-the-art meeting and business facilities, make Jumeirah Emirates Towers one of the most popular choices for the corporate traveller and one of the finest business hotels in Dubai. The spectacular views from the hotel itself are complemented by the stellar accommodation and business services you’ll find within. Jumeirah Emirates Towers in Dubai redefines the business hotel experience; seamlessly combining high technology, efficiency and unparalleled luxury.
Hotel facilities available to all our guests. While staying at Jumeirah Emirates Towers, guests will have unlimited access to Wild Wadi Waterpark and Zero Gravity's Private Beach .We offer a rich selection of facilities and amenities to guests at Jumeirah Emirates Towers. The spectacular views from the hotel itself are complemented by the stellar accommodation and business services you’ll find within. Jumeirah Emirates Towers in Dubai redefines the business hotel experience; seamlessly combining high technology, efficiency and unparalleled luxury.
The full team of Jumeirah colleagues are here to make your stay in Dubai even more rewarding. Contact Jumeirah Emirates Towers PO Box 72127, Dubai, UAE For hotel enquiries please contact us directly:Tel: +971 4 330 0000Fax: +971 4 330 3030Email: JETinfo@jumeirah.com. The spectacular views from the hotel itself are complemented by the stellar accommodation and business services you’ll find within. Jumeirah Emirates Towers in Dubai redefines the business hotel experience; seamlessly combining high technology, efficiency and unparalleled luxury.
The stunning architecture of Jumeirah Emirates Towers is testimony to Dubai’s thirst for innovation and iconic buildings. At 355 metres (or 56 floors), Jumeirah Emirates Towers is also one of the tallest hotels in the world, with a glass-lift ride that is worth a booking in itself. One of the major attractions of the Jumeirah Emirates Towers is the retail complex of high-end boutiques, known as ‘The Boulevard’, to which it is attached. In addition, a wide range of international cuisine is on offer at Jumeirah Emirates Towers’ bevy of popular restaurants.
The stunning architecture of Jumeirah Emirates Towers is testimony to Dubai’s thirst for innovation and iconic buildings. At 355 meters (or 56 floors), Jumeirah Emirates Towers is also one of the tallest hotels in the world, with a glass-lift ride that is worth a booking in itself. One of the major attractions of the Jumeirah Emirates Towers is the retail complex of high-end boutiques, known as ‘The Boulevard’, to which it is attached. Area: Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai. There’s a distinctly masculine, corporate feel to the Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel, far more so than at other business hotels.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Jumeirah Emirates Hotel Tower, also known as Emirates Tower Two, is a 56- storey hotel in the city of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The hotel includes 40 luxury suites and is operated by the Jumeirah International Group. Connected with 54-floor Emirates Office Tower by a retail boulevard, the two towers form the Emirates Towers complex. At a structural height of 309 m (1,014 ft), Emirates Towers Hotel is the smaller of the two sister towers
Surrounded by skyscrapers. 5-star Jumeirah Emirates Towers places guests next to Dubai International Financial Center and a 5-minute drive from the Dubai World Trade Center. For international brands, cinemas, and an aquarium, Dubai Mall is a 5-minute drive from the hotel. 
Jumeirah Emirates Towers is one of the most stunning architectural highlights on the Dubai skyline. The spectacular views from the hotel itself are complemented by the stellar accommodation and business services you’ll find within. Jumeirah Emirates Towers in Dubai redefines the business hotel experience; seamlessly combining high technology, efficiency and unparalleled luxury.