The bark and leaves of the ipil are used in traditional medicines. The tree's timber, called merbau or kwila, is a very durable and termite-resistant wood, making it a highly valued material for flooring and other uses. The wood can also be used to extract a dye. Merbau can contain a gold fleck that runs through the grain, considered to be attractive by some. Intsia bijuga is a species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae, native to the Indo-Pacific. It ranges from Tanzania and Madagascar east through India and Queensland, Australia to the Pacific island of Samoa. It grows to around 50 metres (160 feet) tall with a highly buttressed trunk
Pacific Kwila (Merbau) Care & Restoration. Pacific Kwila timber is very popular in Australia and New Zealand. The harsh coastal environment requires an extremely durable material and Merbau is a natural wood that has been used in those countries for centuries. 
Front Side. Reverse Side. Close Range. Kwila hardwood timber decking (also known as Merbau) is a yellowish-brown, brown or dark red to red-brown hardwood timber decking species that turns dark-red brown with age and will, eventually with time and sunlight, sliver off to a light sliver grey timber deck. 
Pacific Kwila Decking. Pacific Kwila (Merbau) is a hardwood ideally suited to the manufacture of outdoor decking. Not only does it have a beautiful grain and appearance, it is regarded as one of the world's most durable timbers. 
One of the most commonly used decking timbers, Merbau/Kwila (Find out what the difference is between Merbau and Kwila on our Timber-Tips page!) is a tough, durable and beautiful timber. Like Merbau/Kwila, Pacific Jarrah it is an extremely tough and durable timber, but it has a distinct advantage in that it does not suffer from tannin bleed. It is an attractive decking timber with a unique pink/red colour and tight grain formation. It is without a doubt the most popular decking timber we sell
Merbau/Kwila Decking. One of the most commonly used decking timbers, Merbau/Kwila (find out what the difference is between Merbau and Kwila on our Timber-Tips page!) is a tough, durable and beautiful timber that's perfect for decking.