Twelve-tone technique —also known as dodecaphony, twelve-tone serialism, and (in British usage) twelve-note composition —is a method of musical composition devised by Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg (1874–1951). The basis of the twelve-tone technique is the tone row, an ordered arrangement of the twelve notes of the chromatic scale (the twelve equal tempered pitch classes).
Noun. 1. twelve-tone music-a type of serial music introduced by Arnold Schoenberg; uses a tone row formed by the twelve semitones of the chromatic scale (and inverted or backward versions of the row). 12-tone music, 12-tone system, twelve-tone system
Quiet, in Leonard Bernstein 's Candide, satirizes the method by using it for a song about boredom, and Benjamin Britten used a twelve-tone row—a tema seriale con fuga—in his Cantata Academica: Carmen Basiliense (1959) as an emblem of academicism. The basis of the twelve-tone technique is the tone row, an ordered arrangement of the twelve notes of the chromatic scale (the twelve equal tempered pitch classes).
The Twelve-Tone Matrix. Any twelve-tone composition is based on several forms of a row. One can easily create and refer to a table of row forms when analyzing or composing a serial composition. This table is called variously a twelve-tone matrix, twelve-by-twelve array, or magic square. In reference to a twelve-tone row, prime means original form, a different meaning than the prime form of an unordered set discussed in the previous chapter. The retrograde form of the row is created by writing the notes in the original version in reverse order.
In music, serialism is a method or technique of composition that uses a series of values to manipulate different musical elements. Serialism began primarily with Arnold Schoenberg 's twelve-tone technique, though some of his contemporaries were also working to establish serialism as a form of post-tonal thinking. (Boulez 1954, , translated in Griffiths 1978, 37). Rules of analysis derived from twelve-tone theory do not apply to serialism of the second type: in particular the ideas, one, that the series is an intervallic sequence, and two, that the rules are consistent (Maconie 2005, 119).
Basic twelve-tone operations. Twelve-tone music is based on a series of pitches (row) that contains all twelve pitch classes with no recurrences. Any pitch can be reiterated until the next pitch class in the series occurs. Example 1 is a row extracted from Schoenberg's first twelve-tone composition. In reference to a twelve-tone row, prime means original form, a different meaning than the prime form of an unordered set discussed in the previous chapter. The retrograde form of the row is created by writing the notes in the original version in reverse order.
Forms of the Row. A row is an ordered set of pitches that is also called a twelve-tone row, set, or s eries. Forms of this ordered set include the original row (Prime), its inversion, retrograde, and retrograde-inversion. In reference to a twelve-tone row, prime means original form, a different meaning than the prime form of an unordered set discussed in the previous chapter. The retrograde form of the row is created by writing the notes in the original version in reverse order.
What is the basis for writing music in the twelve-tone system?             Twelve-tone   music uses a row as opposed to a scale or   mode for its melodies and harmonies. Slow music is not really a particular type of music, as any music can be played in a slow tempo. The definition of slow music is sometimes given to any music that is calm and … relaxing. Jorge Quinones.
The technique is a means of ensuring that all 12 notes of the chromatic scale are sounded as often as one another in a piece of music while preventing the emphasis of any one note through the use of tone rows, orderings of the 12 pitch classes. The basis of the twelve-tone technique is the tone row, an ordered arrangement of the twelve notes of the chromatic scale (the twelve equal tempered pitch classes).