The famous Greek philosophers were among the most influential people in history because they invented both philosophy and science. By asking questions about themselves and the world around them, these philosophers helped create modern civilization. Socrates (c. 469-399 BCE). The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing. Even though he was one of the most important Greek philosophers, Socrates was not a teacher and he never wrote down his teachings; instead, he was a master stonemason and social critic. Socrates became famous for encouraging people to critically question everything
Famous Philosophers. The Greek word for philosophy (philosophia) translates to the “love for wisdom” in English. The discipline dates back to ancient times with some of the greatest philosophers being Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. 
(c.384-322 BCE2). A student of Plato, Aristotle is perhaps the most influential of all the ancient Greek philosophers. He is famous for his empirical approach to studying nature, his theory of Four Causes (material, formal, efficient and final), and his development of formal logic. 
Some of the most famous and influential philosophers of all time were from the ancient Greek world, including Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Ancient Greek philosophy began in Miletus with the pre-Socratic philosopher Thales and lasted through Late Antiquity.
Aristotle (c. 384-322 BCE). It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it. Aristotle is famous as one of the three founding fathers of Greek philosophy along with Plato and Socrates. He is also known as the teacher of Alexander the Great. Socrates (c. 469-399 BCE). The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing. Even though he was one of the most important Greek philosophers, Socrates was not a teacher and he never wrote down his teachings; instead, he was a master stonemason and social critic. Socrates became famous for encouraging people to critically question everything
Democritus was an Ancient Greek philosopher, born in Abdera, Thrace, Greece. He was an influential pre-Socratic philosopher and pupil of Leucippus, who formulated an atomic theory for the cosmos. 
Aristotle. Aristotle was born on 384 BCE; he is a famous Greek philosopher and polymath. Aristotle was the student Plato and went on to become the teacher of Alexander the Great. 
This list of ancient Greek philosophers contains philosophers who studied in ancient Greece or spoke Greek. Ancient Greek philosophy began in Miletus with the pre-Socratic philosopher Thales and lasted through Late Antiquity.
In Greece, Thales and Pythagoras tried to impose order on the universe's chaos through the patterns of mathematics and music. But the three great philosophers who really made ancient Greek philosophy famous lived a little later: Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. All three of these men lived in Athens for most of their lives, and they knew each other. Socrates came first, and Plato was his student, around 400 BC. 