Calcium found in dairy products is more easily absorbed into the body than that found in plant foods. This is because calcium found in dairy products comes bound to proteins that make it more soluble and therefore more likely to be absorbed. The body contains estimates between 750g and 1.3kg of calcium which makes calcium the most abundant mineral found in the body.
Confidence votes 36. calcium is usually found under rocks and in bones and muscles In nature, calcium is found in rocks, chalk, and seashells. It is found in the bones, muscles, and nerves of animals and in many different plants. In the food you eat, there is a lot of calcium in milk and other dairy products. There is also a good deal of calcium in green leafy vegetables like spinach. Some foods like orange juice are frequently supplemented with calcium too.
The best sources of calcium are dairy products including milk, cheese and yoghurt, however soy milk also contains calcium. Other good sources of calcium include nuts, canned fish, broccoli, spinach, cabbage, dried apricots and figs. The body contains estimates between 750g and 1.3kg of calcium which makes calcium the most abundant mineral found in the body.
calcium is usually found under rocks and in bones and muscles  In nature, calcium is found in rocks, chalk, and seashells. It is found in the bones, muscles, and nerves of an … imals and in many different plants. In the food you eat, there is a lot of calcium in milk and other dairy products. There is also a good deal of calcium in green leafy vegetables like spinach.
History and Uses: Although calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust, it is never found free in nature since it easily forms compounds by reacting with oxygen and water. Metallic calcium was first isolated by Sir Humphry Davy in 1808 through the electrolysis of a mixture of lime (CaO) and mercuric oxide (HgO). Other common compounds of calcium include: calcium sulfate (CaSO 4), also known as gypsum, which is used to make dry wall and plaster of Paris, calcium nitrate (Ca(NO 3) 2), a naturally occurring fertilizer and calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4) 2), the main material found in bones and teeth.
Calcium is an essential constituent of leaves, bones, teeth, and shells. Calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust and makes up more than 3% of the crust. Calcium does not occur as the metal itself in nature and instead is found in various minerals including as limestone, gypsum and fluorite. Stalagmites and stalactites contain calcium carbonate (CaCO 3).
Calcium's location in the periodic table of the elements. Photo Credit: Todd Helmenstine. Potassium is the 20 th element on the periodic table. It is located in period 4 and group 2. 
The remaining 1% of calcium in the body is found in both extracellular fluid and within the cells, where it is involved in numerous metabolic roles. Calcium is critical to normal nerve conduction, muscle contraction, blood clotting, cell division, and electrical conduction in the heart. The body contains estimates between 750g and 1.3kg of calcium which makes calcium the most abundant mineral found in the body.
Calcium is a chemical element with symbol Ca and atomic number 20. Calcium is a soft gray alkaline earth metal, fifth-most-abundant element by mass in the Earth 's crust. The ion Ca 2+ is also the fifth-most-abundant dissolved ion in seawater by both molarity and mass, after sodium, chloride, magnesium, and sulfate. 
Courtney -. In nature, calcium is found in rocks, chalk, and seashells. It is found in the bones, muscles, and nerves of animals and in many different plants. In the food you eat, there is a lot of calcium in milk and other dairy products. There is also a good deal of calcium in green leafy vegetables like spinach. Calcium is the main constituent of bones mainly in the chemical form of Calcium phosphate. So essentially calcium is found everywhere in normal bones.