Salary results for Civil Engineer in London. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts.
Salary guide for civil engineering, construction and surveying careers: starting salaries for leading firms | average industry salaries for graduates | average salaries for experienced professionals | other things to consider |. Entering the construction industry isn’t a get-rich-quick scheme.
The average graduate starting salary is a fairly robust £25,000, though we’ve also seen folk reporting anything between £16,000 and £70,000! Who gets what depends on what subject you study, what industry you go into and even where in the country your dream job is based. Cue our guide to first-job wages.
In its own report on construction, property and engineering salaries in 2014, Hays reported that typical salaries for graduate quantity surveyors ranged from £19,000 in Northern Ireland, West Midlands and Scotland to £24,000 in Greater London.
salary results for civil engineering in london here you can see the average salary for the job you entered based on our most recent job adverts our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job and how your current salary compares
Discover what a typical engineering graduate salary is like, how much the top graduate schemes pay and average salaries for chartered engineers and incorporated engineers. A graduate engineer could earn £18,000 with a modest regional employer or £33,000 working for a global oil company.
We've collected the starting salary from every Civil Engineering graduate employee who has written a review on TheJobCrowd and the page below shows you the average salaries being earned. You can also see the specific comments that Civil Engineering graduates made about their salary in their review.
A Graduate Civil Engineer earns an average salary of £23,407 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 10 years' experience.