The origins of AES date back to 1997 when the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) announced that it needed a successor to the aging Data Encryption Standard (DES) which was becoming vulnerable to brute-force attacks. As a cipher, AES has proven reliable. The only successful attacks against it have been side-channel attacks on weaknesses found in the implementation or key management of certain AES-based encryption products.
AES is included in the ISO/IEC 18033-3 standard. AES is available in many different encryption packages, and is the first publicly accessible and open cipher approved by the National Security Agency (NSA) for top secret information when used in an NSA approved cryptographic module (see Security of AES, below). Rijndael is a family of ciphers with different key and block sizes. For AES, NIST selected three members of the Rijndael family, each with a block size of 128 bits, but three different key lengths: 128, 192 and 256 bits. AES has been adopted by the U.S. government and is now used worldwide. It supersedes the Data Encryption Standard (DES), which was published in 1977. The algorithm described by AES is a symmetric-key algorithm, meaning the same key is used for both encrypting and decrypting the data
(2) Short for Audio Engineering Society, AES is a professional standards organization that is devoted exclusively to audio technology. Founded in 1948, AES is an international organization with a mission of uniting audio engineers, creative artists, scientists and students. AES currently has over 14,000 members and offers guest speakers, technical tours, demonstration, scientific presentations and exhibitions. (1) Short for Advanced Encryption Standard, a symmetric 128- bit block data encryption technique developed by Belgian cryptographers Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen. The U.S government adopted the algorithm as its encryption technique in October 2000, replacing the DES encryption it used
AES is more secure than its predecessors -- DES and 3DES -- as the algorithm is stronger and uses longer key lengths. It also enables faster encryption than DES and 3DES, making it ideal for software applications, firmware and hardware that require either low-latency or high throughput, such as firewalls and routers. As a cipher, AES has proven reliable. The only successful attacks against it have been side-channel attacks on weaknesses found in the implementation or key management of certain AES-based encryption products.
TKIP+AES. This is what the encryption standards are for WEP2 (TKIP) and WPA2/802.11i (AES). It will attempt to use AES if available and fall back to TKIP if not. This setting offers the most compatibility but won't guarantee a higher level of encryption if a device falls back to TKIP. Encryption is the actual encrypting of the traffic, think RC4, TKIP and AES encryption which are encryption methods used in WEP, WPA and WPA2. Preshared keys kind of serve both purposes. Here is a discussion on it.
The Automated Export System (AES) is a computer system that collects Electronic Export Information (EEI) . In many cases, the law requires you to report EEI for goods exported from the United States and its territories. For specifics on when EEI filing is required, see the Correct Way to Complete the EEI. 3. If a USPPI or authorized agent decides that they want to use AES Direct .gov to report EEI, then the USPPI or authorized agent would need only to become certified to report via AES Direct .gov. AES Direct .gov filer certification consists of passing the AES Direct or AES PcLink Certification Quiz.
AES is optional in WPA; in WPA2 both AES is mandatory, BUT TKIP is optional. Note that TKIP is not directly comparable to AES; TKIP is an integrity check, AES is an encryption algorithm. In the context of wireless security this actually means TKIP vs. AES-based CCMP  (not just AES). TKIP is a lower end encryption protocol (WEP2) and AES is a higher end (WPA2/802.11i) encryption protocol. Encryption is the actual encrypting of the traffic, think RC4, TKIP and AES encryption which are encryption methods used in WEP, WPA and WPA2. Preshared keys kind of serve both purposes. Here is a discussion on it.
The Advanced Encryption Standard or AES is a symmetric block cipher used by the U.S. government to protect classified information and is implemented in software and hardware throughout the world to encrypt sensitive data. Download this guide to become a Web App Security superhero. As a cipher, AES has proven reliable. The only successful attacks against it have been side-channel attacks on weaknesses found in the implementation or key management of certain AES-based encryption products.