Thrush is a yeast infection that causes white patches in the mouth and on the tongue. Thrush is most common in babies and older adults, but it can occur at any age. Thrush in babies is usually not serious. You get thrush when a yeast called Candida, normally found on the body, grows out of control. People who have certain health problems, such as diabetes or HIV, are also more likely to get thrush. The most common symptoms of thrush are white patches that stick to the inside of the mouth and tongue. In babies, it is easy to mistake thrush for milk or formula. It looks like cottage cheese or milk curds.
When a baby has thrush, the yeast can cause a diaper rash at the same time as thrush. Your doctor may prescribe nystatin cream or ointment for his or her diaper area. To treat thrush in adults, at first you will probably use medicine that goes directly on the white patches, such as a liquid or a lozenge. People who have certain health problems, such as diabetes or HIV, are also more likely to get thrush. The most common symptoms of thrush are white patches that stick to the inside of the mouth and tongue. In babies, it is easy to mistake thrush for milk or formula. It looks like cottage cheese or milk curds.
Oral thrush occurs when a yeast infection develops on the inside of your mouth and on your tongue. This condition is also known as oropharyngeal candidiasis. Oral thrush is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. A small amount of this fungus normally lives in your mouth, but is kept in check by your immune system. 
Oral thrush. Oral thrush is a yeast infection in the mouth caused by the Candida albicans fungus. Symptoms of oral thrush include sore, white patches in the mouth, an unpleasant taste in the mouth, a burning sensation affecting the tongue and problems swallowing. Oral thrush can affect people of all ages, including adults with weakened immune systems.
White, slightly elevated lesions on the tongue and lips are typical of oral candidiasis. Thrush (oral candidiasis), also known as oral moniliasis, is a yeast infection of the mouth or throat (the oral cavity). The yeast that most commonly causes oral candidiasis is Candida albicans. Overview. Thrush is very common in infants. Adults who develop thrush include: Who's At Risk.
A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 
Symptoms of oral thrush can include: 1  white patches (plaques) in the mouth that can often be wiped off, leaving behind red areas that may bleed slightly. 2  loss of taste or an unpleasant taste in the mouth. 3  redness inside the mouth and throat. 
Oral thrush in adults generally appears as thick, white or creamy-colored deposits (spots) on the mucous membrane of the mouth (wet parts of the inside of the mouth). The mucosa (mucous membrane) may appear swollen and slightly red. The spots may be raised. There may be discomfort or a burning sensation. Candidosis or Moniliasis refers to adult oral thrush, while oral thrush can refer to both adults and babies. You can read our article about oral thrush in babies here. Oral thrush causes thick white or cream-colored deposits, most commonly on the tongue or inner cheeks. The lesions can be painful and may bleed slightly when they are scraped. The infected mucosa of the mouth may appear inflamed and red
Symptoms of thrush in an adult may include: 1  A burning feeling in the mouth and throat (at the start of a thrush infection). 2  White patches that stick to the mouth and tongue. 3  A bad taste in the mouth or difficulty tasting foods. Symptoms of thrush in an infant may include: 1  White patches inside the mouth and on the tongue that look like cottage cheese or milk curds. 2  Thrush is often mistaken for milk or formula. 3  The patches stick to the mouth and tongue and cannot be easily wiped away.