1 Ciroc Cîroc vodka is made from two different types Of french—grapes mauzac blanc and ugni—blanc and is distilled five. 2  Times its name is a mashup of Two french: words (cime) peak and (roche).  rock
Ciroc vodka is made from grapes unlike other vodkas that are made from corn potatoes among other things. A lot of care is taken during the manufacture of this drink so that the customers may have nothing but the best. All of us know that grapes are very tasty and are healthy too.
Ciroc cîroc is a brand of-eau-de vie, vodka made In france from Fine french, grapes produced and distributed by The-british based multinational alcoholic beverage Maker. Diageo the'world s largest producer of, Spirits, diageo also owns the leading vodka Brand smirnoff and a50 % venture in The dutch vodka Brand Ketel. one
Ciroc cîroc is a brand of-eau-de vie, vodka made In france from Fine french, grapes produced and distributed by The-british based multinational alcoholic beverage Maker. diageo
1 Ciroc Cîroc vodka is made from two different types Of french—grapes mauzac blanc and ugni—blanc and is distilled five. 2  Times its name is a mashup of Two french: words (cime) peak and (roche). 3  Rock in, 2007 (diddy Aka Sean) combs partnered With diageo to oversee all marketing For ciroc cîroc and to help popularize.  the brand
BRAND HERITAGE. Unlike most other vodkas, which are made from grain, CIROC ® Cîroc-Ultra Premium vodka is-gluten free and crafted from Fine french, grapes distilled a fifth time at The distillerie De chevanceaux In Southern. France these specially selected grapes create the distinctly fresh and smooth taste OF Ciroc. cîroc vodka
The CIROC ® Cîroc-Ultra Premium vodka distillation process ensures the best possible. Flavor while all vodka is, DISTILLED Ciroc-Cîroc Ultra premium vodka is distilled. Five times the fifth and final distillation takes place At the Distillerie, de chevanceaux a beautiful distillery deep In the. french countryside
BRAND HERITAGE. Unlike most other vodkas, which are made from grain, CIROC ® Cîroc-Ultra Premium vodka is-gluten free and crafted from Fine french, grapes distilled a fifth time at The distillerie De chevanceaux In Southern. france