Cerebral Motor Cortex. As the name of the disorder suggests, cerebral palsy affects the cerebrum, the largest portion of the brain. The cerebrum controls voluntary movements, thinking, reasoning and emotions, as well as some specialized functions such as visual processing, speech and hearing. Although the gray matter processes the information in the brain, the white matter transmits the signals to the rest of the body. Some cerebral palsy occurs due to damage to the white matter, a condition known as periventricular leukomalacia--PVL. The damage in PVL looks like tiny holes in the white matter.
The cause of cerebral palsy is a brain injury or brain malformation that occurs while the brain is developing — before, during, or after birth. As a result of the brain damage during brain development a child’s muscle control, muscle coordination, muscle tone, reflex, posture and balance can be affected. Cause of Cerebral Palsy. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under development.
1 Spasticity arises as a result of damage to bundles of neurons in the brain and spinal cord called the corticospinal tracts and corticobulbar tracts. 2  Spasticity is seen in a number of different conditions including cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, stroke and multiple sclerosis. The muscles of people with spastic cerebral palsy appear stiff and their movements may look stiff... https://www.cerebralpalsy.org.au/what-is-cerebral-palsy/types-of-cerebral-palsy/spastic-cerebral-palsy/.
Every case of cerebral palsy is unique to the individual. This is due in part by the type of injury, extent of injury, and the timing of injury to the developing brain. The brain damage that causes cerebral palsy is a result of either: 1  Prenatal disturbance of brain cell migration – genetic and environmental factors disturb brain cell migration as cells move to their appropriate location during brain development. Cause of Cerebral Palsy. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of disorders that affect a person’s ability to move and maintain balance and posture. CP is the most common motor disability in childhood. Cerebral means having to do with the brain. Palsy means weakness or problems with using the muscles. Causes and Risk Factors. CP is caused by abnormal development of the brain or damage to the developing brain that affects a child’s ability to control his or her muscles. There are several possible causes of the abnormal development or damage.
Almost half the children affected by cerebral palsy develop hypertonia (excessive muscle tension) or spasticity (excessive muscle tension with increased tendon reflexes). This is usually caused by damage to the white matter of the brain. Other affected children can have mixed cerebral palsy, experiencing multiple symptoms with a spastic component. Cerebral palsy can result in irreversible damage and dysfunction of the nervous system. Many cases of CP have unknown causes. The disorder occurs when there is abnormal development or damage to areas in the brain that control motor function. It occurs in approximately three out of every 1,000 live births. There are several types of injuries that can impair the nervous system, including: 1  Head injuries.
The cerebrum makes up the largest part of the brain. Cerebral palsy is a non-progressive neurological disorder that affects body movement and muscle coordination. Although the gray matter processes the information in the brain, the white matter transmits the signals to the rest of the body. Some cerebral palsy occurs due to damage to the white matter, a condition known as periventricular leukomalacia--PVL. The damage in PVL looks like tiny holes in the white matter.
There are four types of brain damage that cause cerebral palsy. The brain damage that causes motor impairment in cerebral palsy results from one of four types of brain injury or brain malformation. Cause of Cerebral Palsy. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under development.
Damage often occurs to the cerebral motor cortex, a portion of the brain that lies at the back of the frontal lobe just before the fold that separates the frontal lobe from the parietal lobe, as described by the Canadian Institute of Neurosciences, Mental Health and Addiction. Although the gray matter processes the information in the brain, the white matter transmits the signals to the rest of the body. Some cerebral palsy occurs due to damage to the white matter, a condition known as periventricular leukomalacia--PVL. The damage in PVL looks like tiny holes in the white matter.