Pronator teres syndrome. Dr Tim Luijkx and Dr Saeed Soltany Hosn et al. Pronator teres syndrome (also called pronator syndrome) is one of three common median nerve entrapment syndromes; the other two being anterior interosseous nerve syndrome and the far more common carpal tunnel syndrome. 
Teres major. The teres major muscle is one of the six muscles within the scapulohumeral muscle group. The muscle is located on the underside of the upper arm, in the area between the shoulder and elbow. It has a flat shape and is supplied with nerves from the lower subscapular nerve. 
Pronator Teres Syndrome. Pronator teres syndrome is an entrapment of the median nerve, where it passes between the two parts of the pronator teres muscle in the arm causing pain, numbness and tingling in the forearm and hand. Symptoms of pronator teres syndrome can be very similar to carpal tunnel syndrome and include tingling or numbness in the palm, thumb and three fingers but not the little pinky finger. There will be an aching sensation in the forearm and tenderness when feeling or pressing in on the pronator teres muscle in the arm.
The teres minor is a slim, narrow muscle within the rotator cuff, located in the shoulder. It is involved in the external rotation of the shoulder joint. The other muscles composing the rotator cuff are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis. It connects the scapula to the humerus, along with the teres major and infraspinatus muscles, which lie on either side and overlap the teres minor. 
Although vocal and motor tics are the hallmark of Tourette syndrome, such other symptoms as the expression of socially inappropriate comments or behaviors, obsessive compulsive disorder, attention deficit disorder, self-injuring behavior, depression, and anxiety also appear to be associated with Tourette syndrome. Those with severe symptoms may require medications for all or part of their lifetime. The most effective treatment of tics associated with Tourette syndrome involves the use of drugs such as haloperidol, pimozide, sulpiride, and tiapride, which decrease the amount of dopamine in the body.
Summary Information: Teres Minor. Teres Minor: The teres minor is one of the muscles of the rotator cuff group of muscles located in the upper arm and shoulder. The teres minor originates on the scapula, inserts on the humerus of the upper arm and is innervated by the axillary nerve. The infraspinatus has a variety of actions on the shoulder joint, including lateral rotation, adduction and extension.
Tourette syndrome (also called Tourette's syndrome, Tourette's disorder, Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, GTS or, more commonly, simply Tourette's or TS) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical (motor) tics and at least one vocal (phonic) tic. 
Pronator teres syndrome is a compression neuropathy of the median nerve at the elbow. It is rare compared to compression at the wrist (carpal tunnel syndrome) or isolated injury of the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve (anterior interosseous syndrome). The clinical and electrophysiological features of pronator teres syndrome are quite different from patients with carpal tunnel syndrome or pure anterior interosseous syndrome. Proper localisation is crucial to treatment options.