The Early Years. The construction of the Tower of Pisa began on August 9, 1173. Originally designed to be a bell tower, the tower actually stood upright for over 5 years, but just after the completion of the third floor (1178) it began to lean. The citizens of Italy were shocked as it began to lean ever so slightly. The Leaning Tower is the third oldest building on Pisa's Piazza del Duomo (cathedral square), the Cathedral and Baptistry were first. Utilizing many columns and archs, this tower represents an advanced understanding of weight and load characteristics, showing the Italian architectures' knowledge
Location. The tower is part of Pisa's Piazza del Duomo (Cathedral Square), a plaza dominated by Pisa's Duomo (cathedral), its Baptistery and Campo Santo (walled cemetery), all built in the medieval Romanesque style. Visiting the Tower. Tourists may go inside the Leaning Tower of Pisa under strict regulations. Timed tickets let in only 40 people at a time for a 30-minute guided tour, which involves climbing the nearly 300 steps to the summit for views of the entire city.
Although Pisa is known worldwide for its leaning tower (the bell tower of the city's cathedral), the city of over 89,940 residents (around 200,000 with the metropolitan area) contains more than 20 other historic churches, several medieval palaces and various bridges across the River Arno. 
The tower is the cathedral's campanile, a free-standing bell tower. Pisa sits near the Mediterranean coast in Tuscany, about 50 miles east of Florence. Visiting the Tower. Tourists may go inside the Leaning Tower of Pisa under strict regulations. Timed tickets let in only 40 people at a time for a 30-minute guided tour, which involves climbing the nearly 300 steps to the summit for views of the entire city.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a freestanding bell tower located in the city of Pisa in Italy. Like its name suggest, it actually does lean to one side. The tower started to lean during construction because the foundation was built on soft ground that had difficulty supporting the weight. The tower weighs about 14,500 tons. That's a lot of weight for a building to have to support when it has been leaning since it was built. There are approximately 294 steps on the north side and 296 steps on the south side of the tower. The Leaning Tower of Pisa took 344 years to build, beginning in August 1173. It began to lean in 1178 once construction on the second floor had begun. The lean was due to one side sinking into the soft ground
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Leaning Tower of Pisa (Italian: Torre pendente di Pisa) or simply the Tower of Pisa (Torre di Pisa) is the campanile, or freestanding bell tower, of the cathedral of the Italian city of Pisa, known worldwide for its unintended tilt. The height of the tower is 55.86 metres (183.27 feet) from the ground on the low side and 56.67 metres (185.93 feet) on the high side. The width of the walls at the base is 2.44 m (8 ft 0.06 in). Its weight is estimated at 14,500 metric tons (16,000 short tons)