Bradycardia, also known as bradyarrhythmia, is a slow heart rate, namely, a resting heart rate of under 60 beats per minute (BPM) in adults. It is a type of cardiac arrhythmia. A ventricular bradycardia, also known as ventricular escape rhythm or idioventricular rhythm, is a heart rate of less than 50 bpm. This is a safety mechanism when there is lack of electrical impulse or stimuli from the atrium.
Having bradycardia (say “bray-dee-KAR-dee-uh) means that your heart beats very slowly. For most people, a heart rate of 60 to 100 beats a minute while at rest is considered normal. If your heart beats less than 60 times a minute, it is slower than normal. A slow heart rate can be normal and healthy. For some people, a slow heart rate does not cause any problems. It can be a sign of being very fit. Healthy young adults and athletes often have heart rates of less than 60 beats a minute. In other people, bradycardia is a sign of a problem with the heart’s electrical system.
Fifty-five to 60 beats per minute would be considered bradycardia for an adult. Infants, however, have a much higher at rest heart rate (110 to l30 beats per minute), thus; bradycardia in infants would be a rate below 100 beats per minute. 
Having bradycardia (say bray-dee-KAR-dee-uh) means that your heart beats very slowly. For most people, a heart rate of 60 to 100 beats a minute while at rest is considered normal. If your heart beats less than 60 times a minute, it is slower than normal. A slow heart rate can be normal and healthy. Or it could be a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system. Healthy young adults and athletes often have heart rates of less than 60 beats a minute. In other people, bradycardia is a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system. It means that the heart's natural pacemaker isn't working right or that the electrical pathways of the heart are disrupted.
Bradycardia = too slow A heart rate of less than 60 beats per minute (BPM) in adults is called bradycardia. What's too slow for you may depend on your age and physical condition. 1  Physically active adults often have a resting heart rate slower than 60 BPM but it doesn't cause problems. 
Slow Heartbeat. Slow heartbeat (heart rate), called bradycardia, is an arrhythmia, or disorder of the heart’s rhythm. Each day, a normal heart beats about 100,000 times, at a rate any­where from 60 to 100 times a minute. Changes in heart rate caused by activity, diet, medications, and age are normal and common. The opposite of bradycardia is tachycardia, when the heart rate is over 100 beats per minute. The heartbeat is controlled by an electrical system that signals the heart muscle to contract, or “squeeze,” pumping blood to the rest of the body. Bradycardia happens when the system slows or blocks these signals
Bradycardia in an adult is any heart rate less than 60 beats per minute (BPM) , although symptoms usually manifest only for heart rates less than 50. The word bradycardia is from the Greek βραδύς, bradys slow, and καρδία, kardia, heart. A ventricular bradycardia, also known as ventricular escape rhythm or idioventricular rhythm, is a heart rate of less than 50 bpm. This is a safety mechanism when there is lack of electrical impulse or stimuli from the atrium.
For some people, a slow heart rate does not cause any problems. It can be a sign of being very fit. Healthy young adults and athletes often have heart rates of less than 60 beats a minute. In other people, bradycardia is a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system. It means that the heart's natural pacemaker isn't working right or that the electrical pathways of the heart are disrupted.
Bradycardia is an abnormally slow heart rate. In adults, it is defined as a heart rate of less than 60 beats per minute. Different types of bradycardia include (collectively referred to as bradyarrhythmias): 1  Sinus bradycardia: an unusually slow heartbeat due to heart disease, a reaction to medication, or normal causes (such as excellent fitness or deep relaxation).