Corina is female given name of Greek origin (κόριννα), which was derived from κόρη (kore) maiden. Variants include Korinna, Corinna, Kora, Corri, Corinne, and Coreen. Notable people with the name include: 1  Corinna, Ovid's (probably fictitious) lover in the Amores. 2  Corinna, pen name of English poet Elizabeth Thomas (1675–1731).
Korina is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ko-ri-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4198 in baby name popularity for girls with 35 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Korina Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Korina has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Korina to other names. Korina is a variant spelling of Korinna. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Korina in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Korina in Nautical Flags page.
Similar Names. Korina is pronounced similarly to Carina ▼ , Corena, Corona, Coryna, Karaina, Kareina, Kariana, Karina ▲ , Karinya, Karyna, Kerena, Keriana, Kiriana and Korynna. Other suggested similar baby names are Dorina, Karima, Karin ▼ , Karine, Karna, Kerin, Kolina, Koren, Korin, Koryne, Norina and Zorina. Korina is an unusual first name for females. Korina is an equally unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Korina and affiliated names. Cora (#103 in 2014) , Corina, Corine, Corinna, Corinne (#727) , Corrina, Corrine and Kora (#691) are the prominent alternative forms of Korina (outside Top 1000) 
Here are pictures of people with the name Korina. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
The name Korina is very likely a(n) French variant of the name Corinna. See other suggested French girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Corinna. The name Korina has the following meaning: Variant of Corrine, although not as popular. While 'Corrine' is feminine without any frills, 'Corinna' has a more poetic ring. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls.
The name Korina is a variant of Corinna. Other popular variants of the name Corinna are: Carine, Carinna, Carinne, Coreena, Coren, Corey (Nickname), Coriana, Corina (Romanian), Corinda, Corinee, Corinne (French), Correen, Coryn, Coryna, Korina, Korinne. The name Korina has the following meaning: Variant of Corrine, although not as popular. While 'Corrine' is feminine without any frills, 'Corinna' has a more poetic ring. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Korina in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Korina in Nautical Flags page.
As a baby girl name, Korina is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Korina for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Corinna, of which the name Korina is a variant. USA baby name statistics. The name Korina has the following meaning: Variant of Corrine, although not as popular. While 'Corrine' is feminine without any frills, 'Corinna' has a more poetic ring. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls.