This helps prepare the reader for the intensely personal message of the final stanza. The poet begins with sea imagery, using a sailing vessel as a metaphor for the nautilus. He refers to it as a “ship of pearl,” suggesting not only its beauty and grandeur but also its value as both a living organism and a teacher. The poet’s use of the term “venturous bark,” in reference to the nautilus, evokes images of the majestic sailing ships of bygone days, eager to explore different worlds. In the second stanza, the poet continues with the ship metaphor, likening the “webs of living gauze,” by which the nautilus moves, to the sails which move the ship. The beauty and grandeur of this little ship, however, has now been destroyed and will no longer “unfurl” its lovely sails to the wind.
The Chambered Nautilus. This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main, -- The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair. Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pearl! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed, -- Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!
This literary term is called apostrophe. It is a rhetorical speech, where the speaker directly addresses an absent or imaginary person or an abstract or inanimate object. It does not have to be dialogue, such as in literature, to be an apostrophe. 
The nautilus (from the Latin form of the original Greek ναυτίλος, 'sailor') is a pelagic marine mollusc of the cephalopod family Nautilidae, the sole extant family of the superfamily Nautilaceae and of its smaller but near equal suborder, Nautilina. However, most nautilus species never exceed 20 centimetres (7.9 in). Nautilus macromphalus is the smallest species, usually measuring only 16 centimetres (6.3 in). A dwarf population from the Sulu Sea (Nautilus pompilius suluensis) is even smaller, with a mean shell diameter of 115.6 mm.
The inside of the shell has a pearly look. First Stanza: The first stanza describes the chambered nautilus. The ship of pearl is the shell of a chambered nautilus. The purpled wings are a reference to the membrane that legend says helps it sail. Holmes says this is a legend with lines following the purpled wings. 
For the Russian rock band, see Nautilus Pompilius (band) . The chambered nautilus, Nautilus pompilius also called pearly nautilus, is the best-known species of nautilus. The shell, when cut away, reveals a lining of lustrous nacre and displays a nearly perfect equiangular spiral, although it is not a golden spiral. The eyes of the chambered nautilus are more primitive than those of some other cephalopods; the eye has no lens and thus is comparable to a pinhole camera. The species has about 90 tentacles with no suckers, which is also different from other cephalopods
The nautilus shell presents one of the finest natural examples of a logarithmic spiral, although it is not a golden spiral. The use of nautilus shells in art and literature is covered at nautilus shell. However, most nautilus species never exceed 20 centimetres (7.9 in). Nautilus macromphalus is the smallest species, usually measuring only 16 centimetres (6.3 in). A dwarf population from the Sulu Sea (Nautilus pompilius suluensis) is even smaller, with a mean shell diameter of 115.6 mm.