Another plant with a bad reputation is the castor bean plant, Ricinus communis. This plant has had economic importance pretty much since the dawn of civilized time, yet because it can be used to prepare a toxin (ricin), there are people who think it should be made illegal (and in some places it is). 
Toxic principle. The principle toxin of castor bean is ricin which is a lectin, also termed a toxalbumin. Ricin may comprise up to 3% of the seed weight. Toxalbumins are very toxic plant-derived compounds that combine carbohydrate and protein moieties or components. Ricin is water soluble and is not present in castor oil. Taken orally, ricin is readily absorbed from the stomach and intestine. Conditions of poisoning. All parts of the plants are toxic, but most dangerous are the seeds. The most susceptible animal species include cattle, horses, sheep, pigs, fowl, rabbits and other small animals. Seeds ingested at 0.2% of body weight have caused toxicosis in cattle and 0.01% of body weight was toxic to horses
Deadly Caster Bean. The caster bean plant, Ricinus communis, is a native of tropical Africa and is grown in many gardens in North America for its fabulous large leaves. Here in zone 5 it is an annual that can grow to 5 feet in one season. The caster bean plant itself is not poisonous to humans, but the seeds are. The seeds contain a protein called ricin and there is no question that ricin is very poisonous to humans, animals and even insects. The caster bean holds the Guinness Book of World Records title for the world’s most poisonous plant, due to Ricin.
Toxic Principles: Ricin. Clinical Signs: Beans are very toxic: oral irritation, burning of mouth and throat, increase in thirst, vomiting, diarrhea, kidney failure, convulsions.
The toxicity of raw castor beans is due to the presence of ricin. Although the lethal dose in adults is considered to be four to eight seeds, reports of actual poisoning are relatively rare. According to the 2007 edition of Guinness World Records, this plant is the most poisonous in the world. Castor seed is the source of castor oil, which has a wide variety of uses. The seeds contain between 40% and 60% oil that is rich in triglycerides, mainly ricinolein. The seed also contains ricin, a water-soluble toxin, which is also present in lower concentrations throughout the plant.
Overview. Castor bean plants are prized for their aesthetic value in the home garden, but they come with a hefty warning. Castor beans are highly toxic--they contain the deadly poison ricin--and can kill if ingested and will cause irritation when touched. The castor bean plant (Ricinus communis) is a perennial shrub with multi-lobed, toothed leaves and tiny green, clustered, inconspicuous flowers. Once ingested, ricin is absorbed by the intestines and enters the blood stream; symptoms appear within three hours. The toxins within the castor beans are toxic to people as well animals and insects, according to the Cornell University Department of Animal Science.
Ricinus communis, the castor oil plant, is a species of flowering plant in the spurge family, Euphorbiaceae. It is the sole species in the monotypic genus, Ricinus, and subtribe, Ricininae. The evolution of castor and its relation to other species are currently being studied using modern genetic tools. Castor seed is the source of castor oil, which has a wide variety of uses. The seeds contain between 40% and 60% oil that is rich in triglycerides, mainly ricinolein. The seed also contains ricin, a water-soluble toxin, which is also present in lower concentrations throughout the plant.
Ricin /ˈraɪsɪn/ is a highly toxic, naturally occurring lectin (a carbohydrate-binding protein) produced in the seeds of the castor oil plant, Ricinus communis. 
Toxic Terror, Care. A poisonous plant in all its parts, castor bean's namesake beans (i.e., the seeds) are especially toxic. In fact, they are the source of the infamous poison, ricin. Castor beans are not true beans; that's just a nickname. The plants belong to the Euphorbiaceae family. That makes them relatives of poinsettia plants and wood spurge. Tropical plants such as castor beans have a certain cachet in the Northern landscape, where they offer an exotic look.