Water Treatment Systems for Private Water System Ponds: The water treatment system for a pond is designed to work in stages to maximize the effectiveness and make the water potable and safe for drinking.
A cased pond intake relies on the bank to filter water and can filter out some the algae before entering the treatment system. ¾ If the water appears green in the cased intake, then the filtration that is taking place through the bank is inadequate.
Drinking Water From Lakes & Rivers. Untreated surface water in rivers, streams, lakes, and ponds is not safe to drink unless it is treated to remove bacteria, viruses, and parasites. Drinking water contaminated by these organisms can cause diseases like cryptosporidium or giardia. Symptoms can include nausea, diarrhea, weight loss, gas, and energy loss.
Water that comes from ponds, streams or lakes should not be used for domestic drinking water unless it is boiled first, according to the Washington State Department of Health. Place your filtered water in a pan over high heat and bring it to a rolling boil.
Filtration: A slow sand filter, pressurized rapid sand filter, or pre-coat filter is the next step in treatment to filter out as many of the blue-green algae cells as possible before the water enters the disinfection system. ¾ Pressured rapid sand filters are the most common filters used for drinking water ponds.
Water Treatment. Treatment has two steps, filtration and disinfection. Both steps are necessary to remove or kill all bacteria, viruses, and parasites and make the water safe to drink. Step 1. Filtration removes soil particles and plant material that can interfere with
In some cases you may find it necessary to obtain your drinking water from a fresh water pond. Drinking the water from the pond as it is can be dangerous to your health due to contaminants or microorganisms that may cause various harmful conditions such as E. coli infection or leptospirosis.
Algae in ponds can especially be a problem if the pond is used as a drinking water source or other household uses. Cyanobacteria, often called blue-green algae, are bacteria that are naturally found in Ohio lakes, ponds, and slow-moving streams.