Register your name (referred to as a fictitious name if it is a name other than your own) as Doing Business As.. Visit the Business Name Registration website (see Resources below) for further information regarding where you can register in your state. Save. Business names and logos are the identity of a business. This identity needs to be registered to avoid other businesses using the name or logo and confusing customers. This information can be registered through the U.S. government for a fee. 1  How to Design a Business Logo. 2  How to Register a Business in India
How to Register a Business Logo. Protect your logo and your brand image through trademark registration. Set of simbols image by PaulPaladin from Fotolia.com. Your business logo is as much of an as asset as your inventory. Your logo represents your company brand and reputation. To prevent others from using your logo, you need to protect it through trademark registration at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Step 1
Tips. 1  If your logo includes your company name, you should also register it as a trademark. 2  If you plan to do business only in one state, you may wish to register your logo as a trademark only in that state by registering with the secretary of state's office. How to Trademark a Logo. Your logo is part of your brand to identify your business. It's important to protect that brand, and by extension, the logo that represents it.
Instructions. Research if your name or logo is already registered. Use the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Internet search, The Thomas Register Company Name Search or your county clerk's office (see Resources below). If you find your name is already in use, brainstorm for a new name. Save. Business names and logos are the identity of a business. This identity needs to be registered to avoid other businesses using the name or logo and confusing customers. This information can be registered through the U.S. government for a fee. 1  How to Design a Business Logo. 2  How to Register a Business in India
How to Register a Company Logo. A logo establishes a company brand. logo image by Juliane from Fotolia.com. A company logo is the core of your business brand. Many logos incorporate the company name with a symbol or in creative font patterns and may even include an image. Once you have designed the logo that captures the essence of your company, protect your company by registering for a trademark. Trademarks protect against others using the same or similar word, phrase or symbol, possibly infringing on your company brand for their own profit. Step 1. Pick whether you want to register the logo on a national level or on the state level. A federal registration with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office provides broader coverage but is more expensive than a state trademark registration. Step 2. Visit the website for the appropriate registration office
Step 2. Create a description of your products and/or services that the mark represents. The description must be specific enough to identify the nature of the products or services. For example, you can't just say you sell mugs. Instead you must identify the type of mugs such as coffee mugs or beer mugs. Set of simbols image by PaulPaladin from Fotolia.com. Your business logo is as much of an as asset as your inventory. Your logo represents your company brand and reputation. To prevent others from using your logo, you need to protect it through trademark registration at the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
Most people don't need to register a trade name or logo unless they plan to do business outside their local area. If you're doing business in 2 or more states, have multi-state locations or sell online across state lines, you might want to register the trade name or business logo (both referred to as trade marks). 
1 If your logo includes your company name, you should also register it as a trademark. 2  You'll need to file a separate application to do that, however. 3  If you plan to do business only in one state, you may wish to register your logo as a trademark only in that state by registering with the secretary of state's office. How to Trademark a Logo. Your logo is part of your brand to identify your business. It's important to protect that brand, and by extension, the logo that represents it.