They have nerves or a nervous illness. It is an illness not just of mind or brain, but a disorder of the entire body. ... We have a package here of five symptoms–mild depression, some anxiety, fatigue, somatic pains, and obsessive thinking. ... The terms nervous breakdown and mental breakdown have not been formally defined through a medical diagnostic system such as the DSM-IV or ICD-10, and are nearly absent from current scientific literature regarding mental illness.
Nervous Illness is simply another term for the Anxiety State which describes these symptoms. Claire Weeke’s preferred the term nervous illness for simplicity. When these nervous illness symptoms reach their peak they can become a panic attack when these symptoms are much more intense and often terrifying. If you have experienced a panic attack before you certainly know all about this. It’s rough. The Anxiety State, is what brings on the unpleasant physical symptoms of anxiety such as: 1  Tremors. 2  Muscle tension. 3  Churning stomach. 4  Fatigue. 5  Insomnia. 6  Frequent urination or diarrhea. 7  Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. 8  A choking sensation. 9  Having trouble swallowing.
Nervous breakdown is a term that the public uses to characterize a range of mental illnesses, but generally it describes the experience of snapping under immense pressure, mental collapse or mental and physical exhaustion. Nervous breakdown is not a clinical term. The diagnosis that most closely resembles what the public calls a nervous breakdown is major depression. Depressive episodes may be caused by genetic and biological factors and are often triggered by social and environmental circumstances.
Nervous breakdown isn't a medical term, however, nor does it indicate a specific mental illness. But that doesn't mean it's a normal or a healthy response to stress. A nervous breakdown may indicate an underlying mental health problem that needs attention, such as depression or anxiety. The term nervous breakdown is sometimes used to describe a stressful situation in which someone becomes temporarily unable to function normally in day-to-day life. It's commonly understood to occur when life's demands become physically and emotionally overwhelming
Reviews: 1 user | 4 critic | 7 from Metacritic.com. Memoirs of My Nervous Illness is based on the 1903 journal written by Daniel Paul Schreber, a distinguished German judge, while incarcerated in an asylum under the watch of the obsessive Dr... See full summary ». Storyline. Memoirs of My Nervous Illness is based on the 1903 journal written by Daniel Paul Schreber, a distinguished German judge, while incarcerated in an asylum under the watch of the obsessive Dr. Emil Flechsig (Bob Cucuzza).
SCHREBER’S Memoirs of My Nervous Illness must be themost written-about document in all psychiatric literature.Over the years, a huge bibliography of books and articles—chieﬂy in German and in English—has accrued. Successivegenerations of psychiatric writers have used the book as thenub of successive theories. English]Memoirs of my nervous illness / by Daniel Paul Schreber; introduction by Rosemary Dinnage; translated and edited by IdaMacalpine, Richard A. Hunter.p. cm.Reprint. Originally published: London: W. Dawson, 1955.ISBN 0-940322-20-X (pbk.: alk.
Brain and Nervous System. Brain and nervous system problems are common. These neurological disorders include multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, epilepsy, and stroke, and can affect memory and ability to perform daily activities. 