Cross-functional teams often fail because the organization lacks a systemic approach, Tabrizi writes. Teams are hurt by unclear governance, by a lack of accountability, by goals that lack specificity, and by organizations' failure to prioritize the success of cross-functional projects.. 
Cross-functional teams often fail because the organization lacks a systemic approach. Teams are hurt by unclear governance, by a lack of accountability, by goals that lack specificity, and by organizations’ failure to prioritize the success of cross-functional projects. Those with moderate governance support had a 19% success rate. Our research showed that the reason why most cross-functional teams fail is because siloes tend to perpetuate themselves: for example, engineers don’t work well with designers, and so on.
Advertisement. The most simple definition of cross-functional teams (or CFTs) is groups that are made up of people from different functional areas within a company—marketing, engineering, sales, and human resources, for example. For cross-functional teams to succeed, several factors have been identified that are imperative: 1  Team members must be open-minded and highly motivated. 2  Team members must come from the correct functional areas. 3  A strong team leader with excellent communication skills and a position of authority is needed
A cross-functional team is a group of people with different functional expertise working toward a common goal. It may include people from finance, marketing, operations, and human resources departments. Typically, it includes employees from all levels of an organization. 
This is just one example of the dysfunction that exists in cross-functional teams. In a detailed study of 95 teams in 25 leading corporations, chosen by an independent panel of academics and experts, I found that nearly 75% of cross-functional teams are dysfunctional. Those with moderate governance support had a 19% success rate. Our research showed that the reason why most cross-functional teams fail is because siloes tend to perpetuate themselves: for example, engineers don’t work well with designers, and so on.
When I was in the midst of researching what caused cross-functional teams to succeed — and finding that many of them failed — I discovered a deeply dysfunctional development project in a huge multinational IT company. The company had invested $100 million in the project, which involved three divisions. Those with moderate governance support had a 19% success rate. Our research showed that the reason why most cross-functional teams fail is because siloes tend to perpetuate themselves: for example, engineers don’t work well with designers, and so on.
Cross-functional teams (CFTs), made up of experts with different technical and functional knowledge, collaborate to solve a sourcing problem. A core team usually consists of members from at least three functions brought together to develop a solution, with other co-opted people called in as required. By Editor on July 2, 2014 5:40 AM | 1 Comment. Using a cross-functional team in a strategic sourcing exercise for a key commodity is the accepted and preferred way to go, many teams having delivered successful outcomes.
However, one of the common breakdowns in cross-functional teams is people missing meetings. That’s why the personal accountable leader for each function also needs to appoint and empower a decision-making substitute. Those with moderate governance support had a 19% success rate. Our research showed that the reason why most cross-functional teams fail is because siloes tend to perpetuate themselves: for example, engineers don’t work well with designers, and so on.
One of the most persistent problems for cross-functional teams is their lack of empowerment. They need the authority to make decisions and implement them. A related obstacle is the lack of clarity about just how empowered the team is to act. The confusion about the team's authority leads to a lack of consistency. If this thrust toward the proliferation of cross-functional teams is to be successful, there must be an emphasis on what is called boundary management. Boundary management is the process by which a team manages its borders and the information and resource flow with its key stakeholders.