The Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) Examination is quite simply an objective assessment of a test taker's requisite foundation of knowledge and skills. CTP test scores are used by the Association for Financial Professionals, Inc. (AFP) as a uniform standard of qualification. Certified Treasury Professional Exam Secrets is our exclusive collection of the tips and the information that we have specially selected to give you the best results on the CTP test for the least time spent studying. It's written in everyday language and is easy to use.
DEFINITION of 'Certified Treasury Professional-CTP'. A professional designation awarded by the Association for Financial Professionals to individuals who are experienced in cash management and who pass an exam demonstrating their expertise. BREAKING DOWN 'Certified Treasury Professional-CTP'. To work in the cash management industry, a background in finance and/or accounting is helpful.
The Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) designation is a certification for treasurers, cash managers, treasury managers, and other treasury-related professionals administered by the Bethesda, Maryland-based Association for Financial Professionals (AFP). 
Details of the Certified Treasury Professional Exam. The CTP exam is a four-hour test consisting of 170 multiple-choice questions all derived from information summarized in Essentials of Treasury Management, 3rd Edition, which is available for purchase from the AFP website. In order to become a CTP, you’re required to pass a certification exam. To be eligible to sit for the exam, you must have one of the following: 1  Two years or more of full-time work experience in the finance industry. 2  A graduate-level degree in finance and some work experience.
A Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) credential, granted by the Association for Financial Professionals (AFP), recognizes treasurers and treasury specialists who have demonstrated an extremely high level of competency in the profession of a corporate treasurer. In order to become a CTP, you’re required to pass a certification exam. To be eligible to sit for the exam, you must have one of the following: 1  Two years or more of full-time work experience in the finance industry. 2  A graduate-level degree in finance and some work experience.
Mastery and Commitment. The Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) designation sets the standard in the treasury profession and is a global symbol of excellence. It signifies that you have demonstrated the knowledge and skills required to effectively execute critical functions related to corporate liquidity, capital and risk management. 
Certified Treasury Professional Study Program. About Us. We have passed the Certified Treasury Professional Exam and can help you obtain your CTP Certification. TMExam was created by Treasury Management Professionals for people who want to pass the CTP Exam. 4) TMExam techniques were developed to maximize your learning experience for the Certified Treasury Professional exam and increase the chances that you will pass the first time you take the exam. Our goal is for YOU to pass the Certified Treasury Professional Exam the first time.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) is a certification awarded by the Association for Financial Professionals (AFP) of Bethesda, Maryland to individuals who meet eligibility criteria and demonstrate current competency standards measured through the CTP examination. Before 1986, the AFP awarded the Certified Cash Manager (CCM) and beginning in 2003 the CCM certification was phased into the current CTP to reflect the expanding role of treasury within corporate finance.
3) We have taken the CTP Exam. The material in the Certified Treasury Professional Exam and the Essentials of Treasury Management text is a conglomeration of Treasury Management concepts and we have used many sources to determine the best study material and methods to help you pass. 4) TMExam techniques were developed to maximize your learning experience for the Certified Treasury Professional exam and increase the chances that you will pass the first time you take the exam. Our goal is for YOU to pass the Certified Treasury Professional Exam the first time.
Our original research into the Certified Treasury Professional (CTP) Examination, offered by the Association for Financial Professionals, Inc. (AFP), reveals the specific content areas and the essential skills that are critical for you to know on the CTP test. Certified Treasury Professional Exam Secrets is our exclusive collection of the tips and the information that we have specially selected to give you the best results on the CTP test for the least time spent studying. It's written in everyday language and is easy to use.