it's a new salon service. Go Blonder. Push the envelope further without compromising the integrity of hair. From the photo shoot to the salon chair, colorists are set free from the fear of damaged hair. You can use Olaplex as a tool or a new service.
You can use Olaplex as a tool or offer it to your clients as a new service. The choice is up to you. As a tool, use Olaplex No.1 Bond Multiplier by adding it to lightener or colour, and finish by applying Olaplex No.2 Bond Perfector after colour is rinsed from the hair, to eliminate breakage with every colour service.
You do not need to increase volume of developer for your base or gloss color. Only add Olaplex No. 1 Bond Multiplier to color/glosses that have a 10 minutes or longer processing time for product conservation. You can overlap and use Olaplex in every single process. Any issues with deposit or lift may be solved by using less Olaplex No.1.
To use Olaplex as part of a gloss service, you first use Olaplex No.1 Bond Multiplier diluted with water as a treatment. Mix 15ml of Olaplex No.1 Bond Multiplier with 85ml of water in an applicator bottle.
IT'S SO SIMPLE TO USE. You start with the Olaplex Bond Multiplier No.1 by adding directly into lightener or color. After rinsing color from hair, you apply the Olaplex Bond Perfector No. 2 for a minimum of 5 minutes then rinse, shampoo, and condition. You can even leave it in the hair to use as a cutting lotion.
As for the way to use Olaplex without color-you can try this (although you'll need to get it from your stylist, so ask about it as a treatment option at your appointment). You can mix 15% Olaplex No.1 with water. Apply on dry hair. After five minutes, add Olaplex No.2 for another 5 minutes.
You can use Olaplex as a tool or a new service. The choice is yours. As a tool, use the Olaplex Bond Multiplier No.1 adding it to lightener or colour and finish by applying Bond Perfector No.2 after color is rinsed from the hair to eliminate breakage with every colour service.