A Dr. Todd Mangione, DO, Surgery, answered on behalf of Baptist Health South Florida. The gallbladder is located under your liver in the upper right side of your abdomen. A small, pear-shaped organ, your gallbladder is part of the biliary system of your body. Your liver produces bile, a fluid that helps break down the food, especially the fat that you eat.
The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. In response to signals, the gallbladder squeezes stored bile into the small intestine through a series of tubes called ducts. Bile helps digest fats, but the gallbladder itself is not essential.
Front View of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. In response to signals, the gallbladder squeezes stored bile into the small intestine through a series of tubes called ducts. Bile helps digest fats, but the gallbladder itself is not essential.
Gallbladder – location, pain, function, pictures. The gallbladder is a hollow organ occurring just below the liver. In adults, its length is about 3.1 inches or 8cm, and measures about 1.6 inches or 4 cm in diameter, when completely distended. The gallbladder comprises of three parts, i.e. the fundus, body and neck
1 Cholecystitis: Inflammation of the gallbladder, often due to a gallstone in the gallbladder. 2  Cholecystitis causes severe pain and fever, and can require surgery when inflammation continues or recurs. 3  Gallbladder cancer: Although rare, cancer can affect the gallbladder. In response to signals, the gallbladder squeezes stored bile into the small intestine through a series of tubes called ducts. Bile helps digest fats, but the gallbladder itself is not essential.
The gallbladder is a small, green, pear-shaped organ located in the abdominal cavity of vertebrates. It grows to a length of 8 centimeters, and has a diameter of 4 centimeters. The function of the gallbladder is to store the bile secreted by the liver. Location of the Gallbladder. ► The gallbladder is located beneath the liver. Its location corresponds to the lowest ribs, on the right side of the rib cage.
Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, hollow structure located under the liver and on the right side of the abdomen. Its primary function is to store and concentrate bile, a yellow-brown digestive enzyme produced by the liver. The gallbladder is part of the biliary tract. 
Anatomy of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear shaped organ that is about 7 to 10 centimeters long (3 to 4 inches) and 2 to 3 centimeters wide (about 1 inch). It has the ability to hold about 50 milliliters of bile which can be emptied via the cystic duct (gallbladder duct) into the common bile duct. The body is the main dilated portion of the gallbladder that lies between the fundus and cystic duct. The neck of the gallbladder is the narrower part that tapers into the cystic duct. The cystic duct, which is about 3 to 4 centimeters long (about 1 to 2 inches), carries bile into the common bile duct.
In this article. Gallstones form in the gallbladder, a small organ located under the liver. The gallbladder aids in the digestive process by storing bile and secreting it into the small intestine when food enters. 