The Colca Valley is an area of astounding scenic beauty, with giant Andean terraces and a deep canyon that reaches a depth of 3140 meters. A journey to the Colca valley will take you through high Andean plateau, reaching at one point a high pass of 4800 meters, which offers fine views of the Volcanoes of Arequipa.
Colca Canyon is a canyon of the Colca River in southern Peru, located about 100 miles (160 kilometers) northwest of Arequipa. It is Peru's third most-visited tourist destination with about 120,000 visitors annually.
Colca Canyon. It is located north of the city of Arequipa, at 180 Km (111.8 miles) and 42 Km / 26 miles west of the town of Chivay (1 hour by car), the departure point in Colca Valley. In Colca area there are hotels, from economic rates located in the towns, luxury hotels and lodges are located in the countryside.
Colca Canyon Peru. Basten. The Colca river begins high in the Andes, at Condorama Crucero Alto, drops down to the Pacific in stages, changing its name to Majes and then Camana as it goes. Where it runs between the tiny mountain villages of Chivay to Cabanaconde is a deep canyon known as the Colca Canyon.
The Colca Canyon in southern Peru's Arequipa region is an area of astounding scenic beauty, and one of Peru's top tourist destinations.
Exploring Peru’s epic Colca Canyon. Within a bus ride of Machu Picchu is a fissure twice as deep as the Grand Canyon, home to soaring condors, endless trekking routes and little-altered Inca and Pre-Inca traditions.
Day one. The spectacular 154km drive from Arequipa to Chivay, the main village of Colca Canyon, makes a half circle around the city’s two sentinel volcanoes, El Misti (5,822m) and Chachani (6,075m), before traversing the high plains of the vast, barren Salinas and Aguada Blanca National Reserve.
The Colca Canyon is one of the deepest places on the planet, reaching a depth of 3,400 meters (11,155 feet) at the lowest point in the location of Canco. On the right side, it is flanked by the Chila Cordillera (Bomboya, Serpregrina, Mismi, Queshihua) and on the other by Mount Hualca Hualca, Sabancaya, and Ampato.