1 Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) can also cause meningitis in adults and children. 2  Meningitis in children is becoming less common because children now receive the Hib vaccine in infancy as well as the pneumococcal vaccine (Prevnar). 3  Bacterial meningitis can occur for a number of reasons. 1 Meningitis is usually caused by one of a number of bacteria. 2  The most common is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 3  Neisseria meningitidis can cause outbreaks in crowded conditions, such as college dormitories or military barracks. 4  Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) can also cause meningitis in adults and children
Some of the leading causes of bacterial meningitis in the United States include Haemophilus influenzae (most often caused by type b, Hib), Streptococcus pneumoniae, group B Streptococcus, Listeria monocytogenes, and Neisseria meningitidis. The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu.
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) was a common cause of meningitis in infants and young children until the Hib vaccine was introduced for infants. Vaccines are available for both Neisseria meningitidis and Streptococcus pneumoniae. They're recommended for all children and adults at special risk. Viral meningitis is more common than the bacterial form and generally -- but not always -- less serious. It can be triggered by a number of viruses, including several that can cause diarrhea. People with viral meningitis are much less likely to have permanent brain damage after the infection resolves.
1 Haemophilus meningitis is most frequently caused by Haemophilus influenza type b, also known as Hib. 2  Before effective vaccines became available and widely used, Hib was the most frequent cause of bacterial meningitis in children 5 years of age and younger. 3  In Illinois, an average of 230 cases was reported annually. Viral meningitis (also called aseptic meningitis) is the most common type of meningitis and is less severe than bacterial meningitis. In Illinois, an average of 600 cases of aseptic meningitis is reported annually, with most occurring in late summer and early autumn.
Meningitis is almost always caused by a bacterial or viral infection that began elsewhere in the body, such as in the ears, sinuses, or upper respiratory tract. Less common causes of meningitis include fungal infection, autoimmune disorders, and medications. Viral meningitis is more common than the bacterial form and generally -- but not always -- less serious. It can be triggered by a number of viruses, including several that can cause diarrhea. People with viral meningitis are much less likely to have permanent brain damage after the infection resolves.
Bacterial meningitis is caused by any one of several bacteria. The most common bacteria causing meningitis in children and adults in the U.S. are Neisseria meningitidis (meningococcus), Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) and, in older patients with decreased immunity, Listeria monocytogenes. Viral meningitis is more common than the bacterial form and generally -- but not always -- less serious. It can be triggered by a number of viruses, including several that can cause diarrhea. People with viral meningitis are much less likely to have permanent brain damage after the infection resolves.
The inflammation may be caused by infection with viruses, bacteria, or other microorganisms, and less commonly by certain drugs. Meningitis can be life-threatening because of the inflammation's proximity to the brain and spinal cord; therefore, the condition is classified as a medical emergency. The most common symptoms of meningitis are headache and neck stiffness associated with fever, confusion or altered consciousness, vomiting, and an inability to tolerate light (photophobia) or loud noises (phonophobia).
1 Meningococcal meningitis, caused by Neisseria meningitidis, is primarily a disease of young children, with the incidence of cases declining in those older than 1 year of age. 2  The disease is most common during winter and spring. 3  In some persons, the bacteria can cause a severe blood infection called meningococcemia. Viral meningitis (also called aseptic meningitis) is the most common type of meningitis and is less severe than bacterial meningitis. In Illinois, an average of 600 cases of aseptic meningitis is reported annually, with most occurring in late summer and early autumn.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Meningitis is a disease caused by the inflammation of the protective membranes covering the brain and spinal cord known as the meninges. The inflammation is usually caused by an infection of the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Meningitis may develop in response to a number of causes, usually bacteria or viruses, but meningitis can also be caused by physical injury, cancer or certain drugs. Thus, it is important to know the specific cause of meningitis. 1  Bacterial Meningitis Bacteria, like Neisseria meningitidis and Streptococcus pneumoniae, can cause life-threatening infections that need immediate medical attention. 2  There are vaccines to prevent some kinds of bacterial