First, there are typically two varieties, or species, of arsenic in water: arsenic 3 and arsenic 5.. This is significant because arsenic 3 is very difficult to remove from water and must be changed or oxidized to arsenic 5 before it can be removed.
Source of Arsenic in Water: Arsenic (As) is often used in wood preservation as well as in paint and dye production. It can also be a byproduct of other industrial or agricultural processes. Arsenic can enter ground water through farm run-off or industrial waste.
Arsenic is a natural element that can be found in rocks and soil, water, air, and in plants and animals. It can also be released into the environment from some agricultural and industrial sources. Although it is sometimes found in its pure form as a steel grey metal, arsenic is usually part of chemical compounds.
Several types of cancer have been linked to arsenic in water. In 2001 the US Environmental Protection Agency lowered the maximum level of arsenic permitted in drinking water from 50 micrograms per liter (ug/L) to 10 ug/L.
Long-term exposure to arsenic in drinking water increases the chance of getting some types of cancer (such as skin, bladder, lung and possibly liver and kidney). Other health effects may include blood vessel damage, high blood pressure, nerve damage, anemia, stomach upsets, diabetes, and skin changes.
There are several types of water treatment systems that can effectively reduce arsenic levels in drinking water. These include: reverse osmosis systems, specialty media, and distillation systems. You can choose from numerous tested and certified water treatment products available to reduce arsenic
If your water has arsenic levels above 10 ppb, you should obtain drinking water from another source or install a home treatment device. Concentrations above 10 ppb will increase the risk of long-term or chronic health problems, the higher the level and length of exposure, the greater the risk.
In drinking water. Drinking water is an important and potentially controllable source of arsenic exposure. In fact, drinking water is a major source of arsenic exposure in some parts of the world. In parts of Taiwan, Japan, Bangladesh, and western South America, high levels of arsenic occur naturally i