Dinosaurs lived throughout the Mesozoic Era, which began 245 million years ago and lasted for 180 million years. It is sometimes called the Age of the Reptiles. The era is divided into three periods. 
Mesozoic Era (245 to 65 mya). One of the most striking events in the Mesozoic Era was the rise to dominance of dinosaurs in terrestrial ecosystems. The Mesozoic lasted from 245 to 65 million years ago, and is divided into three periods.
adj. Of, relating to, or being the era of geologic time from about 251 to 66 million years ago. The Mesozoic Era includes the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous Periods and is characterized by the development of flying reptiles, birds, and flowering plants and by the appearance and extinction of dinosaurs. 
During the Mesozoic, or Middle Life Era, life diversified rapidly and giant reptiles, dinosaurs and other monstrous beasts roamed the Earth. The period, which spans from about 252 million years ago to about 66 million years ago, was also known as the age of reptiles or the age of dinosaurs. English geologist John Phillips, the first person to create the global geologic timescale, first coined the term Mesozoic in the 1800s. The Mesozoic Era began roughly around the time of the end-Permian extinction, which wiped out 96 percent of marine life and 70 percent of all terrestrial species on the planet. Life slowly rebounded, eventually giving way to a flourishing diversity of animals, from massive lizards to monstrous
For the period of Earth's history referred to as the Age of Reptiles, see Mesozoic Era. The Age of Reptiles is a 110-foot (34 m) mural depicting the period of ancient history when reptiles were the dominant creatures on the earth, painted by Rudolph F. Zallinger. The fresco sits in the Yale Peabody Museum in New Haven, Connecticut, and was completed in 1947 after three years of work. The Age of Reptiles was at one time the largest painting in the world, and depicts a span of nearly 350 million years in Earth's history.
In total, The Age of Reptiles spans about 362 million years, from the Devonian period at the mural's beginning to the end of the Cretaceous period, 65 million years ago. Each period's length on the mural is proportional to the period's length in geologic time. The Age of Reptiles was at one time the largest painting in the world, and depicts a span of nearly 350 million years in Earth's history.
The Mesozoic Era is divided into three periods: the Triassic Period, the Jurassic Period, , and the Cretaceous Period. The Triassic began around 248 million years ago, after the mass extinction that brought an end to the Permian Period. It lasted about 42 million years. Reptiles Inherit The Earth. The Triassic Period is the first period of the Mesozoic Era. The great extinction at the end of the Permian period had brought the end to 90% of the living species on Earth. The Triassic was a time of growing new species to repopulate the planet.
Jurassic Period-period of time during the middle of the Age of Reptiles extending from approximately 145 to 208 million years ago. Mesozoic Era-era of time equivalent to the Age of Reptiles, including the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods and extending from approximately 65 to 248 million years ago. 
The Jurassic Period (213 to 144 million years ago) is the second of three periods during the Mesozoic Era. It is preceeded by the Triassic Period and it is followed by the Cretaceous Period. The Jurassic Period is referred to as the Age of Reptiles, since reptiles were diverse and abundant during the time period. On land, there were large dinosaurs such as Stegosaurus, Ceratosaurus, Brachiosaurus, and Allosaurus. In the seas, there were ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs. 