granular reticulum rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum. sarcoplasmic reticulum a form of agranular reticulum in the sarcoplasm of striated muscle, comprising a system of smooth-surfaced tubules surrounding each myofibril. stellate reticulum the soft, middle part of the enamel organ of a developing tooth. sarcoplasmic reticulum a form of agranular reticulum in the sarcoplasm of striated muscle, comprising a system of smooth-surfaced tubules surrounding each myofibril. , pl.
noun. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places—see rough endoplasmic reticulum. Medical Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places—see rough endoplasmic reticulum.
en·do·plas·mic reticulum. A network of membranes within the cytoplasm of many cells that is important in protein synthesis and involved in the transport of cellular materials. All organisms except bacteria have at least one endoplasmic reticulum in their cells. See more at cell. endoplas′mic retic′ulum. a network of tubular membranes within the cytoplasm of the cell, occurring either with a smooth surface (smooth endoplasmic reticulum) or studded with ribosomes (rough endoplasmic reticulum), involved in the transport of materials.. [1945–50]
Definition of RETICULUM. 1. : the second compartment of the stomach of a ruminant in which folds of the mucous membrane form hexagonal cells — compare abomasum, omasum, rumen. 2. : a reticulate structure: network. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of RETICULUM. 1. : the second compartment of the stomach of a ruminant in which folds of the mucous membrane form hexagonal cells—called also honeycomb; compare abomasum, omasum, rumen.
Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. Medical Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places—see rough endoplasmic reticulum.
sarcoplasmic reticulum. [-plas′mik]. Etymology: Gk, sarx + plassein, to mold; L, reticulum, little net. a network of tubules and sacs in skeletal muscle fibers that plays an important role in muscle contraction and relaxation by releasing and storing calcium ions. 
Sarcoplasmic reticulum. Definition. noun. The special type of smooth endoplasmic reticulum found in smooth and striated muscle fibers whose function is to store and release calcium ions. Supplement. The sarcoplasmic reticulum releases calcium ions during muscle contraction and absorb them during relaxation. 