A forced-air HVAC system distributes conditioned air through a plenum. A household forced-air heating, ventilation and air conditioning system depends on a system of ducts to provide a controlled path for distributing heated or cooled air throughout the home. The HVAC equipment has a blower that forces heated or cooled air into the supply plenum and from the plenum into the rooms through the supply duct system. Air-cleaning filters may be located in the supply plenum.
Supply Plenum. A plenum is an air-distribution box attached directly to the supply outlet of the HVAC equipment that heats or cools the air to make the house comfortable. The ductwork that distributes the heated or cooled air to individual rooms of the house connects to the plenum. The HVAC equipment has a blower that forces heated or cooled air into the supply plenum and from the plenum into the rooms through the supply duct system. Air-cleaning filters may be located in the supply plenum.
Think of the furnace plenum as the last place air is at your furnace, at it’s highest pressure, before traveling throughout your house. From the outside, it’s really nothing more than a metal box, in simple terms. This is exactly what your furnace plenum does before air is released and delivered. Other terms used for furnace plenum, are “supply plenum” or “intake plenum.”. Copyright © 2008-2015, HomeRepairgeek.com All rights reserved.
Electric Plenum Heaters. A plenum heater is an electric resistance heating device that is installed in the plenum, which is the spot in the ductwork system where ducting and furnace join. Air is heated as it flows across electric elements and then is distributed through the existing ductwork. 
Report Abuse. The plenum is the duct right on top of the furnace. A furnace has 2 ducts. Cold air is sucked-in through the return duct. The air is heated in the furnace and pushed through the plenum, which is the duct on top of furnace. Tam22 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. The plenum is the sheet metal box on top of the furnace that connects the furnace to the rest of the duct work.
A plenum space is a part of a building that can facilitate air circulation for heating and air conditioning systems, by providing pathways for either heated/conditioned or return airflows, usually at greater than atmospheric pressure. Vertical section through a commercial building without a plenum airspace. When both the supply and return ducts are constructed in this manner, it is possible to insulate the ducts and the dropped ceiling so that the upper airspace is not heated or cooled, increasing energy efficiency.
Furnace Plenum. A plenum is a compartment, air space or chamber that is filled with air that is then distributed elsewhere. A furnace plenum then, is such an air chamber that gets filled directly (and quickly) by a large blower that is above, below or adjacent to it. Air ducts connected to a furnace or heater plenum carry this air to various registers around a house or building. This is exactly what your furnace plenum does before air is released and delivered. Other terms used for furnace plenum, are “supply plenum” or “intake plenum.”. Copyright © 2008-2015, HomeRepairgeek.com All rights reserved.
GO. This calculator is for estimating capacity only, and does not give exact equipment capacities for your home. A supply air plenum is a sheet metal box that attaches to the outlet of a furnace or air handler and is used as a central manifold for other ductwork to connect to. As the air blows from the furnace or air handler, it flows through the supply plenum and any ductwork attached to it. The sizes of the supply plenums available here fit the furnaces and air handlers we sell. Each supply plenum consists of 5 sides that connect together for easy assembly.
Return Plenum. Forced-air systems also have return ducts that connect to the HVAC equipment through an air-collection box known as a return plenum. As freshly conditioned air is blown out of the room supply ducts, “used” air from the rooms is sucked into the return ducts. The HVAC equipment has a blower that forces heated or cooled air into the supply plenum and from the plenum into the rooms through the supply duct system. Air-cleaning filters may be located in the supply plenum.