Personal experiences with the name Saxon: | Edit. We love it. Saxon is not common but doesn't seem to promote silly nicknames that might cause ridicule. Strong name. No offence, but I'd say Saxophone is a silly nickname and might cause ridicule... With my name being Saxon I have never had a silly nickname or been ridiculed because of my name. Most parents and even some peers will compliment you on your name.
The name Saxon is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Saxon is: Sword. German Meaning: The name Saxon is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Saxon is: Dagger; short sword. In the 5th century, the Germanic Saxons frequently invaded Britain. Teutonic Meaning: The name Saxon is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Saxon is: Swordsman, Knife
The Saxons were the original Germanic tribes that invaded and settled England in the 5th century. Saxon is literally from Saxony but the place-name meaning is swordsman (from sahs = knife), due to the historical significance of the Germanic warriors who fought and won battles with their swords. No offence, but I'd say Saxophone is a silly nickname and might cause ridicule... With my name being Saxon I have never had a silly nickname or been ridiculed because of my name. Most parents and even some peers will compliment you on your name.
Anglo-Saxon names were used by the Anglo-Saxons who inhabited ancient England. See also about Germanic names. [more]. HEREWEALD m Anglo-Saxon. Old English form of HAROLD. HILD f Anglo-Saxon. Old English form of HILDA. HILDA f English, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Spanish, Anglo-Saxon (Latinized), Ancient Germanic. Originally a short form of names containing the Germanic element hild battle ...
It is of English origin, and the meaning of Saxon is from Saxonny. Also possibly swordsman. This name was originally given to those from Saxonny, a region of Germany. Saxons were among the German tribes that invaded and settled England in the fifth century. Saxon is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular surname for all people (#4584 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Saxon for boys. Saxon has not made it into the list thus far. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014)
This very interesting name recorded as Saxton, Sexton, Sexen,and Saxon, is generally English, but sometimes is Irish. It has at least three possible origins. The first and most likely is locational from one of the villages called Saxton, found in Yorkshire, Cambridge, and Surrey. 
Habitational name for someone from Brackenrig in Lanarkshire, named with the northern Middle English braken meaning bracken (from the Old Norse braekni), brækni and rigg meaning (ridge from The Old norse), hryggr or from a similarly named place located in Northern. england Habitational name for someone who lived in a place named Ainsworth near Manchester, from the Old English given name Ægen ægen and worþ meaning. ENCLOSURE Aitken, Scottish. English derived from the medieval given Name, atkin a diminutive OF. adam
Very few names of native English (Anglo-Saxon) origin survive into current use, the most common of these being Edward, Edmund, Edgar, Alfred and Harold for males; the female name Audrey continues the Anglo-Norman (French) form of the Anglo-Saxon Æðelþryð. æðelþryð A great variety of names are attested from the medieval period, falling into the rough categories of Scandinavian (Old Norse), Anglo-Saxon (Old English), continental (Frankish, Old High German and Low German), and East Germanic (see Gothic names) forms.
Latinized form of the Old English name Godgifu meaning gift of god, from the elements god and giefu gift ... [more]. GODRIC m Anglo-Saxon. Means power of god, derived from Old English god combined with ric power, rule ... [more]. HEREWEALD m Anglo-Saxon. Old English form of HAROLD. HILD f Anglo-Saxon. Old English form of HILDA. HILDA f English, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Spanish, Anglo-Saxon (Latinized), Ancient Germanic. Originally a short form of names containing the Germanic element hild battle ...