Depiction of the human body and bacteria that predominate. A microbiota is the ecological community of commensal, symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms that literally share our body space. Joshua Lederberg coined the term, emphasising the importance of microorganisms inhabiting the human body in health and disease. The problem of elucidating the human microbiome is essentially identifying the members of a microbial community which includes bacteria, eukaryotes, and viruses. This is done primarily using DNA-based studies, though RNA, protein and metabolite based studies are also performed.
More example sentences. 1  It is important to think of our bodies as a summation of the metabolic capabilities provided by our own genome and the microbiome. 2  He explains the roles of the genomes of trillions of microbes in and on our bodies (the microbiome). noun. 1 The microorganisms in a particular environment (including the body or a part of the body): we depend on a vast army of microbes to stay alive: a microbiome that protects us against germs, breaks down food to release energy, and produces vitamins.
A collection or community of microbes. Microbiome. Some use “microbiome” to mean all the microbes in a community. We and others use it to mean the full collection of genes of all the microbes in a community. The human microbiome (all of our microbes’ genes) can be considered a counterpart to the human genome (all of our genes)
And reference 4 is “Personal communication”. Anyway, others have taken the term microbiome and run with it because it does conjure up to many “microbial biome” which could be used to refer to all the microbes in a system. I prefer the original definitions with microbiota being the organisms and microbiome being the collective genomes of all the organisms. Some key quotes from that post: Well, the human microbiome is all over the news recently thanks to a new paper on the diversity and biogeography of microbes in human saliva. My only complaint is that I and Stoneking and many others have unfortunately made a mess of the terminology.
The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea. 
Many scientific articles distinguish microbiome and microbiota to describe either the collective genomes of the microorganisms that reside in an environmental niche or the microorganisms themselves, respectively. However, by the original definitions these terms are largely synonymous. The problem of elucidating the human microbiome is essentially identifying the members of a microbial community which includes bacteria, eukaryotes, and viruses. This is done primarily using DNA-based studies, though RNA, protein and metabolite based studies are also performed.
1 In our guts lives something called a 'microbiome', which is made up of approximately 100 trillion bacteria collectively containing maybe a hundred times as much genetic information as their host. 2  Scientists have long known that the human body coexists with trillions of individual germs, what they call the microbiome. noun. 1 The microorganisms in a particular environment (including the body or a part of the body): we depend on a vast army of microbes to stay alive: a microbiome that protects us against germs, breaks down food to release energy, and produces vitamins.
The human microbiome is composed of the microbes, as well as their genes and genomes, that live in and on the human body. 
The word microbiome is defined as the collection of microbes or microorganisms that inhabit an environment, creating a sort of “mini-ecosystem”. Our human microbiome is made up of communities of symbiotic, commensal and pathogenic bacteria (along with fungi and viruses) all of which call our bodies home. It is only now, through the groundbreaking works of those such as David A. Relman and The Human Microbiome Project, that we are finally aware of just how expansive our microbiota really is, and that we have still only barely scratched the surface.
More example sentences. 1  In our guts lives something called a 'microbiome', which is made up of approximately 100 trillion bacteria collectively containing maybe a hundred times as much genetic information as their host. noun. 1 The microorganisms in a particular environment (including the body or a part of the body): we depend on a vast army of microbes to stay alive: a microbiome that protects us against germs, breaks down food to release energy, and produces vitamins.