Definitions (2). 1. General: Protective electrical switch that turns itself off (trips) to interrupt flow of electricity, if the current exceeds a preset limit. When the current returns to normal, the circuit breaker is either manually or automatically reset for reuse. 2
Circuit Breakers. A circuit breaker is a switch that automatically interrupts electrical flow in a circuit in case of an overload or short. Homes built or rewired since the mid-1960s use circuit breakers to monitor the electricity coming into the home. • Single-pole breakers protect one energized wire and supply 120V to a circuit. - Standard single-pole breakers are generally 15 or 20 amps. - Single-pole units, which occupy one slot on a breaker panel, are the most common breakers. in a home.
The standard for circuit breaker panels is either single-or double-pole circuit breakers. Single-pole breakers are an important part of electrical distribution as a safe way to manage branch circuits from a circuit breaker panel. Single-pole circuit breaker is designed to trip if the amperage rating labeled on the handle is exceeded. This occurs when the circuit is either overloaded or a short circuit occurs somewhere within the branch circuit that it is connected to.
Noun. 1. circuit breaker-a device that trips like a switch and opens the circuit when overloaded. breaker. electrical fuse, fuse, safety fuse-an electrical device that can interrupt the flow of electrical current when it is overloaded. circuit breaker. n. 1. (Electronics) a device that under abnormal conditions, such as a short circuit, interrupts the flow of current in an electrical circuit.
Several circuit breakers in an electrical panel. A circuit breaker is a device designed to shut off an electrical circuit when too much current is flowing. This usually occurs if too many devices are plugged in or if there is a short circuit. Circuit breakers are usually installed in the electrical panel. Some circuit breakers also have GFCI protection. Inside the circuit breaker, there is usually an electromagnetic coil. When too much current flows through the coil, it pulls on the switch, shutting the power off.
A circuit breaker is an automatically operated electrical switch designed to protect an electrical circuit from damage caused by overload or short circuit. Its basic function is to detect a fault condition and interrupt current flow. The circuit breaker must detect a fault condition; in low voltage circuit breakers this is usually done within the breaker enclosure. Circuit breakers for large currents or high voltages are usually arranged with protective relay pilot devices to sense a fault condition and to operate the trip opening mechanism.