Grand Marnier does not go bad if it unopened and stored correctly. It should be kept from direct sunlight. It should also be protected from extreme changes in temperature. (reference-ask.com) (more).
Simple. Grand Marnier is an orange liqueur in the curacao curaçao, tradition And cointreau is a triple. Sec Grand marnier is a blend of cognac and triple, sec so although'it s not a traditional, curacao'curaçao it s a. similar product
Simple. Grand Marnier is an orange liqueur in the curacao curaçao, tradition And cointreau is a triple. Sec Grand marnier is a blend of cognac and triple, sec so although'it s not a traditional, curacao'curaçao it s a. Similar, product cointreau on the, other hand is straight up a. triple sec
I have four bottles of Grand Marnier that could be 10 to 15 years old. I have been drinking Grand Marnier for twenty years. This is in fact the only alcoholic beverage I drink. Because of this, friends and family used to buy me a bottle of Grand Marnier for every occasion immaginable! I recently found four bottles that were tucked away in my basement.
Perhaps the two most famous brands of orange liqueur are Grand Marnier and Cointreau, and you might be wondering where they fit in to this taxonomy. Simple. Grand Marnier is an orange liqueur in the curacao curaçao, tradition And cointreau is a triple. sec
In short, when opened, the Grand Marnier Liqueur will not continue to age but will still be good to drink long after you've popped the cork. Concerning an unopened bottle, basically it will not age as wine would. Liqueur only age when stored in special oak vats made for this purpose.
Expert Answers. No, Grand Marnier does not go bad. If the bottle is kept in the back of the liquor cabinet (in a cool dark place) and the bottle's been properly capped, looks and smells normal, it lasts for several years. 1  Login to post comment.
This homemade Grand Marnier is significantly cheaper and tastes better than what you can buy in the store! Homemade Grand Marnier – This homemade orange flavored liquor that is typically mixed into margaritas and other tasty drinks – a staple for any home bar.