441 items. Per Page: 12 24 All. If leather jackets aren’t your style there’s always textile motorcycle jackets from Chaparral Motorsports. We have the latest styles and colors in stock for Men and Women from top name brands that include River Road, Firstgear, Joe Rocket, Shift and many more at industry low prices. 
The textile motorcycle jacket can be worn in a range of weather conditions. For instance, a textile jacket has vents that allow it to breathe in warm weather, and it has liners that can be added when the weather is cold, according to the Daytona Motorcycle Training website. It also disperses rainwater better than leather. A textile motorcycle jacket contains some protective armor within it to help protect jacket wearers in the event of an accident. However, according to Daytona Motorcycle Training, leather jackets offer superior protection.
Many textile motorcycle jackets can accommodate multiple liners, mesh panels and space age materials to add potentially more durability and versatility than their leather counterparts. Textile jackets also come from numerous brands and span many price ranges. If you are having a hard time picking out a well suited textile for your riding style and budget, don't hesitate to call us and we can walk you through the selection process-we know it can be daunting, especially for new riders.
Textile motorcycle jackets are at their finest at Jafrum. They exist for the men who are tired of the usual leather motorcycle jackets. Come pick the latest in the textile range! A textile jacket offers you a lightweight, welcome change. Leave aside the leather; textile is the trend of the day! 
Every ounce of weight is equivalent to 1/64 of thickness. The weight of leather used in motorcycle jackets, chaps, vests, gloves and other accessories is determined by the number of ounces that one square foot of material weighs. For example, if a square foot of leather weighs four ounces, it is called 4-ounce leather. Leather Motorcycle Jackets: When looking for a leather motorcycle jacket, make sure that the color and texture of the leather is consistent throughout the garment. For example, the leather on the torso and the sleeves of the jacket should look like it came from the same beast.
Textile Motorcycle Jackets. There are many upsides to living in warmer climates. You get the sunshine, the barbecues and 365 days of riding weather each year. But there’s a downside to this toasty hedonism: it’s often too hot to wear full protective gear. This $215 jacket is a hybrid of sorts; it’s made from a combination of 1.2mm leather, ‘FreeAir’ poly mesh and a ‘RockTex 660’ outer shell, giving it the benefit of leather with the breathability of a mesh front.
The best textile motorcycle jackets cover a few bases; they are protective, breathable, weatherproof and extremely versatile-on top of being typically less expensive than comparable leathers. Textile jackets also come from numerous brands and span many price ranges. If you are having a hard time picking out a well suited textile for your riding style and budget, don't hesitate to call us and we can walk you through the selection process-we know it can be daunting, especially for new riders.
A textile motorcycle jacket is a jacket designed specifically for motorcycle riders. The textile jacket serves as an alternative option for motorcycle enthusiasts to the leather motorcycle jacket. The textile style offers some advantages to the leather style. A textile motorcycle jacket contains some protective armor within it to help protect jacket wearers in the event of an accident. However, according to Daytona Motorcycle Training, leather jackets offer superior protection.
Best Answer: A mesh jacket is a subset of textile jackets. That is, every mesh jacket is a textile, but every textile is not a mesh. Confused yet? It used to be that pretty much all motorcycle jackets were leather. Mesh IS textile, i.e. nylon. A mesh jacket will offer less protection than a solid textile, simply because there is less material to wear off in a crash.