1 Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs including the uterus (womb), Fallopian tubes (tubes), ovaries, and cervix. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted disease. 1 Young, sexually active women with multiple sex partners are at greatest risk for pelvic inflammatory disease. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 3  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse.
Pelvic inflammatory disease. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of the female reproductive organs. It usually occurs when sexually transmitted bacteria spread from your vagina to your uterus, fallopian tubes or ovaries. 
Knowledge center. Pelvic inflammatory disease or PID is a broad term for inflammation of the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes and/or ovaries-the female reproductive organs or the upper genital tract. PID may progress to scar formations with fibrous bands that form between tissues and organs (adhesions). In the majority of cases pelvic inflammatory disease is caused by an infection in the vagina or cervix which spreads. PID can refer to bacteria, fungal or parasitic infections-in most cases the infection is bacterial.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pelvic inflammatory disease or pelvic inflammatory disorder (PID) is an infection of the upper part of the female reproductive system namely the uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries, and inside of the pelvis. Often there may be no symptoms. Signs and symptoms, when present may include lower abdominal pain, vaginal discharge, fever, burning with urination, pain with sex, or irregular menstruation. Untreated PID can result in long term complications including infertility, ectopic pregnancy, chronic pelvic pain, and cancer. The disease is caused by bacteria that spread from the vagina and cervix. Infections by Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Chlamydia trachomatis are present in 75 to 90 percent of case
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is a general term that refers to infection and inflammation of the upper genital tract in women. 
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs. The pelvic organs include the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes (fuh-LOH-pee-uhn toobs), ovaries, and cervix. 
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) refers to infection of female reproductive organs. It usually occurs when sexually transmitted bacteria spread from the vagina through the cervix, into the uterus, the fallopian tubes, and the ovaries. 
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs. The pelvic organs include the uterus (womb), fallopian (fuh-LOH-pee-uhn) tubes (tubes), ovaries, and cervix. 1 Young, sexually active women with multiple sex partners are at greatest risk for pelvic inflammatory disease. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 3  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse.
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of the reproductive organs in women. The pelvis is located in the lower abdomen and includes the fallopian tubes, the ovaries, the cervix, and the uterus. 