The full cost of a regular visit to the doctor in the US typically ranges from $80-$200. However, this cost is usually paid by the patient's health insurance plan and the pati … ent (as co-pay or co-insurance). The cost of a dental visit for uninsured patients will vary  depending on the location and dentist. On average, a dental visit  will cost around $150 to $200. Uninsured peop … le can check out local  dental schools or health departments for low cost dentistry
1 For patients covered by health insurance, out-of-pocket cost for an emergency room visit typically consists of a copay, usually $50-$150 or more, which often is waived if the patient is admitted to the hospital. 2  Depending on the plan, costs might include coinsurance of 10% to 50%. 1 An emergency room visit typically is covered by health insurance. 2 
The co-payment amount varies depending on the insurance plan. Typical co-pays for a visit to a primary care physician range from $15 to $25. Co-pays for a specialist will generally be between $30 and $50. Most plans also require that the insured pay a deductible before the insurance provider will take over payments to a physician. For example, in 2011 in America, the average charge for an office visit for an established patient, level 3, requiring approximately 15 minutes with a doctor, was $104. The average total paid was $69
All of this is not very helpful, as you try to prepare for your visit. Perhaps some real data would help: in the United States, uninsured people under age 65 who had a physician office visit in 2009 spent a median of $194. That means half of the people who saw a physician spent less than $194, and half spent more. On average, uninsured people under age 65 spent $630 on physician office visits. (Source: Medical Expenditure Panel Survey .). A single visit to a primary care doctor will very likely be much less than $200, in any case. If you cannot pay the whole amount at the time of the visit, you can ask for a payment plan. If you can pay the whole amount at the time of the visit, you can ask for a discount.
Obviously it varies wildly from doctor to doctor. I've been quoted as much as $300 for a quick 15-minute visit as you describe (and I'm sure it can go higher), but it needn't be that much as a matter of course, even without insurance. Zabali 's suggestion was prudent. In the Netherlands, I pay 28 euros, (about 32 dollars) if for a visit-plus-prescription to my ordinary family physician. That's based on a visit of 10 minutes or less; every additional 10 minutes is another 32 dollars.
$54 – the average bill for a visit to the doctor for a variety of services, from checkups to surgical procedures. It’s 5.3 per cent more expensive than the year before. $40 – that’s the average family physician’s bill for a visit. $74 – how much a specialist charges on average. 
A doctor’s visit is often an important and very necessary expense. When it is required it is good to know just how much you are going to need to shell out for it. The average cost of a doctor visit is $120 under a balance of circumstances. The general price range is between $60 and $300. A higher end doctor may cost between $1,000 and $5,000. The specific costs are dependent upon the doctor’s normal rates and the type of treatment or examination required. If you have medical insurance, about 80% of the total cost will be covered, giving an average of $25 per visit.