Ventilated roofs are nothing new, however ventilated cold roof are used on SIP roofs in order to prevent ice dams, damage from trapped moisture and a second layer of defense for roof leaks. In order to avoid that situation we use a ventilated cold roof. The cold roof is very similar to traditional ventilated roofs in the sense that air is allowed to enter the eaves of the roof through a vent. The air travels up the roof pitch and exits at the roof peak. To accomplish this we install 1×3 pine strapping along the roof every 18″
There is no air-space between the roof and the warm air, thus there is no condensation.When designing a warm roof, the architect must take the added weight of the insulation into consideration. This is especially true in residential construction of a sloped roof. If you are thinking of re-roofing your home or building, the option of a cold or warm roof is already done for you. The roof must be designed to withstand the additional weight of the warm roof or the entire roof must be reconstructed.
Ad. There is also a cold roof design with an unventilated attic space. Here, the cold roof insulation is placed in the same manner as the ventilated cold roof and the ceiling is completely sealed to prevent entry of moist air into the attic space. With cold roofs, as the snow doesn't melt, there is no question of ice dam formation and all the problems that go with it. The traditional cold roof construction consists of a well-ventilated attic space with a pitched roof.
With a cold roof, the roof temperature stays the same as the temperature of the outside air. Cold roofing prevents the formation of ice dams, which can be a regular hazard with warm roofs. With cold roofs, as the snow doesn't melt, there is no question of ice dam formation and all the problems that go with it. The traditional cold roof construction consists of a well-ventilated attic space with a pitched roof.
A hot roof is a properly sealed unvented attic, instead of a traditional vented roof which consist of an insulated attic floor and open soffits where air enters and then leaves through the top of the roof. Spray foamed attics have foam applied directly to the roof decking, and the attic space isn’t ventilated. The lack of ventilation is why they are called hot roofs. In a standard insulation system, ceiling insulation reduces the transfer of heat from the attic to the living space (in the summer).
A warm roof is a type of roof construction which has an insulation layer above the rafters, and immediately below its weatherproof membrane. A warm roof construction has many benefits over a traditional ‘cold roof’, essentially it is a ‘breathable roof construction’, which allows moisture to escape which in turn prevents damp and any associated decay problems.
This is particularly a problem in valleys. In warm climates, a cold roof is still an advantage, but much less critical. The ventilation prevents any significant temperature differential from building up in the roofing system. That is the deciding factor. In cold roofs, the outside air is allowed to freely flow under the roof sheathing. In hot roofs, the insulation is typically installed close to the roof sheathing, but the main characteristic is the space under the sheathing is closed to fresh air flow. Thus, your unventilated roof is indeed a hot roof
Too cold to shingle. Granted it's harder in cold temps, but if installed correctly the cold temps don't matter. The hot temps are what is hard on shingles. Between 30 and 60 degrees is usually best, but roof temps are usually much different than actual air temps. 