Bacteriophages – or phages for short – are viruses that attack bacteria but not humans. They have only one objective: their reproduction. Phages are so poorly equipped, however, that they can’t do this on their own. 
Best Answer: A bacteriophage (from 'bacteria' and Greek phagein, 'to eat') is a virus that infects bacteria. The term is commonly used in its shortened form, phage. Like viruses that infect eukaryotes (plants, animals and fungi), a large diversity of phage structures and functions exist. [edit] Replication Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, however a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. In the lytic cycle, characteristic of virulent phages such as the T4 phage, host cells will be broken open (lysed) and suffer death after immediate replication of the virion.
Used with permission. A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. Bacteriophages, first discovered around 1915, have played a unique role in viral biology. They are perhaps the best understood viruses, yet at the same time, their structure can be extraordinarily complex. 
Bacteriophages occur abundantly in the biosphere, with different virions, genomes and lifestyles. Phages are classified by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) according to morphology and nucleic acid. Bacteriophages are composed of proteins that encapsulate a DNA or RNA genome, and may have relatively simple or elaborate structures. Their genomes may encode as few as four genes, and as many as hundreds of genes. Phages replicate within the bacterium following the injection of their genome into its cytoplasm.
Report Abuse. A bacteriophage (from 'bacteria' and Greek phagein, 'to eat') is a virus that infects bacteria. The term is commonly used in its shortened form, phage. Like viruses that infect eukaryotes (plants, animals and fungi), a large diversity of phage structures and functions exist. [edit] Replication Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, however a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. In the lytic cycle, characteristic of virulent phages such as the T4 phage, host cells will be broken open (lysed) and suffer death after immediate replication of the virion.
Diagram of the DNA injection process. Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, and a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. With lytic phages such as the T4 phage, bacterial cells are broken open (lysed) and destroyed after immediate replication of the virion. Bacteriophages are composed of proteins that encapsulate a DNA or RNA genome, and may have relatively simple or elaborate structures. Their genomes may encode as few as four genes, and as many as hundreds of genes. Phages replicate within the bacterium following the injection of their genome into its cytoplasm.
Bacteriophages (phages) are viruses that infect bacteria. Typical phages have hollow heads (where the phage DNA or RNA is stored) and tunnel tails, the tips of which have the ability to bind to specific molecules on the surface of their target bacteria. [edit] Replication Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, however a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. In the lytic cycle, characteristic of virulent phages such as the T4 phage, host cells will be broken open (lysed) and suffer death after immediate replication of the virion.
Transcript. DR BRENT GILPIN. A bacteriophage, or a phage, is a virus that infects bacteria, so these don't infect human cells –they are very specialised and only infect bacteria. So every bacteria is being attacked by various viruses which are using those as the host that they replicate in
In fact, bacterial infections can be treated with bacteriophages: viruses that have the ability to infect and fight harmful bacteria, culminating in their destruction. Bacteriophage or phage therapy is therefore very useful in various fields like medicine, veterinary science, dentistry, and even agriculture. How Bacteriophages Work. In order to infect a host cell, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the bacteria’s cell wall, specifically on a receptor found on the bacteria’s surface. Once it becomes tightly bound to the cell, the bacterial virus injects its genetic material (its nucleic acid) into the host cell.