The purpose of a sea wall is to provide a barrier between the sea and land (specifically areas that are heavily populated). This provides protection against sea actions such … as tides and waves. Sea walls work by acting as deflectors which help to break the force of incoming waves. The power of the waves is weakened before they make landfall and, by reducing the force … of the sea in this way, sea walls help to protect the beaches, cliffs and harbours from erosion.
Answer by Ella 93. Confidence votes 50. Sea walls are a form of hard engineering coastal protection. A man made wall structures built on or near the shoreline with the purpose of absorbing storm wave energy to protect the land or an area of water behind the wall from erosion. However, a seawall may not protect a coast from erosion in the long run. There is no special name for a curved sea wall. These sea walls are  simply labeled as curved and serve the purpose of reflecting a  waves energy back to the sea.
Seawall at Urangan, Queensland. A seawall (or sea wall) is a form of coastal defense constructed where the sea, and associated coastal processes, impact directly upon the landforms of the coast. The purpose of a seawall is to protect areas of human habitation, conservation and leisure activities from the action of tides and waves. As a seawall is a static feature it will conflict with the dynamic nature of the coast and impede the exchange of sediment between land and sea. The coast is generally a high-energy, dynamic environment with spatial variations occurring over a wide range of temporal scales.
Whoop de-do it costs so much more in Australia! For a wall 100m long it costs over $400 000AUS. The thing with some rock and sea walls is that they can also be built on the beach to raise residential and commercial housing as the early quote stated to protect them. Unfortunately with this strategy the sand needs replenishing and this costs in the millions to support vasts projects like this. There is no special name for a curved sea wall. These sea walls are  simply labeled as curved and serve the purpose of reflecting a  waves energy back to the sea.
Physical management of the coast attempts to control natural processes such as erosion erosion: Erosion is the process whereby rock or soil is worn away by the action of the wind, waves or water. and longshore drift [longshore drift: A tide or current that flows along the coast, taking material with it. 
Sea Walls. Docks Unlimited provides a variety of types of sea wall that will add to the overall character of your lakeside view. Types offered include pressure-treated wood, geostone, stacked stone, rip-rap, or concrete, with or without pattern. 
A First Great Western train on the sea wall approaching Teignmouth. The South Devon Railway sea wall is situated on the south coast of Devon in England. A footpath runs alongside the railway between Dawlish Warren and Dawlish, and another footpath forms a continuation to the sea front promenade at Teignmouth. Both these form part of the South West Coast Path. The South Devon Railway was built to the designs of Isambard Kingdom Brunel and takes a route from Exeter which follows the River Exe to Dawlish Warren, runs beneath the sea cliffs to Teignmouth, and then follows the River Teign to Newton Abbot. It follows tidal waters for about 13 miles, 4 of which are open sea.
Sea walls are a form of hard engineering coastal protection. A man made wall structures built on or near the shoreline with the purpose of absorbing storm wave energy to prote … ct the land or an area of water behind the wall from erosion. However, a seawall may not protect a coast from erosion in the long run. Sea walls work by acting as deflectors which help to break the force of incoming waves. The power of the waves is weakened before they make landfall and, by reducing the force … of the sea in this way, sea walls help to protect the beaches, cliffs and harbours