1 Bell's palsy is a condition whereby the inner ear becomes inflamed, resulting in pressure on the facial nerve, which in turn causes facial paralysis on the affected side. 2  Facial palsy is the most common acute condition involving only one nerve, with Bell's palsy being the most common cause of acute facial paralysis. Having Bell's palsy can be a frightening and confusing time and a person with Bell’s palsy may initially fear that they are having a stroke. In Bell's palsy, however, the paralysis affects the entire half of the face, including the forehead (whereas typically with a stroke, the forehead is spared).
The most common cause of sixth nerve palsy in older adults and senior citizens is stroke. When sixth nerve palsy is present in children, the most common cause is trauma. In rare cases, it is present at birth. Other causes for sixth nerve palsy include: 1  viral illness. 2  inflammation of the brain caused by viral illness. 3  brain tumor. 4  multiple sclerosis. 5  diabetic neuropathy. 6  intracranial pressure. 7  migraine headaches
Bell's palsy is a paralysis or weakness of the muscles on one side of your face. Damage to the facial nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face causes that side of your face to droop. The nerve damage may also affect your sense of taste and how you make tears and saliva. Most cases are thought to be caused by the herpes virus that causes cold sores. In most cases of Bell's palsy, the nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face is damaged by inflammation.
I have it only in one eye. A cranial nerve palsy, which is what you have that is limiting the ability to move your eye, is a serious medical symptom. There are many things that can cause a cranial nerve palsy, including brain tumors, high blood pressure, and various infections among others. 
Bell's palsy is caused by the herpes virus (same one that causes chicken pox and shingles in adults) and this virus causes various ailments (including BP) d … uring an immuno-compromised condition-stress and anxiety can compromise your immune system, which is why they are dangerous health conditions. yes answer 2 Most definitely, stress is what caused my Bell's Palsy after a simple cold episode. ANY virus such as flu/cold can trigger, but stress is huge factor in full … blown Bell's Palsy. b-complex vitamin is helping mine heal quicker, but must be balanced complex
The cause of Bell's palsy is not clear. Most cases are thought to be caused by the herpes virus that causes cold sores. In most cases of Bell's palsy, the nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face is damaged by inflammation. Many health problems can cause weakness or paralysis of the face
Yes, very much so. Bell's palsy is caused by the herpes virus (same one that causes chicken pox and shingles in adults) and this virus causes various ailments (including BP) during an immuno-compromised condition-stress and anxiety can compromise your immune system, which is why they are dangerous health conditions. Not likely, as Bell's Palsy merely affects the trigeminal and/or facial nerves of the face. Bleeding from the ear can be caused by numerous other things, such as concussions, … ear infections, or injury. Consult an emergency physician with any ear bleeding as it has a high likelihood of being serious.
Shingles can cause Bell's Palsy indirectly. The herpes zoster virus sometimes breaks out into shingles. The shingles may cause blistering in the area of the Facial Nerve (Cran … ial VII nerve) which controls the muscles on one side of the face or the other. This inflammation, not the shingles, is what causes Bell's Palsy. When shingles and Bell's Palsy are interrelated like this, it is called Ramsey-Hunt Syndrome. yes answer 2 Most definitely, stress is what caused my Bell's Palsy after a simple cold episode. ANY virus such as flu/cold can trigger, but stress is huge factor in full … blown Bell's Palsy. b-complex vitamin is helping mine heal quicker, but must be balanced complex
Treatment for this type of palsy may include patching, prisms, or even surgery if necessary. top of page. Sixth Cranial Nerve (Abducens Nerve) Palsy. Sixth cranial nerve palsy, also referred to at Abducens nerve palsy, can be caused by a head injury, brain tumors, infections, aneurysms, or multiple sclerosis. Depending on the condition, there may be increased pressure on the affected nerve or a decrease in blood flow to the nerve. 