Don’t worry about length too much, a television script has to fit into a specific time-slot and a movie script should keep between 90 and 120 pages but within reason a stage play can be as long as it needs to be (see Writing a one-act play below for more on timing). 
These pages are an explanation of the standard stage play format. See the Example Pages for visual examples of the format. There are three reasons why playwrights use this format: 1) In this format, it is easy for a producer/script reader to estimate how long the running time of the script will be. The accepted format lays out the script at roughly one minute per page. If the play contains more than one act, indicate the act number with a Roman numeral, followed by a dash, then the Arabic page number. This is better explained by example: for instance, these are how the first three pages in a play with more than one act (and without scene designations) would appear. I-1, I-2, 1-3, etc.
125 page scripts are considered on the long side for a screenplay. Length is a very important component of the script. When you turn in a script to a producer, the very first thing s/he will do is fan through the pages and look at the last page to see how long it is. 
2. Each page represents approximately one minute of time on stage. So if you have a play that is 200 pages long, that won't work. Audiences aren't going to sit for more than one and a half hours unless you are providing a circus, a fire drill, sex, and an earthquake. 6. Dialogue: Now here's the, sometimes, hard part: everything you want the audience to know, about the story and the characters, is conveyed in the dialogue. Unlike a short story or a novel, where you can write as much description as you'd like, a play script has none of that.
Confidence votes 26.0K. A stage play script length isn't as fine-tuned a document insofar as time is concerned as a film script, where one minute of film time equals one page. A director can expand or contract the time a stage play lasts -- to some degree. A short play can be 35-45 pages. The run time will approximate that number of minutes. How many pages does a script have to be if it is 2 hours and 30 minutes? If one page of script equals about one minute of film time, your script should be about 150 pages.
play length. If you have been asked for a play that lasts an hour, stick to that. I think a good length is 1 hour 30 mins - 1 hr 45 mins with one interval. The first half (pre interval) should be longer than the second half and anything without an interval should not exceed 90 minutes. In my experience, one act would probably be the average for a hour long play, maybe squeezing to two acts. Commonly, an hour long play is considered a relatively short play. It's above a skit, but below a full three act 1.75-2.5 hr play in length. One act would be fine for one hour. Yes... the avatar is not me.
Regards your questions, I'd say word count isn't as important as page count. Plays range in length wildly but the scriptwriting adage of one page = one minute is still pretty true for playwriting. So if you want a play an hour long, go for 50-70 pages. Most plays run about an hour/hour thirty with an intermission. I am neither sure what length of time is acceptable for a play nor how many words these actors can produce in an hour or so, so I did a word-count on a randomly selected play (Wilde's Lady Wintermere's Fan) and ended up with about 19,000.
Audiences are even reluctant to sit through  The Iceman Cometh a classic by Eugene O'Neill. It runs close to 3 hours.You should keep your full length script to about 100 pages which equals 1.6 hours of stage time. For a one act divide that by 2. For a ten minute play your script should be from 10-15 pages. 6. Dialogue: Now here's the, sometimes, hard part: everything you want the audience to know, about the story and the characters, is conveyed in the dialogue. Unlike a short story or a novel, where you can write as much description as you'd like, a play script has none of that.