Cinnamon is the name for perhaps a dozen species of trees and the commercial spice products that some of them produce. All are members of the genus Cinnamomum in the family Lauraceae. Only a few of them are grown commercially for spice. The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. Intermediate Forms the greek in turn was borrowed From a, phoenician word which would have been akin to The related. hebrew qinnamon
Cultivation of Cinnamon Tree. Cinnamon is from a tropical evergreen tree of the laurel family growing up to 7m (56 ft) in its wild state. It has deeply-veined ovate leaves that are dark green on top, lighter green underneath. The bark is smooth and yellowish. Both the bark and leaves are aromatic. Cinnamon is the inner bark of a tropical evergreen tree. A native of Sri Lanka (formerly Ceylon) the best cinnamon grows along the coastal strip near Colombo.
The Cinnamon oil which is made by steam distilling the leaves of the Cinnamon Tree or Cinnamon Bark is heavily used in food processing, fine perfumes, aroma therapy, medication (especially Asian medication), disinfectants. TYPES OF CINNAMON. There are hundreds of types of Cinnamon. The cassia Cinnamon is made by cutting the Cinnamon tree trunk and rolling the inner bark into sticks. Because the Cassia Bark is very hard and thick only one piece of bark is used for rolling into a stick.
Cinnamon (/ˈsɪnəmən/ SIN-ə-mən) is a spice obtained from the inner bark of several trees from the genus Cinnamomum that is used in both sweet and savoury foods. The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. Intermediate Forms the greek in turn was borrowed From a, phoenician word which would have been akin to The related. hebrew qinnamon
Cinnamon comes from a tree. People use the bark to make medicine. Cinnamon bark is used for gastrointestinal (GI) upset, diarrhea, and gas. It is also used for stimulating appetite; for infections caused by bacteria and parasitic worms; and for menstrual cramps, the common cold, and the flu (influenza). 
Cinnamon Tree. 4 Comments. This is a cinnamon tree (Cinnamomum zeylanicum) . We use the bark as a spice in North America, but they also use the leaves in the Caribbean both to make tea and to flavor stews like you would with a bay leaf (Laurus nobilis) .
Knowledge center. Cinnamon is a spice that comes from the branches of wild trees that belong to the genus Cinnamomum - native to the Caribbean, South America, and Southeast Asia. There are two main types of cinnamon: 1  Cinnamomum verum (Ceylon cinnamon), most commonly used in the Western world
Cinnamon or Camphor Tree. Grown in USDA zones 8a through 10, Cinnamomum camphora is commonly called cinnamon tree or camphor tree. Grown for the camphor oil distilled from its trunks and branches, it reaches a mature height of 25 to 75 feet with an 8-foot spread. Oval leaves reach 1 to 4 inches in length, emerging a dusty burgundy color. 
Cinnamon is a tropical evergreen tree whose parts, either the bark or the leaf is used for a variety of purposes. The parts of the tree is broken down into many parts as follows. 1  Cinnamon chips (like wood chips) made from the bark. 2  Bark rolled into sticks that are between 2-6 inches long. 3  The Cinnamon bark ground into Cinnamon powder. The cassia Cinnamon is made by cutting the Cinnamon tree trunk and rolling the inner bark into sticks. Because the Cassia Bark is very hard and thick only one piece of bark is used for rolling into a stick.