In short, the liability shift means exactly what it says. It is the change in financial responsibility, to either a merchant, bank or credit card company, should a fraudulent transaction take place. The rules for which party is left with the liability depends on what level of technology either party has.
By October 2016, the liability shift extends to ATMs, and by October 2017, the liability shift extends to automated fuel dispensers. This has been in effect in Europe since Jan. 1, 2005. CIOs who manage points of sale, ATMs, or other places with card readers need to take note of potential growing liability.
If the consumer presents a chip-card and the merchant is not EMV enabled due to the ISO, then the liability falls on the credit card company. The liability shift will be enforced on October 15, 2015. From then on, all parties will have to comply with the new regulations. Now that we understand the definition of the liability shift, let’s uncover what the change will mean for merchants, banks, consumers and credit card companies. What it means for merchants. Many major retailers have already upgraded their point of sale terminals to include EMV transaction capabilities.
Even though the adoption of the EMV initiative is voluntary, you don t want to be the one looking for a chair when the music stops. Missing the October 2015 deadline for implementing Chip and PIN could come with a costly price tag for banks and merchants.That date denotes what is commonly called the liability shift.
Full Definition of LIABILITY. 1. a: the quality or state of being liable b: probability. 2. : something for which one is liable; especially: pecuniary obligation: debt —usually used in plural. 3. : one that acts as a disadvantage: drawback.
MasterCard states: Chip liability shift means that when a counterfeit, fraud transaction occurs in a country or region that has migrated to the EMV chip card platform, the liability for the transaction will shift to the non chip-compliant party.
Q: Please give us a definition of liability as it is used in the liability shift discussion. A: Today, if a merchant processes a card that is counterfeit, if they followed the rules, the issuer is liable for the costs of that transaction. After October, it will be the merchant's responsibility to pay for those fees.