Age – Children and older people are more likely to develop brain tumors than others. However they can occur at any age. Gende r – Men develop more brain tumors overall than women. However certain types of brain tumors are more common in women, such as meningiomas. Environmental exposure – Exposure to toxic chemicals such as pesticides, solvents, rubber and vinyl chloride may increase the risk of brain tumor development. 
A meningioma is a type of tumor that develops from the meninges, the membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. There are three layers of meninges, called the dura mater, arachnoid and pia mater. The only known predisposing factors associated with meningiomas are exposure to radiation, and certain genetic disorders (e.g. neurofibromatosis). Some have reported an association between meningiomas and the site of a previous injury (e.g. head trauma).
Meningiomas may cause seizures, headaches, and focal neurological defects, such as arm or leg weakness, or vision loss. Patients often have subtle symptoms for a long period before the meningioma is diagnosed. Sometimes memory loss, carelessness, and unsteadiness are the only symptoms. The only known predisposing factors associated with meningiomas are exposure to radiation, and certain genetic disorders (e.g. neurofibromatosis). Some have reported an association between meningiomas and the site of a previous injury (e.g. head trauma).
Meningiomas are most common in people between the ages of 40 and 70. They are more common in women than in men. Among middle-aged patients, there is a marked female bias, with a female: male ratio of almost 3 to 1 in the brain and up to 6 to 1 in the spinal cord. The only known predisposing factors associated with meningiomas are exposure to radiation, and certain genetic disorders (e.g. neurofibromatosis). Some have reported an association between meningiomas and the site of a previous injury (e.g. head trauma).
Most of the time, the cause of a brain tumor is unknown, but the following factors may raise a person’s risk of developing a brain tumor: Age. Brain tumors are more common in children and older adults, although people of any age can develop a brain tumor. Gender. In general, men are more likely than women to develop a brain tumor. However, some specific types of brain tumors, such as meningioma, are more common in women. Home and work exposures. Exposure to solvents, pesticides, oil products, rubber, or vinyl chloride may increase the risk of developing a brain tumor, although there is not yet scientific evidence that supports this possible link. 
Re: are meningiomas hereditary. This info contradicts the info I have read which suggests that meningiomas are a common type of tumor, more common in women than in men, affect 1 per 38,000 people, and usually occur between the ages of 40-60. so apparently the 1 in a couple of million statement may be debatable. Posts: 10,128. Re: are meningiomas hereditary. thanks beth,we are still pluggin along here. we found out the hardest way possible that you just really do not have any real clue as to what is going on inside your own body til you actually get that 'look inside somehow. been crazy here.
Re: are meningiomas hereditary. I have a begnin meningioma and my mom had one out a year ago, however I have been two 3 nuerosurgeons and nuerologists and they all say that we are a rare case like 1 in a couple million. Posts: 10,128. Re: are meningiomas hereditary. thanks beth,we are still pluggin along here. we found out the hardest way possible that you just really do not have any real clue as to what is going on inside your own body til you actually get that 'look inside somehow. been crazy here.
Re: are meningiomas hereditary. My 32 yo daughter was diagnosed with a meningioma in March of this year. As far as I know, there is nobody on either side of our families that has had a benign brain tumor. Posts: 10,128. Re: are meningiomas hereditary. thanks beth,we are still pluggin along here. we found out the hardest way possible that you just really do not have any real clue as to what is going on inside your own body til you actually get that 'look inside somehow. been crazy here.