http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unchained_M... originally it was Alex North in 1955 he did it for a movie called unchained. then in 1965 the Righteous Brothers did it. Report Abuse. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unchained_M... originally it was Alex North in 1955 he did it for a movie called unchained. then in 1965 the Righteous Brothers did it. oh yeah!
In the movie, it's sung by Todd Duncan but this version did not become a popular hit. The first hit version was an instrumental by Les Baxter which hit #2 in 1955 in the U.S. and a vocal version by Al Hibbler peaked at #3 the same year. Report Abuse. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unchained_M... originally it was Alex North in 1955 he did it for a movie called unchained. then in 1965 the Righteous Brothers did it. oh yeah!
Report Abuse. This song was originally used in the soundtrack for an obscure 1955 film called 'Unchained'. The person who sang it for the film was Todd Duncan. It is known that Al Hibbler recorded it before Jimmy Young, but it could be a toss-up for first recording between Hibbler and Duncan. john g · 8 years ago.
It was in 1955 that Al Hibbler sang Unchained Melody.. The success  of this cover lead to many covers after it peaked at the third spot  on the Billboard charts. Four versions of that song charted in 1955. The first two were: Al Hibbler Les Baxter Both charted in the w … eek of April 9. Roy Hamilton and June Valli both charted a few weeks later.
The song Unchained Melody came out in 1955 sung by Al Hibbler. You can find it on Utube. The Righteous Brothers version was made in 1965. Four versions of that song charted in 1955. The first two were: Al Hibbler Les Baxter Both charted in the w … eek of April 9. Roy Hamilton and June Valli both charted a few weeks later.
Tweet Unchained Melody. On Nov 3rd 1990, 25 years after their version was recorded, The Righteous Brothers went to No.1 on the UK singles chart with Unchained Melody. The track had been featured in the Patrick Swayze film Ghost. 
Then came song recordings by Al Hibbler (Decca Records #29441), reaching number 3 on the Billboard charts; Jimmy Young which hit number 1 in the United Kingdom; and Roy Hamilton (Epic Records no. 9102), reaching number 1 on the R&B Best Sellers list and number 6 on the pop chart. Hundreds of other recordings followed. In 1954, North and lyricist Hy Zaret were contracted to write a song as a theme for the prison film Unchained, and their song eventually became known as the Unchained Melody.
Unchained Melody  is a 1955 song with music by Alex North and lyrics by Hy Zaret. North used the music as a theme for the little-known prison film Unchained, hence the name. In 1954, North and lyricist Hy Zaret were contracted to write a song as a theme for the prison film Unchained, and their song eventually became known as the Unchained Melody.
duke ellington Firstly, the title is Unchained Melody. Four versions of that song charted in 1955. The first two were: Al Hibbler Les Baxter Both charted in the w … eek of April 9. Roy Hamilton and June Valli both charted a few weeks later.
song written by Alex North & Hy Zaret for a prison movie soundtrack theme. The singer for that song was Todd Duncan (1955), that same year released on the pop charts by Al Hibbler, reached #3 on billboard, recorded by many after that, but the biggest, most popular version is that by Righteous Bros. Bobby Hatfield in 1965. Report Abuse. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unchained_M... originally it was Alex North in 1955 he did it for a movie called unchained. then in 1965 the Righteous Brothers did it. oh yeah!