Loin Roast Basics. The loin roast comes from the area of the pig between the shoulder and the beginning of the leg It is sold either bone-in or deboned. Loin roast can be rolled and tied with string. Loin roasts with a bone tend to be juicier and more flavorful, but the bone can make carving a bit tricky. Loin roast is sometimes confused with tenderloin. Despite the name similarity, they are not one in the same. A loin roast is typically sold in pieces weighing between two to four pounds (the tenderloin is a smaller, long cut that usually weighs about a pound). The term roast simply refers to a large cut of pork
The Main Difference. Pork loin and pork tenderloin are not cut from the same part of the animal, and in fact, look really different — pork tenderloin is thin and small, while a pork loin is wide enough that you can cut steak-like pieces from it. How you cook it, though, is the main difference. 1 Bone-in or boneless? 2  Pork loin can be sold bone-in or boneless. 3  Bone-in loins with the backbones removed and the ribs trimmed of meat (or Frenched) are sometimes called pork racks, and if the pork rack is tied into a circle, it is called a crown roast of pork.
1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4  Remove roast to a platter. 1 Rub the meat with the remaining garlic mixture and olive oil. 2  Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 3  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 4  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 5
Always position the pork roast in the pan so that fat side is on the top. Measure one tablespoon of olive oil in a small dish. Add 1 Tablespoon of dried spices to the oil. You can use rosemary, sage, thyme, or oregano; or a combination of these that equal 1 tablespoon. 
1 Size: Pork loin is a large piece of meat, so you can get it cut to order. 2  A typical roast can be anywhere from two to five pounds. 3  Texture and flavor: Fairly lean, mildly flavored meat with a thick cap of fat on top; tender if cooked properly. 1 Bone-in or boneless? 2  Pork loin can be sold bone-in or boneless. 3  Bone-in loins with the backbones removed and the ribs trimmed of meat (or Frenched) are sometimes called pork racks, and if the pork rack is tied into a circle, it is called a crown roast of pork.
1 Combine the garlic salt, garlic-pepper and lemon-pepper; rub over roast. 2  Place on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. 3  Bake, uncovered, at 325° for 1-1/2 to 2 hours or until a thermometer reads 145°. 4  Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, combine the basting sauce ingredients. 5  Bring to a boil; reduce heat. Directions. 1 
A pork loin joint or pork loin roast is a larger section of the loin which is roasted. It can take two forms: 'bone in', which still has the loin ribs attached, or 'boneless', which is often tied with butchers string to prevent the roast from falling apart. Pork loin is a cut of meat from a pig, created from the tissue along the top of the rib cage.