Giving your kitten milk can cause upset tummies, cramps and severe diarrhea. Diarrhea can be deadly to kittens because it dehydrates their little bodies very quickly. Cats and kittens do not need to drink milk and can live their entire lives without having one lap of milk. Water is all they will ever need. The result is pain and diarrhea for your kitten. Very young kittens and indeed all mammals produce the enzyme lactase when suckling from their mother but the ability to produce the enzyme diminishes after weaning. The bottom line is not to give cats or kittens milk to drink.
Do not give your kitten cow's milk-it can make them sick and give them diarrhea. You can obtain mother's milk replacer for young kittens at many of the pet stores in the area. We recomment KMR. When the kittens are 8 weeks or older, they no longer need the milk but may enjoy it anyway. 
You can start weaning at four weeks of age. Milk Replacement Formulas. Powdered kitten milk replacement formula is better for kittens than the canned liquid formula. We recommend that you use only powdered kitten milk replacement formula from the start — or as soon as possible — to prevent diarrhea. The best food for the kittens is their mother’s milk. Remove the kittens only if they are in immediate, grave danger. If the mother cat returns…. The mother cat offers her newborn kittens their best chance for survival, so wait and watch as long as you safely can for her to return before removing them.
Kittens seperated from their mothers at too young an age require special care. Milk. Do not give your kitten cow's milk-it can make them sick and give them diarrhea. You can obtain mother's milk replacer for young kittens at many of the pet stores in the area. When the kittens are 8 weeks or older, they no longer need the milk but may enjoy it anyway. Milk that has been specially processed for cats to consume safely is available from many local groceries. Water. 
The ASPCA indicates that mother cats usually start weaning the little fluff balls when they are about 1 month old. In general, kittens need their mother's milk until they are a minimum of 4 weeks old. 
What has not yet been addressed is the need that kittens have to drink their mother’s milk. Kittens absolutely need to drink their mother’s milk, typically until around 8 weeks of age, and that is a minimum. Many vets say the kittens should not be separated from the mother until closer to 12 weeks of age. 
Kittens need milk for the first several weeks of their lives. The kittens’ mother provides the best milk for their needs at that age. However, you may feed orphan kittens goat’s milk, available at many large grocery stores or supermarkets. You can also feed them kitten milk replacement formula. Cow’s milk can upset a kitten’s stomach and should be used as a last resort. Kittens should be drinking water by the time they are 4 to 6 weeks of age. Orphaned kittens should drink milk, but older kittens and cats may not tolerate it well. Imagine a kitten. Chances are you imagined a kitten drinking from a bowl of milk, possibly with a bow around her neck. However, kittens who are old enough to separate from their mothers are old enough to drink water instead of milk.
But to be clear, feeding kittens cow’s milk isn't a good idea either. “Every species makes milk that’s different in composition – the amounts of calories, protein, fat, and lactose are different in cat’s milk and cow’s milk, so feeding a kitten milk from another species can be problematic too,” Dr. Farcas explains. 
In this article. Weaning is the process of transitioning kittens from mother’s milk to solid food. During weaning, kittens gradually progress from dependence on a mother’s care to social independence. Ideally, weaning is handled entirely by the mother cat. 
By Terry Kaye. Weaning a kitten is the process of transitioning the kitten from mother’s milk to solid food. It’s an important part of the kitten’s development, and needs to be done at the right time and in the right way. Normally the queen, or mother cat, will handle kitten weaning on her own. 