The province bordered in the W on the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg and in the S on France. Koblenz (the former capital), Cologne, Duesseldorf, Düsseldorf, aachen And wuppertal were among the chief. Cities the region is traversed by The, Rhine, moselle And wupper rivers and by the lower course of The. ruhr At first divided into two provinces, the entire region was constituted the Rhine Province in 1824. One of the strongholds of Roman Catholicism in Germany, the province played an important part in the Kulturkampf later in the century.
Germany doesn't have any provinces, it's made up of 16 states. Mannheim is in the state of Nordrhein-Westfalen, or NRW for short. If, by provinces, you mean the states that make up the Federal Republic of Germany, they are: Baden-Wuerttemberg Württemberg Bavaria Berlin Brandenburg Bremen Hamburg Hesse Lower Saxony … m-Ecklenburg Vorpommern North-Rhine Westphalia-Rheinland Palatinate Saarland Saxony-Saxony Anhalt-Schlewig Holstein. thuringia
Before the secularisation the Province of Lower Germany stretched from the Rhine to Belgium and Holland. The Province of Upper Germany covered a vast area that included not only southern Germany, but also Bohemia, Austria, Hungary and Poland. In the 16th century, during the Lutheran Reform, the province of Lower Germany, which had its principal house in Cologne, suffered very little in comparison to its sister province which lost fourteen of its existing sixteen houses.
A planimetric map of Germany showing the provincial or state boundaries with provinces in high color contrast. Also shows provincial capitals, provincial names, major cities, major highways, secondary roads, major rail lines, major rivers and major lakes. 
On the 1st of January 2013, the provinces of Upper and Lower Germany, after many years of intense cooperation, especially in the field of formation, and after a processof preparation that involved numerous meetings, were united into one German Province. In the 16th century, during the Lutheran Reform, the province of Lower Germany, which had its principal house in Cologne, suffered very little in comparison to its sister province which lost fourteen of its existing sixteen houses.
The Province of Germany (German: Provinz Deutschland) is a province of the Duchy of Brunswick. The province is made up of the former Federal Republic of Germany. It is bordered by the provinces of Denmark, Poland, Czechia, Austria, Switzerland, France, Belgium, and the Netherlands. It is bordered by the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. Its capital is Berlin. 
This enormous territory was reduced in 1411 with the establishment of the Province of Bohemia, made up of the houses of Bohemia, Poland, Prussia, Saxonia and Thuringia.In 1440 the houses remaining in Bohemia, Poland and Hungary passed over once more to the Province of Upper Germany. In the 16th century, during the Lutheran Reform, the province of Lower Germany, which had its principal house in Cologne, suffered very little in comparison to its sister province which lost fourteen of its existing sixteen houses.
Germany is a federal republic consisting of sixteen federal states (German: Bundesland, or Land). Since today's Germany was formed from an earlier collection of several states, it has a federal constitution, and the constituent states retain a measure of sovereignty.
Initially, in 1949, the states of the Federal Republic were Baden, Bavaria (in German: Bayern), Bremen, Hamburg, Hesse (Hessen), Lower Saxony (Niedersachsen), North Rhine Westphalia (Nordrhein-Westfalen), Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz), Schleswig-Holstein, Wuerttemberg-Württemberg, baden And-Wuerttemberg. württemberg hohenzollern Since today's Germany was formed from an earlier collection of several states, it has a federal constitution, and the constituent states retain a measure of sovereignty.