Call your veterinarian for medical advice about any side effects to your pet. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. What is the most important information I should know about Dexamethasone: Dexamethasone is a prescription medication for use in dogs and cats available by prescription as 0.5mg tablets. The usual dose of dexamethasone is dependent on the condition being treated and the pet's response to the treatment. When discontinuing use of this medication after prolonged treatment, withdrawal should be gradual, not abrupt. What is Dexamethasone: Dexamethasone is in a class called corticosteroids.
Azium is a glucocorticoid agonist. Unbound dexamethasone crosses cell membranes and binds with high affinity to specific cytoplasmic receptors. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis.
General Description. Dexamethasone is many times more potent than other anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressing drugs including hydrocortisone and prednisone. It is often mixed with other drugs to treat difficult ear, eye, and skin infections. It reaches every system in the body and therefore is used to treat many disorders: How It Works. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid known as a glucocorticoid. Corticosteroids are meant to resemble a naturally occurring hormone produced in the adrenal cortex, cortisol. Corticosteroids act on the immune system by blocking the production of substances that trigger inflammatory and immune responses.
Dexamethasone. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid that reduces swelling and inflammation (3) and is used in a variety of disorders such as skin diseases (psoriasis, hives), allergic conditions, breathing problems, cancer, blood disorders (anemia), digestive problems, eye disorders and for arthritis/bursitis. Weakness and loss of muscle mass (long-term use). Suppression of the body's own ability to produce natural corticosteroids. Depressed calcium and potassium levels. The use of corticosteroids in horses has also been thought to cause laminitis founder), and this is a very real risk every time they are used.
1 It may be part of a treatment plan for various cancers, respiratory diseases, liver disorders, gastrointestinal diseases, skin disorders and nervous system abnormalities. 2  Dexamethasone is also used to suppress the immune system in autoimmune diseases such as immune mediated hemolytic anemia. 
Uses: Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid that reduces swelling and inflammation (3) and is used in a variety of disorders such as skin diseases (psoriasis, hives), allergic conditions, breathing problems, cancer, blood disorders (anemia), digestive problems, eye disorders and for arthritis/bursitis. Weakness and loss of muscle mass (long-term use). Suppression of the body's own ability to produce natural corticosteroids. Depressed calcium and potassium levels. The use of corticosteroids in horses has also been thought to cause laminitis founder), and this is a very real risk every time they are used.