Tests for the hepatitis C virus. If your doctor thinks that you may have hepatitis C, he or she may order: 1  A hepatitis C virus test. 2  This is a blood test that looks for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus. 3  It shows whether you have been exposed to the virus. 4  A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minute
Liver biopsy. If your doctor suspects you have hepatitis B, he or she will examine you and likely order blood tests. Blood tests can determine if you have the virus in your system and whether it's acute or chronic. Doctors sometimes test certain healthy people for hepatitis B infection because the virus can damage the liver before causing signs and symptoms. Talk to your doctor about screening for hepatitis B infection if you: 1  Live with someone who has hepatitis B.
1 A hepatitis C virus test. 2  This is a blood test that looks for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus. 3  It shows whether you have been exposed to the virus. 4  A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minutes. 5  A blood test that looks for the genetic material (RNA) of the hepatitis C virus. If your doctor thinks that you may have hepatitis C, he or she may order: 1 
Doctors diagnose hepatitis based on a physical examination and the results of blood tests. In addition to specific tests for hepatitis antibodies, doctors will order other types of blood tests to evaluate liver function. There are many different blood tests for detecting the hepatitis B virus. Standard tests include: 1  Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). 2  A positive result indicates active infection, either acute or chronic. 3  Antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (Anti-HBc)
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) testing. HBV is transmitted through infected body fluids, including blood, semen, and vaginal fluids (including menstrual blood). It also can be transmitted from a pregnant woman to her child at or near the time of birth. There are several different HBV tests. The tests look for different signs of infection (markers): 1  Antigens are markers made by bacteria or viruses. 2  Antibodies are proteins produced by the body to fight infection. 3  Genetic material (DNA) of the hepatitis B virus shows that the virus is in the body.
Specific Tests for Hepatitis B. There are many different blood tests for detecting the hepatitis B virus. Standard tests include: 1  Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). 2  A positive result indicates active infection, either acute or chronic. 3  Antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (Anti-HBc)
Hepatitis B tests may be ordered when someone has signs and symptoms associated with acute hepatitis to determine if they are due to infection with HBV. Some of these include: 1  Fever. 2  Fatigue. 3  Loss of appetite. 4  Nausea, vomiting. 5  Abdominal pain. 6  Dark urine. 7  Pale stools. 
Your doctor may order a viral serology panel, a group of blood tests that determines whether you have hepatitis, which strain it is, and the severity of your illness. A sample of blood is taken from the arm or hand and used to do a screening test for all types of the virus. 
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests check for substances in the blood that show whether a hepatitis B infection is active or has occurred in the past. The tests look for different signs of infection (markers): 1  Antigens are markers made by bacteria or viruses. 2  Antibodies are proteins produced by the body to fight infection. 3  Genetic material (DNA) of the hepatitis B virus shows that the virus is in the body.