The Function of Vitamin K. Vitamin K refers to a group of vitamins which includes vitamin K1 and vitamin K2. Vitamin K1 is synthesized by plants. Vitamin K2 is mainly produced by both humans and animals, but also by bacteria found in the large intestine.
Vitamin A is found in dark green and yellow vegetables and yellow fruits, such as broccoli spinach, turnip greens, carrots, squash, sweet potatoes, pumpkin, cantaloupe, and apricots, and in animal sources such as liver, milk, butter, cheese, and whole eggs. Function and food sources of Vitamin A.
If you take too much of a fat-soluble vitamin, it could become toxic. Your body is especially sensitive to too much vitamin A from animal sources (retinol) and too much vitamin D. A balanced diet usually provides enough fat-soluble vitamins.
In the preface to Vitamins in Animal and Human Nutrition, the author states “It is hoped that this book will be…used as a text book and as an authoritative reference book for use by research and extension specialists, feed manufacturers, teachers, student and others.
An attempt has been made to provide a balance between animal nutrition and clinical human nutrition.” In catering to such a broad audience, it is inevitable that major shortcomings will ensue. The layout of the book is conventional, with no attempt to group vitamins according to functional roles.
Sources: green leafy forages, fish meal, liver, soybeans, rumen and intestinal synthesis, and the synthetic compounds. Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid) Function: has an effect on the metabolism of calcium in the body (Not required in rations of farm animals.). Deficiency signs: none demonstrated in livestock.
5.1 Definition and classification. Vitamins are a heterogeneous group of organic compounds essential for the growth and maintenance of animal life. The majority of vitamins are not synthesized by the animal body or at a rate sufficient to meet the animals needs.
Vitamins: Introduction and Index. Vitamins are organic molecules that are necessary for normal metabolism in animals, but either are not synthesized in the body or are synthesized in inadequate quantities. Consequently, vitamins must be obtained from the diet. Most vitamins function as coenzymes or cofactors.
Vitamins in Animal Nutrition presents concise, up-to-date information on vitamin nutrition for livestock and poultry; comparisons with vitamin use in human nutrition are also presented. This book describes the basic chemical, metabolic, and functional role of vitamins and vitamin supplementation.