A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. A CBC also helps him or her diagnose conditions, such as anemia, infection, and many other disorders. A CBC test usually includes: 1  White blood cell (WBC, leukocyte) count. 2  White blood cells protect the body against infection. 3  If an infection develops, white blood cells attack and destroy the bacteria, virus, or other organism causing it. 4  White blood cells are bigger than red blood cells but fewer in number.
Blood test results are important in Blood disorders in Blood tests and a Blood test with Rare Blood types. A very specific test is unlikely to indicate disease in healthy people. Although, it may miss the disease in some who have it.
Blood test results are important in Blood disorders in Blood tests and a Blood test with Rare Blood types. Some of the most common Blood tests are: Blood test results, Blood tests
Doctors can order blood tests for a variety of reasons. Some of the more common blood tests include BUN (blood urea nitrogen) which helps diagnose kidney problems, BMP (basic metabolic panel) and CBC (complete blood count) as well as the MPV blood test (mean platelet volume) .
The MCH blood test is done as a component of a blood test called a Complete Blood Count (CBC), which evaluates the composition of the blood, checking hematocrit, white blood cells (WBC) and platelets as well as hemoglobin and red blood cells (RBC). It is usually ordered to get an overview of general health.
1 White blood cell (WBC) count is a count of the total number of white blood cells in a person's sample of blood. 2  White blood cell differential may or may not be included as part of the panel of tests. 3  It identifies and counts the number of the various types of white blood cells present.
Your doctor will discuss what your test results mean for you and your health. 1  A positive test result means that the substance or condition being tested for was found. 2  Positive test results also can mean that the amount of a substance being tested for is higher or lower than normal.
Another definition of a Blood Test is, A test performed to provide a defined Blood analysis testing for conditions such as anemia, cholesterol, diabetes, various infections, kidney function, calcium levels, liver function, Blood disease, abnormalities in the body, etc.. Blood test results.