And second, such provisions can be used as a shield—in a provision releasing a party from liability for its own negligence or for its own negligence and gross negligence. Courts in many jurisdictions have held that advance releases of liability in cases of gross negligence are unenforceable as against public policy. See, e.g., City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court, 161 P.3d 1095 (Cal. 2007) (California); Sommer v. Federal Signal Corp. , 79 N.Y.2d 540 (N.Y. 1992) (New York). Releases of liability that use a negligence standard, as well as the other kinds of provisions, whether featuring just negligence or both negligence and gross negligence, are presumably enforceable. Confused Terminology.
A court would consider whether the conduct in question constitutes gross negligence under the law of the forum, and whether the contract sought to release the party in question from liability for that action. What label the contract puts on that conduct would be irrelevant. First, contracts refer to gross negligence in two different ways: they release Acme from liability for gross negligence, or they carve out gross negligence from provisions (a release, or indemnification provisions) that benefit Acme.
At issue in City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court is whether a liability waiver can be effective as to ordinary negligence under Civil Code section 1668, as interpreted by Tunkl v. University of California (1963) 60 Cal.2d 92, but not as to gross negligence. The defendants appealed, and the Court of Appeal affirmed the ruling, which found that the waiver and release signed by the parents could protect the organizing government entity from ordinary negligence, but not
The California Supreme Court has ruled that a signed liability waiver is useless in protecting a government entity from gross negligence and only good in protecting against ordinary negligence, which could have implications for recreational programs throughout the state. In City of Santa Barbara et al. Prior to the girl’s participation in the program, her parents signed a waiver and release and express assumption of the risk agreement. By signing the agreement, the parents waived and released all liability related to the program, including potential negligence of the facility and its workers.
Maybe an appellate court must decide if under their state's law a waiver of liability for ordinary negligence is enforceable. Surely, though, trial court judges are competent to decide that there is no way the alleged facts would support gross negligence and not leave it up to a jury. Well, the facts of this case supply a reason on their face for enforcing waivers of negligence (and maybe gross negligence, for that matter). Many people who have children with some sort of disability want the child to be able to participate in various sorts of normal activity.
A waiver/release is an exculpatory contract that attempts to excuse or relieve a party, for injuries to a participant that arise out of the known and unknown risks in an activity. This includes the inherent risks that arise from the sports organization’s ordinary negligence. The waiver and release should specifically mention the types of risk that are assumed (known and unknown) and the worst case injury scenarios (permanent disability and death). It is also important to note that courts will often only apply the AOR defense to inherent risks of the activity.
At issue in City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court, -- Cal.Rptr.3d -- (2007 WL 2027806), was a release from liability for any negligent act signed by a parent as part of an enrollment contract that allowed her daughter to participate in a camp for disabled children run by the city of Santa Barbara. Well, the facts of this case supply a reason on their face for enforcing waivers of negligence (and maybe gross negligence, for that matter). Many people who have children with some sort of disability want the child to be able to participate in various sorts of normal activity.
Taking into account the caselaw more generally, gross negligence “is a nebulous term that is defined in a multitude of ways, depending on the legal context and the jurisdiction.” 57A Am. Jur. 2d Negligence § 227 (2012). Releases of liability that use a negligence standard, as well as the other kinds of provisions, whether featuring just negligence or both negligence and gross negligence, are presumably enforceable. Confused Terminology.
This wasn't surprising; it is standard hornbook law that such waivers in the context of recreational activities are enforceable as to ordinary negligence but not as to gross negligence, although a few jurisdictions won't even enforce waivers for ordinary negligence. Well, the facts of this case supply a reason on their face for enforcing waivers of negligence (and maybe gross negligence, for that matter). Many people who have children with some sort of disability want the child to be able to participate in various sorts of normal activity.
The term inherent dangers and risks of skiing does not include the negligence of a ski area operator as set forth in section 33-44-104(2). Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability of the ski area operator for injury caused by the use or operation of ski lifts. Colo. Well, the facts of this case supply a reason on their face for enforcing waivers of negligence (and maybe gross negligence, for that matter). Many people who have children with some sort of disability want the child to be able to participate in various sorts of normal activity.