My understanding is that there are two aspects to shamanic healing: a medicinal one and a spiritual one. Shamans talk with plants and animals, with all of nature. This is not just a metaphor. They do it in an altered state of consciousness. 
Shamanism is a spiritual practice found in cultures around the world from ancient times up to the present day. First and foremost, shamans' practices are practical and adaptable. These practices coexist over millennia with varying cultures, systems of government, and organized religious practices. Because it is not an organized religion as such, but rather a spiritual practice, shamanism cuts across all faiths and creeds, reaching deep levels of ancestral memory.
Shamanism (/ˈʃɑːmən/ SHAH-mən or /ˈʃeɪmən/ SHAY-mən) is a practice that involves a practitioner reaching altered states of consciousness in order to perceive and interact with a spirit world and channel these transcendental energies into this world. Shamanism is still practiced in North and South Korea. In the south, shaman women are known as mudangs, while male shamans are referred to as baksoo mudangs. A person can become a shaman through hereditary title or through natural ability.
A shaman is a healer who moves into an altered state of consciousness to access a hidden reality in the spirit world for purposes of bringing back healing, power, and information. Some say it is the oldest form of healing on the planet, dating back approximately thirty thousand years. It has been found in many indigenous cultures in North and South America, Australia, New Zealand, Central and Northern Asia, Eastern and Northern Europe and Africa.
Many methods are used in shamanic healing, including soul retrieval, retrieval of a spiritual ally, removal of unwanted energies, soul remembering, ancestral work, psychopomp (helping the deceased to cross over into the Light) and hands on healing. Some say it is the oldest form of healing on the planet, dating back approximately thirty thousand years. It has been found in many indigenous cultures in North and South America, Australia, New Zealand, Central and Northern Asia, Eastern and Northern Europe and Africa.
Shamanic healing techniques are 30,000 to 40,000 years old and are still practiced world wide by both indigenous peoples and others who are called to this work. Sometimes known as spirit doctors or medicine men, shamans view illness as disharmony in a person's life on the spiritual level. During soul retrieval the shaman journeys on behalf of the client to find lost soul parts and bring them ‘home’ again. The retelling of the journey is tape recorded for the client to keep as a permanent record of the healing session.
But shamanism itself is not a formalized system of beliefs or an ideology. Rather, it is a group of activities and experiences shared by shamans in cultures around the world. These practices are adaptable and coexist with different cultures, systems of government, and organized religious practices. Because it is not an organized religion as such, but rather a spiritual practice, shamanism cuts across all faiths and creeds, reaching deep levels of ancestral memory.
New Client Information Shamanism and soul retrieval have been around for better than 40,000 years. Both have been practiced by healers of most every indigenous culture on the planet. These ancient peoples understood what our modern culture has forgotten. There is more to healing and health than just the physical. 
Shamanism is an ancient form of spiritual healing. Some say it is the oldest form of healing on the planet, dating back approximately thirty thousand years. It has been found in many indigenous cultures in North and South America, Australia, New Zealand, Central and Northern Asia, Eastern and Northern Europe and Africa.
The word shaman comes from the language of a tribe in Siberia, according to Mircea Eliade, a scholar of religion, a shaman is a man or woman who journeys in an altered state of consciousness. Thus, shamanism is the application of what the shaman does. 