Once the seller accepts your offer and your real estate agreement is finalized, an earnest money deposit should be sent within 24 to 48 hours. This fee is held by a third party, typically an escrow company, until the deal is finalized. That said, many real estate professionals recommend coming up with an earnest money deposit of 3% of the purchase price, though as mentioned above, this can vary depending on demand and other conditions.
When you sign a contract, you'll also pay a deposit called earnest money, usually $500 to $5000, to show that you're serious about wanting to buy the house. 
On a $500,000 transaction, a buyer in our market would typically make an earnest money deposit of $5,000-$10,000. Remember, the earnest money deposit is not set and is to be negotiated between the buyer and seller. Here are some recommendations when trying to determine the proper amount of earnest money. Earnest money is simply an initial deposit that is specified in the contract, usually much less than your entire down payment. If your home purchase closes, the earnest money deposit that you originally made will be applied towards your
Earnest money is usually between 1% and 3% of the home's purchase price. For a $400,000 home, earnest money may range between $4,000 and $12,000. The earnest money amount is usually included in the buyer's offer; buyers may try to make their bid seem more serious by offering more earnest money. This may vary by deal and by location, but the earnest money deposit is usually the first big milestone after mutual acceptance, and buyers should be ready to make their earnest money deposit as soon as possible after mutual acceptance.
How Much Earnest Money Should You Offer? A very common practice in the San Antonio area is for earnest money to be roughly 1% of the sales price of the property, generally rounded to $500 increments. For example, on the purchase of a $175,000 house, a common amount of earnest money would be $1,500. 
If you’re working with a real estate agent, he/she should be able to tell you what the norm is for your area and price range. Ask your agent how much of an earnest money deposit you should pay, for the type of property you seek. Stick to the local norm as much as possible, to avoid losing the home to a stronger buyer / offer. Here’s the short answer. In a slow real estate market, where the seller isn’t getting very many offers, you might only have to pay $500 – $1,000 in earnest money. In a fast-moving market, where there is more demand for homes, you might have to make a bigger deposit, perhaps up to 2% or 3% of the offer amount.
Earnest money should not be confused with your down payment. The down payment towards your house is the amount of cash that you need to contribute towards closing the transaction. If you obtain a mortgage for 80% of your purchase price, then your down payment will be 20% of the purchase price. Earnest money is simply an initial deposit that is specified in the contract, usually much less than your entire down payment. If your home purchase closes, the earnest money deposit that you originally made will be applied towards your down payment.
The amount of the earnest money deposit varies by state, but is typically in the range of 1-2% of the purchase price. The seller can't rush out and cash this check right away -- in fact, the check should be made out to the escrow company, not the seller. 
The earnest money amount will vary according to your area, seller and price of home you’re considering. The best way to determine local customs is to talk to an experienced real estate agent. Your earnest money deposit could range anywhere from a couple hundred dollars to a few thousand. So much depends on the specific property, the competitiveness of the market and other market-specific factors. A competitive market might mean you’ll need to put down more money.
There is no established rule on the amount of earnest monies; however, you want your earnest monies to be reflective of your commitment to purchase. I usually recommend to my buyer clients that the earnest monies be around 1% of the offering price. 