PREPAYMENT: If you pay off your loan early, you. [ ] may [ ] will not have to pay a penalty. [ ] may [ ] will not be entitled to a refund of part of the finance charge. This is a strange set of choices. The negative is definite, you…will not have to pay a penalty, but the affirmative is qualified. Before signing the note, you received a Truth in Lending Disclosure Statement (TIL) that said If you pay off your loan early, you may have to pay a penalty. You signed the statement, acknowledging that you had read it.
DEFINITION of 'Prepayment'. The satisfaction of a debt or installment payment before its official due date. A prepayment can be for the entire balance or for any upcoming payment that is paid in advance of the date for which the borrower is contractually obligated to pay it. Examples of a prepayment come in the form of rent or early loan repayments. Next Up. 
A prepayment penalty on a mortgage essentially charges you extra if you pay off the mortgage early. What is considered early, however, will be laid out in your loan documents and therefore must be scrutinized carefully. How to Avoid Paying a Prepayment Penalty. If you have a prepayment penalty, especially a “hard” one, and want to sell or refinance before the penalty period expires, you probably can’t get out of it. After all, you signed a contract agreeing to pay.
It reads as follows: PREPAYMENT: If you pay off your loan early, you [ ] may [ ] will not have to pay a penalty [ ] may [ ] will not be entitled to a refund of part of the finance charge This is a strange set of choices. The negative is definite—“you ... will not have to pay a penalty”—but the affirmative is qualified. Most lenders allow you to prepay the outstanding balance of a loan at any time without a fee, but some lenders charge a prepayment penalty, often about 2% of the amount you borrowed. If your loan agreement doesn't have a prepayment clause, which excludes a fee for early termination, the penalty may apply.
A prepayment penalty is a provision of your contract with the lender that states that in the event you pay off the loan entirely, you will pay a penalty. Penalties are usually expressed as a percent of the outstanding balance at time of prepayment, or a specified number of months of interest. 
How much does a prepayment penalty cost? The prepayment penalty is often 80% of six months interest. It can vary, but in our example it is 80% because the lender allows the borrower to pay off 20% of the loan balance each year, so the penalty only hits the borrower for 80%. So if a borrower has a mortgage rate of 6.5% on a $500,000 loan amount, their interest-only payment comes out to $2708.33 per month. Multiply that by six months, take 80% of the total, and you end up with a hefty prepayment penalty of $13,000.
If you pay the loan off early, you may have to pay a penalty if a penalty was part of your loan agreement. Prepayment penalties are generally based directly or indirectly on your remaining loan balance. The longer you’ve had your loan and the less you owe, the smaller your penalty will be. Shop Around. If you’re shopping for loans and you don’t want a prepayment penalty, shop around. Different lenders will approach your needs differently. You may have to pay a higher interest rate, which means your monthly payments will be higher, but you’ll be able to get out of the loan at any time.
Prepayment Penalty A prepayment penalty is a fee that must be paid if you pay off a loan before the loan’s term. Some loans are designed to last a certain number of years (such as 30 year mortgages or five year auto loans). Shop Around. If you’re shopping for loans and you don’t want a prepayment penalty, shop around. Different lenders will approach your needs differently. You may have to pay a higher interest rate, which means your monthly payments will be higher, but you’ll be able to get out of the loan at any time.
A prepayment penalty, also known as a “prepay” in the industry, is an agreement between a borrower and a bank or mortgage lender that regulates what the borrower is allowed to pay off and when. So if a borrower has a mortgage rate of 6.5% on a $500,000 loan amount, their interest-only payment comes out to $2708.33 per month. Multiply that by six months, take 80% of the total, and you end up with a hefty prepayment penalty of $13,000.
A prepayment penalty must be paid in order to refinance or sell the house before a certain period of time has elapsed, usually two to three years, although some loans can have them in effect for up to ten years. How to Avoid Paying a Prepayment Penalty. If you have a prepayment penalty, especially a “hard” one, and want to sell or refinance before the penalty period expires, you probably can’t get out of it. After all, you signed a contract agreeing to pay.