Indiana is bounded on the north by Lake Michigan and the state of Michigan; on the east by Ohio; on the south by Kentucky, with which it shares the Ohio River as a border; and on the west by Illinois. Indiana is one of the Great Lakes states. Evansville, the third largest city in Indiana, is located in the southwestern corner of the state. It is located in a tri-state area that includes Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky. The south-central cities of Clarksville, Jeffersonville, and New Albany are part of the Louisville metropolitan area.
The geographical center of Indiana is located at latitude 39.86 degrees North and longitude 86.26 degrees West. This basic map of IN (postal abbreviation for the State of Indiana) shows Indianapolis, the capital city, as well as other major Indiana cities such as Gary, Evansville, Fort Wayne, and Evansville. 
Climate. Rivers. Lakes. Indiana is situated in the mid-western and Great Lake region of the United States. It shares its borders with Michigan to the north, Ohio to the east, Illinois to the west, and the Ohio River and Kentucky to the south. 1 Also called Northern Lake, the land area is fertile and black in color, which is suitable for farming. 2  Till Plains: Till plains are situated in the center of Indiana. 3  Lying to the south of Great Lake Plains, it is a part of the Corn Belt and is characterized by vast fertile plains.
The Geography of Indiana refers to the physical features of the land and relative location of U.S. State of Indiana. Indiana is in the north-central U.S. and borders on Lake Michigan. Surrounding states are Michigan to the north, Illinois to the west, Kentucky to the south, and Ohio to the east. The entire southern boundary is the Ohio River. Evansville, the third largest city in Indiana, is located in the southwestern corner of the state. It is located in a tri-state area that includes Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky. The south-central cities of Clarksville, Jeffersonville, and New Albany are part of the Louisville metropolitan area.
Find an overview of Indiana geography, topography, geographic land regions, land areas, and major rivers. Access Indiana almanac, furnishing more details on the state geography, geographical and land regions, climate and weather, elevation, land areas, bordering states, and other statistical data. Due to its central location, Indiana has been called the Crossroads of America.. Indiana's highest point – 1,257 feet above sea level – is located in the Till Plains and so is its capital and largest city – Indianapolis. The state is comprised of three main geographic regions. 1  Great Lakes Plains. 2  Till Plain
Lake Michigan is the third-largest lake by surface area and extends into Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin. It is one of America's Great Lakes. Other major lakes in the state are Lake Wawsee, Monroe Lake, Long Lake, Knapp Lake, and Jimmerson Lake. 1 Also called Northern Lake, the land area is fertile and black in color, which is suitable for farming. 2  Till Plains: Till plains are situated in the center of Indiana. 3  Lying to the south of Great Lake Plains, it is a part of the Corn Belt and is characterized by vast fertile plains.
(The geographic center would be where you could balance the state if it were completely flat.) To satisfy your curiosity, here is a list of the geographic centers of the 50 states and Washington, D.C. To be helpful, both the absolute and relative location are given below. 
Indiana is bordered by Lake Michigan and Michigan in the north and by Kentucky in the south. On the east is Ohio and on the west is Illinois. Total Area. Indiana covers 36,420 square miles, making it the 38th largest of the 50 states. Till Plains: The Till Plains lie to the south of the Great Lakes Plains and run through the center of Indiana. The broad, fertile Till Plains in Indian are a part of the great Midwestern Corn Belt. The landscape of the Till Plains is characterized by low hills and valleys.
The geographic center of the contiguous United States, determined in this way, is at (39.8355 N, 99.0909 W); this is 5.3 miles from Agra, Kansas, 5.5 miles from Kensington, Kansas, and 29.5 great circle miles west of the longstanding designated center of Lebanon, Kansas. The geographic center of North America lies near Rugby, North Dakota 48°22′2″N 99°59′46″W﻿ / ﻿48.36722°N 99.99611°W﻿ / 48.36722; -99.99611, though this designation has no official status. Contents.