Relaxing in Yoyogi Park, Tokyo. Yoyogi Park and the grounds of the adjacent Meiji Shrine form one of the largest, and most easily accessible, expanses of greenery in Tokyo. Features of Yoyogi Park. In the south-west corner of the park is the Airplane Cradle area, with its monument to the first ever powered flight in Japan (December 19, 1910) and two bronze busts of its aviators.
Get back to nature without straying too far from the nearest Starbucks with an outing to Yoyogi Park. This ever-popular spot in central Tokyo occupies the site of Japan's first successful powered aircraft flight, and later the athletes' village during the 1964 Olympics. 
Yoyogi Park (X ، , Yoyogi Kōen) is one of Tokyo 's largest city parks, featuring wide lawns, ponds and forested areas. It is a great place for jogging, picnicking and other outdoor activities. Although Yoyogi Park has relatively few cherry trees compared to other sites in Tokyo, it makes for a nice cherry blossom viewing spot in spring. Furthermore, it is known for its ginko tree forest, which turns intensely golden in autumn
Yoyogi Park. Originally the site of the first powered aircraft flight in Japan, what is now Yoyogi Park was also a Japanese military residence and later used by the American forces after World War II. Today Yoyogi is a beautiful place to get away from the hustle and bustle of this vibrant city. Set amongst the woodland are plenty of walking, cycling and jogging tracks. In April, the park comes into colour with the magnificent cherry blossoms where thousands flock to see the prettiest sight in Tokyo.
Nearby Yoyogi Park (代々木公園 Yoyogi-kōen) was the site of the first successful powered aircraft flight in Japan, on December 19, 1910, by Captain Yoshitoshi Tokugawa, following which it became an army parade ground. During the postwar occupation, it was the site of the Washington Heights residence for U.S. officers. 
The Quick Guide to Yoyogi Park. Yoyogi Park is the fourth biggest park in Tokyo (134 acres). It's beside Meiji Shrine — Tokyo's best known shrine (175 acres). Together they form Tokyo's biggest public green space. Yoyogi park is known for it's festive atmosphere. 
Yoyogi Park: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Yoyogi Park has several claims to fame. It's one of the largest parks in Tokyo at 134 acres. It's was the location of opening ceremonies of the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and the site of the first successful powered aircraft flight in Japan. None of these facts explains much about the park at all. Yoyogi park is something of an enigma.