Utah base map, Courtesy of Maps.com. This elevation map of Utah illustrates the number of feet or meters the state rises above sea level. Utah is the third highest state in the union with a mean elevation of 6,100 feet above sea level. Its lowest point is Beaverdam Wash at 2,000 feet above sea level. The highest point in Utah is Kings Peak, at 13,528 feet above sea level. This Utah base map highlights the location of the state capitol, Salt Lake City, and major cities throughout the state. Portions of Utah's border states, Wyoming, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, and Idaho are included to show the relationship between Utah and its neighbors.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 33rd-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States. Utah has a population of about 2.9 million, approximately 80% of whom live along the Wasatch Front, centering on Salt Lake City. Approximately 62% of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or LDS (Mormons), which greatly influences Utah culture and daily life. The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is located in Utah's state capital,
Kings Peak is the highest peak in the U.S. state of Utah, with an elevation of 13,528 feet (4,123 m). It lies just south of the spine of the central Uinta Mountains, in the Ashley National Forest in northeastern Utah, in north-central Duchesne County. It lies within the bounds of the High Uintas Wilderness.
Surprising as it might be, Utah has the highest average county peak height of all 50 states, even Alaska. Utah's average county peak height is about 11,222 feet. Colorado ranks second followed by Nevada and Wyoming (Alaska happens to be 6th in spite of Denali). 
State Facts. Utah was the 45th state to enter the United States (January 4, 1896). Today with a population of approximately 2,233,169 (est. 2000), Utah ranks as the 34th most populous state in the United States. 76% percent (2000) of the population lives along the Wasatch front, where resources are most plentiful (Salt Lake, Davis, Utah and Weber Counties). State Name. 
The majority of sources out there  Internet and books  have Utah's lowest elevation all wrong. Utah's lowest point isn't 2,350 feet above sea level, as is commonly listed by Utah tourist sources. Nor is it an even 2,000 feet, as some other sources list. Utah's lowest elevation here is probably 2,178 feet above sea level. During a June 5 and 6 visit to Utah's lowest point, my GPS initially measured 2,176 in one of the lowest washes, where Utah's lowest point surely is. A few dozen feet away in another small wash eastward, it measured 2,174 feet and fluctuated, dropping to as low as 2,154.
Even though Kings Peak is the highest point in Utah, it isn't really the mountain with the sharpest rise from the surrounding terrain. For example, most of the valleys surrounding Kings Peak are at just over 10,000 feet in elevation. Utah is a desert state, the second most arid of the 50 states, and yet it also has mountains located in all 29 of its counties. No other state has that kind of steady mountain geography. There are no vast plains or lowlands. Mountains pop up throughout the state  Utah is mountain territory.
The Park City elevation ranges between 7,000 and 10,000 feet above sea level at a place such as the Jupiter peak and when care is not taken one is likely to become altitude sick. Most people who come from lower altitudes almost always experience some altitude sickness within the first 48 hours of their arrival. There are some little intrigues that are involved in staying safely and comfortable at a high altitude resort such as Park City Utah and that is the reason why you need to be keen on the elevation.
Elevations in Bryce Canyon Country. Bryce Canyon Country ranges in elevation from around 4,500 feet to 11,000 feet. This high-altitude region offers a scenic escape from southern Utah’s scorching heat with pleasant, dry summers, and a gorgeous snow-capped playground in winter. Bryce Canyon Country’s communities sit at fairly high elevations.