Duckworth Name Meaning. English (chiefly Lancashire): habitational name from Duckworth Fold, in the borough of Bury, Lancashire, which is named from Old English fuce ‘duck’ + wor{dh} ‘enclosure’.
Etymology and History of the Surname: Duckworth. View Name: DUCKWORTH. DUCKWORTH. Derivation : A habitational name from Duckworth Fold in bury,Lancashire. Fuce 'duck' + wor(dh) 'enclosure'. History : The name is of Anglo-Saxon origin.The first recorded is that of 'Henricus De (of) Dukeworth',dated 1379.
You can find out when most of the Duckworth families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Suggested Readings for the name Duckworth. 1  German Burnett (G.B.) Kyle of Logan County, Arkansas, and His Wayne County, Tennessee, Ancestors: Duckworth, Kyle, Nesbitt, Staggs, Wilson and their Descendants and Allied Families by Edith Madeline Replogle Raymond.
Duckworth Early Origins. First found in Cambridgeshire where one of the earliest records is of Hugo de Duckworth in 1216 who was listed in the Rotuli de Oblatis et Finibus (p. 587) and his descendant Sire John Duckworth was summoned to a great council of Westminster in 1324.
You can find out where the majority of the Duckworth families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Read online surname origin books, biographies, journals, county histories, multi-generational genealogies & family trees, memoirs and other first-hand historical narratives which pertain to the Duckworth family name to help add detail and personality to the pages of your family history.
The following excerpt from Baines History of Lanacashire reads, in the reign of Edward 111 (1327 - 1372), Richard de Radcliffe held two carucates of land in Oswaldtwisle and Duckworth at that time called Dokeward. The surname is first recorded in the latter half of the 14th Century (see below).