Triethylene glycol is a member of a homologous series of dihydroxy alcohols. It is a colorless, odorless and stable liquid with high viscosity and a high boiling point. When aerosolized it acts as a disinfectant. Glycols are also used as liquid desiccants for natural gas and in air conditioning systems. It is an additive for hydraulic fluids and brake fluids and is used as a base for  smoke machine  fluid in the entertainment industry.
Chemical Intermediates:Ethylene glycols including monoethylene glycol (MEG), diethylene glycol (DEG), triethylene glycol (TEG) and tetraethylene glycol (TETRA EG), are versatile chemical intermediates used to produce a variety of products for commercial and industrial use: Glycol is an organic compound primarily used as a raw material in the manufacture of polyester fibers and fabric industry, and polyethylene terephthalate resins (PET) used in bottling. A small percent is also used in industrial applications like antifreeze formulations and other industrial products.
Triethylene glycol, TEG, or triglycol is a colorless odorless viscous liquid with molecular formula HOCH 2 CH 2 OCH 2 CH 2 OCH 2 CH 2 OH. It is used as a plasticizer for vinyl. It is also used in air sanitizer products, such as Oust or Clean and Pure. When aerosolized it acts as a disinfectant. Glycols are also used as liquid desiccants for natural gas and in air conditioning systems. It is an additive for hydraulic fluids and brake fluids and is used as a base for  smoke machine  fluid in the entertainment industry.
Technical Bulletin TRIETHYLENE GLYCOL (TEG) 2,2’-(1,2-ethanediylbis(oxy)) ethanol TRIETHYLENE GLYCOL (TEG) is a straight-chain dihydric alcohol aliphatic compound terminated on both ends by a hydroxyl group. It is a clear, practically colorless and odorless, hygroscopic liquid at room temperature. Zinc or zinc alloys should not be used in glycol service. For longer-term color stability, it is recommended that the product be stored under an inert atmosphere. Cast-iron or centrifugal pumps with stainless shafts and impellers are satisfactory. Rubber-lined or rubber-bound gaskets should be avoided.
Ethylene glycol is used as a protecting group for carbonyl groups in organic synthesis. Treating a ketone or aldehyde with ethylene glycol in the presence of an acid catalyst (e.g., p-toluenesulfonic acid; BF3•Et2O) gives the corresponding a 1,3-dioxolane, which is resistant to bases and other nucleophiles. It is used as a minor (1–2%) ingredient in shoe polish and also in some inks and dyes. Ethylene glycol has seen some use as a rot and fungal treatment for wood, both as a preventative and a treatment after the fact.
Triethylene Glycol. Dow offers two grades of TEG: triethylene glycol, regular grade and triethylene glycol, high-purity grade, which is designed to meet high-purity specifications for applications such as polyester resins, UV-curable resins and plasticizers. With a lower volatility and a higher boiling point than monoethylene glycol (MEG) or diethylene glycol (DEG), Triethylene glycol (TEG) is widely used as a dehumidifying agent for air and natural gas. TEG is often used to make chemical intermediates such as plasticizers and est
The purity of glycol used for hydrate suppression (monoethylene glycol) is typically around 80%, whereas the purity of glycol used for dehydration (triethylene glycol) is typically 95 to more than 99%. It is used as a minor (1–2%) ingredient in shoe polish and also in some inks and dyes. Ethylene glycol has seen some use as a rot and fungal treatment for wood, both as a preventative and a treatment after the fact.
Diethylene Glycol. Diethylene glycol (DEG) is a valuable chemical intermediate used in the production of unsaturated polyester resins (UPR), plasticizers, acrylate and methacrylate resins and urethanes. Diethylene glycol manufactured by Dow is available from MEGlobal, a joint venture of The Dow Chemical Company and Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC) of Kuwait.
Heat Transfer Fluids:Monoethylene glycol (MEG), diethleyene glycol (DEG), triethylene glycol (TEG) and tetraethylene glycol (TETRA EG), due to their low freezing point, freezing point depressant and high boiling point are predominantly used in heat transfer fluids. Glycol is an organic compound primarily used as a raw material in the manufacture of polyester fibers and fabric industry, and polyethylene terephthalate resins (PET) used in bottling. A small percent is also used in industrial applications like antifreeze formulations and other industrial products.