Siraitia grosvenorii is a herbaceous perennial vine of the Cucurbitaceae (gourd) family, native to southern China and northern Thailand. The process for the manufacture of a useful sweetener from luo han guo was patented in 1995 by Procter & Gamble. The patent states that natural luo han guo has many interfering flavors, which render it useless for general applications, and describes a process to remove them.
1 Three of the best sugar substitutes are all-natural Stevia from the whole plant, Lo Han Guo, and dextrose (pure glucose). 2  Contrary to fructose, glucose can be used directly by every cell in your body and as such is a far safer sugar alternative. Two of the best sugar substitutes are from the plant kingdom: Stevia and Lo Han Guo (also spelled Luo Han Kuo). Stevia, a highly sweet herb derived from the leaf of the South American stevia plant, is sold as a supplement.
The plant's fruit is often called in English language publications luo han guo or lo han kuo (from the Chinese luohan luóhàn, guǒ / 罗汉果). 羅漢果 it may also be called la han (qua From vietnamese la han), hán quả, Arhat fruit, buddha fruit, monk fruit or (longevity fruit although this name has been used for several). other fruits The process for the manufacture of a useful sweetener from luo han guo was patented in 1995 by Procter & Gamble. The patent states that natural luo han guo has many interfering flavors, which render it useless for general applications, and describes a process to remove them.
Luo han guo is a very sweet fruit from the plant Siraitia grosvenori, formerly known as Momordica governor. It belongs to the pumpkin family. The fruit is commonly grown in the Guanxii province, southern China. Luo han guo fruit is also known as Luo Han Kao, Luo han kuo, lo han kuo or Lo Han Kao and sometimes Arhat. The fruit is three hundred times sweeter than regular sugar. However, it hardly has any calories
Luo Han Guo. A natural sweetener that is great for diabetics and weight maintenance! Luo han guo is a very sweet fruit grown on an herbaceous vine originating in China and growing in Thailand as well. The Mogrosides (intense natural sweetening compounds) in Luo han are 250-400 times sweeter than sugar!
We only use premium quality wildcrafted Monk Fruit Berries grown without the use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers. The Chinese people have used Monk Fruit for centuries because of its medicinal properties and its outstanding abilities as a natural sweetener. Monk Fruit is a perennial vine, which grows in the northern Guangxi province in China.
Well, don't fret. There's a new kid on the block of natural sweeteners, a rare and exotic fruit called luohanguo. Lo Han Guo has been around for a long time, but only recently made its way to the Western world. The Best Source of Lo Han Guo. We're proud to bring you Lakanto, the tastiest and best sugar substitute you will find. With lo hanguo and non-GMO erythritol, you get a one-for-one natural sweetener with zero calories that does not feed candida!
At the Shamanshop you can buy a Lo Han Sweetener. It contains Lo han and other sweeteners. This company, Dragon River, sells Luo Han Guo (they spell it differently) wholesale, and they have a beautiful website. Update: Found this place, Horizon Herbs, that sells the seeds for this plant. They call it Arhat Fruit.
The Luo Han Guo Fruit, Siraitia grosvenorii also known as arhat, monk's, or buddha fruit is a perennial vine used in chinese medicine and as a sweetener. I have only seen it used as a tea. 