Sudomotor (from Latin sudor, 'sweat' and motor) describes anything that stimulates the sweat glands. Sudomotor innervation is the cholinergic innervation of the sympathetic nervous system prominent in sweat glands which causes perspiration to occur via activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. 
1 Quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test. 2  This test evaluates how the nerves that regulate your sweat glands respond to stimulation. 3  A small electrical current passes through four capsules placed on your forearm, foot and leg, while a computer analyzes the response of your nerves and sweat glands. 
Sudomotor Testing. Sudomotor dysfunction is one of the earliest detectable neurophysiologic abnormalities in distal small fiber neuropathy. Sudomotor is a simple 2 minute test used to evaluate postganglionic sympathetic cholinergic sudomotor function by measuring the axon-reflex mediated galvanic sweat response. The sudomotor test is done with the use of two hand electrodes & 2 feet electrodes as a stand alone test or in conjunction with ANS testing. Stimulation of sweat production is measured by the change in humidity for a period of 2 minutes
Quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test. Thermoregulatory Sweat Test (TST) n Useful for assessing central and peripheral sympathetic sudomotor dysfunction n Can be used to screen the whole body for focal areas of sweat loss or hyperhydrosis n Is not quantitative. 
Presently, post-ganglionic sudomotor function is assessed by means of QSART or silicone impressions. Quantitative direct and indirect reflex testing is a technique for assessing post-ganglionic sudomotor function. Sudomotor testing has data to suggest it may be the most sensitive means to detect a peripheral small fiber neuropathy (Low, et al., 2006).
Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Test (QSART) is a test to evaluate the integrity of the postganglionic sudomotor system along the axon reflex to define the distribution of sweat loss. This is accomplished by the release of acetycholine into the skin which activates receptors on the eccrine sweat gland. The QSART is a test that measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating. The test is useful in assessing autonomic nervous system disorders, peripheral neuropathies and some types of pain disorders.
QBioscan has been created to enable a precise evaluation of sweat gland function. It is based on a measuring method, whereas patients place their hands and feet on stainless-steel electrodes and are exposed to an incremental low direct voltage-lower than 4 V-that is released in intervals of two minutes. * QBioscan measures bio electrochemical sweat skin conductances (BEC), which are directly connected to the capability of the glands to transfer chloride ions and which reflects small-C fiber status. * QBioscan is a fast and easy method to measure sweat function.
QSART. The QSART is a test that measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating. The test is useful in assessing autonomic nervous system disorders, peripheral neuropathies and some types of pain disorders. The test requires a mild electrical stimulation on the skin called iontophoresis, which allows acetylcholine, a naturally occurring chemical, to stimulate sweat glands. The technician will discuss the steps of the test and any questions you may have. You will be asked to remove your shoes and socks. The technician will wipe the skin on your leg and wrist with acetone, alcohol, then a tissue to wipe it dry.
- Multiple System Atrophy (Shy-Drager syndrome). The quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test (QSART) has been a routine postganglionic sudomotor function clinical laboratory test since 1983. QSART is a test designed to evaluate the integrity of the postganglionic sympathetic axons. At regional test sites, multicompartmental sweat cells are attached to the limbs. The QSART is a test that measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating. The test is useful in assessing autonomic nervous system disorders, peripheral neuropathies and some types of pain disorders.