Licorice Extract from the licorice plant is used to flavor candy licorice only. The candy such as Red Vines Black Licorice Twists have carbohydrates in them because they are … made of Molasses, Wheat Flour, Corn Syrup, Caramel Coloring, Licorice Extract, Salt, and Anise. Absolutely Not! It is made from natural ingredients like Molasses, Wheat Flour, Corn Syrup, Caramel Coloring, Licorice Extract, Salt, and Anise Flavor. That is what is on the … ingredients label found on a Red Vines Black Licorice package.
Licorice root has been prized for its rich flavor and for over 3,000 years – King Tut, Alexander the Great, Roman Emperor Caesar, the Ancient Chinese and the Native Americans were known to appreciate its natural properties. Licorice root is also referred to as liquorice or sweetroot. Glycyrrhiza glabra, or European licorice, is one of the most common species growing wild in Southern and Central Europe as well as parts of Asia. G. uralensis also grows in China and G. lepidota in North America.
Liquorice, or licorice, (/ˈlɪkᵊrɪʃ/ LIK-(ə-)rish or /ˈlɪkᵊrɪs/ LIK-(ə-)ris) is the root of Glycyrrhiza glabra from which a sweet flavour can be extracted. The root of the plant is simply dug up, washed, dried, and chewed as a mouth freshener. Throughout Italy, unsweetened liquorice is consumed in the form of small black pieces made only from 100% pure liquorice extract; the taste is bitter and intense. In Calabria a popular liqueur is made from pure liquorice extract.
Absolutely Not! It is made from natural ingredients like Molasses, Wheat Flour, Corn Syrup, Caramel Coloring, Licorice Extract, Salt, and Anise Flavor. That is what is on the … ingredients label found on a Red Vines Black Licorice package.
Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis). 
Licorice is a glossy, gelled candy with a semi-firm consistency that is flavored with licorice root extract. Typically, it is a moderately sweet candy, and is available in a variety of flavors such as black licorice, strawberry, cherry and chocolate. Since sugar is not critical to the texture of the licorice, it can be less refined, reducing the cost of the licorice recipe. Corn syrup is typically used in combination with sugar in licorice candy. It is a modified form of starch, and like sugar, it provides sweetness to the licorice. It also inhibits sugar crystallization, helps control moisture retention and limits microbial spoilag
In North America, liquorice is called black licorice to distinguish it from similar confectionery varieties that are not flavoured with liquorice extract but commonly manufactured in the form of chewy ropes or tubes. So called black licorice is also a widespread flavour in other forms of candy such as jellybeans. The essential ingredients of liquorice candy are liquorice extract, sugar, and a binder. The binder is typically starch / flour, gum arabic, gelatin, or a combination thereof.