Breeding | Gentoo Penguin Facts. Gentoo penguins are commonly found to breed across sub-Antarctic islands. Some of the notable colonies include Kerguelen islands, Falkland islands, and South Georgia, with fewer numbers also inhabit in the Heard Islands, Macquarie Islands, Antarctic Peninsula, and South Shetland Islands. How about summarizing some of the most interesting and rarely known gentoo penguin facts such as gentoo penguins habitat, diet, breeding, and predators. The gentoo penguins are simply characterized by the broad white stripe extending like a bonnet across the top of its head
Predators | Gentoo Penguin Facts. Gentoo penguins are often fall to predators such as leopard seals, orcas, and sea lions. Apart from marine predators, the land enemies also take on gentoo penguins eggs including Skuas, caracaras, and seabirds. How about summarizing some of the most interesting and rarely known gentoo penguin facts such as gentoo penguins habitat, diet, breeding, and predators. The gentoo penguins are simply characterized by the broad white stripe extending like a bonnet across the top of its head
There are quite a few types of predators out there that find penguins to make the perfect meal. It is due to these predators that not all of them survive to become adults. Others are eaten after laying their eggs so they never make it back to care for their young. What predators a penguin has depends on the species. The larger it is the better chance it has of getting away from certain predators. Also, the location where they live may or may not have certain predators within the vicinity. Most of the time the predators that are animals are a risk to the penguins in the water. They tend to be safer on land. However, the smaller species can be attacked by snakes and by lizards when they are on land. There are other land animals too that have been known to attack penguins
Adult Adelie Penguins have no land based predators due to the uncompromising conditions that they inhabit. In the water however, the biggest threat to the Adelie Penguin is the Leopard Seal, which is one of the southern-most species of Seal and a dominant predator in the Southern Ocean. These Penguins have learnt to avoid these predators by swimming in large groups and not walking on thin ice.
1 Depending on the species, a wild penguin can live 15-20 years. 2  During that time, they spend up to 75 percent of their lives at sea. 3  Penguins have many natural predators depending on their habitat, including leopard seals, sea lions, orcas, skuas, snakes, sharks and foxes. Emperor penguins are the most familiar penguin species. Ian Duffy. Penguins are some of the most recognizable and beloved birds in the world, often found in zoos, aquariums and marine parks worldwide.
Penguin Predators. Penguins are a food source for a number of marine mammals, especially leopard seals. These seals hide under ice flows and wait for their prey. Other marine mammal predators are sea lions and orcas. The penguins aren't without protection though. Their white bellies blend with the snow and sunlight making it difficult for an underwater predator to see them. Penguins are also eaten by a number of birds -- for example, the Australian sea eagle and the Skua
Penguins are social birds. Many species feed, swim and nest in groups. During the breeding season, some species form large groups, or “rookeries”, that include thousands of penguins. Each penguin has a distinct call, allowing individuals to find their mate and their chicks even in large groups. 
Fun Penguin Facts for Kids. Enjoy our fun penguin facts for kids. Learn about the Emperor Penguin, King Penguin, Crested Penguin, Little Blue Penguin, Chinstrap Penguin and more. Read on to find out what makes penguins unique members of the animal kingdom. Penguins are flightless birds. 