There is such a thing as too much of a good thing and licorice can have unwanted side effects if overused. 1  A mild laxative, licorice tea can relieve constipation. 2  Licorice tea has anti-inflammatory properties that may ease the pain of arthritis and other inflammatory diseases. 1 Studies have shown that licorice helps the liver neutralise toxins and can be beneficial in treating liver disorders such as hepatitis. 2  Licorice tea has anti-spasmodic properties. 3  Licorice is often recommended by herbalists as a substitute for St. Johns Wort as a treatment for depression.
Laxative Effects of Licorice. According to Purdue University, one of the properties of the herb licorice is its laxative effect. When used as directed by the manufacturer, it may help decrease discomfort caused by constipation. Uses for Herbal Licorice. The herb licorice is available as an extract, tincture, capsule and powder at your local health food store. It is used to treat upper respiratory conditions that produce excessive amounts of mucous.
Traditional uses for black licorice include treatment for constipation. In that respect, black licorice generally doesn't cause constipation in most people. However, if you have a sensitive gut or suffer from any intestinal problems, licorice may trigger constipation. Similarly, eating lots of licorice might cause your system to get clogged up and bloated
Janet Ho 1. Getty Images You probably tried black licorice when you were a kid, and either loved it or hated it. Its sweet taste is distinct and has similar flavouring to fennel or anise. In fact, licorice candy often contains less licorice extract and more anise flavouring, but it’s the extract — the remnants of boiled licorice root — that has many health benefits. However, it is possible to get a dietary supplement known as deglycyrrhizin licorice with the glycyrrhizin removed, though whole licorice is still sometimes the preferred method for treatment, particularly for respiratory problems.
Considerations. If you're avoiding black licorice for fear of constipation, the chances are you won't experience a blocked up system from eating a small amount. The sugar and gum-filled candy black licorice may be more likely to cause constipation than raw black licorice. Avoid eating large packs in one session. In that respect, black licorice generally doesn't cause constipation in most people. However, if you have a sensitive gut or suffer from any intestinal problems, licorice may trigger constipation.
Its also popularly used as a natural laxative, so it can help with constipation, and as an aid for digestive problems. According to the medical journal, Nutrition and Cancer, substances in licorice may even protect against carcinogen-induced DNA. However, it is possible to get a dietary supplement known as deglycyrrhizin licorice with the glycyrrhizin removed, though whole licorice is still sometimes the preferred method for treatment, particularly for respiratory problems.
Licorice the herbal supplement and licorice the candy are decidedly different. In contrast to the sweet candy, the herb licorice is used in natural medicine to treat upper respiratory infections and stomach ulcers internally. Topically, licorice is used to treat conditions such as canker sores and eczema. Herbal licorice is available with or without a naturally occurring substance called glycyrrhizin. Purdue University also adds that licorice may act as a laxative in your body. Check with your doctor before using a licorice supplement. Uses for Herbal Licorice. The herb licorice is available as an extract, tincture, capsule and powder at your local health food store. It is used to treat upper respiratory conditions that produce excessive amounts of mucous.
Causes include insufficient intake of water, a low-fiber diet, medications and lack of exercise. You can use herbal medicines such as licorice root to promote your bowel activity. However, use licorice root or other natural remedies with caution and only under the supervision of your doctor. Natural Laxatives. Psyllium laxatives — which come from a shrub-like herb called Plantago ovata — help reduce constipation, moving waste through the intestines. Glucomannan, another type of natural laxative, may be helpful for constipation. It comes from the root of the konjac plant.
Licorice Root and Constipation. Licorice root can be used in chronic constipation because it promotes peristalsis and aids in assimilation, according to James F. Balch, M.D., co-author of Prescription for Nutritional Healing.. Peristalsis is the process that forces feces in the large intestine through the gastric system. Natural Laxatives. Psyllium laxatives — which come from a shrub-like herb called Plantago ovata — help reduce constipation, moving waste through the intestines. Glucomannan, another type of natural laxative, may be helpful for constipation. It comes from the root of the konjac plant.
Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis). Licorice is LIKELY SAFE for most people when consumed in amounts found in foods. Licorice is POSSIBLY SAFE when consumed in larger amounts for medicinal purposes and when applied to the skin for a short amount of time.