A shot glass is a small glass designed to hold or measure spirits or liquor, which is either drunk straight from the glass (a shot) or poured into a cocktail. A shot of liquor is not the same as a  shooter . In Canada, a shot generally refers to the province's definition of a standard drink under liquor licenses. Although sizes may vary, most provinces cite amounts similar to Ontario 's guidelines of 0.6 oz. or 17.05 mL of pure alcohol.
For different types of beer, wine, or malt liquor, the alcohol content can vary greatly. Some differences are smaller than you might expect, however. Many light beers, for example, have almost as much alcohol as regular beer—about 85% as much, or 4.2% versus 5.0% alcohol by volume (alc/vol), on average. If you want to know the alcohol content of a canned or bottled beverage, start by checking the label. Note that it takes about 2 hours for the adult body to completely break down a single drink. Do not drive after drinking. For comparison, regular beer is 5% alcohol by volume (alc/vol), table wine is about 12% alc/vol, and straight 80-proof distilled spirits is 40% alc/vol.
Using a standard 1.5 ounce shot glass filled to the brim results in the following number of standard drinks: 1  1.5 ounces of 72-proof = 1 standard drink. 2  1.5 ounces of 80-proof = 1.2 standard drinks. 3  1.5 ounces of 100-proof = 1.5 standard drinks. The proof of the alcohol in the shot is what determines the alcohol content. For example, a standard 1.5 ounce shot glass that is filled to the top with 72-proof alcohol has 36% alcohol content and is considered one standard drink..
Not quite. The proof of the alcohol in the shot is what determines the alcohol content. For example, a standard 1.5 ounce shot glass that is filled to the top with 72-proof alcohol has 36% alcohol content and is considered one standard drink..
Other shot glass sizes are called short shot glasses or pony shots both of which are 1 ounce. Alcoholism experts define a standard drink as 12 ounces of beer, 1.5 ounces of 72-proof distilled spirits, or 5 ounces of wine, all of which contain approximately .54 ounces of alcohol. The proof of the alcohol in the shot is what determines the alcohol content. For example, a standard 1.5 ounce shot glass that is filled to the top with 72-proof alcohol has 36% alcohol content and is considered one standard drink..
The Oxford English Dictionary' s first citation for the term shot glass is in The New York Times during the 1940s, but the earliest known written reference was in a 1913 book by Dr. Jehu Z. Powell, A History of Cass County Indiana from its Earliest Settlement to the Present Time [Lewis Publishing Company, 1913]. In Canada, a shot generally refers to the province's definition of a standard drink under liquor licenses. Although sizes may vary, most provinces cite amounts similar to Ontario 's guidelines of 0.6 oz. or 17.05 mL of pure alcohol.
Since a shot is typically a spirit with 40 percent alcohol, this makes the shot 1.5 oz. or 42.62 mL (though many establishments serve a standard drink of 1 oz). A double shot in North America may be either 2.5 or 3 fluid ounces. In Canada, a shot generally refers to the province's definition of a standard drink under liquor licenses. Although sizes may vary, most provinces cite amounts similar to Ontario 's guidelines of 0.6 oz. or 17.05 mL of pure alcohol.
Turns out, shot glasses aren’t exactly standardized. Some are 1 oz, some 1.5 oz, big ones are usually 2 oz, the list goes on. Most don’t have their size written on them anywhere, so you’re left approximating how big of a shot it will hold. This same issue holds true for recipes
Without changing the size of the shot glass, moreover, the amount of alcohol in a shot can go as high as 95%, or 2.85 standard drinks. This means, for example, that if you have one shot of 190-proof Everclear, you have ingested 2.85 times as much alcohol as you would if you had one shot of 72-proof whisky. The proof of the alcohol in the shot is what determines the alcohol content. For example, a standard 1.5 ounce shot glass that is filled to the top with 72-proof alcohol has 36% alcohol content and is considered one standard drink..