■ An untreated MRSA infection can become very serious. MRSA usually starts as a bump on the skin. It can be red, full of pus, warm, painful, or swollen, and may look like a spider bite. If you have a skin sore: ■ Contact a nurse or doctor right away. ■ Don’t touch or pop the sore. 
1 S. aureus can also cause serious infections such as pneumonia (infection of the lungs) or bacteremia (bloodstream infection). 2  Symptoms of these infections include: difficulty breathing, malaise, fever, or chills. 3  If you suspect you may have an infection with S. aureus contact your healthcare provider. 
1 Superficial MRSA skin infections include pimples, boils, and impetigo. 2  Impetigo is a superficial skin infection that often has a crusty and/or blistered appearance. 3  If left untreated, superficial infections have potential to progress into serious/invasive infections. 1 If left untreated, superficial infections have potential to progress into serious/invasive infections. 2  Deep MRSA skin infections include abscesses and cellulitis. 3  Both of these present as painful, red, swollen areas of skin.
Staph infections can be deadly if left untreated. By Brook Bowden Special to The North Jefferson News Staphylococcus aureus or “Staph” is a bacteria which normally lives on your skin and in your nose. It usually doesn’t cause problems. However, “Staph” has been identified as the most common cause of skin infections in the United States. It is most commonly caused by direct skin-to-skin contact. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staphylococcus or “Staph” bacteria that is resistant to many antibiotics. MRSA infections are more difficult to treat than ordinary Staph infections.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can only die if the staph enters the blood stream. Basically, many people carry the staph in their body but never have an outbreak of it-some have it and will have it forever but only break out occasionally. I f you do have a staph infection occur (in the form of a boil), keep it clean with antiseptic, wash with Hibiclense (I think that's how it's spelled, you can get it from any pharmacy, just ask for it and bathe with it for 5 days head to toe), keep the infection dry and covered.
Staph infection, or staphylococcus, is a bacterial infection commonly carried in the nasal cavity. Staph infection may go undetected until it enters through a wound in the body and becomes infected. If staph infection goes untreated it can result in serious health risks to the skin and organs of the body. Wash your hands with antibacterial soap and warm water if you suspect that you have come into contact with someone who has staph infection. Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. Advice. If you notice a boil-like appearance on your skin you should make an appointment to see your doctor immediately.
1 Staphylococci or “staph” bacteria commonly live on the skin and in the nose. 2  Usually, staph bacteria don’t cause any harm. 3  However,if they get inside the body they can cause an infection. 4  When common antibiotics don’t kill the staph bacteria, it means the bacteria have become resistant to those antibiotics. 1 MRSA can cause serious infections that can become life-threatening if left untreated. 2  If you or someone in your family has been diagnosed with MRSA, there are steps you should take to avoid spreading it to your family and friends.
Staph Infection. When MRSA is left untreated, many patients get staph infections, short for Staphylococcus. Staph infections can affect various parts of the body but most commonly attack the skin, resulting in boils or pimples on the skin. These boils can be swollen, red and painful. If left untreated, they may also have pus.
Dangers of Staph Infection. Staph infection can easily be treated by taking antibiotics prescribed by your doctor until the infection has cleared. If left untreated, staph can get progressively worse by progressing into vital organs of the body and the bloodstream, becoming a potentially fatal problem. Wash your hands with antibacterial soap and warm water if you suspect that you have come into contact with someone who has staph infection. Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. Advice. If you notice a boil-like appearance on your skin you should make an appointment to see your doctor immediately.