Two classes of Canada geese exist in the U.S. Migratory Canada geese (considered the Atlantic population) are those that breed north of the continental U.S., in Alaska, Canada, Newfoundland, and Labrador. The current estimated population of resident Canada geese in the eastern U.S. is greater than one million birds; in New Jersey alone, there are an estimated 81,000 individuals (based on 2012 surveys).
Biology of Canada Geese. There are 11 subspecies of Canada goose, four of which occur in New Jersey including the Atlantic (Branta canadensis canadensis), giant (canadensis maxima), interior (canadensis interior), and western (canadensis moffitii) Canada geese. The current estimated population of resident Canada geese in the eastern U.S. is greater than one million birds; in New Jersey alone, there are an estimated 81,000 individuals (based on 2012 surveys).
The Canada goose (Branta canadensis) is a large wild goose species with a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brown body. Native to arctic and temperate regions of North America, its migration occasionally reaches northern Europe. 
Balancing these two views of Canada geese is a tremendous challenge for wildlife managers, property owners, and communities across the state. Few people realize that there are distinct populations of Canada geese in New York. Resident Populations of Canada Geese. Today, New York's resident Canada goose population numbers close to 200,000 birds, with nesting documented all across the state. Combined with populations nesting in other eastern states, there are more than one million year-round resident geese in the Atlantic Flyway.
Description and Identification. Canada geese are large birds weighing 6 to 24 pounds. They have a black head and neck with a white patch on either side of the head. The back is brownish, and the breast and belly are brownish-white. 1 The giant Canada goose (maxima) subspecies is the most common in Illinois, and is a year round resident. 2  Canada geese fly in a V-shape formation because flying this way reduces wind resistance and helps the geese to conserve energy. 3  Canada geese mate for life but will re-mate if one of the pair dies.
Distribution and Abundance. Canada geese are the most widespread goose in North America. While there are several subspecies of Canada geese in North America, only the giant Canada goose (Branta canadensis maxima), the largest subspecies, is known to breed in Illinois. The 2007 spring population estimate of giant Canada geese in Illinois is approximately 105,000. 1 The giant Canada goose (maxima) subspecies is the most common in Illinois, and is a year round resident. 2  Canada geese fly in a V-shape formation because flying this way reduces wind resistance and helps the geese to conserve energy. 3  Canada geese mate for life but will re-mate if one of the pair dies.
BIOLOGY AND BEHAVIOR. To most people, a Canada goose is a Canada goose. However, taxonomists recognize up to 11 subspecies (i.e., Giant, Lesser, Western, Atlantic, Interior, Richardson's, Dusky, Vancouver, Taverner's, Aleutian and Cackling Goose) that reside within the United States and Canada. Male Canada geese usually suffer higher mortality than females, and much of that is due to greater hunting loss. Predators of Canada goose eggs include crows, ravens, magpies, seagulls, skunks, and raccoons; coyotes, red fox, mink, domestic and feral dogs, and snapping turtles are predators of juvenile geese.
Migratory Populations of Canada Geese. Migratory populations of Canada geese have existed for as long as we know, while the resident population is a recent phenomenon. In the early 1900s, only a handful of Canada geese nested in the wild in New York State. Resident Populations of Canada Geese. Today, New York's resident Canada goose population numbers close to 200,000 birds, with nesting documented all across the state. Combined with populations nesting in other eastern states, there are more than one million year-round resident geese in the Atlantic Flyway.
Hunters believe that Canada geese are the smartest birds. The classification name for the species is Branta Canadensis. They have reached a natural breeding range extending from Siberia and Japan to areas of Western Europe including most of North America. I found it very interesting that the geese are monogamous throughout their lives unless their mate dies.