Arizona Gardeners: Southern live oak trees do well here, too Rick Gibson, UA Cooperative Extension Casa Grande Valley Newspapers Inc. While the Southern live oak, Quercus virginiana, has been widely planted throughout the warm areas of Arizona, I suspect that few people really know much about the tree. The good news is that the live oak is well adapted to our desert conditions. Let’s get that settled early
Our Native Oaks-May 16, 2012 Jeff Schalau, Agent, Agriculture & Natural Resources University of Arizona Cooperative Extension, Yavapai County The oak family (Fagaceae) includes over 600 species which are distributed across the temperate zones of North America, Europe, Asia, and even south into Polynesia. Acorns, the fruit of oak trees, have long been a source of human and animal food. According to Seed Plants of Northern Arizona (by W.B. McDougall), north central Arizona has eight species of true oak. Identifying individual species can be tricky as they are known to intergrade (hybridize) with each other.
We travel to the mountains of Arizona for Quercus turbinella (scrub Oak). Netleaf Oak (Quercus rugosa) in mountains of New Mexico. In far West Texas, Chisos Red Oak, Sandpaper Oak, West Texas Live Oak, West Texas Chinquinpin, Emory Oak, Gray Oak, Mohn's Oak. But the lack of rain or hot weather, doesn't stop us. We're all about growing Oak trees-all kinds of Oak trees. And that means Oak acorns collected last year are putting on their first year of tree growth. It also means time for our annual September acorns collection trip in Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.
Oak trees of the Sonoran Desert region differ from oak trees in northern climates in two respects. First, most desert oak trees are not seasonally deciduous, i.e, they do not drop their leaves in the fall. Desert oak trees stay green through the winter and drop just a few leaves in spring and early summer as new leaves appear. The replacement takes two to three weeks.
We can help you make the right selection of native trees for your area, from California to Virginia and in-between. We carry a limited amount of other Oak tree species as well: Netleaf Oak (Quercus rugosa) - Mexican Blue Oak (Quercus oblongifolia). The Mexican Blue Oak is a unique tree native to Arizona and Texas. But the lack of rain or hot weather, doesn't stop us. We're all about growing Oak trees-all kinds of Oak trees. And that means Oak acorns collected last year are putting on their first year of tree growth. It also means time for our annual September acorns collection trip in Arizona, New Mexico
More leaves will drop during drought conditions. Secondly, desert oak trees, and other leafy plants of the desert, have relatively small leaves. Small leaf size is a trait called microphylly. (The foothills paloverde is the extreme example). The leaves are small because of the geometry and physics of heat dissipation. First, most desert oak trees are not seasonally deciduous, i.e, they do not drop their leaves in the fall. Desert oak trees stay green through the winter and drop just a few leaves in spring and early summer as new leaves appear. The replacement takes two to three weeks.