Think Like the Trout. Before you bait a hook or choose a lure, remember to think about what your game fish prefers to eat. In the case of lake trout, you can't go wrong with minnows -- small ones. Lake trout have been known to feed on other small freshwater baitfish such as perch, smelts, herring and sunfish. ­You can find lake trout in cooler no­rthern waters. They live throughout the Great Lakes region and Canada, as well as in Alaska, Washington, Idaho, Wyoming and much of New England. They also ap­pear in ­a few more s­outherly lakes in California, Utah, Colorado, Kentucky and Tennessee.
They will flop around if you dangle them by the jaw though. Trout are a lot more fragile though. A lot of trout do not need to be netted or handled. You could release them in the water by pinch the hook with a hemostat or a very thin needlenose plier and give it a light twist or lift will remove the hook. Just be carful not to pinch the knot or you'll give the fish a free bling bling. Fish usually flop around a lot less in those fine mesh net. If you must touch trout and you intend to release it, be sure to wet your hands first. Scales and protective slime will stick onto dry hands a lot better. Here is a fine mesh net: http://www.cabelas.com/cabelas/en/templa...
In the spring the Lake Trout are shallow so you can just troll along the shore or around islands in any boat or cast towards rocky points and the dark water just off the edge of sandbars with Little Cleos, Crocodiles or other casting spoons. 1) You can't feel the Lake Trout bite and you can't set the hook normally, which is half the fun. The fish either stays on the line or it does not stay on. You miss a lot of fish that strike because you can't set the hook right away.
In a spring-fed lake, lake trout might always be close to the surface. On the whole, however, you can expect to fish lake trout from the boat, not from the shore. You'll always find more game fish near underwater formations -- sandbars, rocks, docks, shoals, wrecks, whatever. ­You can find lake trout in cooler no­rthern waters. They live throughout the Great Lakes region and Canada, as well as in Alaska, Washington, Idaho, Wyoming and much of New England. They also ap­pear in ­a few more s­outherly lakes in California, Utah, Colorado, Kentucky and Tennessee.
1. Use a light-action rod with 4 to 6 pound test line. This is the best rod to use for trout fishing and allows you to use a variety of techniques to catch your trout. The lighter line has less friction with the water, allowing you cast your line to the very bottom of the lake with ease. 1  Some lake trout can be over 35 pounds, you will need a heavier rod for these. 2  Use an open faced spinning reel with a thin line. 3  Use either number 6 or 10 hooks. Drop your line near the bottom of the lake and slowly work your way up, jiggling the line to so that your jig resembles a wounded baitfish and attracts your trout. 1  This technique does not require any special rod or reel. 2  This technique works best from a boat, rather than the shore.
How to handle trout for catch and release. Posted on: August 11th, 2013 by Rhett No Comments. Studies have shown that the survival rate for catch and release when done properly is between 95% and 99%, (depending on which study you see) so you need not feel guilty about catching and releasing the trout. Where you fish is important if you intend to catch and release. You should start by choosing a stream that is clear. Sediment will hamper the fish to “breath” after it is caught. Also, the trout need oxygenated water to live and that is especially important when the trout is stressed after being caught.
3-Way Swivel Trolling Rig. If you are in a small boat with a 25hp motor or smaller or you are in a big boat with a small kicker motor or electric motor then the very best way to fish deep for Lake Trout is with a 3-way swivel rig. 1) You can't feel the Lake Trout bite and you can't set the hook normally, which is half the fun. The fish either stays on the line or it does not stay on. You miss a lot of fish that strike because you can't set the hook right away.
2) You have a big steel ball screaming through the water and the Lake Trout tend to swim off to the side and away from the path of the lure. 3) In a big boat with multiple lines you can't stop the boat so you just horse the trout in and don't feel the fight or strength of the fish. 1) You can't feel the Lake Trout bite and you can't set the hook normally, which is half the fun. The fish either stays on the line or it does not stay on. You miss a lot of fish that strike because you can't set the hook right away.