Mold and mildew are terms that are used generally to describe growths of fungi on various surfaces. Mildew also is a scientific term that describes a type of plant disease. In common usage, the difference between mold and mildew usually is in their appearance and the surfaces on which they are growing. Mold and mildew are the same thing with different names. One is given to the common household variety, mildew. But the simple fact is this, if you have mold then you need to eliminate the source of moisture, Bottom line: Don't let someone tell you that black mold is deadly.
Mold and mildew are types of fungi; typically, mold is black or green, and mildew is gray or white. Mold tends to grows on food, whereas mildew is an issue on damp surfaces, like bathroom walls, basement walls, or fabrics. Mold grows in the form of multicellular filaments or hyphae, while mildew has flat growth. Mildew is often referred to as a kind of mold (or mold in its early stages), and is classified as powdery (under the order Erysiphales) and downy (under the family Peronosporaceae). To prevent mold and mildew in your home, you need to keep all the areas dry and moisture-free. Check the humidity levels inside the house and take measures to control it. Fix any leak in the bathroom, kitchen or other areas.
1 If the mold or mildew is stubborn, you can add another 1/2 cup of bleach or vinegar to your mixture. 2  You can also spray the tile and mold with Shout. 3  Let it sit until it wipes off easily with a towel or rag, and rinse with water. 1 Apply the bleach solution directly to the mold or mildew by spraying. 2  Then attack with the brush as normal. 3  This solution is best used mold or mildew present in bathrooms, kitchens, and other household rooms with tiles or non-porous surfaces.
Horticulturalists classify mildew differently than most other people. In horticulture, mildew is either species of fungus in the order Erysiphales, or fungus-like organisms in the family Peronosporaceae. It is also used more generally to mean mold growth. There are many species of mold. The black mold which grows in attics, on window sills, and other places where moisture levels are moderate often is Cladosporium. Color alone is not always a reliable indicator of the
Mildew is a form of fungus. It is distinguished from its closely-related counterpart, mold, largely by its color: molds appear in shades of black, blue, red, and green, whereas mildew is white. There are many species of mold. The black mold which grows in attics, on window sills, and other places where moisture levels are moderate often is Cladosporium. Color alone is not always a reliable indicator of the
Appearance. Mold is usually fuzzy in appearance. It can be many different colors, including blue, green, yellow, brown, gray, black, or white. Mildew usually grows in a flat pattern and may appear either powdery or downy. Powdery mildew usually starts out white and may later turn yellow, brown, or black. 1 Wear a facial mask to prevent breathing in mold or mildew spores as well as to protect yourself from breathing fumes given off by the cleaning product you use. 2  Wear rubber gloves to protect your hands from the mold and mildew as well as from the cleaning product you use. 3  Use an antimicrobial mold and mildew remover.
When cleaning mildew and mold: 1  Make sure your work area is well-ventilated, as many mold and mildew cleaners give off fumes that are harmful to breathe. 2  Wear a facial mask to prevent breathing in mold or mildew spores as well as to protect yourself from breathing fumes given off by the cleaning product you use. 1 Wear a facial mask to prevent breathing in mold or mildew spores as well as to protect yourself from breathing fumes given off by the cleaning product you use. 2  Wear rubber gloves to protect your hands from the mold and mildew as well as from the cleaning product you use. 3  Use an antimicrobial mold and mildew remover.
But mold and mildew also have striking differences when it comes to size, color and texture. Mildew is a surface fungi that can easily be identified as a patch of gray or even white fungus that is lying on the surface of a moist area. Mildew is easily treated with a store bought cleaner and a scrubbing brush. The key to treating mold and mildew is to wipe it out of your home immediately. Treating it accordingly will safeguard your home from permanent damage and keep you from doing the tango with nasty fungi in the future. See also: How to Keep Your Home Healthy.
The only way for black mold to grow is if there is water present, making it very common in places like showers and ceilings with leaky pipes. Stachybotrys, or black mold, is a type of mold is very toxic. Appearance. Black mold is very fuzzy, almost looking as if it has hair. It is black in color, but the intensity of the black can vary depending on how thick the mold has grown. 
The term mildew is often used generically to refer to mold growth, usually with a flat growth habit. Molds can thrive on many organic materials, including clothing, leather, paper, and the ceilings, walls and floors of homes or offices with poor moisture control. There are many species of mold. The black mold which grows in attics, on window sills, and other places where moisture levels are moderate often is Cladosporium. Color alone is not always a reliable indicator of the