Ox Bile, a chemically similar substance to human bile, is included to aid in digestion of fats and for help in fat-soluble vitamin absorption. Pancreatin can also provide benefit to some individuals with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency-induced gastrointestinal disorders.
• Digestive Enzymes with Ox Bile-You will need to take enzymes for the rest of your life in order to digest the good fats (Omega 3) which are essential for good health. Ox Bile is a suitable supplement to the liver's production of bile. Bile is naturally produced by the body and is used in the process of digestion.
The lining of the intestines produce more enzymes to break down fats, carbohydrates and proteins. In addition, your liver produces bile to help with the. absorption of fats. The result of this entire process is that food is reduced to sugars, fatty acids, and amino acids – the fuel for your body.
Pancreatic enzymes such as pancreatin and perhaps found also in ox bile can help destroy cancer cells. This was discovered by Dr. John Beard, author of The Trophoblastic Theory of Cancer. The use of pancreatic enzymes is the cornerstone of the Kelley enzyme treatment for cancer.
I often recommend a product called GB-3, from Endomet Labs. This product is a combination of ox bile, pancreatin, and Russian black radish. This article describes why this particular product, or something very similar, is very important in nutritional balancing science at this time. A SUPERIOR DIGESTIVE AID. GB-3 is an excellent digestive aid because of its content of pancreatin and ox bile, primarily, which are digestive enzymes.
Bile is a substance produced by the livers of mammals to assist in the chemical breakdown of fats and the absorption of certain vitamins in the digestive process. Supplementation of Ox Bile can help all dogs better digest their food and is particularly helpful in older dogs which may be bile deficient. Critical for the breakdown of fats and more complex nutrients.
Symptoms of constipation and a tan colored stool may indicate that the body's production of bile is less than optimal. Ox Bile supports the pancreas, gall bladder and liver in producing bile salts and helps digest fats. Binds with cholesterol which is then flushed out of the body.