In subsequent use, Illuminati refers to various organisations which claim or are purported to have links to the original Bavarian Illuminati or similar secret societies, though these links are unsubstantiated. Adam Weishaupt (1748–1830), founder of the Bavarian Illuminati. The Illuminati (plural of Latin illuminatus, enlightened) is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious. Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776. The society's goals were to oppose superstition, obscurantism, religious influence over public life and abuses of state power
The eye represents the Illuminati ruling from their position on the capstone of the pyramid. They are very few at the top while we are many at the bottom. The all-seeing eye on the pyramid was added to the reverse side of the Great Seal of the United States and finally adopted by Congress in 1782. The Theosophical Society, OTO, Rosicrucians, and Freemasons commonly use the sun in their symbols. The Bavarian Illuminati used the point within a circle as its symbol which modern Masons still use today. The swastika is a sun symbol representing the procession of the sun. See Sun.
Links to the Bavarian Illuminati: There is no evidence that the Bavarian Illuminati used the eye in any of its rituals. However, they used the “point within a circle, circled dot, circumpunct, or circle with a point at its centre a (⊙) to represent the Order. Links to the Illuminati: In Illuminati conspiracy theories the presence of a pyramid usually represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati rulers of the universe. The theory has become more mainstream following the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement who refer to the rulers as the One Percent.
– Source. What is never stated, however, is that this “deeper meaning” found in Gaga’s video relates to mind control, a covert practice used by the military, the CIA, religious cults and the Illuminati elite. It is used to program human beings to become mental slaves and to execute specific tasks.
The term “Illuminati” means “enlightened ones” and refers to Lucifer, the “light bringer.” The Illuminati uses bribes of money and sex to gain control of men in high places, and then blackmails them with the threat of financial ruin, public exposure or assassination. Historically the name refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776 to oppose superstition, prejudice, religious influence over public life, abuses of state power, and to support women’s education and gender equality.
The Illuminati refers to several different groups. The name derives from the Latin illuminatur, which means “enlightened.”. Let’s dispense with the Da Vinci Code version of the group, and move on to reality: The Bavarian Illuminati, a secret society that was founded in 1776, coalesced at the University of Ingolstadt. Historically the name refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776 to oppose superstition, prejudice, religious influence over public life, abuses of state power, and to support women’s education and gender equality.
No.2 The Pyramid. The Illuminati Elite is represented by the capstone of the pyramid and the Profane by the stones. The pyramid represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati with the Illuminati plutocrats at the top and the peons at the bottom. Links to the Illuminati: In Illuminati conspiracy theories the presence of a pyramid usually represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati rulers of the universe. The theory has become more mainstream following the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement who refer to the rulers as the One Percent.
http://www.msnoworldorder.co.uk. A member of an illuminati family shows the real meaning behind the dollar bill and illuminati symbolism. Category. License.
The all seeing eye Illuminati symbol. Known as the “udjat”, this is a common symbol, which features a human eye or something similar incorporated in a triangle or some other shape. In most cases, the triangle is used. Illuminati founder, Adam Weishaupt. Sources have revealed further that, in order to achieve its agenda, The Illuminati has no reservations whatsoever for adopting devilish means such as witchcraft, terror, blackmail, and so on.