Langford stood 5'7½ and fought from lightweight up to heavyweight. He fought between 165 and 185 pounds when he was in his prime. Despite his small stature, he was feared by some of the best heavyweights of his time. Born in Nova Scotia, Langford left home as a youth to escape an abusive father.
Jack Dempsey: Jack Dempsey, nicknamed Manassa Mauler, was best know for his 7 year world heavyweight title stint from 1919 to 1926. In his career spanning over a period of 14 years, Dempsey won 66 of the 83 bouts he fought, 51 of which came as knockouts.
10. Herol Graham-Is generally acknowledged as one of the best British boxers of the post-war era never to have won a world title. 9. Joe Jeanette-Is considered one of the best heavyweight boxers of the early 20th century. Because he was African-American, he was not given a shot at the world heavyweight title. 8.
Going beyond The Greatest, many other notable heavyweight boxers have earned their place on these rankings too. Joe Louis, Rocky Marciano, Sonny Liston, Lennox Lewis and Evander Holyfield are all easily among the best heavyweight boxers ever.
Joe Louis: Joe Louis, aka the Brown Bomber, was the World Heavyweight Champion for a period of straight 140 months. Out of his 61 wins from a total of 65 bouts, 51 were impressive knockouts. In 2005, he was honored as the Greatest Heavyweight Boxer of All Time by the International Boxing Research Organization.
Sam Langford: Sam Langford, nicknamed Boston Bonecrusher or Boston Terror, was regarded as one of the greatest punchers of the last 100 years. His 200 wins from 314 bouts, 130 of which were knockouts earned him the title Greatest Fighter Nobody Knows from ESPN.
Langford was the World Colored Heavyweight Champion, a title vacated by Johnson after he won the World Championship, a record five times. Many boxing aficionados consider him the greatest boxer not to win a world title and one of the greatest boxers in the history of the sport.
Sam Langford (March 4, 1883 - January 12, 1956) was a Black Canadian boxing standout of the early part of the 20th century. Called the Greatest Fighter Nobody Knows, by ESPN,[1] he was rated #2 by The Ring on their list of 100 greatest punchers of all time.. Langford was originally from Weymouth Falls, a small community in Nova Scotia, Canada.
Herol Graham-Is generally acknowledged as one of the best British boxers of the post-war era never to have won a world title. 9. Joe Jeanette-Is considered one of the best heavyweight boxers of the early 20th century. Because he was African-American, he was not given a shot at the world heavyweight title.