Both actors who played Gracchus (in Spartacus and Gladiator), played Claudius in previous films – Charles Laughton of Spartacus played Claudius in the unfinished 1937 film I, Claudius and Sir Derek Jacobi of Gladiator, played Claudius in the 1976 BBC adaptation. In December 2000, Gladiator was named the best film of the year by viewers of Film 2000, taking 40% of the votes. In 2002, a Channel 4 (UK TV) poll named it as the sixth greatest film of all time.
The film's plot was influenced by two 1960s Hollywood films of the sword-and-sandal genre, The Fall of the Roman Empire and Spartacus, and shares several plot points with The Fall of the Roman Empire, which tells the story of Livius, who, like Maximus in Gladiator, is Marcus Aurelius's intended successor. In December 2000, Gladiator was named the best film of the year by viewers of Film 2000, taking 40% of the votes. In 2002, a Channel 4 (UK TV) poll named it as the sixth greatest film of all time.
For 1992 TV series, see Gladiators (1992 TV series) . For other uses, see Gladiator (disambiguation) . Gladiator is a 1992 American sports drama film directed by Rowdy Herrington, and starring Cuba Gooding, Jr. , James Marshall, Brian Dennehy, and Robert Loggia. The film tells the story of two teenagers trapped in the world of illegal underground boxing. One is fighting to pay off gambling debts accumulated by his father. The second is fighting for the money to get out of the ghetto. While being exploited by a boxing promoter, the two teens become friends.
Lastly Russell Crowe’s home (where scenes of his wife and son were filmed) was located in Val d’Orcia, Italy. Tags: Ait Benhaddou Morocco, Alabama Hills California, Bourne Woods England, Gladiator filming locations, Gladiator Russel Crowe, Malta, Morocco, Val d'Orcia Siena Tuscany Italy, where gladiator was filmed. The Roman empire was created with the help of Ait Benhaddou in Morocco, special effects and full fledged man made sets. The war scenes of Gladiator was filmed in Alabama Hills, California and Bourne Woods, UK. Malta was another country where the crew filmed Galdiator, though specific locations are not known.
This film is rated R. WITH: Russell Crowe (Maximus), Joaquin Phoenix (Commodus), Connie Nielsen (Lucilla), Oliver Reed (Proximo), Richard Harris (Marcus Aurelius), Derek Jacobi (Gracchus), Djimon Hounsou (Juba), Tomas Arana (Quintus) and Tommy Flanagan (Cicero). 
Gladiator filming location colosseum where gladiators fought. Val d.Orcia, Italy Gladiator Location – Russel Crowe's house. Ait Benhaddou Morocco – Where Gladiator was Filmed. Gladiator Filming location – Alabama Hills California. Where was Gladiator filmed. The Roman empire was created with the help of Ait Benhaddou in Morocco, special effects and full fledged man made sets. The war scenes of Gladiator was filmed in Alabama Hills, California and Bourne Woods, UK. Malta was another country where the crew filmed Galdiator, though specific locations are not known.
The Best Gladiator Movies. List Criteria: Movies must feature gladiators. A list of the best gladiators movies ever made, ranked by movie fans with film trailers when available. This gladiators movie list is ordered by popularity, so only the greatest movies about gladiators are at the top of the list. The films on this list are the most famous gladiators movies of all time, so use it to find some movies that you haven't seen already. Click on these gladiators movie titles for more information about the films. List features items like Gladiator and The Seven Magnificent Gladiators.
Gladiator is a 2000 epic historical drama film directed by Ridley Scott, starring Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Ralf Moeller, Möller Oliver (reed in his final film), Role Djimon, Hounsou Derek, Jacobi John, shrapnel And Richard. harris In December 2000, Gladiator was named the best film of the year by viewers of Film 2000, taking 40% of the votes. In 2002, a Channel 4 (UK TV) poll named it as the sixth greatest film of all time.
Follow the movie on Facebook. Plot Summary. Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix) takes power and strips rank from Maximus (Russell Crowe), one of the favored generals of his predecessor and father, Emperor Marcus Aurelius, the great stoical philosopher. Maximus is then relegated to fighting to the death in the gladiator arenas.
Released in the United States on May 5, 2000, Gladiator was a box office success, received generally positive reviews, and was credited with rekindling interest in the historical epic. The film won multiple awards, notably five Academy Awards in the 73rd Academy Awards including Best Picture and Best Actor for Crowe. In December 2000, Gladiator was named the best film of the year by viewers of Film 2000, taking 40% of the votes. In 2002, a Channel 4 (UK TV) poll named it as the sixth greatest film of all time.