INTERESTING FACTS. 1  The American Flamingo is the most widespread species of the flamingo family. 2  It is the state bird of Gujarat, India. 3  At the beginning of the nesting season, they perform mass courtship displays, where hundreds move together in a coordinated walk.
1 The American Flamingo is the most widespread species of the flamingo family. 2  It is the state bird of Gujarat, India. 3  At the beginning of the nesting season, they perform mass courtship displays, where hundreds move together in a coordinated walk. 4  In ancient Rome, flamingo tongues were regarded as a delicacy.
The Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus roseus) is the most widespread species of the flamingo family. It is found in parts of Africa, southern Asia (coastal regions of Pakistan and India) and southern Europe (including Spain, Sardinia, Albania, Turkey, Greece, Cyprus, Portugal, and the Camargue region of France).
Flamingos or flamingoes (About this sound pronunciation (help·info)) are gregarious wading birds in the genus Phoenicopterus (from Greek φοίνικοπτερος meaning  Phoenix's wing), the only genus in the family Phoenicopteridae. There are four flamingo species in the Americas and two species in the Old World.
The Greater Flamingo is the most widespread species of the flamingo family. It is found in parts of Africa, southern Asia and southern Europe.
Introduction to Flamingos. Flamingos are some of the most unique birds in the world. They stand out from other birds for their feeding habits, diverse habitats, bright colors and one-legged stance. There are six species of flamingo found in the Americas, the Caribbean, Africa, Europe and the Middle East.
The Greater Flamingo is the state bird of Gujarat, India. Distribution / Range It is found in parts of Africa, southern Asia (coastal regions of Pakistan and India) and southern Europe (including Spain, Sardinia, Albania, Turkey, Greece, Cyprus, Portugal, and the Camargue region of France).
The American Flamingo is located through the largest region of any other species in the flamingo family. This species may be found in Africa, south Asia and southern Europe. Specific breeding grounds include the coasts of Pakistan and India, Spain, Sardinia, Albania, Turkey, Greece, Cyprus, Portugal and France.