Criminology: the study of crime and behavior. Theories to explain criminal behavior have been around along as recorded history. Aristotle: poverty is the parent of revolution and crime. (An environmental view of the antecedents of crime). Sir Francis Bacon (1600 s) : Opportunity makes a thief, pointing out the power of the situation to affect behavior.
A criminology degree will help you learn about crime and society. You will spend a great amount of time covering important areas such as anthropology, cultural diversity, deviance in the society, criminal profiling, criminal law, and sentencing procedures. Students enrolled in online criminal justice programs learn about the fundamentals of criminal justice systems, how crime is reduced through different agencies, and what legal penalties are set for criminal acts. On the other hand, criminology is a specific field that studies the behavior of criminals in the society.
Definition of Criminology. Criminology is the scientific study of crime, including its causes, responses by law enforcement, and methods of prevention. It is a sub-group of sociology, which is the scientific study of social behavior. There are many fields of study that are used in the field of criminology, including biology, statistics, psychology, psychiatry, economics, and anthropology. Just as criminology is a sub-group of sociology, criminology itself has several sub-groups, including:
Earl has over 20 years of lecturing experience and has a master's degree in criminal justice. The study of criminology has evolved over the past 250 years, although you can still go to prison for stealing a slice of pizza in some states. Learn more about the study of criminology and the various theories it embraces. There are many fields of study that are used in the field of criminology, including biology, statistics, psychology, psychiatry, economics, and anthropology. Just as criminology is a sub-group of sociology, criminology itself has several sub-groups, including:
The origins and development of social learning theory. Conference Papers -- American Society of Criminology, , 1. Akers, R. L. (1990). Rational choice, deterrence, and social learning theory in criminology: The path not taken. Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology, 81(3), 653-676. Akers, R. L., Krohn, M. D., Lanza-Kaduce, L., & Radosevich, M. (1979). Social learning and deviant behavior: A specific test of a general theory. 
A: Criminology classes will help you learn about the crime issues in our society. You will be able to understand the nature of crime, criminal psychology, and legal issues. Taking classes in this field will allow you to prepare for jobs in the law enforcement sector or law industry. Students enrolled in online criminal justice programs learn about the fundamentals of criminal justice systems, how crime is reduced through different agencies, and what legal penalties are set for criminal acts. On the other hand, criminology is a specific field that studies the behavior of criminals in the society.
A: Criminology can be described as the study of criminals, criminal behavior, and crime in the society. This field has emerged as an important academic area, being offered by many educational institutes. Students enrolled in online criminal justice programs learn about the fundamentals of criminal justice systems, how crime is reduced through different agencies, and what legal penalties are set for criminal acts. On the other hand, criminology is a specific field that studies the behavior of criminals in the society.
Our understanding of who commits crimes and why has a direct influence on the criminal-justice system. As a criminology student, you may come up with new theories that lead to better responses to crime and its causes. Students of criminology study the nature and causes of crime, the behavior of criminals, and the criminal-justice system. 
A: Criminology degree programs will focus on various aspects of crime and law. You will learn about current criminal issues, law enforcement agencies, law and jurisdiction, and cultural effects. Most of the coursework is theoretical in nature and is covered in traditional classroom settings. Students enrolled in online criminal justice programs learn about the fundamentals of criminal justice systems, how crime is reduced through different agencies, and what legal penalties are set for criminal acts. On the other hand, criminology is a specific field that studies the behavior of criminals in the society.