Parents do not cause their children to become alcoholics-or drug addicts. Alcoholism / addiction is not caused by environmental factors. It is a physiological, genetic allergy-a hereditary predisposition involving brain chemistry. A parent does not cause a child to become alcoholic or drug addicted. The emotional wounds provide reasons to drink and use, are the fuel that drives an alcoholic/addict's behavior, but are not the cause of the disease.
But alcoholism is not determined only by the genes you inherit from your parents. In fact, more than one–half of all children of alcoholics do not become alcoholic. Research shows that many factors influence your risk of developing alcoholism. Some factors raise the risk while others lower it. Genes are not the only things children inherit from their parents. both parents abuse alcohol and other drugs; the parents' alcohol abuse is severe; and. conflicts lead to aggression and violence in the family. The good news is that many children of alcoholics from even the most troubled families do not develop drinking problems.
Cross Addiction. You can become addicted to any drug, if you have a family history of addiction. If at least one of your family members is addicted to alcohol, you have a greater chance of developing an addiction to any other drug. Cross addiction occurs because all addictions work in the same part of the brain.
Just as a family history of alcoholism does not guarantee that you will become an alcoholic, neither does growing up in a very troubled household with alcoholic parents. Just because alcoholism tends to run in families does not mean that a child of an alcoholic parent will automatically become an alcoholic too. both parents abuse alcohol and other drugs; the parents' alcohol abuse is severe; and. conflicts lead to aggression and violence in the family. The good news is that many children of alcoholics from even the most troubled families do not develop drinking problems.
It is generally agreed that alcoholism can be hereditary, and if you have or had an alcoholic parent then you run a higher risk of developing the condition yourself than other people might. However, this does not necessarily mean it is an unavoidable situation. There is a genetic factor as to whether that baby will be prone to becoming an alcoholic or not if the genes for alcoholism are high in either family (mother/father). However genes can skip one or more generations.
Alcoholism is a disease. . Someone does not become an alcoholic / addict because they were raised in a dysfunctional family. Alcoholism is not caused by emotional wounds. It also has nothing to do with will power or strength of character or morality. It does not have anything to do with intelligence. A parent does not cause a child to become alcoholic or drug addicted. The emotional wounds provide reasons to drink and use, are the fuel that drives an alcoholic/addict's behavior, but are not the cause of the disease.
These statistics have been found from a reliable source dealing with alcoholism as a disease. There really is no way of knowing if you will become an alcoholic just because one or both of your parents drink alcohol. I guess the bottom line is that if you choose to drink alcohol, then you will get drunk and it’s possible that you will have a battle with it like your mother or father did. Just don’t do it at all.
If you don’t drink, you wont get drunk.” This obviously is the answer for you if you are a child of alcoholic parents and are concerned as to whether or not you will be an alcoholic too. The solution for you is in self discipline. There is no way that you can become an alcoholic if you never even try the stuff. I guess the bottom line is that if you choose to drink alcohol, then you will get drunk and it’s possible that you will have a battle with it like your mother or father did. Just don’t do it at all.
Evidence shows that fifty to sixty percent of the people who become alcoholics are found to have alcoholism in their genetics. This leaves up to forty percent of the population that do not become alcoholics because a parent had a problem with drinking alcohol. I guess the bottom line is that if you choose to drink alcohol, then you will get drunk and it’s possible that you will have a battle with it like your mother or father did. Just don’t do it at all.