Rosicrucian Order AMORC. Yesterday at 5:53am ·. Life, such as it manifests on Earth, is none other than the result of a love story which, through time and space, has incited the union of matter with consciousness. Humans are an example of this union, for they are body and soul.
Esteemed and Venerated Imperator-. As you may have heard, I, Pierre S. Freeman, the author of The Prisoner of San Jose and AMORC Unmasked, have taken grave exception to the practices and agenda of your organization, Ancient Mystical Order Of Rosae Rosæ, crucis known to the world AS. amorc 
AMORC is a worldwide organization, established in the United States of America as a nonprofit 501(c)(3) public benefit corporation, with the specific and primary purpose of advancing the knowledge of its history, principles, and teachings for charitable, educational, and scientific purposes. This is a slightly abbreviated form of the original Latin name, Antiquus Arcanus Ordo Rosae Rubeae et Aureae Crucis, and the initials AMORC were immediately used as well as the true and original symbol of the Rosicrucian Order — the golden cross with but one red rose in the center..
The Key to Universal Wisdom. Through our teachings you will gain specific knowledge of metaphysics, mysticism, philosophy, psychology, parapsychology, and science not taught by conventional educational systems or traditional religions.
The Rosicrucian Order, AMORC is not a cult. It is a fraternal order of women and men who study mysticism (and many topics related to it) and apply what they learn to the commo … n good of humanity. Members are equally as free to join as they are to leave the Order. 1. (in the 17th and 18th centuries) a person who belonged to a secret society laying claim to various forms of occult knowledge and power and professing esoteric principles of religion.
Frequently Asked Questions. No. AMORC, which stands for Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, is not a religion and does not require a specific code of belief or conduct. Rosicrucian students come from a variety of cultural and religious backgrounds. Becoming a Rosicrucian student does not in any way require you to leave your church, join a church, or change your religious beliefs. Some Rosicrucian members do not subscribe to any specific religious beliefs at all. For students who do, we encourage them to participate in the religion of their choice.
The Rosicrucians are a community of Seekers who study and practice the metaphysical laws governing the universe. Request a copy of our free booklet and find out now: Mastery of Life. There is nothing so inspiring, so filled with peace, happiness, perfect health, joy, and contentment as the development of the spiritual nature.. - H. Spencer Lewis, founder of the Rosicrucian Order, AMORC. 1915.
AMORC claims to be the modern day manifestation of the ancient Rose-Croix Order which they claim has its origin in the Ancient Egyptian mystery schools. These supposedly ancient mysteries, they claim, were preserved through the millenia by closed secret societies until the early years of 17th Century Europe. This is a slightly abbreviated form of the original Latin name, Antiquus Arcanus Ordo Rosae Rubeae et Aureae Crucis, and the initials AMORC were immediately used as well as the true and original symbol of the Rosicrucian Order — the golden cross with but one red rose in the center..
AMORC sees itself as belonging to the open cycle of this tradition, that its existence is a reactivation of Rosicrucianist teaching in the United States, a previous community of Rosicrucianists in the United States established at the founding of the colonies having become dormant. This is a slightly abbreviated form of the original Latin name, Antiquus Arcanus Ordo Rosae Rubeae et Aureae Crucis, and the initials AMORC were immediately used as well as the true and original symbol of the Rosicrucian Order — the golden cross with but one red rose in the center..