Even with the overage amount, your escrow account might still be short on funds if a bill is much more than expected. In this case, the lender will likely cover the difference. Then the lender will send you a notification that your escrow was short and you now owe the overage. Lender's can generally estimate what you will need for escrow without mistakes. However, there's a chance that their estimates are off. To cover for this, the lender collects overage -- usually called a cushion -- to hold in your escrow account.
Advantages and disadvantages of a mortgage escrow service. The biggest advantage of using an escrow service is not having to come up with large payments once a year to pay your bills. It is much easier for most people to pay $200 per month into a forced savings account instead of paying $2400 at once. Mortgage escrow accounts also guarantee your bills are paid on-time. There are disadvantages though – most escrow accounts do not earn the account holder interest, though some earn interest at a low rate. For someone with a large house and a $10,000 property tax bill, that adds up to a lot of lost opportunity every year. There are also associated fees which cut into your bottom line.
Typically, the banks deal with the same escrow company and your agent should be able to find out which company that is. Frankly, I can't believe that your agent sent originals and did not keep a copy. To me, that does not make any sense as he/she needs a copy for the office file. If your agent did what he/she is supposed to do, the escrow company should have that check and should be sending that back. However, the money should not have gone to escrow unless you have a formal acceptance from the bank. But from your other question, the bank did not accept your offer but another person's.
Escrow Cushion. Lenders prefer to maintain cushions in escrow accounts, keeping more money available than is necessary for current bills. The purpose of a cushion is so that the lender can keep making tax and insurance payments from the escrow account even if you fall behind on mortgage payments. If the balance in an escrow account exceeds the maximum amount allowed, then federal law addresses how the surplus can be distributed. For a surplus of greater than $50, the lender must return the excess funds to you rather than keep the money in the escrow account.
The lender sets that money aside in a separate escrow account and then pays the bills out of that account. For example, if your property taxes are $3,000 a year and your insurance premiums are $900, the lender might add a monthly escrow charge of $325 to your mortgage payment. This extra amount is the cushion.. The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act says that lenders can keep a maximum cushion of one-sixth of the total annual cost of items paid out of escrow. So if your taxes and insurance add up to $3,900 a year, your lender can keep a cushion of $650. Cushions are not overages.
If the lender chooses to keep the funds in the escrow account, the funds will lower your monthly escrow payment. Ultimately, you will still benefit from the surplus, even if you do not get to decide how to spend the money. If the balance in an escrow account exceeds the maximum amount allowed, then federal law addresses how the surplus can be distributed. For a surplus of greater than $50, the lender must return the excess funds to you rather than keep the money in the escrow account.
Escrow accounts are used to pay for miscellaneous expenses such as property taxes and homeowner's insurance. The lender is allowed to collect additional money to keep in the account as overage in case the bills are higher than anticipated. However, there are laws in place that limit the overage amount the bank can keep in your escrow account. Lender's can generally estimate what you will need for escrow without mistakes. However, there's a chance that their estimates are off. To cover for this, the lender collects overage -- usually called a cushion -- to hold
You can expect to place an additional 1-2 months of taxes and insurance into a new escrow account in addition to your current escrow balance. For example: you owe $100,000, your current escrow balance is $1,500, and your current monthly escrow payment is $200. At settlement, your payoff will be $98,500. Your new lender may require you to place $1,800 into the new escrow account, $300 of which is new money, and $1,500 representing the balance in your existing escrow account. The lender must perform an escrow account analysis once a year and notify you of any shortage, or surplus. The lender can require that you pay the amount needed to correct a shortage. If the escrow account has a surplus of more than $50, the lender must return that amount to the borrower.
The lender may require that you pay into the escrow account each month no more than 1/12 of the total of all payments needed during the year, plus an amount necessary to pay for any shortage in the account. The lender must perform an escrow account analysis once a year and notify you of any shortage, or surplus. The lender can require that you pay the amount needed to correct a shortage. If the escrow account has a surplus of more than $50, the lender must return that amount to the borrower.