The correct term is the Sahara; which is Arabic for desert. The desert is found in Africa north of the equator, and stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Red Sea in the east. It is the world's largest hot desert. It is also the biggest hot desert in the world. However, it is the second biggest desert, as Antarctica is the biggest desert (but a cold desert). Some parts of the Sahara are sandy with giant dunes, while other areas are gravel plains, rock plateaus and mountains (only 3/8th of the Sahara Desert is sand).
The Sahara covers parts of several African nations including Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan and Tunisia. Since the Sahara Desert makes up nearly 10% of the African continent, the Sahara is often cited as the world's largest desert. This is not entirely true, however, as it is only the world's largest hot desert.
Report Abuse. The Sahara Desert, covering most of North Africa, is the largest desert in the world. From north to south the Sahara is between 800 and 1,200 miles and is at least 3,000 miles (4,800 km) from east to west. Due to the massive size of the Sahara, Africa is split into two regions: that which lies above or forms part of the Sahara and the rest of Africa south of the Sahara.
The highest peak in the Sahara is Emi Koussi, a shield volcano in the Tibesti range of northern Chad. Most of the rivers and streams in the Sahara are seasonal or intermittent, the chief exception being the Nile River, which crosses the desert from its origins in central Africa to empty into the Mediterranean. From north to south the Sahara is between 800 and 1,200 miles and is at least 3,000 miles (4,800 km) from east to west. Due to the massive size of the Sahara, Africa is split into two regions: that which lies above or forms part of the Sahara and the rest of Africa south of the Sahara.
A desert is a region which receives very little rainfall. So generally there is only sparse vegetation. However more important is other factors like the temperature. The Sahara is the world's largest hot desert mainly just looks like lots and lots of sand. Antarctica on the other hand is a cold desert and is mainly covered in snow.So it's quite variable. As a side note the word desert can be used to describe an area of low or zero population, as in 'desert island'.
The name Sahara comes from the Arabic word for desert, sahra. Areas of the Sahara Desert look like the classic desert you see in the movies sometimes with giant sand dunes that can get over 500 feet tall! The Sahara Desert covers many countries including Egypt, Libya, Chad, Algeria, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, and Tunisia. 
The Sahara desert is renowned for its majestic sand dunes. The whole desert is made of a deep yellow-brown sand. Each grain is fine and purely sand. There is the occasional water hole or oasis, some habitation, reptiles such as snakes and lizards. It is also the biggest hot desert in the world. However, it is the second biggest desert, as Antarctica is the biggest desert (but a cold desert). Some parts of the Sahara are sandy with giant dunes, while other areas are gravel plains, rock plateaus and mountains (only 3/8th of the Sahara Desert is sand).
At 3.6 million square miles (9.4 million square kilometers), the Sahara, which is Arabic for The Great Desert, engulfs most of North Africa. The desert covers large sections of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. This is the image many people have of the Sahara: a vast sea of sand dunes. The terrain is actually quite varied. Half of the Sahara receives less than an inch of rain per year, and the rest receives up to 4 inches (10 centimeters) per year. The infrequent rain is usually torrential. The highest peak in the Sahara is the volcano Emi Koussi (11,204 feet or 3,415 meters) in the Tibesti Mountains in northern Chad.
0 Votes. Well to begin with, the Sahara is the largest desert in the world (outside of the poles). It stretches over a vast part of northern African practically splitting the continent in half. Although it is a very hot and dry place–receiving less than 3 inches of rain a year–it is speckled with oases. 0 Votes. The Sahara is one of the largest deserts in the world and occupies almost 10% of the African continent. Almost all of the Sahara receives little rainfall, thus it is very hard for many species of plant and animal to survive there. The soil is mostly rock and sand, with some vegetation.
The Sahara covers all or part of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia and Western Sahara. The word Sahara means desert in the Arabic language. The Sahara is one of the hottest places on earth. It is also the biggest hot desert in the world. However, it is the second biggest desert, as Antarctica is the biggest desert (but a cold desert). Some parts of the Sahara are sandy with giant dunes, while other areas are gravel plains, rock plateaus and mountains (only 3/8th of the Sahara Desert is sand).