A Food Scientist earns an average salary of $59,538 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For example, an agricultural food scientist works with farmers in a variety of tasks, including soil analysis and provide advice about crop growth. Food scientists generally work full time during regular business hours. Travel may be required depending on the scientists' employer and specialty.
Career Prospects. As of 2010, the median salary for food and agricultural scientists was $54,450. The top-paid 10 percent earned over $105,000, while the bottom 10 percent made less than $34,320. The Bureau of Labor Statistics expects a 10 percent growth in food and agricultural scientist jobs from 2010 to 2020. To get an entry-level job in food science, you need a bachelor’s degree in agricultural science with a concentration in food science. Earning your degree typically takes about four years. Basic courses include biology, botany, chemistry and principles of statistical analysis.
Your salary as a food scientist will likely depend on the industry you decide to go into. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reported that food scientists in all industries had a mean annual wage of $64,140 in May 2012. The BLS reported in 2012 that the top-paying industry for food scientists was the federal government; the hourly mean wage for food scientists working in this industry $44.16, which amounted to a yearly mean salary of $91,850.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Food Scientist may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Food Scientist in the United States.
Certified Food Scientist (CFS). Make an impact on your career with CFS. The global food system continues to evolve into a system of immense size and complexity. Food science and technology professionals must be up to date on the latest developments in food science to address global food and consumer needs. The Certified Food Scientist (CFS) credential is the only global certification for food science professionals
Food scientist positions typically require at least a bachelor's degree in food science, agricultural science, or a related field. A period of training lasting from a few weeks to a year (depending on the complexity of their tasks) is usually provided to new hires by a senior food scientist. For example, an agricultural food scientist works with farmers in a variety of tasks, including soil analysis and provide advice about crop growth. Food scientists generally work full time during regular business hours. Travel may be required depending on the scientists' employer and specialty.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projected an 9% job growth for food scientists and technologists during the 2012-2022 decade (www.bls.gov). In 2014, the median annual salary for food scientists and technologists was $61,480. Typically offered through a school's department of agriculture, a Bachelor of Science in Food Science and Technology degree program looks at food from a scientific and engineering perspective. Students analyze the chemical and biological composition of organic and manufactured food products.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Food Scientist in the United States is $66,476, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Food Scientist in the United States are expected to make less than $66,476. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Food Scientist in the United States.