(Latin, ramus = branch) The cutaneous branches of dorsal primary rami only innervate skin from the back of the head to the upper buttocks, and as far laterally as the rib angles, approximately. The rest of the trunk, and all of the skin of the limbs, is supplied by branches of ventral primary rami of spinal nerves. 
And the interspinales muscles are then innervated by the dorsal rami of the spinal nerves. We’re now going to look at the different interspinales muscles, specifically seeing here now the interspinales cervices and the different origins and insertions that you see here. Now, the semispinales will be innervated by the dorsal rami of the spinal nerves, and this is also, we can split these into different muscles or different segments known as the capitis, the cervices, and the thoracis.
The posterior ramus of spinal nerve (or posterior primary division) refers to the posterior division of a spinal nerve. The ramus is also known by a number of other names, posterior (or dorsal) rami (or branches or divisions) of the spinal nerves. The posterior ramus is one of two major branches of a spinal nerve that emerge after the nerve emerges from the intervertebral foramen. The posterior ramus carries information that supplies muscles and sensation to the human back. Because each spinal nerve carries both sensory and motor information, spinal nerves are referred to as “mixed nerves.. Posterior rami carry visceral motor, somatic motor, and sensory information to and from the skin and deep muscles of the back. The posterior rami remain distinct from each other, and each innervates a narrow strip of skin and muscle along the back, more or less at the level from which the ramus leaves the spinal nerve
The anterior ramus (pl. rami) (Latin for branch) (ventral ramus), is the anterior division of a spinal nerve. The anterior rami supply the antero-lateral parts of the trunk and the limbs. They are mainly larger than the posterior rami. Shortly after a spinal nerve exits the intervertebral foramen, it branches into the dorsal ramus, ventral ramus, and rami communicantes. Each of these latter three structures carries both sensory and motor information.
Branches of the cervical plexus, which include the phrenic nerve, innervate muscles of the neck, the diaphragm, and the skin of the neck and upper chest. The brachial plexus contains anterior rami from spinal nerves C5-T1. This plexus innervates the pectoral girdle and upper limb. Shortly after a spinal nerve exits the intervertebral foramen, it branches into the dorsal ramus, ventral ramus, and rami communicantes. Each of these latter three structures carries both sensory and motor information.
The innervation of the back is from the meningeal branches and dorsal rami of the spinal nerves. Each spinal nerve gives off a meningeal branch (or sinuvertebral nerve), which reenters the vertebral canal and supplies vasomotor and sensory fibers to dura, ligaments, periosteum, and blood vessels. The muscles of the back include (1) superficially the trapezius and latissimus dorsi; (2) then the levator scapulae, rhomboids, and serrati posteriores; and (3) the deep muscles of the back, which are mostly supplied by dorsal rami.
The walls of the abdominal cavity are innervated by ventral rami of the last 6 thoracic nerves and the ilioinguinal and iliohypogastric nerves, with the expection of the diaphragm, the roof of the abdominal cavity, which is innervated by the phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus. Note: the common peroneal nerve and the tibial nerve together make up the sciatic nerve. Head and Neck. Muscles and structures of the head and neck are innervated by either cranial nerves off of the brainstem or by nerves that aris
The thoracic walls are innervated by ventral rami of spinal nerves. These are referred to as intercostal nerves. An exception is the diaphragm, the floor of the thorax, which is innervated by the phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus. Note: the common peroneal nerve and the tibial nerve together make up the sciatic nerve. Head and Neck. Muscles and structures of the head and neck are innervated by either cranial nerves off of the brainstem or by nerves that aris