BREAKING DOWN 'Normal Profit'. A business will be in a state of normal profit when its economic profit is equal to zero, which is why normal profit is also often called “zero economic profit.” When total revenues are equal to total costs, “normal profit” and “economic profit” are the same. The method of determining whether a firm is in a state of normal profit can be represented in the following way: Total Revenue - (Explicit Expense + Implicit Expenses) = 0. If the difference between total revenue and total expenses is not equal to zero, the business in question is not in a state of normal profit.
DEFINITION of 'Normal Profit'. Normal profit is an economic condition occurring when the difference between a firm’s total revenue and total cost is equal to zero. Simply put, normal profit is the minimum level of profit needed for a company to remain competitive in the market. Next Up. The method of determining whether a firm is in a state of normal profit can be represented in the following way: Total Revenue - (Explicit Expense + Implicit Expenses) = 0. If the difference between total revenue and total expenses is not equal to zero, the business in question is not in a state of normal profit.
Super-normal (economic) profit. If a firm makes more than normal profit it is called super-normal profit. Supernormal profit is also called economic profit, and abnormal profit, and is earned when total revenue is greater than the total costs. Total costs include a reward to all the factors, including normal profit.
Normal profit is a component of (implicit) costs and not a component of business profit at all. It represents the opportunity cost, as the time that the owner spends running the firm could be spent on running another firm. In neoclassical microeconomic theory, profit is either of two related but distinct concepts. Economic profit is similar to accounting profit but smaller because it subtracts off the total opportunity costs (not just the explicit costs, but also the implicit costs) of a venture to an investor. Normal profit refers to zero economic profit
Best Answer: Normal profit happens when the Economic profit (not accounting profit) is zero (TR=TC). What you have to pay attention to is that the TC is the total of both explicit and implicit cost. (TC=explicit + implicit cost). A normal profit for me would be the same amount as my opportunity costs I had. Thus a normal profit for me would have been $50,000. I had accounting profit of $60,000. Because Accounting profit ignores opportunity costs, and economic profit considers them, my economic profit is $10,000.
The higher a profit margin, the more revenue the business receives. While there is no hard number for what constitutes a normal profit margin, a business usually needs a profit margin of at least 5 percent to maintain growth, unless the business has a customer base that consistently returns for more products. Value Price. One of the ways to increase a normal profit margin for a business is to determine the actual value price of a product. Some products, such as an Apple iPad as of 2011, have a high value placed upon them because of the prestige of the product combined with customer desire.
Loading the player... Normal profit is an economic term that means zero economic profit. To an economist, this is normal because total revenue equals total costs, which include both explicit and implicit costs. An explicit cost is what people normally think of as a cost. It is quantifiable because it involves a transaction tied to an exchange of cash at some point