Sweating is a part of normal body function. When you sweat, this usually means your body is doing its job of keeping you cool. In most cases, a person sweats in response to warm temperatures, exercise and emotional situations. Sometimes a person’s sweats excessively, however. 4. Medications. There are many medications, both prescription and over the counter that are known to cause excess sweating. To determine whether excess perspiration is a side effect of medication, see your doctor for diagnosis. Be sure to take a list of the prescription and non-prescription medications you are taking.
Sweating. Sweating is heavy perspiration that can happen at night or even when the room is cool. There may be enough to soak your clothes. Such sweating is common when a fever breaks. You may notice that you sweat a lot a short time after shaking chills. 
Excessive Sweating. A person with excessive sweating has a condition called hyperhidrosis. Sweating is normal when the body is exposed to a warm environment. The evaporation of sweat from the skin surface cools the body. Hyperhidrosis is excessive sweating that occurs when the body is not exposed to a warm environment. In adults, the most common cause of hyperhidrosis is emotional stress. However, excessive sweating is also caused by heart disease, lung disease, diabetes, and shock. 
Medications that can cause night sweats. Night sweats are a common side effect of many medications, such as: 1  Depression medications (antidepressants). 2  Drugs used to regulate your hormones (hormone therapy). 3  Drugs that lower the level of sugar in your blood (hypoglycemic agents)
Sweating occurs when the sweat glands in your skin secrete a salty fluid called sweat, or perspiration. Sweating is a normal function that serves to cool your body, often in hot or humid environments or when you exercise. Excessive sweating may be a symptom of an underlying disease, disorder or condition. The medical term for excessive sweating is hyperhidrosis. Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) and hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) are just two of many conditions that may cause excessive sweating. The consumption of certain substances, such as alcohol, caffeine or spicy foods, may also cause you to sweat. Women often experience abnormal sweating during menopause. Sweating may be a symptom of a serious or life-threatening condition such as a heart attack.
Infection. Infection is one of the most common causes of sweating in people who have cancer. Infection can give you a high temperature and your body sweats to try and reduce it. Treating the infection can control or stop the sweating.
Menopause-The hot flushes that accompany the menopausal transition can occur at night or day and cause sweating. This is a very common cause of night sweats in women around the time of menopause. Cancers-Night sweats are an early symptom of some cancers. The most common type of cancer associated with night sweats is lymphoma. However, people who have an undiagnosed cancer frequently have other symptoms as well, such as unexplained weight loss and fevers.
Pin It. Night sweats are a very common occurrence. Sweating during sleep refers to any type of excess sweating that makes you rise clammy and covered in perspiration. However, in many cases night sweats aren’t attributed to wearing too many blankets or the balmy temperature in your bedroom. 