1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase). 1 These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor. 2  Moisture-Vapor Transmission-Some floors have a high level of moisture-vapor transmission that will need to be remedied before most decorative coatings, overlays or sealers can be applied.
Best Answer: its not just a case of putting down a damp proof membrane and laying concrete, Your floor must be insulated, you will need the following 150 mm of Hardcore (MOT) - 2 ton about 25 mm of soft sand blinding damp proof membrane (visqueen) 100mm of concrete - 2 tonn of ballast plus 10 25kg bags of cement. 
Economical. The cost of concrete floors is very low, about $2 to $6 per square foot to polish a plain gray slab, giving it a lustrous sheen. The concrete's tonal differences, subtle cracks and aggregates take on a stonelike, natural feel.
1 On average, getting concrete floors can cost anywhere from as little as $2 to as much as $17 per square foot. 2  An economical option, which can just change the tone of the concrete floor, will typically cost less than $6. 1 ConcreteNetwork.com provided an overview on what most concrete flooring jobs would cost. 2  They noted that the average can be anywhere from $2.50 to as much as $30
The underlayment costs .51 cents a square foot. To lay the underlayment and laminate floor in a 10-by-12-foot room, a contractor will charge $785 for the labor and material. You can buy the material for $560 and do it yourself and save 29 percent. 
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor. 2  Moisture-Vapor Transmission-Some floors have a high level of moisture-vapor transmission that will need to be remedied before most decorative coatings, overlays or sealers can be applied.
Concrete floors can obviously range in price based on a variety of factors such as level of detail, size of the project, prices for materials and labor in your market, etc. But beyond the variance of cost, it is possible to have unique concrete floors no matter what the size of your budget. 1 At this price point, you are comparing against wood flooring ($8-$10 per square foot) and a range of ceramic and quarry tiles ($10-$12 per square foot).
Basic concrete slab cost. I'll base my price on what my actual estimate would be to install a 6 thick concrete slab for one of my customers. Base cost for a 6 thick concrete slab -- $4.00 dollars per square foot --. Take the length of the concrete slab x the width of the slab to get the. total square footage. Multiply the total square footage by 4 (dollars) to get the total price. L x W x $4.00 in this example. 
It is best to contact a contractor in your area for a realistic price estimate. Basic Cost Range ($2.50 to $5.50 per square foot) What You'll Get: 1  An eye-catching, economical upgrade to plain, gray concrete. 2  Basic one-coat application of stain with sealer (which includes floor cleaning and masking prior to staining): 1 At this price point, you are comparing against wood flooring ($8-$10 per square foot) and a range of ceramic and quarry tiles ($10-$12 per square foot).
A concrete floor is usually laid during renovation work to replace a rotting timber floor. Before laying a concrete floor, you must consult your local Building Control Department as changing a floor can affect the ventilation in other parts of the building and it is possible that insulation will also be required. 1 This line marks the top of the screed. 2  However, if you are planning to lay a thick floor covering on top of the new floor such as quarry tiles, allow for the depth of the tiles. 3  Measure down from line A 25mm and draw a line to mark the top of the concrete layer, and label this B.