No reaction is seen if iron is dipped into magnesium sulfate solution, because iron is not reactive enough to displace magnesium. The table below shows the results obtained in a series of experiments involving four metals and solutions of their salts. A more reactive metal will displace a less reactive metal from its compounds. For example, magnesium is more reactive than iron. When a piece of magnesium is dipped into iron sulfate solution, iron is displaced and coats the surface of the magnesium:
Put a small piece of copper into the solution in the first well.Put a small piece of iron into the second well, and so on for all five metals.5. Look carefully at the solution and metal in each well. If you can see any change in the appearance of the metal or the solution, then displacement is happening.6. 
Best Answer: there will not be a reaction with zinc and magnesium sulphate. this is because zinc is less reactive than magnesium; it needs to be more reactive than magnesium in order to displace it and make a reaction. Zinc Sulfate will react with Magnesium as Zn is more reactive than Mg, forming Magnesium Sulfate & Zinc.
however, there definately will be a reaction with magnesium and zinc sulfate, because magnesium is more reactive than zinc and therefore displaces it to cause a reaction. the products are zinc solids and magnesium sulphate [ in aqeuous form] google reactivity series for the order of reactivity of metals. Source(s): Zinc Sulfate will react with Magnesium as Zn is more reactive than Mg, forming Magnesium Sulfate & Zinc.
Zinc and iron sulphate do react. Zinc is higher in the reactivity series than iron. It can therefore displace sulphate from the iron and 'take' the sulfate. The reactivity series is as follows: Potassium. Sodium. Lithium. Calcium. Magnesium. Iron Sulfate can refer to either Fe2(SO4)3 or FeSO4. Both react with magnesium because magnesium is higher on the activity series of metals than iron. FeSO4 + Mg [arrow] MgSO4 … + Fe Fe2(SO4)3 + 3Mg [arrow] 3MgSO4 + 2Fe. 10 people found this useful. Aaron Hughes.
Reaction of Zinc and Copper(II) Ion. Copper metal plates out on a strip of zinc metal when it is immersed in a solution of 0.1 M aqueous copper(II) sulfate solution. 
Report Abuse. this is a displacement reaction Zn+FeSO4=ZnSO4+Fe here Zn being more reactive than Fe,displaces Fe from FeSo4 to become ZnsO4... blade chord · 6 years ago.
Zinc and iron sulphate do react. Zinc is higher in the reactivity series than iron. It can therefore displace sulphate from the iron and 'take' the sulfate. Zinc + Iron Sulp …. 11 people found this useful. there will be no reaction as zinc is more reactive than iron.So iron cannot displace zinc.
Iron Sulfate can refer to either Fe2(SO4)3 or FeSO4. Both react with magnesium because magnesium is higher on the activity series of metals than iron. FeSO4 + Mg [arrow] MgSO4 … + Fe Fe2(SO4)3 + 3Mg [arrow] 3MgSO4 + 2Fe. 10 people found this useful. there will be no reaction as zinc is more reactive than iron.So iron cannot displace zinc.