An appendectomy is the surgical removal of the appendix, a tube about six inches long or less that branches off the large intestine. The procedure is performed to treat appendicitis, an inflammation of the appendix caused by infection.
How long does it take to recover from appendix surgery. http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-it-take-to-recover-from-appendix-surgery. Most patients leave the hospital in 1 - 3 days after the operation. Normal activities can be resumed within 1 - 3 weeks later. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-it-take-to-recover-from-appendix-surgery ]. More Answers to  How long does it take to recover from appendix surgery .
You will stay in the hospital 1 to 3 days after the operation. In most cases you should be able to go back to your normal daily activities in 1 to 3 weeks. If your appendix ruptured or an abscess formed, you will need to stay at the hospital longer and it will take more time to recover.
Health related question in topics Medicine Treatment .We found some answers as below for this question How long does it take to recover from appendix surgery,you can compare them. Most patients leave the hospital in 1 - 3 days after the operation. Normal activities can be resumed within 1 - 3 weeks later. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-it-take-to-recover-from-appendix-surgery ]. More Answers to  How long does it take to recover from appendix surgery .
Depending on what type of surgery you have, it may take from 1 week to 1 month to get back to your normal activities. If your appendix ruptures, or if there is infection in your belly or other problems, you may be in the hospital longer. And it may take longer to get better.
After an uncomplicated appendectomy, you will be released from the hospital within three days and can resume normal activities in about 2-3 weeks. Returning to normal activities can be a little longer if the appendectomy was done for a ruptured appendix or there were complications.
The appendix may be removed with either open surgery or laparoscopic surgery. If you have open surgery: 1  Your surgeon will make a cut 2 to 3 inches long in your abdomen (belly). 2  Your surgeon will remove the appendix and close the wound.