The shelf life of mushrooms, like most other fresh vegetables may not have a sell by date, use by date, or best before date so you have to go with purchase date in most cases. In determining how long Mushrooms lasts, our content incorporates research from multiple resources, including the United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Food & Drug Administration.
Report Abuse. about week, mushrooms must be stored in a brown paper bag in the crisper of you fridge..because mushrooms are 90% water they sweat inside a plastic bag and become watery.. I would say about the same if they are stored in their original container or package. If you use a Green Bag, I have kept them as long as three weeks-I'm absolutely serious. If you do not have a Green Bag, a muslin bag or cloth will work nearly as well.
This food will keep for about 3 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. Generally, you do not want to keep mushrooms for longer than a week. However, the general method of checking that your mushrooms are still fresh is to feel them. If they … feel slimy or look darker than normal, it is time to throw them away.
There is no clear consensus. The conservative answer is that mushrooms should be eaten within two days of purchase. However, some experts maintain mushrooms will keep for up to a week after purchase, particularly if stored in cool, dry, and dark places. Pre-slicing mushrooms can shorten their shelf life. Once sliced, mushrooms quickly oxidate
Nine to 10 Days From Packaging Date. According to Mountain View Mushrooms, fresh mushrooms can be stored at 34 to 40 degrees F for up to 10 days from the date of packaging. If purchasing store-bought mushrooms, the packaging date will be printed on the storage container or plastic wrap. Artem Kononenko/Demand Media. 
How to store Mushrooms to extend their shelf life? To extend their shelf life it is best to store them whole and un-peeled in a sealed plastic bag in the fridge. For a longer term option, mushrooms may be frozen for 6-8 months, but they should be cooked first and placed in freezer safe containers. In determining how long Mushrooms lasts, our content incorporates research from multiple resources, including the United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Food & Drug Administration.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 11 people found this useful. Melons do not last long once they become ripe. A whole uncut melon will stay good for 5 to 7 days. If the melon is cut it will last only 3 days.
Up to 6 weeks. You can also freeze this product and it will keep for over a year.   Hi-I only accessed this question as I h … ave just tried some butter I had in the fridge. It is now Sunday 14th June 2009. It was Tesco Value unsalted butter which statesDisplay until 12:12:2008 Best Before 19:12:2008. Melons do not last long once they become ripe. A whole uncut melon will stay good for 5 to 7 days. If the melon is cut it will last only 3 days.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Generally, you do not want to keep mushrooms for longer than a week. However, the general method of checking that your mushrooms are still fresh is to feel them. If they feel slimy or look darker than normal, it is time to throw them away. I would say about the same if they are stored in their original container or package. If you use a Green Bag, I have kept them as long as three weeks-I'm absolutely serious. If you do not have a Green Bag, a muslin bag or cloth will work nearly as well.