Argos Card-Buy Now, Pay Later every time you shop from Argos. Get an Argos Card to Buy Now and Pay Later, every time you shop at Argos. Argos have got some great Pay Later deals available. Spend £295 or more on a TV and you can Pay 12 months Later. Spend £195 or more and you can Pay January 2011 - but hurry, these deals can't last forever. Buy Now, Spend £195 in the July Sale and Pay Jan 2011. It pays to use the Argos Card every time you shop. That’s because you can always Buy Now, Pay Later-no matter how much you spend. The more you spend the longer you have to pay
Argos-Buy Now Pay Later. Click here to shop at Argos. Argos sell a huge range of items from their High Street stores, via the Argos caralogue, and from their website. Indeed, you can order items online for collection in store, which combines the two.
If you use your Homebase card in Argos, you'll get Argos Buy Now, Pay Later Plans. ^In relation to loans, Homebase Limited acts as a credit intermediary and only offers products from Barclays Partner Finance. Store card credit for Homebase Ltd is provided exclusively by Home Retail Group Card Services Ltd, part of the same group and both at 489-499 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2NW. If you shop with your Homebase card in Homebase, you can take advantage of the Buy Now, Pay Later Plans that Homebase offers.
Financial Services products. Our Argos and Homebase Cards offer buy now, pay later plans from three to 12 months and are available on relatively low spends in both Argos and Homebase. If you're spending £1,000 or more in Homebase showroom, we can arrange finance for you with our fixed repayments at an attractive interest rate. 
Argos, Buy now Pay 6 months later When you spend just £90 or more on your argos card. flp143445y, 10m agoPosted 5 years, 10 months ago. NEW: Exclusive credit offer for a limited time only, Buy now Pay 6 months later When you spend just £90 or more on your argos card. This Christmas we have two great credit deals for you. If youre spending just £90 or more, you can Pay 6 months Later if you put it on an Argos Card. If youre spending £285 or more then you can Pay 9 months Later. It only takes a couple of minutes to apply, then you can make the most of our latest BUY NOW PAY LATER deals right away online, with the Argos C
How to get buy now pay later at Argos. To get buy now pay later at Argos, select the Argos Card as your payment method at checkout and you will be taken through the steps to proceed. There will be an interest free period which depends on how much you have spent and what it is that you have bought. Click here to shop at Argos. Argos sell a huge range of items from their High Street stores, via the Argos caralogue, and from their website. Indeed, you can order items online for collection in store, which combines the two.
A Representative Example. Spend £199 on a 6 month Buy now, pay later plan and you don't have to pay anything for up to 6 months (although you can begin earlier if you wish) then settle the balance by the due date. Total payable £199. It's as easy as this. 1  Spend say £75 in Argos, which means you could Buy now, pay 3 months later. 2  You'll receive monthly statements in the post. 3  In the 3rd month, you'll be asked whether you want to pay off the balance to avoid being charged interest OR if it suits you, spread the cost over a longer period.
You can Buy Now and Pay up to 6 months Later when you spend 275* or more at Argos. Now you can have the things you want from Argos and make them more affordable with our Buy Now, Pay Later deal. And applying is easy, just ask in any store. You ll need to: 
Argos. Buy now pay later with Argos. Before you spend more money up front than what your budget really allows, you might want to consider the Argos buy now pay later option offered for purchases made in store, online and out of their catalogue. In order to take advantage of this payment option, you are first going to need an Argos card. There are no fees associated with neither the Argos card nor the buy now pay later option that are not clearly outlined, so you do not have to worry about receiving a shocking bill in the mail telling you that you owe much more than you originally anticipated.
With your Argos card, you can make use of the buy now pay later Argos payment plan with nearly any purchase. You can get any of the following electrical items on finance from a number of different retailers including Argos, such as: 1  Laptops – top brands including Samsung, Acer, Toshiba and Panasonic. There are no fees associated with neither the Argos card nor the buy now pay later option that are not clearly outlined, so you do not have to worry about receiving a shocking bill in the mail telling you that you owe much more than you originally anticipated.