Methanol, also known as methyl alcohol, wood alcohol, wood naphtha, methyl hydrate, or wood spirits, is a chemical with the formula C H 3 O H (often abbreviated MeOH). Methanol acquired the name wood alcohol because it was once produced chiefly as a byproduct of the destructive distillation of wood. If as little as 10 mL of pure methanol is ingested, for example, it can break down into formic acid, which can cause permanent blindness by destruction of the optic nerve, and 30 mL is potentially fatal, although the median lethal dose is typically 100 mL (3.4 fl oz) (i.e. 1–2 mL/kg body weight of pure methanol).
Methanol is the simplest alcohol, and is a light, volatile, colorless, flammable liquid with a distinctive odor very similar to that of ethanol (drinking alcohol). If as little as 10 mL of pure methanol is ingested, for example, it can break down into formic acid, which can cause permanent blindness by destruction of the optic nerve, and 30 mL is potentially fatal, although the median lethal dose is typically 100 mL (3.4 fl oz) (i.e. 1–2 mL/kg body weight of pure methanol).
Methanol is a highly toxic colorless liquid that may explode when exposed to flames. Other common names for methanol are methyl alcohol and wood alcohol. Methanol occurs naturally in wood and volcanic gases and is a product of decaying organic material such as vegetation. It is also emitted from gasoline and diesel engines and from burning trash and plastics. The chemical formula for methanol is CH4O. Methanol is used in antifreeze products and as a solvent and is an ingredient of gasoline. It is used as an ingredient of some paint strippers
However, unlike ethanol, methanol is highly toxic and unfit for consumption. At room temperature, it is a polar liquid, and is used as an antifreeze, solvent, fuel, and as a denaturant for ethanol. It is also used for producing biodiesel via transesterification reaction. If as little as 10 mL of pure methanol is ingested, for example, it can break down into formic acid, which can cause permanent blindness by destruction of the optic nerve, and 30 mL is potentially fatal, although the median lethal dose is typically 100 mL (3.4 fl oz) (i.e. 1–2 mL/kg body weight of pure methanol).
Methanol (CH 3 OH), also known as wood alcohol, is considered an alternative fuel under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. As an engine fuel, methanol has chemical and physical fuel properties similar to ethanol. This fuel is generally produced by steam-reforming natural gas to create a synthesis gas. Feeding this synthesis gas into a reactor with a catalyst produces methanol and water vapor. Various feedstocks can produce methanol, but natural gas is currently the most economical.
For 3-D image Click here. Methanol is a common laboratory solvent. It is especially useful for HPLC and UV/VIS spectroscopy due to its low UV cutoff. Methanol, also known as methyl alcohol, carbinol, wood alcohol, wood naphtha or wood spirits, is a chemical compound with chemical formula CH3OH (often abbreviated MeOH). Other chemical derivatives of methanol include dimethyl ether, which has replaced chlorofluorocarbons as an aerosol spray propellant, and acetic acid. Automotive fuel. Methanol is used on a limited basis to fuel internal combustion engines, mainly by virtue of the fact that it is not nearly as flammable as gasoline.
Properties of Methanol. Methanol, also known as methyl alcohol, wood alcohol, wood naphtha or wood spirits, is a chemical with formula CH 3 OH (often abbreviated MeOH). Most methanol today is produced from the methane found in natural gas, but methanol is also produced from all types of biomass, coal, waste, and even CO 2 pollution from power plants. Learn more about methanol production here.
With some redesigning, more methanol (up to 85%) can be used. The advantage for China is that the methanol can be produced from both coal and biomass via synthesis gas. This emphasis of using methanol as a fuel is reflected in the global production figures for methanol. Manufacture of methanol. Methanol is manufactured from synthesis gas which is a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen. The feedstock, over the last 40 or more years, has been oil or natural gas.
Methanol and ethanol are variants of alcohol, and they have different properties and uses. Methanol is a poisonous chemical derived through synthetic processes, while commercial ethanol is produced by factory fermentation of food crops. Both substances can be used as energy sources, but methanol serves mainly as a subject of research and its use as a motor fuel in the U.S. has been largely phased out.