About Valve Stenosis Stenosis is the term for a valve that doesn’t open properly. The flaps of a valve thicken, stiffen, or fuse together. As a result, the valve cannot fully open. Thus, the heart has to work harder to pump blood through the valve, and the body may suffer from a reduced supply of oxygen. Causes of Valve Stenosis Stenosis can be caused by age or by a malformed valve called a bicuspid valve.
Prevention and Self-care. Aortic valve regurgitation can also be prevented from high blood pressure by keeping blood pressure under control. High blood pressure can also cause the aorta to stretch out, which pulls the aortic valve leaflets apart and leads to regurgitation. 1  Control of high blood pressure. 2  Consuming less salt. 3  Regular dental care. 
Valvular heart disease is characterized by damage to or a defect in one of the four heart valves: the mitral, aortic, tricuspid or pulmonary. The mitral and tricuspid valves control the flow of blood between the atria and the ventricles (the upper and lower chambers of the heart). 1 High blood pressure and atherosclerosis may damage the aortic valve. 2  A heart attack may damage the muscles that control the heart valves. 3  Other disorders such as carcinoid tumors, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, or syphilis may damage one or mor
1 Bacterial endocarditis, an infection of the inner lining of the heart muscle and heart valves (endocardium), is a cause of valvular heart disease. 2  High blood pressure and atherosclerosis may damage the aortic valve. 3  A heart attack may damage the muscles that control the heart valves. 1 High blood pressure and atherosclerosis may damage the aortic valve. 2  A heart attack may damage the muscles that control the heart valves. 3  Other disorders such as carcinoid tumors, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, or syphilis may damage one or mor
Causes of Aortic valve incompetence. Aortic valve incompetence is most often caused by a congenital heart defect, while acquired cases are due to endocarditis and other illnesses. To research the causes of Aortic valve incompetence, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Aortic valve incompetence: 1  Rheumatic fever. 2  Systemic lupus erythematosus. 3  Marfan's syndrome. 4  Ehler's Danlo
Aortic insufficiency (AI), also known as aortic regurgitation (AR), is the leaking of the aortic valve of the heart that causes blood to flow in the reverse direction during ventricular diastole, from the aorta into the left ventricle. In aortic insufficiency (AI), when the pressure in the left ventricle falls below the pressure in the aorta, the aortic valve is not able to completely close. This causes a leaking of blood from the aorta into the left ventricle.
Blood from the right ventricle passes through the open pulmonic valve into the pulmonary artery, and blood from the left ventricle passes through the open aortic valve into the aorta and the rest of the body. 1 The narrowed opening may make the heart work very hard to pump blood through it. 2  This can lead to heart failure and other symptoms (see below). 3  All four valves can develop stenosis; the conditions are called tricuspid stenosis, pulmonic stenosis, mitral stenosis, or aortic stenosis. 4  Valvular insufficiency.
The pulmonary valve controls the flow of blood from the heart to the lungs, and the aortic valve governs blood flow between the heart and the aorta, and thereby the blood vessels to the rest of the body. The mitral and aortic valves are the ones most frequently affected by valvular heart disease. 1 High blood pressure and atherosclerosis may damage the aortic valve. 2  A heart attack may damage the muscles that control the heart valves. 3  Other disorders such as carcinoid tumors, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, or syphilis may damage one or mor
Aortic valve incompetence: Introduction. Aortic valve incompetence: A condition characterized by an inability of the aortic valve to function effectively. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Aortic valve incompetence is available below. Aortic valve incompetence: Complications. Review possible medical complications related to Aortic valve incompetence: 1  Congestive heart failure can develop if the condition is severe and untreated. 2  more complications...».