Greenwich Village is located in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan. One of New York's best-known neighborhoods, Greenwich Village (often simple, the Village) is also one of the city's oldest, having become a village of its own in 1712 (under the impossibly Seussian name of Grin'wich). As is always the case in New York City, there's contention about the exact boundaries of Greenwich Village, and there are some who would even cast the West Village as its own separate neighborhood.
Greenwich Village has been known as an artists' haven, the Bohemian capital, the cradle of the modern LGBT movement, and the East Coast birthplace of both the Beat and '60s counterculture movements. From 1797 until 1829, the bucolic village of Greenwich was the location of New York State's first penitentiary, Newgate Prison, on the Hudson River at what is now West 10th Street, near the Christopher Street pier.
Jump to a detailed profile or search site with. Many, when they think of New York City's Greenwich Village neighborhood, are reminded of what life was like there in 1950's and 1960s. It was then that the neighborhood was a haven for the artists and writers that would shun tradition in favor of nonconformity. Today, Greenwich Village, a mostly residential neighborhood that is located between Broadway and the Hudson River and from 14th Street to Houston Street, is vastly different that it was during that time.
In the lower part of Manhattan, between Houston Street and West 14th Street, and from the Hudson River to Broadway, is what is known as Greenwich Village. Today, the neighborhood closest to the Hudson is known as the West Village. One of the first great venues was the Greenwich Village Follies, where dancers and musicians such as Martha Graham and Cole Porter got their start. For actors, playwrights and anyone in the theater industry, the Village was a lively environment.
Originally known as Grin'wich, The Village is deep rooted in New York's psyche. Its earliest residents came in the late 1600s. Unlike neighborhoods to the south, specifically what is now the Financial District, Greenwich Village was unscathed by the Revolutionary War. The Village also has a rarely-seen side of its personality between Fifth and Sixth Avenues north of Washington Square graced by rows of townhouses and where occasional high-rise buildings reside on quiet, tree-lined streets.
In the 19th century, the Greenwich Village district was better known as Washington Square. Washington Square Park remains a neighborhood landmark, but the terms The Village, Greenwich Village, and West Village are practically interchangeable. 
A large section of Greenwich Village, made up of more than 50 northern and western blocks in the area up to 14th Street, is part of a Historic District established by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. From 1797 until 1829, the bucolic village of Greenwich was the location of New York State's first penitentiary, Newgate Prison, on the Hudson River at what is now West 10th Street, near the Christopher Street pier.
Greenwich is a village in Washington County, New York, United States. It is part of the Glens Falls Metropolitan Statistical Area. The village population was 1,902 at the 2000 census. Locals pronounce the name as it appears, in contrast to Greenwich (Grehn-itch), England. Greenwich was formerly known as Whipple City. According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 1.485 square miles (3.85 km 2). None of the area is covered with water. The Batten Kill, a river in the south part of the town, has historically provided power and attracted many settlements, besides Greenwich village, along its course.
1 The main campus for NYU is found in Greenwich Village, centered around Washington Square Park. 2  Washington Square Park (between Washington Square North, Washington Square South, Washington Square East, and Washington Square West). 3  The park and its famous arch are located in the heart of the Village. Note that the East Village was not historically part of Greenwich Village and is still considered by many New Yorkers to be part of the Lower East Side, but the term West Village is synonymous with Greenwich Village, or at least that part of the neighborhood that is west of 6th Av. or so.
Greenwich Village (often referred to as West Village or simply the Village) is a well-known, largely residential district in Manhattan, once famous for its vibrant art and literary community. Note that the East Village was not historically part of Greenwich Village and is still considered by many New Yorkers to be part of the Lower East Side, but the term West Village is synonymous with Greenwich Village, or at least that part of the neighborhood that is west of 6th Av. or so.