When used as a noun, Deutsch is capitalized, as are all German nouns. (Adjectives, however, are NOT capitalized, even if they refer to a proper name.) The exact translation for the German language is die deutsche Sprache. Note that the article (die) applies to Sprache (fem). English is kind of a dual-heritage language; English proper is Germanic, but a lot of words were added by way of French starting around the time of the No … rman Conquest. Other Germanic languages include Dutch, Afrikaans, Norwegian, Danish, Swedish, Icelandic, Faroese, Scots, and Frisian.
German expression in English – German loanword, term, phrase, or quotation incorporated into the English language. A loanword is a word borrowed from a donor language and incorporated into a recipient language without translation. It is distinguished from a calque, or loan translation, where a meaning or idiom from another language is translated into existing words or roots of the host language.
Latin words were already imported into the predecessor of the German language during the Roman Empire and underwent all the characteristic phonetic changes in German. Their origin is thus no longer recognizable for most speakers (e.g. Pforte, Tafel, Mauer from Latin porta, tabula, murus). At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.
Search the German dictionary by letter. Look up any German to English translation directly in the German online dictionary. Select the appropriate letter below to see a list of German words beginning with that letter. When you have found the word you were looking for click on it to get to the German-English dictionary. Many people also say that living in the country, where the language you want to learn is the first language, is the best way to learn a new language. However, beginners prefer to see the spelling of the word and in connection with articles, the right preposition or another form of sentence structure.
German is the most widely spoken (and official) language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Italian province of South Tyrol (Alto Adige) and Liechtenstein; it is also an official (but not majority) language of Belgium and Luxembourg. At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.
As we try to make it easy for you to translate into English the German words and expressions, you are given the possibility to see synonyms of a word, conjugate it and obtain the word pronunciation, or even add another meaning to the German-English dictionary, all these in only one click on the word. Why use German-English dictionary. 1  When searching for a word, you get as results translations from the general dictionary, and words and expressions added by users. 2  It offers you quick access to synonyms, pronunciation and conjugation of a word.
Confidence votes 162. The German word for German is Deutsch. Pronounced doitch. Deutsch as a noun is neuter, thus the definite articles are das (nominative and accusative), des (genitive), dem (dative). When used as a noun, Deutsch is capitalized, as are all German nouns. (Adjectives, however, are NOT capitalized, even if they refer to a proper name.). The exact translation for the German language is die deutsche Sprache. Note that the article (die) applies to Sprache (fem)
You can also enter words in English to find the German translation in the German-English dictionary. By using the drop-down menu you can search not only the German to English dictionary, but all other online dictionaries as well. Many people also say that living in the country, where the language you want to learn is the first language, is the best way to learn a new language. However, beginners prefer to see the spelling of the word and in connection with articles, the right preposition or another form of sentence structure.
German (Deutsch [ˈdɔʏtʃ]. ) is a West Germanic language that derives most of its vocabulary from the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. A proportion of German words are derived from Latin and Greek, and fewer are borrowed from French and English. At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.
One of the major languages of the world, German is the first language of about 95 million people worldwide and the most widely spoken native language in the European Union. At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.