A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. Normally there are four main types in glabrous skin: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's discs, and Ruffini endings. In glabrous (hairless) skin, there are four principal types of mechanoreceptors, each shaped according to its function. The tactile corpuscles (also known as Meissner corpuscles) respond to light touch, and adapt rapidly to changes in texture (vibrations around 50 Hz).
pacinian corpuscle. An encapsulated nerve ending found in the dermis, subcutaneous tissue, and other connective tissue membranes; it is a sensory receptor for pressure. See also: corpuscle. 
Noun. 1. Pacinian corpuscle-a specialized bulblike nerve ending located in the subcutaneous tissue of the skin; occurs abundantly in the skin of palms and soles and joints and genitals. cutis, skin, tegument-a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch; your skin is the largest organ of your body.
A Pacinian corpuscle is a type of touch receptor located in the skin that responds to touch and pressure. The nerve sheath is made of an electrically insulating material known as myelin. View slideshow of images above. Although there are similarities between the two, a Pacinian corpuscle is not as discriminatory as the type of fine-touch mechanoreceptor present in the fingertips, known as Meissner's corpuscle. This type of sensory receptor lies closer to the surface of the skin and adapts only moderately fast.
A Pacinian corpuscle is a type of touch receptor located in the skin. It is classed as a mechanoreceptor, meaning it is part of the group of sensory receptors that respond to touch and pressure. Although there are similarities between the two, a Pacinian corpuscle is not as discriminatory as the type of fine-touch mechanoreceptor present in the fingertips, known as Meissner's corpuscle. This type of sensory receptor lies closer to the surface of the skin and adapts only moderately fast.
• PACINIAN CORPUSCLE (noun). The noun PACINIAN CORPUSCLE has 1 sense: 1. a specialized bulblike nerve ending located in the subcutaneous tissue of the skin; occurs abundantly in the skin of palms and soles and joints and genitals. Familiarity information: PACINIAN CORPUSCLE used as a noun is very rare. A specialized bulblike nerve ending located in the subcutaneous tissue of the skin; occurs abundantly in the skin of palms and soles and joints and genitals. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (Pacinian corpuscle is a kind of...):
: a pressure-sensitive mechanoreceptor that is an oval capsule terminating some sensory nerve fibers especially in the skin. ADVERTISEMENT. Pacini devoted his medical career to microscopic research. In 1831, while dissecting a hand, he observed the corpuscles around the branches of the median nerve to the digits.
Lamellar corpuscles, or Pacinian corpuscles, are one of the four major types of mechanoreceptor. They are nerve endings in the skin responsible for sensitivity to vibration and pressure. They respond only to sudden disturbances and are especially sensitive to vibration. The entire corpuscle is wrapped by a layer of connective tissue. Its capsule consists of 20 to 60 concentric lamellae including fibroblasts and fibrous connective tissue (mainly Type IV and Type II collagen network), separated by gelatinous material, more than 92% of which is water.
Medical Definition of PACINIAN CORPUSCLE. : a pressure-sensitive mechanoreceptor that is an oval capsule terminating some sensory nerve fibers especially in the skin (as of the hands and feet)—see corpuscle of herbst. Pacini devoted his medical career to microscopic research. In 1831, while dissecting a hand, he observed the corpuscles around the branches of the median nerve to the digits.