The baby’s eyes will open around 10 days of age. Start feeding wild rabbits pesticide-free greens and timothy or oat hay in small amounts. Do not feed a wild rabbit pellets. You are going to be releasing this baby back into the wild when he is ready. They are trained to handle wild rabbits and know how to feed them. Wild rabbits do not make good house rabbits. They will not become docile like a domestic rabbit. They are a wild rabbit and should be returned to the wild when they are old enough.
Cottontails usually wean around 3-4 weeks, so you should not give formula past 6 weeks. Wild Jackrabbits wean after 9 weeks, so after 9 weeks slowly replace formula with a dish of cut up tiny bananas and apple pieces. 1 At 2-3 weeks, also start introducing them to 'timothy hay', oat hay, pellets and water (add fresh greens for wild rabbits). 2  3-6 weeks: 13-15cc/ml each feeding twice per day (less if the rabbit is very small).
1-2 weeks: 5-7 cc/ml each feeding (two feedings per day). (depending on bunny..may be much LESS if smaller rabbit!) Newborn babies (if eyes closed) all need to be stimulated to urinate and defecate prior to or following feeding until their eyes open. (Except Jackrabbits do not). *See how to below. A baby of only 10 days to 21 days or so should not be found away from the nest. At that age they stay pretty close to the nest. If a nest can’t be found that means the baby is pretty far away from the nest for a reason.
1 Within a couple of minutes, the baby rabbits should start sucking. 2  Continue to feed the with this formula for around 3 to 4 days, twice per day, with the last feed being around dusk as the mother would do. 1 At 2-3 weeks, also start introducing them to 'timothy hay', oat hay, pellets and water (add fresh greens for wild rabbits). 2  3-6 weeks: 13-15cc/ml each feeding twice per day (less if the rabbit is very small).
Feeding Baby Rabbits. Feeding baby rabbits falls mostly to the mother rabbit for the first 3 weeks of the bunny’s life. Between 3 weeks and around 6 weeks old, the baby rabbits need less and less of mom, and more and more pellets and hay. Sponsored Links.
Older baby bunnies who are found outside of the nest may not be orphaned or in need of assistance. This is most often the case. Baby cottontails are born without fur but develop a full coat in a week. Their eyes open in 10 days, and in three to four weeks they are weaned. A baby of only 10 days to 21 days or so should not be found away from the nest. At that age they stay pretty close to the nest. If a nest can’t be found that means the baby is pretty far away from the nest for a reason.
4. Figure out how much to feed your rabbits. The amount of formula a baby rabbit needs depends on his age. 1  If the rabbits are only 1 to 2 weeks old, they'll need 5 to 7 cc/ml each feeding and should be fed twice daily. 2  At 2 to 3 weeks, they'll need 7 to 13 cc/ml each feeding and should still be fed once a day. 
How much to feed varies greatly on what breed of rabbit you are feeding, and how big the kit is, but here is a basic guideline for the daily amount to feed a domestic rabbit who will be approximately 5-6 pounds as an adult (average rabbit size). You can increase the amounts as needed for larger breeds. WHAT TO FEED THE BABIES. Baby rabbits should be fed Kitten Milk Replacer (KMR) or goat milk, which you can buy at pet stores, or sometimes even a local veterinarian’s office. Because rabbit milk is the most caloric of all mammals, we add in one tablespoon of 100% heavy whipping cream (no sugar) to each can of KMR.
Five Parts: Preparing a Place for the Rabbits Planning to Feed the Rabbits Feeding a Newborn Bunny Providing Bunnies with Outside Time Transitioning Rabbits Outdoors. With the wild rabbit population increasing in urban areas, the probability of discovering a nest of baby rabbits is higher than ever these days. 1 At 2-3 weeks, also start introducing them to 'timothy hay', oat hay, pellets and water (add fresh greens for wild rabbits). 2  3-6 weeks: 13-15cc/ml each feeding twice per day (less if the rabbit is very small).
1 2-3 weeks: 7-13 cc/ml each feeding, twice per day (less if the rabbit is very small). 2  At 2-3 weeks, also start introducing them to 'timothy hay', oat hay, pellets and water (add fresh greens for wild rabbits). 3  3-6 weeks: 13-15cc/ml each feeding twice per day (less if the rabbit is very small). 1 At 2-3 weeks, also start introducing them to 'timothy hay', oat hay, pellets and water (add fresh greens for wild rabbits). 2