Noun. 1. hemochromatosis-pathology in which iron accumulates in the tissues; characterized by bronzed skin and enlarged liver and diabetes mellitus and abnormalities of the pancreas and the joints. bronzed diabetes, iron overload, iron-storage disease. pathology-any deviation from a healthy or normal condition
: a hereditary disorder of metabolism involving the deposition of iron-containing pigments in the tissues that is characterized especially by joint or abdominal pain, weakness, and fatigue and that may lead to bronzing of the skin, arthritis, diabetes, cirrhosis, or heart disease if untreated. 
Too much iron is toxic to your body. It can poison your organs and cause organ failure. In hemochromatosis, iron can build up in most of your body's organs, but especially in the liver, heart, and pancreas. Too much iron in the liver can cause an enlarged liver, liver failure, liver cancer, or cirrhosis (sir-RO-sis). Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver, which causes the organ to not work well. Too much iron in the heart can cause irregular heartbeats called arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs) and heart failure.
hemochromatosis.ch. Hemochromatosis, or iron overload disorder, is the most common genetic disease of the Western world. As a result of increased iron absorption in the upper small intestine the body is overloaded with iron. In healthy people up to two milligrams of iron are absorbed per day, which covers loss of iron through sweat, digestion and urination. Patients with hemochromatosis, on the other hand, absorb three to four milligrams of iron per day. Due to this more, and more iron is accumulated in the body resulting in increasing deposit of iron. The excess iron accumulates mainly in the liver, joints, pancreas, heart and pituitary gland and harms these organs.
Hemochromatosis is also known as iron overload, bronze diabetes, hereditary hemochromatosis and familial hemochromatosis. The inherited disorder causes increased absorption of intestinal iron, well beyond that needed to replace the body's loss of iron. The most common diagnostic methods for hemochromatosis are blood studies of iron, genetic blood studies, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and liver biopsy. Blood studies of transferrin-iron saturation and ferritin concentration are often used to screen for iron overload.
Hemochromatosis is an inherited blood disorder that causes the body to retain excessive amounts of iron. This iron overload can lead to serious health consequences, most notably cirrhosis of the liver. The most common diagnostic methods for hemochromatosis are blood studies of iron, genetic blood studies, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and liver biopsy. Blood studies of transferrin-iron saturation and ferritin concentration are often used to screen for iron overload.
Hereditary hemochromatosis is classified by type depending on the age of onset and other factors such as genetic cause and mode of inheritance. Type 1, the most common form of the disorder, and type 4 (also called ferroportin disease) begin in adulthood. Men with type 1 or type 4 hemochromatosis typically develop symptoms between the ages of 40 and 60, and women usually develop symptoms after menopause. Type 2 hemochromatosis is a juvenile-onset disorder. Iron accumulation begins early in life, and symptoms may appear in childhood. By age 20, decreased or absent secretion of sex hormones is evident. Type 4 hemochromatosis is distinguished by its autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. With this type of inheritance, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.
Hemochromatosis: An inherited disorder characterized by abnormally high absorption of iron by the intestinal tract, resulting in excessive storage of iron, particularly in the liver, skin, pancreas, heart, joints, and testes. Common early symptoms include abdominal pain, weakness, lethargy, and weight loss. Other findings include congestive heart failure or arrhythmias, arthritis, and hypogonadism. Treatment is removal of excess iron by periodic phlebotomy (removal of blood) to deplete the body iron. Early diagnosis and treatment before symptoms develop prevents all the complications of the disease.
Overview. The two types of hemochromatosis are primary and secondary. Primary hemochromatosis is caused by a defect in the genes that control how much iron you absorb from food. Secondary hemochromatosis usually is the result of another disease or condition that causes iron overload. Too much iron in the liver can cause an enlarged liver, liver failure, liver cancer, or cirrhosis (sir-RO-sis). Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver, which causes the organ to not work well. Too much iron in the heart can cause irregular heartbeats called arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs) and heart failure.
Haemochromatosis (or hemochromatosis) type 1 (also HFE hereditary haemochromatosis or HFE-related hereditary haemochromatosis) is a hereditary disease characterized by excessive intestinal absorption of dietary iron resulting in a pathological increase in total body iron stores. The hereditary form of the disease is most common among those of Northern European ancestry, in particular those of Celtic descent. The disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations.