Here is the way to delete or hide purchased app store history on your iPhone: Hiding/Eliminating iPhone Apps from iCloud and History If you want to get rid of the purchased apps history, it can be done through either iTunes or through your iPhone. Getting rid of purchase history in iTunes. First, go to the iTunes app and click onto the iTunes store icon. It is located in the left hand of the phone’s menu. Then, click onto the “ Purchased ” icon, which is located on the far right of the screen. Next, click onto the “ Apps ” and be sure to click onto “ All ” so that all of them appear in the list
You can try deleting the app through iTunes. Just plug your phone in, go to Devices, then the 'Apps' tab. If that doesn't work, I've heard of people restarting their iPhone or iPod, and they can delete an app properly then. 1  reply. When you download an app paid or free then delete it, a record is kept on your iTunes account that you downloaded it. If deleted by accident or on purpose don't matter you can re-download for free and will tell you you already got this app to re-download press ok
How to delete/uninstall an iPhone app (iPhone application). To delete an iPhone app (application), just press and hold the app icon for the app you want do delete. When you press on the icon for a second or two all of the app icons will appear to get nervous and start wiggling in place. When you download an app paid or free then delete it, a record is kept on your iTunes account that you downloaded it. If deleted by accident or on purpose don't matter you can re-download for free and will tell you you already got this app to re-download press ok. 1  reply.
You can delete an app from your iPhone in two ways: in iTunes on your computer or directly from your iPhone. To delete an app in iTunes, click Apps in the source list and then click the app’s icon to select it and then choose Edit→Delete or right-click (or Control-click on a Mac) the app's icon and choose Delete. Either way, you see a dialog asking whether you’re sure you want to remove the selected app
I believe you can delete the app entirely after this, and the 'delete app' button should now be added to the first screen after you select the app. If you do delete the app, you will never be able to use the app name again. If you plan on using it, just 'developer removed from sale'. 
1 Deleting an app will also delete all the data stored locally with it. 2  If you delete any app by just clicking the delete button on your iPhone, you can download it again by clicking the download from cloud button in place of the get/buy button. Press the home button. When you're finished deleting the apps you want to delete, just press the circular button below the touch screen (the home button) to go back to the normal screen. The X's will disappear and the icons will stop wiggling. 5. Delete it from your iTunes.
Anonymous replied on. Permalink. To delete apps from showing in iTunes under the apps tab under DEVICES. You cannot do it under the device. You must go to the LIBRARY in the left hand navigation menu. Then select Apps under LIBRARY and you will see a list of all your iPhone and iPod touch Apps. 
At this point you can delete an iPhone app by pressing that “X” in the upper-left corner of the application icon (such as the Mobile News, Pandora, and Break iPhone apps in the figure above). When you download an app paid or free then delete it, a record is kept on your iTunes account that you downloaded it. If deleted by accident or on purpose don't matter you can re-download for free and will tell you you already got this app to re-download press ok. 1  reply.
Here’s how to delete an iPhone app for good. First, the simple method is to tap and hold the offending app’s icon on your home screen until all your iPhone’s app icons begin to jiggle. Then, you can tap the small “x” on the upper corner of the app. You’ll then be prompted with an option to delete the app and its data.