1 Flexibility – To execute the blocking scheme and maximize effectiveness, the offensive lineman needs to have a certain degree of flexibility in his ankles, knees, and hips. 2  This will allow him to be more comfortable in the appropriate stance and will benefit him in his ability to move quickly with an optimal pad level. Now let’s explore some of the actual techniques used by the offensive lineman in the zone scheme. This is where all the flexibility, agility, and stability work done above correlate to drill work on the practice field and ultimately to execution during the game.
X&O Labs. [email protected]. In a 25-year career as an offensive line coach and clinician for youth, high school and college coaching staffs, I have come to one conclusion: Teams have way too many running plays with varying blocking schemes in their offenses. They block one play this way and another play that way. Regardless of the offense, most running plays can be categorized into one of three offensive line schemes: Zone, Gap or Man. Instead of having a dozen running plays with a dozen different blocking assignments, consider grouping all of your running plays into one, two or all three of those schemes.
They installed a power blocking scheme and in 9 seasons, the Redskins won 2 Super Bowls, while making an appearance, in a losing effort, in a third. Joe Bugel developed the hogs dominating offensive line that included Hall-of-Famer Russ Grimm, Joe Jacoby, Mark May, Jeff Bostic, and George Starke among others. In a power blocking scheme, size and power is everything. You want large athletes with top-end strength. Long arms are ideal in this scheme to reach all blocks and make up for limited athleticism.
Zone blocking is a technique in American football that is a simple and effective scheme for creating lanes for running plays. In a zone blocking scheme, fleet-footedness and athletic ability trump size as desirable qualities in offensive linemen.
The rest of the linemen are fan blocking for the screen as well, but this pull is meant to spring him free. In a slip screen pull, the OT (or G) sprints outside and to a point 2 yards ahead of the line, and basically executes a fan block on the CB. 
This drill is used to work on blocking schemes and techniques. Two linemen at a time will work together. Execute the various combination schemes. 1  G Block & Fold Block. 2  Double Team Block. 3  Scoop Block. 
Offensive Line a. If you have a small, quick line you can use a more traditional Wing-T approach. This type of line would be best suited to pull on the Sweep, Waggle, and Traps. It would also be good for quick hitting plays, Options, and down blocking plays. b. If you have a big, slow line you can run more of the power game. This type of line would be best suited to come off the ball by running your Powers, Bellies, Blasts, and your On Blocking schemes (24 & 26 On). This type of line is also best suited for the drop back passes rather than Boots, and Waggles. 3
Players other than offensive linemen may enhance the success of a zone blocking scheme. For example, in a run-based spread attack like West Virginia's the primary responsibility of receivers is less to catch passes than to execute downfield blocks, springing the ball carrier and extending the run. In a zone blocking scheme, fleet-footedness and athletic ability trump size as desirable qualities in offensive linemen.
Before the zone scheme offensive lineman even steps on the field it is vital for him to have a certain level of hip, knee, and ankle flexibility. A common issue with offensive linemen is stiffness and lack of mobility in the lower extremities. Now let’s explore some of the actual techniques used by the offensive lineman in the zone scheme. This is where all the flexibility, agility, and stability work done above correlate to drill work on the practice field and ultimately to execution during the game.