At Fluid Limestone, we are proud to be an owner operated company. Our primary services are liquid limestone and exposed aggregate in Perth, but we also offer specialised concrete, custom inlays and anything out of the ordinary. Take a look at our gallery for proof of the quality of our work. We are committed to delivering prompt and consistent service for all of our clients. Not only does our work look great, but it also offers convenience. With limestone and exposed aggregate, you no longer need to worry about weeding, dusting and similar tasks. The surface stays cool and is easy to clean. Liquid limestone is ideal for patios, paths, driveways, pool areas and much more.
Click here to download a PDF version of our liquid limestone paving product brochure. We provide liquid limestone paving to customers throughout Perth and Western Australia, with display centres close to Busselton, Dunsborough, Bunbury, Mandurah, Rockingham and more. Contact us at Lifestone Paving for your liquid limestone paving Perth. Unlike pavers that are laid individually, liquid limestone paving is poured en masse, making it resistant to common outdoor annoyances like weeds and anthills. Quality bonding materials make liquid limestone paving extremely strong, durable and attractive.
The simplest and safest way to clean paving is to scrub it with soapy water. Some people will swear that hot soapy water is more effective than cold, but in reality, ANY soapy water will do. Use wash-up liquid or an acid-free soap-based floor cleaning product. 
Liquid Limestone Paving. We deliver a complete liquid limestone paving service, from mixing through to laying and scoring. Our installation team is the most experienced in Perth, with over 25 years experience and working together with the top…. Crave Liquid Limestone paving makes an excellent render. With an extensive range of colours to choose from and your choice of pattern, liquid limestone paving is an ideal substance for any surface.
Hi reli, I get asked this all the time as I'm in earthmoving, and do alot of preps for pavers, granos, ect. Theres a few cons with liquid limestone, the biggest is that it's hard to get right, and a bad job looks really bad. 
Liquid limestone sealing. Liquid Limestone is a great alternative to pavers for outdoor areas in particular. Rather than the limestone being laid one tile at a time, liquid limestone is laid as one large unit, which means there are no cracks for the weeds to pop up through. Like other stone products, though, liquid limestone needs to be sealed in order to maintain its good looks. Liquid limestone is naturally porous, so the stone will quickly absorb spillages. The same can be said for other substances, such as pool cleaning chemicals, dirt, and other substances.
Although the manufacturer offers no guarantee on the sealer that we use at Lifestone Paving, it is expected to remain effective for approximately 3 - 5 years. Should you wish to optimise the look of your paving in a year or so we do offer a clean and re-seal service. To arrange this, simply give us a call. 
Liquid Limestone Paving. We deliver a complete liquid limestone paving service, from mixing through to laying and scoring. Our installation team is the most experienced in Perth, with over 25 years’ in the industry and working together with the top 10 landscape designers and builders in WA. Crave liquid limestone pavers use only the highest-quality liquid limestone. There are many benefits to installing liquid limestone pavers. For one they do not absorb the heat as easily as other solutions, making them far friendlier to walk on all year round – especially during the intense Perth summer!
How It Works. The process of liquid limestone paving starts by first leveling of ground compacting and form boards. Crushed, natural limestone is poured over them after having been mixed with materials such as concrete. This provides the limestone with the strength that it needs to stand the test of time. 
So we've had liquid limestone outside for about 3 years now, and it's been great. However it's started to get quite dirty and could probably use a good clean and seal. 