1 Its subject must be a grave (or serious) matter. 2  It must be committed with full knowledge, both of the sin and of the gravity of the offense. 3  It must be committed with deliberate and complete consent, enough for it to have been a personal decision to commit the sin. A mortal sin is not necessarily a sin that cannot be repented, unlike an eternal sin. Thus, even after a mortal sin has been committed, there is a chance for repentance.
In Roman Catholic moral theology, a sin considered to be more severe or mortal is distinct from a venial sin and must meet all of the following conditions: 1  Its subject must be a grave (or serious) matter. 2  It must be committed with full knowledge, both of the sin and of the gravity of the offense. A mortal sin is not necessarily a sin that cannot be repented, unlike an eternal sin. Thus, even after a mortal sin has been committed, there is a chance for repentance.
A List of Mortal and Venial Sins For a sin to be Mortal [Deadly, Fatal to Heaven], it must meet ALL THREE Standards of this Check-Off List, simultaneously. Venial Sins and other Imperfections Venial Sins, (Lesser, Non-Mortal Sins that will not condemn you to Hell), do not have to be Confessed in Confession. It is a good idea to Confess them, since any Venial Sins will require time in Purgatory. This list also includes Imperfections, which are not sins at all.
Mortal sins ((Latin) peccata mortalia) in Catholic theology are wrongful acts that condemn a person to Hell after death if unforgiven. These sins are considered mortal because they constitute a rupture in a person's link to God 's saving grace: the person's soul becomes dead, not merely weakened. A mortal sin is not necessarily a sin that cannot be repented, unlike an eternal sin. Thus, even after a mortal sin has been committed, there is a chance for repentance.
... a single act of mortal sin is a bold declaration that you do not accept God's love. Mortal sin destroys charity in the heart of man by a grave violation of God's law; it turns man away from God, who is his ultimate end and his beatitude, by preferring an inferior good to him.... Mortal sin is a radical possibility of human freedom, as is love itself. 
All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that is not deadly.”. are sins of serious or grave matter. “Mortal” means death; they are sins that cause death to the soul. Venial sins are less serious sins. Scriptures tells us that there are sins that are deadly and sins that are not deadly in 1 John 5:16-17. “If anyone sees his brother sinning, if the sin is not deadly, he should pray to God and he will give him life. This is only for those whose sin
The Catholic Church divides sin into two categories: venial sins, in which guilt is relatively minor, and the more severe mortal sins. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, a mortal or deadly sin is believed to destroy the life of grace and charity within a person. Mortal sin, by attacking the vital principle within us – that is, charity – necessitates a new initiative of God's mercy and venial sin.
In the pre-Vatican II Catholic catechism, sins were categorized as mortal and venial.. In this definition, a mortal sin was one which would prevent someone from entering heaven unless one confessed it before death... These categories do not exist in the Orthodox Church. Sin is sin. A mortal sin is not necessarily a sin that cannot be repented, unlike an eternal sin. Thus, even after a mortal sin has been committed, there is a chance for repentance.
Mortal versus Venial Sin A serious, grave or mortal sin is the knowing and willful violation of God's law in a serious matter, for example, idolatry, adultery, murder, slander. These are all things gravely contrary to the love we owe God and, because of Him, our neighbor. 
Mortal sins completely sever one’s relationship with God and the sacrament of Penance and Reconciliation (commonly called Confession) is necessary to restore this relationship. Venial sins are less serious sins. Scriptures tells us that there are sins that are deadly and sins that are not deadly in 1 John 5:16-17. “If anyone sees his brother sinning, if the sin is not deadly, he should pray to God and he will give him life. This is only for those whose sin is not deadly.