Ashwagandha is a plant. The root and berry are used to make medicine. Ashwagandha has a lot of uses. But so far, there isn’t enough information to judge whether it is effective for any of them. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Do not use ashwagandha if you are pregnant. It is rated LIKELY UNSAFE during pregnancy. There is some evidence that ashwagandha might cause miscarriages. Not enough is known about the use of ashwagandha during breast-feeding.
Often referred to as Indian Ginseng, Ashwagandha is traditionally used in Ayurveda medicine native to India. The word Ayurveda literally translates to the complete knowledge for long life and is practiced globally as a widely recognized form of alternative medicine. In Western medicine, Ashwagandha is actually used as something called Complementary Alternative Medicine or CAM as it is often reffered to. It is used as an adjunct to modern medicine, most often by naturopathic and holistic practitioners.
Withania somnifera, known commonly as ashwagandha, Indian ginseng, poison gooseberry, or winter cherry, is a plant in the Solanaceae or nightshade family. Several other species in the genus Withania are morphologically similar. It is used as a herb in Ayurvedic medicine. 
Ashwagandha is frequently referred to as “Indian ginseng” because of its rejuvenating properties, even though botanically, ginseng and Ashwagandha are unrelated. Belonging to the same family as the tomato, Ashwagandha is a plump shrub with oval leaves and yellow flowers. It bears red fruit about the size of a raisin. The use of the Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha can help alleviate these symptoms and support an energetic and rejuvenating sense of wellbeing. Ashwagandha contains many useful medicinal chemicals, including withanolides (steroidal lactones), alkaloids, choline, fatty acids, amino acids, and a variety of sugars.
Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) is native to India and Africa and has been used for thousands of years as a revitalizer in traditional Ayurvedic medicine (from India). This adaptogenic herb is derived from the root of a plant distantly related to tomatoes and potatoes. Ashwagandha is a calming herb that helps to normalize the entire HPA axis, providing a subtle balancing effect on all the systems of the body. Ashwagandha calms the hypothalamus (included in the HPA axis), which regulate important functions such as hormone levels, temperature, weight, and sleep cycles.
Ashwagandha is also used as an “adaptogen” to help the body cope with daily stress, and as a general tonic. Some people also use ashwagandha for improving thinking ability, decreasing pain and swelling (inflammation), and preventing the effects of aging. It is also used for fertility problems in men and women and also to increase sexual desire. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Do not use ashwagandha if you are pregnant. It is rated LIKELY UNSAFE during pregnancy. There is some evidence that ashwagandha might cause miscarriages. Not enough is known about the use of ashwagandha during breast-feeding.
Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) is one of the most powerful medicinal plants, and has been used for more than 3,000 years by one of the most oldest medicinal systems in the world: ayurvedic medicine. Its history means that the effects of the plant are very well known. Ashwagandha: Origins. Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) originated in India and is used very often in ayurvedic medecine (an Indian system of medicine that is one of the oldest in the world). It has been used for more than 3,000 years, and has survived through the centuries due to its numerous virtues
by: Jenna Saunders. Ashwagandha, one of the most powerful herbs in Ayurvedic healing, has been used since ancient times for a wide variety of conditions, and is most well-known for its restorative benefits. The use of the Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha can help alleviate these symptoms and support an energetic and rejuvenating sense of wellbeing. Ashwagandha contains many useful medicinal chemicals, including withanolides (steroidal lactones), alkaloids, choline, fatty acids, amino acids, and a variety of sugars.
Ashwagandha as an Adaptogenic Herb. In Ayurveda, there are specific herbs with adaptogenic benefits, Ashwagandha is one of them. Adaptogens are substances (a combination of amino acids, vitamins, and herbs) that modulate your response to stress or a changing environment. The use of the Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha can help alleviate these symptoms and support an energetic and rejuvenating sense of wellbeing. Ashwagandha contains many useful medicinal chemicals, including withanolides (steroidal lactones), alkaloids, choline, fatty acids, amino acids, and a variety of sugars.