Causes of pleurisy. Pleurisy is inflammation of the pleura. It's usually caused by another condition, such as an infection, but sometimes no cause can be identified. The pleura are two thin sheets of tissue that separate the lungs and ribcage. One is attached to the ribcage and the other is attached to the lungs. 
The pleural cavity is the area between the lungs and inner chest wall. Pleurisy is a common complication of several different medical conditions, the most pervasive being a viral infection of the lower respiratory system. Other causes of pleurisy include: 1  Bacterial infections such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. 
Pleurisy is a respiratory disease characterized by inflammation of the outer lining of the lungs. This inflammation, along with fluid buildup, creates friction (commonly referred to as a pleural rub, when heard using a stethoscope) during breathing, resulting in sharp chest pain, usually on inspiration. Certain lung disorders, such as pneumonia, asbestosis and tuberculosis, are common causes of pleurisy. Chest trauma and different types of lung cancers can also cause pleurisy. Systemic lupus erythematosus (disorder in which the body attacks its own healthy cells and tissues) is a potential cause
Pleurisy. Two large, thin layers of tissue called pleura separate your lungs from your chest wall. One layer wraps around the outside of the lungs. The other layer lines the inner chest wall. Between these two layers is a small space (pleural space) that's usually filled with a very small amount of liquid. Pleurisy occurs when the pleura becomes irritated and inflamed. As a result, the two layers of the pleural membrane rub against each other like two pieces of sandpaper, producing pain when you inhale and exhale.
Viral infection is probably the most common cause of pleurisy. Some of the other causes include: 1  Lung infections, such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. 2  Other diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, liver diseases, and pulmonary embolism. 3  Chest injuries. 4  Drug reactions. Pleurisy, also called pleuritis, is an inflammation of the pleura, which is the moist, double-layered membrane that surrounds the lungs and lines the rib cage. The condition can make breathing extremely painful
In very rare cases, the virus or bacteria may spread and cause pleurisy in others. Other causes of pleurisy include air leaking into the pleural cavity from a hole in a lung (pneumothorax), injury to the chest (such as a broken rib), tuberculosis or other infections, or a tumor in the pleura. Other conditions may also cause pleurisy. 
1 Pleurisy is caused by a variety of conditions, such as infections, tuberculosis (TB), congestive heart failure, cancer, pulmonary embolism, and collagen vascular diseases. 2  Symptoms of pleurisy include pain in the chest, which is aggravated by breathing in, shortness of breath, and local tenderness. 1 Pleurisy is often associated with the accumulation of fluid between the two layers of pleura, known as pleural effusion. 2  Pleurisy is caused by a variety of conditions, such as infections, tuberculosis (TB), congestive heart failure, cancer, pulmonary embolism, and collagen vascular diseases.