The Columbia Metropolitan Airport (CAE) is seeking a motivated individual for the Operations Manager position.... American Association of Airport Executives - 9 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Columbia Metropolitan Airport jobs in West Columbia, SC-West Columbia jobs. Responsible for the day-to-day safe and efficient operation of cargo “mail” operations while ensuring customer service standards and contractual services are...
If the airport is operated by a city, the accounting and payroll functions may be done at city hall rather than at the airport. Conversely, some airport managers control a large professional staff and have total responsibility for all matters relating to the operation of the airport. Set up the airport budget. Promote the use of the airport. Train and supervise employees. Depending upon the size of the airport, the manager may supervise an assistant manager, engineer, controller, personnel officer, maintenance superintendent, and supporting office workers (such as secretaries, typists, and clerks).
When assigned to the Aviation Security Specialty, an Airport Operations Supervisor serves as a project manager and is responsible for developing, implementing, managing and/or evaluating projects related to one or more components of the Aviation Security Program (ASP), and performs related duties as required. 3. Supervises and assigns Airport Safety Officers-Airfield Specialty work to facilitate the dynamic changing conditions on the Air Operations Area. 4. Responds in person, by phone or by radio to all airport emergencies involving airside activities.
When assigned to the Airfield Operation, an Airport Operations Supervisor supervises Airport Safety Officers in duties, which involve ensuring the safe, secure and efficient operation of the Air Operations Area and other airport facilities such as buildings, navigational aids and structures. 3. Supervises and assigns Airport Safety Officers-Airfield Specialty work to facilitate the dynamic changing conditions on the Air Operations Area. 4. Responds in person, by phone or by radio to all airport emergencies involving airside activities.
Airport Superintendent of Operations (Eight month contract) at Los Angeles World Airports, Production Support Specialist (Temporary... Join LinkedIn to see more Airport+superintendent+of+operations profiles, jobs, and more.
In many cases the airport manager is a part of the local government and is involved in official meetings and community projects, especially those concerned with aviation. Typical Requirements and/or Experience. As with any managerial position, the position of an airport manager requires experience and training. Set up the airport budget. Promote the use of the airport. Train and supervise employees. Depending upon the size of the airport, the manager may supervise an assistant manager, engineer, controller, personnel officer, maintenance superintendent, and supporting office workers (such as secretaries, typists, and clerks).
Ability to physically perform the duties and to work in the environmental conditions required of a position in this class. Required to obtain membership in the American Association of Airport Executives and must become an accredited member within two years after appointment as an Airport Operations Manager. Work is performed under the general direction of the Deputy Director of Aviation for Operations and Facilities. ALLOCATING FACTORS: (The following conditions must be met for a position to be allocated to this class.). 1  Only two positions will
Airport operations rules, regulations, and conventions; The employee reports to the Airport Superintendent of Operations. 
Airport Operations Career Overview. Airport-Director or Manager-Airport Operations. Under general supervision, this position is responsible for assessing, evaluating, and coordinating airport operations activities, Airport Rescue, Firefighting, safety and security needs. Set up the airport budget. Promote the use of the airport. Train and supervise employees. Depending upon the size of the airport, the manager may supervise an assistant manager, engineer, controller, personnel officer, maintenance superintendent, and supporting office workers (such as secretaries, typists, and clerks).