Overview: Bladder senna (Colutea arborescens) is a deciduous shrub with yellow flowers and puffy fruit. Latin Name: This shrub has been given the botanical name of Colutea arborescens and it is part of the Fabaceae (pea) family. Common Names: This is known as the bladder senna, tree colutea or common bladder senna. Foliage/Flowers/Fruit: The light green leaves are pinnate. The flowers of Colutea arborescens are yellow and form into the butterfly-like shape that is common for many members of the pea family. An inflated seed pod forms on this shrub after the flowers are pollinated. In autumn they turn to a red color
General Description: Bladder senna is a deciduous shrub that grows up to 4 meters tall. Flower Description: Flowers are in clusters (racemes) up to 5 inches long and are generally comprised of 6-8 flowers. Flowers are yellow to deep yellow and up to 3/4 inch (2 cm) long. Leaf Description: Deciduous leaves are alternately arranged and compound, up to 6 inches long and sparsely hairy. Leaflets range from 7-13 and are oval to broadly oval and have smooth margrins
Colutea arborescens, known as Bladder Senna — John Gerard cautioned, however, that they are not true senna, though we have followed others in giving it to name Bastard Sena, which name is very unproper to it— is indigenous to the Mediterranean; it has yellow flowers. It has a height and spread of up to 5 m. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Colutea is a genus of about 25 species of deciduous flowering shrubs in the legume family Fabaceae, growing from 2–5 m tall, native to southern Europe, north Africa and southwest Asia. The leaves are pinnate and light green to glaucous grey-green.
Physical Characteristics. Colutea arborescens is a deciduous Shrub growing to 3.6 m (11ft) by 3 m (9ft) at a fast rate. It is hardy to zone (UK) 5. It is in flower from Jun to September, and the seeds ripen from Sep to October. The flowers are hermaphrodite (have both male and female organs) and are pollinated by Bees.It can fix Nitrogen. It is noted for attracting wildlife.
May be confused with: Colutea x media, which is a hybrid between Colutea arborescens and Colutea orientalis, produces orange-brown flowers to 3/4 inch, somtimes flushed yellow in the center. Colutea orientalis produces copper-red flowers 1/2 inch long with yellow markings. Flower Description: Flowers are in clusters (racemes) up to 5 inches long and are generally comprised of 6-8 flowers. Flowers are yellow to deep yellow and up to 3/4 inch (2 cm) long.
Colutea arborescens will grow in poor sandy soils in preference to heavy or loamy soils. It has become naturalised in the UK, where ii established itself in the sharp drainage of railway embankments. It is easy to propagate from seed. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Colutea is a genus of about 25 species of deciduous flowering shrubs in the legume family Fabaceae, growing from 2–5 m tall, native to southern Europe, north Africa and southwest Asia. The leaves are pinnate and light green to glaucous grey-green.
Never plant a tree or deciduous shrub under the overhanging branches of another tree, as it will not thrive and will try to grow out sideways towards the light. Most garden plants are quite happy growing in light shade or out of direct sun. However Grey leaved plants are more prone to rotting off if the leaves or roots are permanently wet.