The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses).
1 Of three possible histories, the only one that has not been seriously considered is an Anura (frogs and toads) - Gymnophiona sister relationship, with Caudata sister to that group. 2  Frogs and toads make up the order Anura, which is part of the vertebrate class Amphibia. 1 The Anura are remarkable for the total absence of teeth in the mandibles in all but one or two genera. 2  The toxic epidermis of some Anura when impacted into a bite wound via teeth & saliva can likely create these reactions.
Holonyms (Anura is a member of...): amphibia; class Amphibia (the class of vertebrates that live on land but breed in water; frogs; toads; newts; salamanders; caecilians). 
Noun. 1. Anura-frogs, toads, tree toads. Batrachia, order Anura, order Batrachia, order Salientia, Salientia. animal order-the order of animals. 
anuran. n. 1. (Animals) any of the vertebrates of the order Anura (or Salientia), characterized by absence of a tail and very long hind legs specialized for hopping: class Amphibia (amphibians).
Example sentences. 1  Of three possible histories, the only one that has not been seriously considered is an Anura (frogs and toads) - Gymnophiona sister relationship, with Caudata sister to that group. 2  Frogs and toads make up the order Anura, which is part of the vertebrate class Amphibia. 1 The Anura are remarkable for the total absence of teeth in the mandibles in all but one or two genera. 2  The toxic epidermis of some Anura when impacted into a bite wound via teeth & saliva can likely create these reactions.
[ syll. a-nu-ra, an-ura ] The baby girl name Anura is pronounced AHN UH RAH †. Anura has its origins in the Sanskrit language and it is used largely in Indian. The meaning of Anura is 'knowledge'. Anura is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Anura include Aghamora, Ameara, Ameira, Ameirah, Aniera, Azmera, Azmerah, Azmerra, Honouria, Aghamorea, Aghamorra, Amearah, Americah, Americka, Americus, Ameriga (Italian), Amerika, Amerikah, Amerikus, and Ameryka. 
Holonyms (order Anura is a member of...): amphibia; class Amphibia (the class of vertebrates that live on land but breed in water; frogs; toads; newts; salamanders; caecilians). 
Anura. An order of the class Amphibia, which includes several families of frogs and toads. They are characterized by well developed hind limbs adapted for jumping, fused head and trunk and webbed toes. The term toad is ambiguous and is properly applied only to the family Bufonidae. An order of the class Amphibia, which includes several families of frogs and toads. They are characterized by well developed hind limbs adapted for jumping, fused head and trunk and webbed toes