Full Definition of ANALOGY. 1. : inference that if two or more things agree with one another in some respects they will probably agree in others. 2. a: resemblance in some particulars between things otherwise unlike: similarity b: comparison based on such resemblance. 3. Examples of ANALOGY. 1  He does, though, suffer from the occupational deformation of international relations specialists: an enthusiasm for ransacking the past in search of precedents, analogies, patterns, and cycles that might explain the present and forecast the future. — 2 Tony Judt, New York Book Review, 10 Apr. 2003.
Definition of Analogy. Analogy is a comparison between two things. Analogies function to describe or explain one thing by examining its similarities with another thing. The two things may be very dissimilar and the analogy forces the reader or listener to understand the connection between them.
a•nal•o•gy. 1. a similarity between like features of two things, on which a comparison may be based: the analogy between the heart and a pump. 2. similarity or comparability: I see no analogy between our situations. 3. a similarity of forms having a separate evolutionary origin (opposed to homology). 
a•nal•o•gy. 1. a similarity between like features of two things, on which a comparison may be based: the analogy between the heart and a pump. 2. similarity or comparability: I see no analogy between our situations. 3. a similarity of forms having a separate evolutionary origin (opposed to homology). 1. agreement or similarity, esp in a certain limited number of features or details. 2. a comparison made to show such a similarity: to draw an analogy between an atom and the solar system. 3. (Biology) biology the relationship between analogous organs or parts.
Analogy (from Greek ἀναλογία, analogia, proportion) is a cognitive process of transferring information or meaning from a particular subject (the analogue or source) to another (the target), or a linguistic expression corresponding to such a process. The word analogy can also refer to the relation between the source and the target themselves, which is often, though not necessarily, a similarity, as in the biological notion of analogy. Rutherford's model of the atom (modified by Niels Bohr) made an analogy between the atom and the solar system.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. An analogy compares things that have differences and similarities. An analogy compares things that have differences and similarities. The definition of an analogy is a literal comparison between two things that have some features that are the same and others which are different. A Model T Ford and a Volkswagen are both cars, have four wheels, and run on gasoline so comparing them would be an example of an analogy. 
noun (plural analogies). 1 A comparison between one thing and another, typically for the purpose of explanation or clarification: an analogy between the workings of nature and those of human societies [mass noun]: he interprets logical functions by analogy with machines. More example sentences.
In a narrower sense, analogy is an inference or an argument from one particular to another particular, as opposed to deduction, induction, and abduction, where at least one of the premises or the conclusion is general. The word analogy can also refer to the relation between the source and the target themselves, which is often, though not necessarily, a similarity, as in the biological notion of analogy. Rutherford's model of the atom (modified by Niels Bohr) made an analogy between the atom and the solar system.
Analogy Definition. An analogy is a comparison in which an idea or a thing is compared to another thing that is quite different from it. It aims at explaining that idea or thing by comparing it to something that is familiar. Metaphors and similes are tools used to draw an analogy. 
analogy, the similarity along with difference, among meanings, among sorts of thinking, and among realities. Analogy theory ori­ginated with *Aristotle in its three main parts: analogy of meaning, analogous thinking, and analogy of being. 