Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Maybe this could be considered stricter ... but I don't know. Drunk driving charges should be immune to any deals for lesser sentences ... and those sentences should be severe! If the prosecution has a good case for DUI ... it goes to a trial, no deals, no crap, no first time offender (yea, right) consideration, full pull, no holds barred PROSECUTION!
Many states now require mandatory jail time for drunk drivers. It’s also become more difficult for repeat offenders to get “work permit” driver licenses as a result of DUI law enforcement practices and new strict drunk driving laws. If you are caught driving drunk in some states such as Washington or Texas, you could lose your license for a predetermined amount of time, based on your toxicity level at the time of testing or arrest, or you could end up losing it altogether.
The laws on driving are to strict. I think the government should be a little more lenient towards teen drivers. 11/16/2012 Irving/TX Rose Bradley/Nimitz As a teen driver I do understand the concern and worry that people have when teen driving. 
Many alcohol consumers feel that drunk driving laws are too strict, and try to cite studies that show there has been a reduction in fatalities in order to strengthen their case or minimize the damage they caused. If you are caught driving drunk in some states such as Washington or Texas, you could lose your license for a predetermined amount of time, based on your toxicity level at the time of testing or arrest, or you could end up losing it altogether.
The continuous rate of drunken driving fatalities makes a case that the united States drunk driving laws are too lenient and makes a call for stricter laws. According to Valenti “countries with strict drunk driving penalties have a far lower incidence of accidents than the United States (1). Driving under the influence of alcohol is a major health problem in the United States as it accounts for a high number of road fatalities; hence, there is a need for stricter drunk driving rules in the United States in order to reduce drunken driving fatalities.
There is a need for stricter laws to be introduced as the United States ranks behind the world when it comes to effort to combat drunk driving and more efforts need to be put in place by the implementation of harsher laws so as to reduce the high rate of repeat offenders and first time offenders. Driving under the influence of alcohol is a major health problem in the United States as it accounts for a high number of road fatalities; hence, there is a need for stricter drunk driving rules in the United States in order to reduce drunken driving fatalities.
Some states have stricter drunk driving laws and penalties than others. For example, in Virginia, once a driver violates traffic laws due to driving under the influence of alcohol, his or her license is suspended for one year. 
Drunk driving laws should be stricter. Nothing is more important than safety, and drunk drivers put everyone at risk. There should he harsher penalties against drunk drivers in order to deter people from taking the risk. Law enforcement can send a strong message to drinkers. Of course, education is also key in solving the problem of drunk driving.
Yes, I believe drunk driving laws should be stricter. Drunk drivers are responsible for a lot of deaths on the road. I personally feel that the law should crack down harder on people who drink and drive. There are inventions that are in the works, such as personal breathalyzers. There should he harsher penalties against drunk drivers in order to deter people from taking the risk. Law enforcement can send a strong message to drinkers. Of course, education is also key in solving the problem of drunk driving.
New studies are published almost daily concerning worldwide drunk driving statistics and causes. With so much information available to law enforcement officers and politicians, it is no wonder that drunk driving laws are becoming more strict with each legislative session! If you are caught driving drunk in some states such as Washington or Texas, you could lose your license for a predetermined amount of time, based on your toxicity level at the time of testing or arrest, or you could end up losing it altogether.