Causes of motor neurone disease. Motor neurone disease occurs when specialist nerve cells (motor neurones) in the brain and spinal cord progressively lose their function. It's not clear why this happens. In most cases, a person with motor neurone disease won't have a family history of the condition. This is known as sporadic motor neurone disease. Possible causes of motor neurone disease. It's still unclear why the motor neurones begin to lose function. Most experts believe that it's a combination of interrelated factors that ultimately affect either the motor neurones or the nerve cells that support them.
The research was reported in the medical journal Neurology. Motor neurone disease 'caused by virus'. Motor neurone disease progressively weakens muscles. Scientists claim to have found the best evidence yet that a deadly paralysing disease is linked to an infection. Sufferers-while perfectly conscious-are trapped in their bodies, unable to speak or move. 
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary disease affecting the lower motor neurons. It is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the gene SMN1, which makes a protein that is important for the survival of motor neurons (SMN protein). Upper motor neurons direct the lower motor neurons to produce movements such as walking or chewing. Lower motor neurons control movement in the arms, legs, chest, face, throat, and tongue. Spinal motor neurons are also called anterior horn cells. Upper motor neurons are also called corticospinal neurons.
Motor neuron disease (MND) is a serious and incurable form of progressive neurodegeneration-over time the nerves in the spine and brain progressively lose function. In the case of motor neuron disease, motor neurons-types of nerve cells-are affected. The renowned English physicist, Stephen Hawking, and guitar virtuoso Jason Becker are living with motor neuron disease. In all three MND forms symptoms are very similar. However, they progress at different speeds
The MND Association funds a number of research projects into the causes of MND. These projects aim to understand the causes of motor neurone degeneration. This is essential to allow the development of treatments. Only by understanding what goes wrong in MND can scientists know how to design and where to target drug treatments. 
The motor neuron diseases (MNDs) are a group of progressive neurological disorders that destroy motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing. Upper motor neurons direct the lower motor neurons to produce movements such as walking or chewing. Lower motor neurons control movement in the arms, legs, chest, face, throat, and tongue. Spinal motor neurons are also called anterior horn cells. Upper motor neurons are also called corticospinal neurons.
Motor neurone disease (MND) causes a progressive weakness of many of the muscles in the body. There are various types of MND. This leaflet is mainly about amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), which is the most common type of MND. Although there is no cure for MND, treatments can help to ease symptoms and disability. 
In the United Kingdom motor neurone disease is used to differentiate this disorder from the other motor neuron diseases though it is also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
Motor neurone disease is a rare condition that progressively damages parts of the nervous system. This leads to muscle weakness, often with visible wasting. Motor neurone disease, also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), occurs when specialist nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord called motor neurones stop working properly. This is known as neurodegeneration. Motor neurone disease is a severely life-shortening condition for most people. Life expectancy for about half of those with the condition is three years from the start of symptoms. However, some people may live for up to 10 years, and in rarer circumstances even longer.