This characteristic has made Easy-flo™ Flux Powder very popular in hand brazingoperations where the time to produce a brazed component is crucial. Conforms to: EN 1045: FH10 Working range: 550-800˚C Directions for Use Flux powder should be mixed with water and a few drops of liquid detergent to form a thick paste.
This Welding Flux Powder E-8018 B1 manufactured by us is known for the high level of effectiveness it provides to the users. It is mainly used in several industries for the purpose of strong welding of several metal sheets. Provided by us at a very reasonable price this product is highly preferred in the market.
Superior No. 609B/3417-FP is a Boron-modified powder flux that is active and protective up to 1205°C/2200°F. It is formulated for brazing ferrous metals and alloys, high-chromium alloys and Tungsten Carbide compositions and is used for carbide tools, large steel parts, or when heating cycles are required.
Hot rodding, used to braze-weld, plunges a hot brazing rod into powder flux. Heat from the rod causes a small amount of flux to adhere to the rod surface. This method is best suited to brazing of shallow joints, up to 1/4 inch in steel, as it results in poor capillary penetration in deep joint areas.
600 Powder Flux. Description: General Purpose Brazing Flux. A general purpose brazing flux features active range of 1400F to 2200F. Use with low fuming bronze and nickel silver brazing alloys (Harris 15, 17), steel, cast iron, copper-base alloys.
Albraze is a flux powder for brazing aluminium and low alloyed aluminium alloys. Low temperature activity. High fluxing activity with good capillary flow. Application area: air conditioning, radiators, aluminium tubes &; utensils, window frame, aluminium furniture.
Superior No. 601-Powder is a silver brazing powder flux active and protective to 850ºC/1,600ºF recommended for use with Copper, Copper-based alloys, ferrous metals, Gold, Silver, and other base metals. See our Silver Brazing White Flux Paste for paste form brazing flux.
Anti-Borax No. 2 is a brazing powder flux used for brazing brass, bronze, copper, steel, stainless steel, malleable iron and heat-resistant alloys.
Forge Welding Flux Powder. Superior Flux offers a range of fluxes for forge welding applications under the name Anti-Borax. These include metal-bearing forge welding fluxes, as well as forge flux compounds.