The cat goes through different reproductive stages and if it is pregnant, pregnancy will last for 60 to 66 days before she gives birth to her kittens. In case the cat is not pregnant, she will stay away from heat cycle for at least 30 to 35 days. Anestrus-This is the phase of sexual and hormonal inactivity between estrus phases. It could last for 2 to 3 months. These are the steps that you could follow to calm your cat while she is in heat cycle:-. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Cats stay in heat for 5-7 days on average, and go into heat every 21 days year around, unless you are very northern. As they remain unbred, their heat lasts longer and longer, increasing the risk that they will develop pyometra, a uterine infection that can be fatal. Cat's heat cycles are light dependent and they usually have heat cycles every 9 to 13 days from January through October, though some indoor cats exposed to constant light times will cycle all year. I advise unless you want kittens to keep her in at these times. Source(s): http://www.bestfriendspetcare.com/Pet_FA...
Comment. If your female cat does not mate, she will go into oestrus as often as every two to three weeks, for several months each year, until she either mates or is spayed. You can spay and neuter kittens as soon as they reach two pounds too, I read a blog recently about kitten season and how cats in warmer climates go into heat more often-http://www.foundanimals.org/blog-will-your-cat-beat-heat-summer-it's got other info too about spaying & neutering! BlackRose86. Australia.
If the female is not mated, she may go back into heat within several days. Interestrus: The period between estrus cycles if the female isn't bred. Length: 2-3 weeks. Metestrus (or Diestrus): period after estrus or mating. Length: 30-40 days. If pregnant, pregnancy lasts on average 60-64 days in the cat. 1 The first estrus cycle usually occurs by age 6-12 months; for some cats as early as four months of age, for others not until age 12 months or so. 2  Cats are considered to be seasonal breeders; most often showing signs of mating behavior in the spring and fall.
(Danielle-Iowa). If your female cat does not mate, she will go into oestrus as often as every two to three weeks, for several months each year, until she either mates or is spayed. You can spay and neuter kittens as soon as they reach two pounds too, I read a blog recently about kitten season and how cats in warmer climates go into heat more often-http://www.foundanimals.org/blog-will-your-cat-beat-heat-summer-it's got other info too about spaying & neutering! BlackRose86. Australia.
Best Answer: Female cats typically have their first heat around the age of six months, which usually lasts for 5 to 7 days. Cat's heat cycles are light dependent and they usually have heat cycles every 9 to 13 days from January through October, though some indoor cats exposed to constant light times will cycle all year. I advise unless you want kittens to keep her in at these times. Source(s): http://www.bestfriendspetcare.com/Pet_FA...
Normally cats stay in heat for 4 to 10 days, which occurs repeatedly during the mating season since the cat reaches her sexual maturity. However, the mating season asks for more detailed description. 1 It’s when a cat is not in heat, and her body is resting for the next heat cycle. 2  Cat cannot conceive during this time, as well as symptoms of the heat usually cease. 3  This interval lasts seven to 14 days.
A cat will stay in heat for about seven to 10 days, which can seem like an eternity. Cats normally fall in and out of heat from January into August (about eight months), but it really depends on the season. Cats are more likely to mate during warm months. 