Emery stone is a granular metamorphic or igneous rock that is rich in corundum. It is a mixture of oxide minerals, typically corundum, magnetite, spinel and/or hematite. It is the most common form of natural corundum that has been used to manufacture abrasives. The use of emery as an abrasive has declined significantly in the last several decades. Most people are familiar with corundum; however, very few people know it by its mineral name-instead they know it by the names ruby and sapphire.. A gemstone-quality specimen of corundum with a deep red color is known as a ruby..
- Sapphire refers to all gem varieties of Corundum, excluding the red variety of Corundum which is classified as Ruby. In the gem trade, it refers specifically to the blue gem variety of Corundum, unless a color is mentioned as a prefix to sapphire (i.e. Green Sapphire). Sapphire is also only used to describe the gem variety; otherwise it is simply called Corundum. Corundum is a very hard, tough, and stable mineral. For all practical purposes, it is the hardest mineral after Diamond, making it the second hardest mineral.
Corundum is found as a primary mineral in igneous rocks such as syenite, nepheline syenite, and pegmatite. Some of the world's most important ruby and sapphire deposits are found where the gems have weathered from basalt flows and are now found in the downslope soils and sediments. Most people are familiar with corundum; however, very few people know it by its mineral name-instead they know it by the names ruby and sapphire.. A gemstone-quality specimen of corundum with a deep red color is known as a ruby..
Some emery is a mix of corundum and other substances, and the mix is less abrasive, with an average Mohs hardness of 8.0. In addition to its hardness, corundum is unusual for its density of 4.02 g/cm 3, which is very high for a transparent mineral composed of the low-atomic mass elements aluminium and oxygen. Corundum from Brazil, size about 2 cm × 3 cm (0.8 in × 1 in). Corundum occurs as a mineral in mica schist, gneiss, and some marbles in metamorphic terranes. It also occurs in low silica igneous syenite and nepheline syenite intrusives.
After the diamond corundum are the hardest gemstones, its hardness on the Mohs' scale is 9. From a chemical point of view corundum is aluminum oxide, various colors give it an admixture of chromium, iron, vanadium and other compounds. 
Because of corundum's hardness (pure corundum is defined to have 9.0 Mohs), it can scratch almost every other mineral. It is commonly used as an abrasive on everything from sandpaper to large machines used in machining metals, plastics, and wood. Corundum from Brazil, size about 2 cm × 3 cm (0.8 in × 1 in). Corundum occurs as a mineral in mica schist, gneiss, and some marbles in metamorphic terranes. It also occurs in low silica igneous syenite and nepheline syenite intrusives.
Pure corundum is colorless, transparent, durable, and scratch resistant. Large crystals of clear synthetic corundum are grown, sawn into thin sheets, and then used as the windows of grocery store scanners, watch crystals, aircraft windows, and protective covers for electronic devices. Most people are familiar with corundum; however, very few people know it by its mineral name-instead they know it by the names ruby and sapphire.. A gemstone-quality specimen of corundum with a deep red color is known as a ruby..
Corundum is used more as an alloy to make advanced versions of other armors, such as banded-iron armor and plate armor. Corundum ore is smelted with iron ore to make 1 steel ingot, so don't go crazy smelting all your corundum ore into corundum ingots unless you know you don't need steel (doubtful as some advanced armors and weapons require a steel ingot as well). To mine ores, you must have a pickaxe in your inventory.
Corundum is best known for its gem varieties, Ruby and Sapphire. Ruby and Sapphire are scientifically the same mineral, but just differ in color. Ruby is the red variety, and Sapphire is the variety that encompasses all other colors, although the most popular and valued color of Sapphire is blue. Sapphire is also only used to describe the gem variety; otherwise it is simply called Corundum. Corundum is a very hard, tough, and stable mineral. For all practical purposes, it is the hardest mineral after Diamond, making it the second hardest mineral. It is also unaffected by acid s and most environments
Definition of CORUNDUM. : a very hard mineral that consists of aluminum oxide occurring in massive and crystalline forms, that can be synthesized, and that is used for gemstones (as ruby and sapphire) and as an abrasive. See corundum defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT