1 Eat fewer oxalate-rich foods. 2  If you tend to form calcium oxalate stones, your doctor may recommend restricting foods rich in oxalates. 3  These include rhubarb, beets, okra, spinach, Swiss chard, sweet potatoes, nuts, tea, chocolate and soy products. 4  Choose a diet low in salt and animal protein.
Kidney Stones: Preventing Kidney Stones Through Diet. If you have kidney stones, your doctor or dietitian may talk with you about an eating plan to help prevent new stones. The most common types of kidney stones are calcium and oxalate. Each type may require a different eating plan.
I had a calcium stone. Calcium is not the enemy. If you have high calcium in the urine then sodium reduction is helpful for stone prevention. Instead of reducing your calcium intake, focus on limiting the sodium in your diet and pair calcium-rich foods with oxalate-rich foods.
Dietary Changes to Prevent Calcium Oxalate Stones By reducing the concentration of oxalate and calcium in your urine, you may reduce the risk offuture calcium oxalate stone formation. The amount of fluid protein, sodium, and oxalate in yourdiet can affect the concentration of oxalate and calcium in your urine.
Some people have kidney stones made from calcium oxalate (OX-uh-layt). For these people cutting back on high-oxalate foods and salt may help prevent kidney stones. On a low oxalate diet, you should limit your oxalate to 40 to 50 mg each day.
Get the calcium you need: Getting too little calcium in your diet can cause oxalate levels to rise and cause kidney stones. To prevent this, make sure to take in an amount of calcium appropriate to your age. Ideally, obtain calcium from foods, since some studies have linked taking calcium supplements to
1 Milk, cheese, and yogurt are all good sources of calcium. 2  If you had an oxalate kidney stone, your doctor may ask you to limit certain foods that have a lot of oxalate, such as dark green vegetables, nuts, and chocolate.
1 If you tend to form calcium oxalate stones, your doctor may recommend restricting foods rich in oxalates. 2  These include rhubarb, beets, okra, spinach, Swiss chard, sweet potatoes, nuts, tea, chocolate and soy products.