The Samkhya favours Prakriti-parinamavada. In accordance with the satkaryavada, the Samkhya maintains that the three gunas of Prakriti are also associated with all the world-objects. Prakriti is the primordial and ultimate cause of all physical existence.
… prakriti, like maya and shakti, in the Bhagavata, is something Vishnu possesses and controls. With prakriti becoming a goddess, or even identified with the Goddess, Devi ,... Bansi Pandit :In Prakriti and Gunas, the concept of prakriti is used in Sankhya philosophy to explain the evolution of the universe. Prakriti is defined as the ultimate unconscious primal matter or the ultimate cosmic energy, the material cause
Prakrti or Prakriti or Prakruti (from Sanskrit प्रकृति, prakṛti) means  nature . It is, according to Hinduism, the basic nature of intelligence by which the Universe exists and functions. It is described in Bhagavad Gita as the primal motive force.
The world emerges from Prakriti as a modification, transformation, or projection. Hence, it is a natural world only in a derivative sense, not in the original sense. For example, a tree is not a natural or original object in the true sense of Prakriti, because it did not exist at the beginning of creation.
Prakriti means that which gives shapes signifying Nature or pure energy and Purusha means eastern dawn signifying the Manifest Brahman or the Creative consciousness that sets in motion the entire creative process with the help of His two aspects.
One of the concepts that I would like to discuss in this article is Prakriti. Hinduism recognizes two eternal principles, which are mentioned in the Vedas, the Bhagavadgita, the Sutras and several other Hindu scriptures. They are Purusha and Prakriti.
1 Purusha is the inner reality, without gender, name or form. 2  Prakriti is the outer reality of gender, names and forms. 3  Purusha is still unchanging, unaffected by time of a space; it is that which makes the body alive.
Thus, in Hinduism only those that existed at the beginning of creation are natural or Prakritic. The rest are the modifications of whatever that existed naturally at that time. From this perspective, the natural world is not Prakriti but only a manifestation of it.