Some glucose is used to form the more complex carbohydrate cellulose, the main structural component of plant cell walls. Some is used to provide immediate energy to plant cells. The rest is changed to a different chemical form, usually starch, and stored in seeds, roots, or fruits for later use.
Photosynthesis. Glucose is a simple sugar that can be stored in a variety of forms. It is a vital component for most types of life on earth. Plants have the ability to create glucose instead of absorbing it from other sources.
Plants and algae store glucose as insoluble products. These include: 1  Starch [starch: A type of carbohydrate. 2  Plants can turn the glucose produced in photosynthesis into starch for storage, and turn it back into glucose when it is needed for respiration.
Seiya Kawamoto/Lifesize/Getty Images. Plant cells manufacture glucose through photosynthesis. When glucose is present in excess, plants store it by using it to synthesize chains of sugar molecules called starches. These starches form an important component of the human diet.
Plant cells manufacture glucose through photosynthesis. When glucose is present in excess, plants store it by using it to synthesize chains of sugar molecules called starches. These starches form an important component of the human diet.
The storage form of glucose in plants is starch. Starch is a polysaccharide. The leaves of a plant make sugar during the process of photosynthesis. Photosynthesis occurs in light (photo = light), such as when the sun is shining. The energy from the sunlight is used to make energy for the plant. So, when plants are making sugar (for fuel, energy) on a sunny day, they store some of it as starch.
The carbohydrates produced by plants are an important source of energy for animals. When animals eat plants, energy stored in carbohydrates is released in the process of respiration, a chemical reaction between glucose and oxygen to produce energy (for cell work), carbon dioxide, and water. Glucose is also used by animal cells in the production of other substances needed for growth.