The oil is known as linseed oil. In addition to referring to the plant itself, the word flax may refer to the unspun fibers of the flax plant. The plant species is known only as a cultivated plant, and appears to have been domesticated just once from the wild species Linum bienne, called pale flax. Flax is grown for its oil, used as a nutritional supplement, and as an ingredient in many wood-finishing products. Flax is also grown as an ornamental plant in gardens. Flax fibers are used to make linen. The Latin species name usitatissimum means most useful.
The noun FLAX has 2 senses: 1. fiber of the flax plant that is made into thread and woven into linen fabric. 2. plant of the genus Linum that is cultivated for its seeds and for the fibers of its stem. Familiarity information: FLAX used as a noun is rare. 
Flax (also known as common flax or linseed), with the binomial name Linum usitatissimum, is a member of the genus Linum in the family Linaceae. It is a food and fiber crop that is grown in cooler regions of the world. The textiles made from flax are known in the West as linen, and traditionally used for bed sheets, underclothes and table linen. Flax is grown for its oil, used as a nutritional supplement, and as an ingredient in many wood-finishing products. Flax is also grown as an ornamental plant in gardens. Flax fibers are used to make linen. The Latin species name usitatissimum means most useful.
You can prepare an effective hair gel with flax seeds right at your home. Start with boiling 2 cups of water. As soon as the water begins to boil, add 4 tablespoons of organic flax seeds to it. Cover the pot with a lid and lower the flame. You have to simmer the whole thing for next 15 to 20 minutes. (a) Internal Usage of Flax Seeds. 1  Eat a spoonful of crunchy flax seeds every day whenever you need to snack. 2  Add whole flax seeds to your regular foods. 3  Drizzle your favorite salads with some flax seed oil. 4  Reduce some flax seeds into smooth fine powder and store in an air-tight container.
From flax plant to Irish Linen Transforming the flax plant gave work to all the family. Linen begins life as the flax plant, a pretty true-blue flowering plant, which is harvested in August, 100 days after sowing. Then came the nastiest part of the process to transform the flax plant into beautiful cloth: retting. This was strictly men's work and involved placing the stems, still bundled in beets, into a pond or dammed area of waterway, and leaving them to steep
Full Definition of FLAX. 1. : any of a genus (Linum of the family Linaceae, the flax family) of herbs; especially: a slender erect annual (L. usitatissimum) with blue flowers commonly cultivated for its bast fiber and seed. 2. : the fiber of the flax plant especially when prepared for spinning. 
Most nutrition experts recommend ground over whole flaxseed because the ground form is easier for your body to digest. Whole flaxseed may pass through your intestine undigested, which means you won't get all the benefits. Refrigerating whole seeds may also extend their freshness. Tips for including flaxseed in your diet: 1  Add a tablespoon of ground flaxseed to your hot or cold breakfast cereal. 2  Add a teaspoon of ground flaxseed to mayonnaise or mustard when making a sandwich. 3  Mix a tablespoon of ground flaxseed into an 8-ounce container of yogurt
However, with the invention of the cotton gin in 1793, flax production began to decline. Seeds 3-4 Weeks, 65F to 70F 2 years Rich Soil Full Sun 6 apart 10 to 12 apart 90 to 100 days Growing Guide GROWING NOTES Management practices for oilseed flax are similar to that of spring oats. Common flax was one of the first crops domesticated by man. Flax is thought to have originated in the Mediterranean region of Europe; the Swiss Lake Dweller People of the Stone Age apparently produced flax utilizing the fiber as well as the seed.