Staghorn calculi (also sometimes called coral calculi) obtain their characteristic shape by forming a cast of the renal pelvis and calices, thus resembling the horns of a stag. Staghorn calculi are radiopaque and conform to the renal pelvis and calyces, which are often to some degree dilated. When viewed on bone windows they have a laminated appearance, due to alternating bands of magnesium ammonium phosphate and calcium phosphate 5.
Background. Upper urinary tract stones that involve the renal pelvis and extend into at least 2 calyces are classified as staghorn calculi (see image below). Although all types of urinary stones can potentially form staghorn calculi, approximately 75% are composed of a struvite-carbonate-apatite matrix. Indications. Staghorn calculi represent a less-common nephrolithiasis subgroup so named because the significant stone burden that fills the renal pelvis and calyces forms a shape on radiographs that resembles a deer's horns.
INTRODUCTION. Staghorn calculi refer to branched stones that fill all or part of the renal pelvis and branch into several or all of the calyces. They are most often composed of struvite (magnesium ammonium phosphate) and/or calcium carbonate apatite. Cystine stones, although much less common, may also develop into staghorn calculi [ 1 ]. (See Cystine stones .). Small struvite and/or calcium carbonate apatite stones can grow rapidly over a period of weeks to months into large staghorn calculi involving the calyces and entire renal pelvis.
Staghorn calculi are composed of struvite (magnesium ammonium phosphate) and are usually seen in the setting of recurrent urinary tract infection with urease producing bacteria (e.g. Proteus, Klebsiella, Pseudomonas and Enterobacter). Urease hydrolyses urea to ammonium and increase in the urinary pH 3-5. Staghorn calculi are radiopaque and conform to the renal pelvis and calyces, which are often to some degree dilated. When viewed on bone windows they have a laminated appearance, due to alternating bands of magnesium ammonium phosphate and calcium phosphate 5.
Surgery may be required to treat staghorn calculi. A fever may accompany the presence of staghorn calculi. An ultrasound may be used to detect kidney stones. Staghorn calculi are a type of kidney stone. Staghorn calculi are hard deposits of minerals formed in the body's kidneys.
Epidemiology. Staghorn calculi are the result of recurrent infection and are thus more commonly encountered in women 6, those with renal tract anomalies, reflex, spinal cord injuries, neurogenic bladder or ileal ureteral diversion. Staghorn calculi are radiopaque and conform to the renal pelvis and calyces, which are often to some degree dilated. When viewed on bone windows they have a laminated appearance, due to alternating bands of magnesium ammonium phosphate and calcium phosphate 5.
Staghorn calculi, more commonly called struvite stones or infection stones, are a type of kidney stone. These are hard deposits of minerals formed in the body's kidneys. Staghorn calculi are a type of kidney stone. Staghorn calculi
Medical Therapy. Staghorn calculi resulting from urease-producing bacteria are best managed with complete surgical removal of the stones. Medical therapy alone cannot rid the patient of struvite calculi and is typically adjunctive in nature. Although multiple surgical approaches to staghorn calculi are available, several principles must be kept in mind. First, complete removal of all stone material is the goal of any procedure. Simple debulking does not prevent future infections, stone formation, or impairment of renal function.
Staghorn stones are large, branched stones occupying a large volume of the kidneys. The most effective treatment option is percutaneous nephrolithotomy, where the urologist inserts a scope directly into the kidney via a 1/2 inch tract made in your flank. 