Anatomy of Inguinal (Groin) Lymph Nodes. Lymph nodes are located throughout the body with each group being responsible for draining a particular area. The common lymph nodes that swell are found in the neck (cervical), armpit (axillary), and groin (inguinal), as well as in numerous other areas of the body. Many forms of cancer occurring within the area drained by the groin lymph nodes will lead to swelling (lymphadenopathy). Lymph node swelling usually occurs due to malignant tumors. 1  Leukemia is the cancer of the body’s blood forming tissues, including bone marrow and lymphatic system.
1 The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. 2  In rare cases, testicular cancer, lymphoma, or melanoma may cause a lump in this area. 1 A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 2  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. 3
1 Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand. 2  A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 3  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease.
The lymph nodes of the groin, or inguinal lymph nodes, are located in the crease between the leg and pelvis. There are two types of inguinal lymph nodes – superficial and deep. They often swell due to an infection or cancer in the areas from which they drain lymph (lymphatic fluid). For this reason, swelling of the groin lymph nodes is an important clinical indication of pathology within the lower abdominal wall, legs, groin, buttocks, anus, perineum and external genitalia. Many forms of cancer occurring within the area drained by the groin lymph nodes will lead to swelling (lymphadenopathy). Lymph node swelling usually occurs due to malignant tumors. 1  Leukemia is the cancer of the body’s blood forming tissues, including bone marrow and lymphatic system.
Report Abuse. swollen lymph node are visible at times when there is infection in them and other times it is because of cancer. the only way to verify witch it may be is your Dr. or oncologist. Source(s): lymphoma patient stage 4. judge5519 · 8 years ago. 
1 Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 2  Lymph nodes are regional, and each group of them corresponds to a particular region of the body and reflects abnormalities in that region. 1 Lymph nodes are important part of the immune system. 2  Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 3  Lymph nodes are regional, and each group of them corresponds to a particular region of the body and reflects abnormalities in that region.
HIV most often affects lymph nodes around the neck area, as well as in the armpits and groin. Usually, healthy lymph nodes aren’t visible. Once infected, they become swollen and may look like hard bumps about the size of beans. As the infection progresses, you may notice more lymph nodes swelling in your body. Lymph nodes are located in certain parts of your body, including your neck, groin, and armpits. They’re shaped like beans and measure no more than 2.5 cm long. The lymph nodes are responsible for filtering lymph and producing mature immune cells.
1 Increased size of a lymph node in the neck, armpit or groin. 2  Usually larger than the corresponding node on the other side of the body. 3  Normal nodes are usually less than ½ inch (12 mm) across (size of pea or baked bean). Return to School. 1  Swollen lymph nodes alone are not contagious. 2  If the swollen nodes are associated with a cold, sore throat or other infection, your child can return to school after the fever is gone and your child feels well enough to participate in normal activities.