The Cato Institute's articles of incorporation were filed in December 1974, with the name Charles Koch Foundation, listing the original directors as Charles Koch, George Pearson, and Roger MacBride and the same address as Koch Industries in Wichita, Kansas. In March 2007, Cato and the Institute for Justice called for eliminating disclosure requirements for those who contribute funds in support of or opposition to ballot measures.
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian think tank headquartered in Washington, D.C. It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Ed Crane, Murray Rothbard, and Charles Koch, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries. In July 1976, the name was changed to the Cato Institute. Since 2002, the Cato Institute has awarded the Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty every two years to an individual who has made a significant contribution to advancing human freedom.. The prize comes with a cash award of US$250,000.
1 Cato Institute was founded by Ed Crane with a $500,000 grant from Charles Koch, a chemical and petroleum heir who was active with Crane in the Libertarian Party. 2  In 2002, the Washington Post called Crane the man who housebroke libertarianism.. Publications: Inquiry magazine, Cato Journal, quarterly magazine Regulation, bimonthly Cato Policy Report, as well as books, monographs, briefing papers and shorter studies. Read the latest news on the Cato Institute on the group's Right Wing Watch index page.
1 Cato sponsors periodic policy forums and book forums, major policy conferences, Cato has held major conferences in London, Moscow, Shanghai, and Mexico City. 2  Cato Institute was founded by Ed Crane with a $500,000 grant from Charles Koch, a chemical and petroleum heir who was active with Crane in the Libertarian Party. Publications: Inquiry magazine, Cato Journal, quarterly magazine Regulation, bimonthly Cato Policy Report, as well as books, monographs, briefing papers and shorter studies. Read the latest news on the Cato Institute on the group's Right Wing Watch index page.
The Cato Institute is a public policy research organization — a think tank – dedicated to the principles of individual liberty, limited government, free markets and peace. Its scholars and analysts conduct independent, nonpartisan research on a wide range of policy issues. Founded in 1977, Cato owes its name to Cato’s Letters, a series of essays published in 18th-century England that presented a vision of society free from excessive government power. Those essays inspired the architects of the American Revolution
This name was bestowed upon Cato the Elder (Marcus Porcius Cato), a 2nd-century BC Roman statesman, author and censor, and was subsequently inherited by his descendants, including his great-grandson Cato the Younger (Marcus Porcius Cato Uticencis), a politician and philosopher who opposed Julius Caesar. See Also. 
At the suggestion of Rothbard, the institute changed its name in 1976 to Cato Institute after Cato's Letters, a series of British essays penned in the early 18th century by John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon. Since 2002, the Cato Institute has awarded the Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty every two years to an individual who has made a significant contribution to advancing human freedom.. The prize comes with a cash award of US$250,000.
Learn more from the Center for Media and Democracy 's research on climate change. This article is part of the Tobacco portal on Sourcewatch funded from 2006 - 2009 by the American Legacy Foundation. The Cato Institute is a libertarian think tank founded by Charles G. Koch and funded by the Koch brothers. It is headquartered in Washington, D.C. The Institute states that it favors policies that are consistent with the traditional American principles of limited government, individual liberty, and peace.. In March 2007, Cato and the Institute for Justice called for eliminating disclosure requirements for those who contribute funds in support of or opposition to ballot measures.
The relationship between Cato and the Ayn Rand Institute (ARI) improved with the nomination of Cato's new president John A. Allison IV in 2012. He is a former ARI board member and is reported to be an ardent devotee of Rand who has promoted reading her books to colleges nationwide. Since 2002, the Cato Institute has awarded the Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty every two years to an individual who has made a significant contribution to advancing human freedom.. The prize comes with a cash award of US$250,000.