spatial formula (stereochemical formula) a chemical formula giving the numbers of atoms of each element present in a molecule of a substance, which atom is linked to which, the types of linkages involved, and the relative positions of the atoms in space. 
This information can be gathered from the chemical formula of the substance. A compound is a substance made up of a definite proportion of two or more elements. A chemical formula tells us the number of atoms of each element in a compound. It contains the symbols of the atoms of the elements present in the compound, as well as how many there are for each element in the form of subscripts. 
Definition of MOLECULAR FORMULA. : a chemical formula that gives the total number of atoms of each element in each molecule of a substance — compare structural formula. See molecular formula defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Chemical formula. A chemical formula is a way of expressing information about the proportions of atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound, using a single line of chemical element symbols, numbers, and sometimes also other symbols, such as parentheses, dashes, brackets, and plus and minus signs. 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Chemical Formula Definition: An expression which states the number and type of atoms present in a molecule of a substance. Chemical Formula Examples: There are 6 C atoms and 14 H atoms in a hexane molecule, which has a molecular formula of C 6 H 14
A chemical formula is a notation made up of the chemical symbols of the elements present in a compound and numerical subscript that indicate the number of atoms of each element present in a molecule of the compound.. A chemical formula provides information about the atomic composition of a substance. 
spatial formula (stereochemical formula) a chemical formula giving the numbers of atoms of each element present in a molecule of a substance, which atom is linked to which, the types of linkages involved, and the relative positions of the atoms in space. structural formula.
A chemical formula is a way of expressing information about the proportions of atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound, using a single line of chemical element symbols, numbers, and sometimes also other symbols, such as parentheses, dashes, brackets, commas and plus (+) and minus (−) signs. Structural formula for butane. This is not a chemical formula. Examples of chemical formulas for butane are the empirical formula C 2 H 5, the molecular formula C 4 H 10 and the condensed (or semi-structural) formula CH 3 CH 2 CH 2 CH 3.
Noun. 1. chemical formula-a representation of a substance using symbols for its constituent elements. formula. statement-a message that is stated or declared; a communication (oral or written) setting forth particulars or facts etc; according to his statement he was in London on that day.