There are a variety of plants that repel certain bugs. You can plan your garden around them, and at the same time avoid the use of smelly chemical repellants on your skin.
Shares & Saves. Save. Peppermint oil, while unusually fragrant to humans, acts as a repellent to most insects, especially mosquitoes and fleas. You can apply dabs of concentrated peppermint oil to focal points on your skin or clothes, or use a diluted formula to spray over broader areas.
When spring arrives so do those annoying mosquitoes. Instead of going the chemical route, here is a collection of mosquito repelling plants to make mosquito control more natural. Basil – Ocimum americanum – has essential oils that can be extracted and used as a spray to repel
Seven of the top essential oils you can use in your fly spray concoctions include citronella, pine, peppermint, lavender, patchouli, sandalwood and rosemary. 1  citronella: Not only does citronella help to repel flies in your garden, according to Winger, but also ants, fleas, gnats, mosquitoes, moths, nematodes and ticks.
Cultivated plants that repel mosquitoes. Citronella Grass (Cymbopogon nardus) is the most popular cultivated plant used for repelling mosquitoes. Its oil, citronella oil, is the primary ingredient in most natural insect repellents sold in stores. Products applied to the skin are most effective.
Instructions. Purchase peppermint oil in its pure, concentrated form, and apply a few drops to focal points on your clothing. You can add a little peppermint oil inside pockets, and on areas where perspiration may attract mosquitoes and fleas, such as under your arms or around your collar.
Use a natural formula that contains a combination of citronella, lemongrass oil, peppermint oil and vanillin to repel mosquitoes, fleas, chiggers, ticks, and other biting insects,which is recommended in a June 2014 article on AlterNet.
There are a variety of plants that repel mosquitoes, including both wild and cultivated species. Almost anywhere you go, it is reasonable to find several plant species that you can use to ward off these pesky critters.