Australians enjoy a variety of hot and cold desserts, many the same as those of other traditional western countries.   Cold desserts include ice-cream, pavlova (merin … gue with fruit and cream), cheesecakes, yoghurt and dairy desserts.   Hot desserts include fruit pies, fruit strudels and self-saucing puddings. I'm sure they don't mind them now, but a long time ago, when they decided they'd take over the natives home and make it their own, the Australians didn't really like them all … that much. Australia actually started as a British penal colony.
The majority of Australians descend from the peoples of the British Isles. The Colony of New South Wales was established by the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1788, with the arrival of the First Fleet, and five other colonies were established in the early 19th century, now forming the six present-day Australian states. Indigenous Australians migrated from Africa to Asia around 70,000 years ago and arrived in Australia around 50,000 years ago. The Torres Strait Islanders are indigenous to the Torres Strait Islands, which are at the northernmost tip of Queensland near Papua New Guinea.
Australia has a restaurant culture that is dynamic. And, remarkably, it has come about in the space of a single generation. Australia has never been a more exciting place to eat and restaurants are driving this change. Traversing Australia from top to bottom is an incredible experience and is easily achieved in a fortnight. This itinerary combines two very different cities, World Heritage-Listed national parks, stunning natural scenery, beautiful wineries, and an epic train journey through the mythical outback.
Most Australians learn how to speak English some time between the time they are born and the age of eighteen. There are many different dialects from state to state, city to city, most recognizable is the Melbourne accent which sounds so much like an american accent that most other Australians can't understand them. Australian people, or simply Aussies, are a sub-species of humans found on the long-lost continent of OZ, located somewhere at the bottom of the globe (or down under, as they often call it) or the arse end of the world.
Because of the great weather in Australia, Australians in general spend a lot of time outside. There is less pollution than … in the more heavily populated continents, and the temperatures are conducive to outdoor living. I'm sure they don't mind them now, but a long time ago, when they decided they'd take over the natives home and make it their own, the Australians didn't really like them all … that much. Australia actually started as a British penal colony.
In each State capital city there is a large Carols by Candlelight service. Famous Australian singers like The Wiggles, John Farnham, Anthony Warlow, Colin Gery, Niki Webster and many more help to sing the carols. These carol services, held in different cities, are broadcast on TV across Australia.
Australia has six states (Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria, Tasmania, New South Wales, and Queensland) and two territories (the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory), whose capital cities are, respectively, Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, Hobart, Sydney, Brisbane, Darwin, and Canberra. Hi, just for the people who keep asking about the clothing...I'm Australian and a lot of Australians just wear clothing that seems to be worn in other countries, such as America. Especially considering some clothing shops in America are also in Australia.
Australians (/əˈstreɪljənz/), colloquially known as Aussies (/ɒziːz/), are a people associated with the continent of Australia, sharing a common history, culture, and language (Australian English). Present-day Australians are citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, governed by its nationality law. Indigenous Australians migrated from Africa to Asia around 70,000 years ago and arrived in Australia around 50,000 years ago. The Torres Strait Islanders are indigenous to the Torres Strait Islands, which are at the northernmost tip of Queensland near Papua New Guinea.
Indigenous Australians are descendants of the original inhabitants of the Australian continent. Indigenous Australians migrated from Africa to Asia around 70,000 years ago and arrived in Australia around 50,000 years ago. The Torres Strait Islanders are indigenous to the Torres Strait Islands, which are at the northernmost tip of Queensland near Papua New Guinea.
well us Aussies mate love watching the footy, cooking snags on the BBQ what else um we are very fond of animals and love the out back!! The above is a very stereotyped answer. Most Australians have never even travelled to the outback, to their very great loss. I'm sure they don't mind them now, but a long time ago, when they decided they'd take over the natives home and make it their own, the Australians didn't really like them all … that much. Australia actually started as a British penal colony.