The company who makes Authority dog food is called Authority, Inc. Authority brand dog food is sold exclusively at PetSmart, and was first founded as a company in 1995. They market their food as being “nutrient dense” and high in protein. I have had my dog on Authority Chicken & Rice Dry Dog food for 3 years now. I am very pleased with the food. She loves it and is a very picky dog. I tried to switch her over to a higher priced food to see if it really makes a difference, she would not take to it at all.
Canned food, dry food and fresh food, Authority® dog food from PetSmart is made with real meat as the number one ingredient. 
Brown rice and corn are ingredients added as fillers. However, brown rice does contain complex carbohydrates. The addition of corn gluten meal is most likely a strict filler due to its loss of nutrients during processing. Authority Dog Food, the in-store brand of PetSmart, is a decent brand and reasonably priced. The brand has high quality proteins as the first ingredients, and a nice amount of whole grains and vegetables. I have had my dog on Authority Chicken & Rice Dry Dog food for 3 years now. I am very pleased with the food. She loves it and is a very picky dog. I tried to switch her over to a higher priced food to see if it really makes a difference, she would not take to it at all.
Authority is an all-natural premium dog food brand created and offered by PetSmart. It’s high in protein and fat, as high-quality meat is the first ingredient in each formula. Authority dog food is ideal for high-energy dogs, as well as other dogs with health-conscious owners. According to Authority’s website, this dog food brand promotes overall health in dogs, focusing on the skin & coat, teeth & gums, muscles, weight, heart, digestive health, and immune system. They claim that if you have your dog on the Authority diet for two weeks, you’ll start to notice smaller and firmer stools.
Despite the fact that dried and canned Authority dog food contains top-notch ingredients, it’s still loaded with filler. Rice or rice gluten is usually in the top 5 ingredients. This fact alone puts Authority short of being a truly premium dog food brand. Not only that, but some dogs with allergies may react badly to Authority dog food, which contains corn, corn gluten meal, and eggs. According to Authority’s website, this dog food brand promotes overall health in dogs, focusing on the skin & coat, teeth & gums, muscles, weight, heart, digestive health, and immune system. They claim that if you have your dog on the Authority diet for two weeks, you’ll start to notice smaller and firmer stools.
The company who makes Authority cat food is called PetSmart. PetSmart is a retail store that sells a variety of pet foods, pet care products and other pet supplies. PetSmart was founded in 1986, and was previously called PETsMART. Authority cat food was one of the brands that was affected by the 2007 pet food recalls in relation to melamine contamination. Three canned Authority formulas were involved in the recall, but no dry formulas are listed.
Authority Brand-Lamb & Rice, Weight Management Formula. Authority is the label for Petsmarts House Brand of pet foods. I was actually amazed that in some areas it is even better than many of the more expensive brands. My pugs both love it. They get smaller portions and their stools are...well, let's just say much improved. After all of that work I proclaimed a winner.... 
Menu Foods manufactures Petsmart Authority dog and cat food as well as 95 other companies like Wal-Mart Ol’Roy dog food. Look up Menu Foods (Simmons) on Wikipedia and it list the companies that they produce dog and cat food for. I agree with the other reviewers above me about Authority Dog Food. I mention this brand to my 1 star feeding friends. We don’t use the dry, but I do buy the puppy (if they are out of the adult lamb & rice) and the normal adult versions.
I fed my dog Authority brand dog food, both canned and dried, as well as the treats and he got severe diarrhea twice and had to stay at the vets overnight to get well. Then a third time started and at the suggestion of the vet, I took him off the Authority dog food and he has never been diarrhea sick again. I agree with the other reviewers above me about Authority Dog Food. I mention this brand to my 1 star feeding friends. We don’t use the dry, but I do buy the puppy (if they are out of the adult lamb & rice) and the normal adult versions.
or Free Store Pickup (where available). Whether you have a kitten or an adult cat, there’s a PetSmart Authority® cat food for your favorite ball of fur. With varieties available for indoor and/or outdoor cats, Authority® brand food is made with balanced nutrition to support your pet’s dietary and health needs. 