Current local time and geoinfo in, Peru. The Time Now is a reliable tool when traveling, calling or researching. The Time Now provides accurate (US network of cesium clocks) synchronized time and accurate time services in, Peru. 1  Current local time. 2  Daylight saving time. 3  Time zone. 4  Currency. 5  Country calling codes. 6  Weather. 7  Sunrise & sunset. 8  Moonrise & moonset. 9  Coordinates. 10  Nearby cities. 11  Nearby airports.
Call Peru at a great price using a phone card or prepaid minutes from Nobelcom. Great for travel or for making international calls from any phone! Nobelcom even has apps for iPhone and Android users. 
Average temperature in Peru in March: 23°C, 73°F. Sea temperature in Peru (Paracas) in March: 20°C, 68°F. Average rainfall in Peru (Lima) in March: 1mm, 0in. Note: Peruvian school summer holidays have ended by March, so this is a good time to enjoy the beach resorts on the coast, where the weather is hot, dry and sunny. Average temperature in Peru in January: 22.5°C, 73°F. Sea temperature in Peru (Paracas) in January: 20.3°C, 68.6°F. Average rainfall in Peru (Lima) in January: 1mm, 0in. Note: January is the peak of the seaside holiday season on the coast of Peru, where it is dry and sunny.
There's not a bad time to visit Peru, however as a very general recommendation the best time to visit the coast is during the summer (Dec-Feb) and the best time to visit the mountains is in the winter (Jul-Sept). The jungle is hot and steamy all year round with heavy rains in December and January. May November From May to November the temperature drops a bit and you ll find blankets of sea mist engulfing the coast from the south right up to about 200 km north of Lima. At this time of year only the northern beaches such as Mancora and Punta Sal are warm enough to provide pleasant swimming.
Peru s high season is from June to August which coincides with the dry season and summer holidays in North America and Europe. You ll find Cusco a pretty cosmopolitan city with tourists from all over the globe converging on Machu Picchu. November Mid April This is the wet season with most rain in January and February. May November From May to November the temperature drops a bit and you ll find blankets of sea mist engulfing the coast from the south right up to about 200 km north of Lima. At this time of year only the northern beaches such as Mancora and Punta Sal are warm enough to provide pleasant swimming.
Average rainfall in Peru (Lima) in February: 0mm, 0in. Note: The different regions of Peru experience markedly different climates, so although the coast is dry in February, this is the wettest time of year in the Andes mountains and the jungles of the eastern lowlands are subject to torrential showers. Average temperature in Peru in January: 22.5°C, 73°F. Sea temperature in Peru (Paracas) in January: 20.3°C, 68.6°F. Average rainfall in Peru (Lima) in January: 1mm, 0in. Note: January is the peak of the seaside holiday season on the coast of Peru, where it is dry and sunny.
Average rainfall in Peru (Lima) in October: 2mm, 0.1in. Note: Temperatures creep up on the southern coast of Peru in October, but it remains overcast and misty much of the time. To the north the beach resorts like Mancora and Punta Sal have great holiday weather. Average temperature in Peru in January: 22.5°C, 73°F. Sea temperature in Peru (Paracas) in January: 20.3°C, 68.6°F. Average rainfall in Peru (Lima) in January: 1mm, 0in. Note: January is the peak of the seaside holiday season on the coast of Peru, where it is dry and sunny.