Temperate Grasslands. Temperate grasslands are located north of the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees North) and south of the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5 degrees South). The major temperate grasslands include the veldts of Africa, the pampas of South America, the steppes of Eurasia, and the plains of North America. Climate. Temperate grasslands have hot summers and cold winters. Summer temperatures can be well over 100 degrees Fahrenheit, while winter temperatures can be as low as -40 degrees Fahrenheit. They typically have between 10 and 35 inches of precipitation a year, much of it occurring in the late spring and early summer.
PLANTS: Grasses dominate temperate grasslands. Trees and large shrubs are rarely found in grassland areas. There are many species of grasses that live in this biome, including, purple needlegrass, wild oats, foxtail, ryegrass, and buffalo grass. In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest.
Location. Temperate grasslands are located north of the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees North) and south of the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5 degrees South). The major temperate grasslands include the veldts of Africa, the pampas of South America, the steppes of Eurasia, and the plains of North America. Climate. Temperate grasslands have hot summers and cold winters. Summer temperatures can be well over 100 degrees Fahrenheit, while winter temperatures can be as low as -40 degrees Fahrenheit. They typically have between 10 and 35 inches of precipitation a year, much of it occurring in the late spring and early summer.
Temperate grasslands and savannas are two types of grassland biomes. Like savannas, temperate grasslands are areas of open grassland with very few trees. Temperate grasslands, however are located in colder climate regions and receive less precipitation on average than savannas. Grasslands are located on every continent with the exception of Antarctica. Some locations of temperate grasslands include: 1  Argentina-pampas. 2  Australia-downs. 3  Central North America-plains and prairies. 4  Hungary-puszta.
Abiotic Features. Temperature: Temperatures in this biome vary greatly between summer and winter, summer temperatures can be well over 35째 C while winter temperatures can be as low as -25째 C. Precipitation: temperate grasslands can be found in areas that receive between 10 and 35 inches of rain each year. Temperate grasslands are found above 23.5째 north latitude and below 23.5째 south latitude. The major manifestations are the p ampas of South America, s avannah of Africa, s teppes of Eurasia and Australia, and the plains and prairies of central North America.
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses (Poaceae), however sedge (Cyperaceae) and rush (Juncaceae) families can also be found. Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except Antarctica. Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the Earth. For example, there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications (subdivisions) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome (' ecosystem '), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth's surface. Mid-latitude grasslands, including the Prairie and Pacific Grasslands of North America, the Pampas of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, calcareous downland, and the steppes of Europe. They are classified with temperate savannas and shrublands as the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome.
LOCATION: The name for this biome, temperate grasslands, is a great description for what it is like here. The most important plants in this biome are grasses! Temperate grasslands have some of the darkest, richest soils in the world (not in wealth, but in nutrients). In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest.
Most grasslands are found between desert and forest areas. There are three main types of grasslands which are the savanna, the temperate grassland and the steppe. Overview: Savannas are found in Africa, Australia, South America and India. In fact, savannas cover almost half of Africa which is about five million square miles. 
In Eurasia temperate grasslands are known as steppes and they are found between the Ukraine and Russia. In South America they are called pampas, and are located in Argentina and Uruguay. In South Africa temperate grasslands are known as veldts. WEATHER: Temperatures in this biome vary greatly between summer and winter. In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest.