Andrographis paniculata is an erect annual herb extremely bitter in taste in all parts of the plant body. The plant is known in north-eastern India as Maha-tita, literally king of bitters, and known by various vernacular names (see the table below). Andrographis paniculata is an annual herbaceous plant in the family Acanthaceae, native to India and Sri Lanka. It is widely cultivated in Southern and Southeastern Asia, where it has been traditionally used to treat infections and some diseases
Some people use andrographis for sore throat, coughs, swollen tonsils, bronchitis, and allergies. It is also used for “hardening of the arteries ” (atherosclerosis), and prevention of heart disease and diabetes. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Andrographis is POSSIBLY UNSAFE when taken by mouth during pregnancy. There is a concern that it might cause miscarriages. Not enough is known about the safety of andrographis during breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side, and avoid using andrographis if you are pregnant or
Andrographis (andrographis paniculata) has a wide range of benefits, mostly related to antimicrobial and immune enhancing properties. In native India, traditional use has primarily included treating respiratory infections and influenza. Andrographis has been used for dysentery and shows activity against pathogenic strains of E. coli. It is also active against common roundworms and tapeworms. In a 2011 study, andrographis was found to be as effective for treating ulcerative colitis as a commonly used drug.
Andrographis paniculata is a bitter tasting annual plant prevalent in much of Asia. It is often used in combination with other herbs in traditional medicine to treat infectious diseases and associated fevers. It is also used in folk medicine to treat snakebites. Either alone, or in combination with other herbs, andrographis has been shown to reduce the duration and severity of upper respiratory infections such as those associated with the common cold or flu. Andrographis extract may benefit patients with ulcerative colitis.
Over the last decade, a proprietary extract of andrographis (currently sold in combination with eleutherococcus) has become popular in Scandinavia as a treatment for colds. It is beginning to become available in the United States as well. Andrographis is a shrub found throughout India and other Asian countries that is sometimes called Indian echinacea.. It has been used historically in epidemics, including the Indian flu epidemic in 1919 during which andrographis was credited with stopping the spread of the disease. 1.
Andrographis paniculata plant. Photo Credit Varaporn_Chaisin/iStock/Getty Images. Andrographis paniculata is a bitter tasting annual plant, referred to as the “King of Bitters.” It has white-purple flowers and it is native to Asia and India where it has been valued for centuries for its numerous medicinal benefits. 
Over the last decade, a proprietary extract of andrographis (currently sold in combination with eleutherococcus) has become popular in Scandinavia as a treatment for colds. It is beginning to become available in the United States as well. Andrographis combined with eleutherococcus, licorice, and schisandra has shown promise for a genetic disease called familial Mediterranean fever. 24, 25. Researchers have also studied andrographis as a potential treatment for ulcerative colitis, a type of inflammatory bowel disease.
History. In Ayurvedic medicine, Andrographis, commonly known as Kalmegh or “King of Bitters” has long been used as a bitter tonic, stomachic, antipyretic, and laxative. The leaves are juiced to make some traditional Ayurvedic medicines. In Ayurvedic medicine, Andrographis, commonly known as Kalmegh or “King of Bitters” has long been used as a bitter tonic, stomachic, antipyretic, and…. 1  Continue.