Granite is Igneous rock. It crystallizes from hot melt (magma). Metamorphic rocks can be found associated with granite as result of their contact with country (surrounding) rocks. This will be a contact metamorphism. Metamorphism of granite it self results into granitic gneisses which are coarse foliated rocks.
Granite. Debate has long centered on whether granite is igneous or metamorphic in origin. Originally granite was thought to form mainly from magmatic differentiation of basaltic magma, but geologists now believe there is simply too much of it for it to have formed this way, except locally.
1 The minerals that compose gneiss are the same as granite. 2  Feldspar is the most important mineral that makes up gneiss along with mica and quartz. 3  Gneiss can be formed from a sedimentary rock such as sandstone or shale, or it can be formed from the metamorphism of the igneous rock granite.
Granite is a light-colored igneous rock with grains large enough to be visible with the unaided eye. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals.
The minerals that compose gneiss are the same as granite. Feldspar is the most important mineral that makes up gneiss along with mica and quartz. Gneiss can be formed from a sedimentary rock such as sandstone or shale, or it can be formed from the metamorphism of the igneouse rock grantite.
Granite is an igneous rock composed of mostly two minerals: quartz and feldspar. It is an intrusive rock, meaning that it crystallized from magma that cooled far below the earth's surface. Its name is derived from the Latin word 'granum', which means 'grain', a reference to the easily-seen minerals in the rock.
Granite is a coarse-grained, light-colored igneous rock composed mainly of feldspars and quartz with minor amounts of mica and amphibole minerals. This simple definition enables students to easily identify the rock based upon a visual inspection.