Balinese People. Bali population based the census on 2001 has reached 3.156.392 and Balinese it self is not stay in Bali Island but also spread out through Indonesian island. Bali race is a group of community banded by the awareness or oneness of culture. The other important community structure is the Banjar that organizes all other aspects of Balinese life (i.e. marriages, cremations, community service, festivals and the like). When a man marries, he is expected to join the village Banjar and must participate in community affairs.
With a population of 3,890,757 in the 2010 census, and currently 4,225,000 as of January 2014, the island is home to most of Indonesia's Hindu minority. According to the 2010 Census, 83.5% of Bali's population adhered to Balinese Hinduism, followed by 13.4% Muslim, Christianity at 2.5%, and Buddhism 0.5%. Bali was inhabited around 2000 BC by Austronesian people who migrated originally from Southeast Asia and Oceania through Maritime Southeast Asia. Culturally and linguistically, the Balinese are closely related to the people of the Indonesian archipelago, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Oceania.
The people accepted it and combined it with their own pre-Hindu mythologies. The Balinese from before the third wave of immigration, known as the Bali Aga, are mostly not followers of Agama Tirta, but retain their own animist traditions. The origins of the Balinese came from three periods. The first waves of immigrants came from Java and Kalimantan in the prehistoric times of the proto-Malay stock. Followed by the second wave of Balinese came slowly over the years from Java during the Hindu period.
The Balinese people represent only 2 percent of the total Indonesian population, yet they differ from the rest of Indonesia in many ways. Language, dress, songs, stories, food, and the calendar are uniquely Balinese. The most significant difference is their religious beliefs. Bali is different from the rest of Indonesia because of the religion that it follows. The majority of people in Indonesia are Muslim, but most people in Bali follow Balinese-Hinduism. Many religions set time aside in daily lives for religious rituals; Muslims, for example, pray five times a day.
People of Bali. The Balinese, anthropologists suggest, are an amalgamation of a number of people. The Chinese coming from the North, the Indian and the Arabs from way West, and other groups coming directly to Bali or by way of Java. Centuries past, and they become what is now known as native Balinese. There are pockets of villages in which fraternization with outsiders is completely restricted, resulting in a people and a culture that the Balinese called Bali Aga (Old Bali), which may curiously be the tunnel that allows us to periscope into the culture of Bali in the past centuries.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Balinese (Indonesian: Suku Bali) are an ethnic group native to the Indonesian island of Bali. Balinese population of 4.2 million (1.7% of Indonesia 's population) live mostly on the island of Bali, making up 89% of the island's population. The origins of the Balinese came from three periods. The first waves of immigrants came from Java and Kalimantan in the prehistoric times of the proto-Malay stock. Followed by the second wave of Balinese came slowly over the years from Java during the Hindu period.