The human appendix averages 9 cm in length but can range from 2 to 20 cm. The diameter of the appendix is usually between 7 and 8 mm. The longest appendix ever removed measured 26 cm from a patient in Zagreb, Croatia. The appendix is usually located in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen, near the right hip bone. The base of the appendix is located 2 cm beneath the ileocecal valve that separates the large intestine from the small intestine.
Appendix Location-Where is Your Appendix. Appendix, which is located in the lower right quadrant of the abdominal region has generated a lot of confusion and controversies among researchers. This article tries to answer some questions by positing the exact appendix location and its utility in the human body. Lower right quadrant in abdomen is the exact location of appendix in human body. In other words, if you divide your stomach in four regions, then appendix is located in the lower region on the right side. In human body, appendix falls on the Ileocecal junction, meaning the point where ileum, a part of small intestine meets the cecum from colon
Vermiform appendix. The vermiform appendix is also referred to as the vermix, the cecal appendix, or appendix. It is a tube that connects to the cecum. The cecum is the structure of the colon that resembles a pouch. The location of the appendix is close to the junction of the large intestine and the small intestine. Although the physiologic function of the appendix is not clearly established, it is thought to be a vestigial remnant (from a primitive version of the large intestine). 
1 The appendix is located at the lower right quadrant of the abdomen and it is connected to the cecum which is part of the large intestine. 2  The cecum is a pouch at the beginning of the large intestine and not the end, the end is the anus. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions:
Human Appendix: Location, anatomy, functions of Appendix. In human anatomy, the appendix is a blind-ended tube connected to the cecum (or caecum), from which it develops embryologically. The cecum is a pouchlike structure of the colon. The appendix is located near the junction of the small intestine and the large intestine. The appendix averages 10 cm in length, but can range from 2 to 20 cm. 
Everything about the appendix, right from its location in the human body to its utility, is embroiled in controversy and confusion. Although, the fact that appendix has certain specific function in the human body, cannot be established, scientists are not willing to adjudge it as a 'useless organ'. Lower right quadrant in abdomen is the exact location of appendix in human body. In other words, if you divide your stomach in four regions, then appendix is located in the lower region on the right side. In human body, appendix falls on the Ileocecal junction, meaning the point where ileum, a part of small intestine meets the cecum from colon
Appendix. Extending from the inferior end of the large intestine’s cecum, the human appendix is a narrow pouch of tissue whose resemblance to a worm inspired its alternate name, vermiform (worm-like) appendix.
Front View of the Appendix. The appendix sits at the junction of the small intestine and large intestine. It’s a thin tube about four inches long. Normally, the appendix sits in the lower right abdomen. The function of the appendix is unknown. 1 Appendicitis: For unclear reasons, the appendix often becomes inflamed, infected, and can rupture. 2  This causes severe pain in the right lower part of the belly, along with nausea and vomiting. 3  Tumors of the appendix: Carcinoid tumors secrete chemicals that cause periodic flushing, wheezing, and diarrhea.