The longer the ingredient list, the more processed a food is likely to be. Processed foods are usually found in the center aisles of the grocery store and are more likely to contain ingredients that you are not able to recognize or ingredients that you wouldn't have in your kitchen. Trans fat, which is the result of the hydrogenation of vegetable oils, is also a processed food. Avoid these foods since their fats are almost always damaged and can negatively impact your health.
Breakfast cereals and commercial orange juice can be considered processed foods. The definition of what constitutes a processed food can vary slightly, but it usually refers to foods that are packaged in boxes, cans or bags. These foods need to be processed extensively to be edible and are not found as is in nature. Trans fat, which is the result of the hydrogenation of vegetable oils, is also a processed food. Avoid these foods since their fats are almost always damaged and can negatively impact your health.
High Pressure Processing or HPP technology is an all-natural process that protects and defends foods while preserving them through the use of high-pressure water rather than with heat, chemicals and other processes that can ultimately damage natural flavors. Our goal is to make our products the best they can be in every way, including how we pursue sustainability. When Don helped HPP evolve into what it is today, the process became known as the Fresherized® process. Today Fresherized Foods, home of Wholly Guacamole brand, is the worlds largest user of HPP.
Avocado-based products such as guacamole, avocado flesh, chunks or paste, avocadobased-salsas, etc have a very short shelf-life period (510- days) due to the spoilage effects of various enzymes over this product, particularly PPO –poliphenol oxidase-and LOX –lipidoxigenase-. them, guaranteeing a greater microbiological stability and preventing browning of the product, together with the improvement in texture and other organoleptic attributes of the High Pressure. Processed avocado range, are a distinctive characteristic of their value propositions.
The amount of salt/sodium typically added to fresh meat is not enough for it to be considered processed meats. It is considerably less salt than is in luncheon meats. For example, the “enhanced” chicken breast meat would contain about 150 mg sodium per 3 oz, whereas 3 oz of deli chicken can contain more than 700 mg. As for meat in canned soups, plain chicken or beef, for example would not be considered processed meat, but if it is processed before going into the soup – like sausage, ham or bacon – then it would be considered processed meat.
Try hummus with avocado, cucumber and tomato or veggie burgers for non-meat alternatives. As for sausage, if it is fresh with no nitrites, salt or other preservatives added and isn’t smoked or cured, it wouldn’t be considered processed meat. As for meat in canned soups, plain chicken or beef, for example would not be considered processed meat, but if it is processed before going into the soup – like sausage, ham or bacon – then it would
While avocado is commonly eaten raw, on salad or alone, with nothing but a dash of Himalayan salt and some ground pepper, for example, there are many other ways to include avocado in your diet. For example, you can use avocado in the following ways: 1  Use as a fat replacement in baking. 
The Big Island's avocado industry provides the majority of the state's avocado market supply. In 1990, 900,000 lb of avocados were harvested in Hawaii, while 529,000 were inshipped. The local avocado supply is even larger when home production is considered. Canada is not concerned with fruit flies and accepts Hawaii avocados. In 1990, Hawaii exported 19,500 lb of avocados directly to Canada at an FAS value of $22,900. California and Mexico are the major suppliers to Canada's market. 