For the musician known as Somatic, see Hahn Rowe. The somatic nervous system (SoNS or voluntary nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements. The SoNS consists of afferent nerves and efferent nerves. Parts of somatic nervous system [edit]. There are 43 segments of nerves in the human body. With each segment, there is a pair of sensory and motor nerves. In the body, 31 segments of nerves are in the spinal cord and 12 are in the brain stem.
somatic. adj. 1. (Biology) of or relating to the soma: somatic cells. 2. (Zoology) of or relating to an animal body or body wall as distinct from the viscera, limbs, and head. 3. (Anatomy) of or relating to the human body as distinct from the mind: a somatic disease. [C18: from Greek sōmatikos concerning the body, from sōma the body]. 1. somatic-affecting or characteristic of the body as opposed to the mind or spirit; bodily needs; a corporal defect; corporeal suffering; a somatic symptom or somatic illness. corporal, corporeal, bodily.
1 Somatic nervous system, the portion of the vertebrate nervous system which regulates voluntary movements of the body. 2  Somatics, a group of alternative medicine approaches, experiential movement disciplines, and dance techniques. 3  Somatic theory, a model of human social behavior. Somatic may refer to: 1  Somatic (biology) , referring to the cells of the body in contrast to the germ line cells. 2  Somatic nervous system, the portion of the vertebrate nervous system which regulates voluntary movements of the body
Somatics is a path, a methodology, a change theory, by which we can embody transformation, individually and collectively. Embodied transformation is foundational change that shows in our actions, ways of being, relating, and perceiving. It is transformation that sustains over time. 
1 Somatic (biology) , referring to the cells of the body in contrast to the germ line cells. 2  Somatic nervous system, the portion of the vertebrate nervous system which regulates voluntary movements of the body. 3  Somatics, a group of alternative medicine approaches, experiential movement disciplines, and dance techniques. Somatic may refer to: 1  Somatic (biology) , referring to the cells of the body in contrast to the germ line cells. 2  Somatic nervous system, the portion of the vertebrate nervous system which regulates voluntary movements of the body
Somatic Experiencing; a holistic approach to trauma therapy. Somatic Experiencing addresses the core of the nervous system. It is becoming the standard therapy for resolving stuck symptoms of past adverse events, such as; relational or shock trauma, which remain in non-cognitive regions of the brain. To heal, we need the felt-sense of the bod
Definition of SOMATIC. 1. : of, relating to, or affecting the body especially as distinguished from the germplasm or the psyche. 2. : of or relating to the wall of the body: parietal. — so·mat·i·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See somatic defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of SOMATIC. 1. a: of, relating to, or affecting the body especially as distinguished from the germ plasm or psyche: physical. 2. : of or relating to the wall of the body as distinguished from the viscera: parietal.
Somatic psychotherapy is one of the best ways to help patients suffering from psychological traumas cope, recover and live a normal life. The word somatic is derived from the Greek word “soma” which means living body. Somatic therapy is a holistic therapy that studies the relationship between the mind and body in regard to psychological past. The theory behind somatic therapy is that trauma symptoms are the effects of instability of the ANS (autonomic nervous system). Past traumas disrupt the ANS. The main goal of somatic therapy is recognition and release of physical tension that may remain in the body in the aftermath of a traumatic event. The therapy sessions typically involves the patient tracking his or her experience of sensations throughout the body.