It was only after the war that Canada was finally recognized for being a country of their own instead of another colony of Great Britain. Canada earned a seat in the League of Nations along with other strong, already independent countries like Russia and France. Today, Canada is a free, independent country home to many different Canadians of all nationalities and is know for being one of the most multicultural countries in the world[i].
This began an accretion of provinces and territories and a process of increasing autonomy from the British Empire, which became official with the Statute of Westminster of 1931 and completed in the Canada Act of 1982, which severed the vestiges of legal dependence on the British parliament. The history of Canada covers the period from the arrival of Paleo-Indians thousands of years ago to the present day. Canada has been inhabited for millennia by distinctive groups of Aboriginal peoples, with distinct trade networks, spiritual beliefs, and social hierarchies.
The history of Canada dates back to the arrival of Paleo-Indians, and its territory has been inhabited by Aboriginal peoples for millennia. However, it was only in 1867 when Canada became a unified nation under the name Dominion of Canada. Canada was under British rule during the period of 1763 1867. The Treaty of Paris was signed in 1763 and under it, France ceded a large portion of its territory in present day Canada. 
Confidence votes 80. Canadian Confederation happened on July 1st, 1867, however, this was not a declaration of independence as Canada was part of the British Empire. The Statute of Westminster in 1931 set the country as an independent realm with allegiance to the Crown as the 'Dominion of Canada'. The current Head of the House of Windsor remains the monarch of Canada.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Technically Canada never actually ever became a sovereign nation. In 1867 when the British North American was first passed it allowed the creation of the dominion of Canada, not the nation of Canada. The dominion allowed Canada to govern herself internally but she still remained a part of the British Empire, much in the same way as Australia and New Zealand did at that time. The British North America Act of 1867 is the beginning of Canada as a nation, but not totally sovereign. The Statute of Westminster (1931) transferred several political powers from the UK parliament to the Canadian Parliament.
Best Answer: Canada officially became a country in July 1, 1867 when it signed the British North America Act or BNA Act. 
It happened gradually over time. In 1867 Canada did officially become a country but under the British Crown it still had colonial status. The Statute of Westminster in 1931 set the country as an independent realm with allegiance to the Crown as the 'Dominion of Canada'. The current Head of the House of Windsor remains the monarch of Canada.
It's something unique and special to have and maintain. Canada's independence from Britain is a defining moment. With passing of British North Act in 1867, Canada became a dominion in the British Commonwealth and this did not mean that it was a fully independent country. Canada evolves over the years to become a one of the best countries. Showing Britain and to many other countries that they are capable of being independent. Canada wanted to be an independent country and by participating in world war one Canada started its journey to towards its independence.
Canada has been an independent country since 1931, and does not belong to the United Kingdom. But it is still a member of the British Commonwealth, also called the Commonwealth of Nations, which is made up of the United Kingdom and several countries that used to be part of the British Empire. 