This includes seafood such as oysters and crab, meats such as lean beef and poultry and dairy products including yogurt and cheese. However, you do not need to consume animal products in order to have adequate intake of this mineral. Nuts and beans, such as chick peas, cashews and almonds contain zinc. In addition, many breakfast cereals are fortified with zinc. By the time you finish eating your breakfast, you already may have consumed 25 percent of the daily intake. 
Zinc is very much associated with protein foods. Thus, you may assume that most foods high in zinc are protein-rich as well. The best sources of zinc include beef, lamb, pork, crabmeat, turkey, chicken, lobster, clams and salmon. Good high zinc foods aside from meats are dairy products such as milk and cheese, yeast, peanuts, beans, and wholegrain cereals, brown rice, whole wheat bread, potato and yogurt. Of all these.
If you are a vegetarian, you will most probably intake less zinc that those who have meat-based diets. Good high zinc foods aside from meats are dairy products such as milk and cheese, yeast, peanuts, beans, and wholegrain cereals, brown rice, whole wheat bread, potato and yogurt. Of all these.
Phytates—which are present in whole-grain breads, cereals, legumes, and other foods—bind zinc and inhibit its absorption [ 2, 12, 13 ]. Thus, the bioavailability of zinc from grains and plant foods is lower than that from animal foods, although many grain-and plant-based foods are still good sources of zinc [ 2 ]. Dietary supplements. Supplements contain several forms of zinc, including zinc gluconate, zinc sulfate, and zinc acetate. The percentage of elemental zinc varies by form. For example, approximately 23% of zinc sulfate consists of elemental zinc; thus, 220 mg of zinc sulfate contains 50 mg of elemental zinc.
Summary of Food Sources. The most well-known fact about zinc in foods is almost certainly that oysters are rich in zinc. A typical oyster weighing approximately one ounce will contain about 8-9 milligrams of zinc. So two oysters would put you over the WHFoods recommended daily amount of 11 milligrams. In addition to oysters, other shellfish tend to be rich in this mineral, as are many other animal foods.
Vegetables. Some vegetables are good sources of zinc. Legumes, such as soybeans, peas and lima beans, are especially rich in zinc, with about 9 milligrams in 1 cup of soybeans and 2 milligrams in a 1 cup-serving of either peas or lima beans.
Oysters contain more than any other food (74 mg/serving), but red meat and poultry provide the majority of zinc in the American diet. Other food sources high in zinc include beans, nuts, whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products (see the table of zinc amounts in foods). 
Oysters contain more zinc per serving than any other food, but red meat and poultry provide the majority of zinc in the American diet. Other good food sources include beans, nuts, certain types of seafood (such as crab and lobster), whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products [ 2, 11 ]. Dietary supplements. Supplements contain several forms of zinc, including zinc gluconate, zinc sulfate, and zinc acetate. The percentage of elemental zinc varies by form. For example, approximately 23% of zinc sulfate consists of elemental zinc; thus, 220 mg of zinc sulfate contains 50 mg of elemental zinc.
Other great sources for zinc include beans, nuts, crab, lobster, whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products. If these foods don't appeal to you, supplements containing zinc are available at any pharmacy or natural-foods store. The majority of Americans get most of their zinc from meat and poultry. But serving for serving, oysters contain more zinc than any other food (76.7 mg in six medium oysters). As an added bonus, oysters also are thought to be a great aphrodisiac, so share them with your partner!
While the most traditionally cited sources of zinc include oysters, dungeness crab and red meat, other often-overlooked, healthy sources of zinc are soybeans, nuts and seeds. Other sources include peas, lima beans, summer squash, potatoes, corn, Napa cabbage, bok choy, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds and almonds. The majority of Americans get most of their zinc from meat and poultry. But serving for serving, oysters contain more zinc than any other food (76.7 mg in six medium oysters). As an added bonus, oysters also are thought to be a great aphrodisiac, so share them with your partner!