gamma globulin. n. 1. A protein fraction of blood serum containing many antibodies that protect against bacterial and viral infectious diseases. 2. A solution of gamma globulin prepared from human blood and administered for passive immunization against measles, German measles, hepatitis A, and other infections.
Immunoglobulin (also called gamma globulin or immune globulin) is a substance made from human blood plasma. The plasma, processed from donated human blood, contains antibodies that protect the body against diseases. 
Gamma Globulin Levels/Range. Globulin and albumin are serum proteins (in blood plasma) produced by the immune system or the liver. The ratio of globulin in the blood is 2-3 g/dl. Globins are further classified into alpha 1 globulins, alpha 2 globulins, beta globulins, and gamma globulins. A gamma globulin blood or lab test is performed to determine gamma globulin level by drawing blood from the patient's vein. A gamma globulin test chart shows the following normal gamma globulin test ranges.
This type of gamma globulin, which is an immune serum, contains a wide range of antibodies, depending on its method of production, and it provides passive immunity for several weeks. In cattle, its most common use is in the newborn orphan which receives no colostrum. 1. A protein fraction of blood serum containing many antibodies that protect against bacterial and viral infectious diseases. 2. A solution of gamma globulin prepared from human blood and administered for passive immunization against measles, German measles, hepatitis A, poliomyelitis, and other infections.
Production of gamma globulin may be increased in the body when there is invasion by harmful microorganisms. An abnormal amount in the blood, a condition known as hypergammaglobulinemia, may be indicative of a chronic infection or certain malignant blood diseases.. A protein fraction of blood serum containing many antibodies that protect against bacterial and viral infectious diseases. 2. A solution of gamma globulin prepared from human blood and administered for passive immunization against measles, German measles, hepatitis A, poliomyelitis, and other infections.
Gamma globulin injections are usually given in an attempt to temporarily boost a patient's immunity against disease. Being a product derived from blood, gamma globulin injections, along with blood transfusions and intravenous drug use, can pass along Hepatitis C to their recipients. Once Hepatitis C was identified in 1989, blood banks began screening all blood donors for the presence of the Hepatitis C virus in their bloodstreams.
An abnormal amount of gamma globulin in the blood, a condition known as hypergammaglobulinemia, may be indicative of a chronic infection or certain malignant blood diseases. There is also a rare inherited condition, agammaglobinemia, in which the body is unable to produce gamma globulin. 1. A protein fraction of blood serum containing many antibodies that protect against bacterial and viral infectious diseases. 2. A solution of gamma globulin prepared from human blood and administered for passive immunization against measles, German measles, hepatitis A, poliomyelitis, and other infections.
Gamma globulins are a class of globulins, identified by their position after serum protein electrophoresis. The most significant gamma globulins are immunoglobulins (Igs), a subclass of which are antibodies, although some Igs are not gamma globulins, and some gamma globulins are not Igs. Being a product derived from blood, gamma globulin injections, along with blood transfusions and intravenous drug use, can pass along Hepatitis C to their recipients. Once Hepatitis C was identified in 1989, blood banks began screening all blood donors for the presence of the Hepatitis C virus in their bloodstreams.
A gamma globulin test is used to test the amount of immunoglobins in the blood. Immunoglobins are also called immune gamma globulins. Immunoglobins are antibodies that are produced by the body in response to foreign substances such as bacteria, viruses, and cancerous cells. A gamma globulin blood or lab test is performed to determine gamma globulin level by drawing blood from the patient's vein. A gamma globulin test chart shows the following normal gamma globulin test ranges.
Gamma globulin: A major class of immunoglobulins found in the blood, including many of the most common antibodies circulating in the blood. Also called immunoglobulin G (IgG).