The title of this questions leads to opionion based answers. A better title would be: What is the difference between Apache ServiceMix and JBoss Fuse. That title indicates facts etc, and not what you prefer. The latter causes these kind of questions to be closed/on hold, as SO is not he place for these kind of questions. The application will in the end be run commercially. I am not sure for which I should go: ServiceMix or Fuse. I have a tendency to go for JBoss Fuse because there seems to be more documentation available and it seems to be updated more frequently (newer ActiveMQ inside etc).
Red Hat JBoss Fuse is a robust, flexible, and easy-to-use platform to integrate applications, data, services, and devices. The integration platform uses popular open source technologies to provide transformation, routing, and protocol-matching services. Red Hat JBoss Fuse supports more than 150+ Camel components (connectors), including Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), FTP/STP, HTTP/HTTPS, File, and more. In addition, custom components can be written for specific endpoint connectivity requirements. Check the Red Hat JBoss Fuse connectors.
jboss-fuse / fuse. JBoss Fuse is an open source ESB with capabilities based on Apache Camel, Apache CXF, Apache ActiveMQ, Apache Karaf and Fabric8 in a single integrated distribution. 1  7,192 commits. fuse. JBoss Fuse is an open source ESB with capabilities based on Apache Camel, Apache CXF, Apache ActiveMQ, Apache Karaf and Fabric8 in a single integrated distribution. Something went wrong with that request. Please try again. You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session
Red Hat JBoss Fuse is based on a lightweight container, Apache Karaf, that provides dynamic configuration and multiple deployment options. JBoss Fuse technologies are also supported on the fully certified Java™ EE platform, Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform. This flexible architecture allows JBoss Fuse to be deployed in various configurations to connect customized solutions at every endpoint, distributor, outlet, partner, or device. Red Hat JBoss Fuse supports more than 150+ Camel components (connectors), including Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), FTP/STP, HTTP/HTTPS, File, and more. In addition, custom components can be written for specific endpoint connectivity requirements. Check the Red Hat JBoss Fuse connectors.
JBoss Fuse Service Works is a superset of JBoss Fuse. 1  Fuse Service Works offers a more formalized platform for developing and managing services, allowing a well-thought out architecture to be created with a focus on reusing components. JBoss Fuse Service Works is a full fledged SOA Suite. 1  As a fully featured Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) JBoss Fuse provides a platform that can be used to allow disparate enterprise components to work together.
You need an effective, cost-efficient way to integrate applications, data, and devices within your enterprise. Red Hat ® JBoss ® Fuse is a lightweight, flexible enterprise service bus (ESB) that enables rapid integration across the extended enterprise—on premise or in the cloud. Red Hat JBoss Fuse supports more than 150+ Camel components (connectors), including Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), FTP/STP, HTTP/HTTPS, File, and more. In addition, custom components can be written for specific endpoint connectivity requirements. Check the Red Hat JBoss Fuse connectors.
JBoss Fuse is a an open source Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) with an elastic footprint As a fully featured Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) JBoss Fuse provides a platform that can be used to allow disparate enterprise components to work together. JBoss Fuse Service Works is a full fledged SOA Suite. 1 
fabric8 is the community version of JBoss Fuse which can be freely used in production-fabric8.io-Fabric8 will be run as a OS project and we will do public releases and sync JARs to Maven central etc. For commercial usage then Red Hat offers JBoss Fuse as product. – Claus Ibsen Feb 1 '14 at 8:19. The application will in the end be run commercially. I am not sure for which I should go: ServiceMix or Fuse. I have a tendency to go for JBoss Fuse because there seems to be more documentation available and it seems to be updated more frequently (newer ActiveMQ inside etc).
While JBoss Fuse doesn't include all the features of Fuse Service Works, there are plenty of scenarios for which it is better suited. For example, if your use case is mostly simple transformations and workflows that are easily expressed as a Camel route, than JBoss Fuse is a stronger candidate. JBoss Fuse Service Works is a full fledged SOA Suite. 1  As a fully featured Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) JBoss Fuse provides a platform that can be used to allow disparate enterprise components to work together.