The cubital fossa is a triangular hollow area that lies in front of the elbow joint (Figure 1). It is bounded: 1  superiorly by an imaginary line connecting the medial and lateral epicondyles. 2  medially by the pronator teres muscle. 3  laterally by the brachioradialis muscle. The deep fascia of the forearm forms its roof, which is strengthened by fibres of the bicipital aponeurosis. Lying on the roof in the superficial fascia are the anterior branches of the medial and lateral cutaneous nerves of the forearm and the median cubital vein, which joins the cephalic and basilic veins.
antecubital fossa. The triangular region in the forearm on the anterior (flexor) surface of the elbow. Bounded laterally by the brachioradialis muscle and medially by the pronator teres muscle, the fossa contains the tendon of the biceps brachialis muscle and the brachial artery. A small depression in the distal humerus on its anterior surface proximal to the capitulum. When the elbow is in complete flexion, the proximal end (the head) of the radius slides up along the capitulum and one edge of the head of the radius fits into the radial fossa.
Medical Definition of ANTECUBITAL FOSSA. : a triangular cavity of the elbow that contains a tendon of the biceps, the median nerve, and the brachial artery. What made you want to look up antecubital fossa? 
Antecubital fossa Anatomy The fossa of the anterior elbow, which is bounded laterally and medially by the humeral origins of the flexor and extensor tendons of the forearm and superiorly by a virtual line connecting the humeral condyles. A small depression in the distal humerus on its anterior surface proximal to the capitulum. When the elbow is in complete flexion, the proximal end (the head) of the radius slides up along the capitulum and one edge of the head of the radius fits into the radial fossa.
The cubital fossa or elbow pit is the triangular area on the anterior view of the elbow of a human or other hominid animal. Several veins are also in the area (for example, the median cubital vein, cephalic vein, and basilic vein) but these are usually considered superficial to the cubital fossa, and not part of its contents.
The cubital fossa is triangular in shape, and thus has three borders: 1  Lateral border – The medial border of the brachioradialis muscle. 2  Medial border – The lateral border of the pronator teres muscle. 3  Superior border – An imaginary line between the epicondyles of the humerus. 1 Radial nerve – This is not always strictly considered part of the cubital fossa, but is in the vicinity, passing underneath the brachioradialis muscle. 2  As is does so, the radial nerve divides into its deep and superficial branches.
The cubital fossa contains four main vertical structures (from lateral to medial): 1  The radial nerve is in the vicinity of the cubital fossa, located between brachioradialis and brachialis muscles. Several veins are also in the area (for example, the median cubital vein, cephalic vein, and basilic vein) but these are usually considered superficial to the cubital fossa, and not part of its contents.
The contents of the fossa from medial to lateral are: 1  median nerve. 2  brachial artery and its terminal branches, the radial and ulnar arteries. 3  biceps tendon and bicipital aponeurosis (which separates the median cubital vein from the brachial artery). The deep fascia of the forearm forms its roof, which is strengthened by fibres of the bicipital aponeurosis. Lying on the roof in the superficial fascia are the anterior branches of the medial and lateral cutaneous nerves of the forearm and the median cubital vein, which joins the cephalic and basilic veins.
Contents. The contents of the cubital fossa include vessels, nerves and the biceps tendon (lateral to medial) : 1  Radial nerve – This is not always strictly considered part of the cubital fossa, but is in the vicinity, passing underneath the brachioradialis muscle. 1 Radial nerve – This is not always strictly considered part of the cubital fossa, but is in the vicinity, passing underneath the brachioradialis muscle. 2  As is does so, the radial nerve divides into its deep and superficial branches.
The cubital fossa is an area of transition between the anatomical arm and the forearm. It is located as a depression on the anterior surface of the elbow joint. 1 Radial nerve – This is not always strictly considered part of the cubital fossa, but is in the vicinity, passing underneath the brachioradialis muscle. 2  As is does so, the radial nerve divides into its deep and superficial branches.