Kroner, Euro and foreign currencies in Denmark (scroll down to approximate exchange rates). Although Denmark is member of the EU, the country is not part of Euro Land. Visitors therefore need the Danish currency Kroner for shopping and other expenses. Also if you want to transfer money to or from Denmark and other countries you need money exchange
A: The Danish currency is called “Kroner”. 1 USD is approx. 7 DKK and 1 Euro is approx. 7.5 Danish kroner. You can pay with international cards many places in Copenhagen and always at hotels. Did you know that Copenhagen.... - Is home to noma, currently ranked the world's 3rd best restaurant after 4 years as number 1. - Boasts a total of 18 Michelin Stars – more than any other city in Scandinavia. - Hosts two of the world’s best housing complexes, the VM Mountain and 8-tallet. - Is a bikecity.
For starters, the Danish currency (DKK) used in Copenhagen is called the kron e, plural kron er, and the Swedish currency (SEK) used in Stockholm is called the kron a, plural kron or. Both of these words mean crown in English. Kronas in Swedish I believe means only crown's. Denmark has 6 coins and Sweden has only 3 (which I think may be the fewest number of coins used in a country which a) uses coins, and b) does not have a basket case economy). The coins in each country are completely different size
Q: Are Euros accepted as payment in Denmark? A: You will find that some shops, hotels and restaurants, particularly in the larger cities, will display prices in both Danish kroner and Euros and many are likely to accept payment in Euros. Did you know that Copenhagen.... - Is home to noma, currently ranked the world's 3rd best restaurant after 4 years as number 1. - Boasts a total of 18 Michelin Stars – more than any other city in Scandinavia. - Hosts two of the world’s best housing complexes, the VM Mountain and 8-tallet. - Is a bikecity.
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code.
Copenhagen is not a nation, it is a city, the capital of Denmark. The national currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. 
Denmark: The Danish Kroner is the currency of both Denmark and Greenland, and the official abbreviation is DKK. Denmark abandoned the Danish Rigsdaler when the Scandinavian Monetary Unit was established in favor of the new currency. 
Exchange Rate Copenhagen. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Copenhagen. The currency used in Copenhagen is the Danish Krone. Copenhagen is the capital of Denmark. If you are traveling to Copenhagen, you will need to exchange your currency for the Danish Krone. You may exchange your money for the Danish Krone at most Copenhagen banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus.
I visited both Denmark and Sweden in August and the currency in Denmark is Danish Krone and in Sweden is Swedish Krone. They have to accept euros as they are part of the European Community, but they give you back local notes and coins. basketmaniac · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: Each country has its own currency but most will exchange Euros for their own currency. I found that in Copenhagen most places would take my Norwegian kroner but they would only take the paper money, not the coins.