The literal meaning of the Greek word hamartia, translated as sin, is 'missing the mark'. 2. 'literary'. Literary words and expressions are used to create a special effect in poems or novels, and are not usually used in ordinary speech or writing. 'Awaken' and 'waken' are old-fashioned or literary words. literal-limited to the explicit meaning of a word or text; a literal translation. exact-marked by strict and particular and complete accordance with fact; an exact mind; an exact copy; hit the exact center of the target. unrhetorical-not rhetorical.
The term literal meaning denotes that all words are in strict accordance with their original meanings. In other words, to apply the literal meaning is to take the words in their most basic sense without metaphor or exaggeration. 
(September 2007). Literal translation, direct translation, or word-for-word translation is the rendering of text from one language to another one word at a time (Latin :  verbum pro verbo ) with or without conveying the sense of the original whole. 
Report Abuse. Literal meaning means the explanation of the exact words of the with the meanings as stated in the dictionary which should not be related to the life of a living being or to the sympathy for anybody. jaspal s · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. The literal meaning is not a special form of meaning.it is only the meaning the reader is most likely to assign to a word or phrase if he or she knows nothing about the context in which it is to be used. coolgal · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1.
lit•er•al. 1. in accordance with, involving, or being the primary or strict meaning of a word or words; not figurative or metaphorical. 2. following the words of the original very closely and exactly: a literal translation. 3. true to fact; unembellished; actual or factual: a literal description of conditions. literal-limited to the explicit meaning of a word or text; a literal translation. exact-marked by strict and particular and complete accordance with fact; an exact mind; an exact copy; hit the exact center of the target. unrhetorical-not rhetorical.
Confidence votes 7. LITERAL: A literal passage, story, or text is one intended only (or primarily) as a factual account of a real historical event rather than a metaphorical expression, an allegorical expression of a larger symbolic truth, or a hypothetical example. 
Literal and figurative language is a distinction within some fields of language analysis, in particular stylistics, rhetoric, and semantics. 1  Literal language uses words directly according to their proper meanings (signified). 2  Figurative (or non-literal) language uses words in figures of speech. Figurative use of language is the use of words or phrases that implies a non-literal meaning which does make sense or that could [also] be true.
Literal usage gives words their proper meanings, in the sense of the meaning they have by themselves, outside any figure of speech. It maintains a consistent meaning regardless of the context, with the intended meaning corresponding exactly to the meaning of the individual words. Figurative use of language is the use of words or phrases that implies a non-literal meaning which does make sense or that could [also] be true.