The term Caucasian race or Caucasian is used to refer to people whose ancestry can be traced back to Europe, North Africa, West Asia, South Asia and parts of Central Asia. It was once considered a useful taxonomical categorization of human racial groups based on a presumed common geographic and/or linguistic origin. Caucasian. 'Caucasian' actually refers to a person from the Caucasus Mountains. This is a very ethnically diverse regions, which includes Turkic groups, Armenians and Kurds, as well as endogenous Caucasians like Circassians & Georgians.
Yes, of course  Italians are western Europeans and are considered white (caucasian), even the swarthy ones.   Historically many Italians who came to the United State … s were considered off-white or swarthy and often discriminated for their Catholic faith as well. Caucasian is one of the human races, known informally as the white race. They are mainly of European descent, and are named after the Caucasus region.
So, a Caucasian is an ethnic group, not a race. I just read that the sanctimonious bots at YA have deleted the term Neg roid, as socially unacceptable. I suppose it matters not that the term is an accepted scientific term. Our race is: Homo Sapien Sapiens. Best Answer: It's a racial classification, generally applied to Europeans, Arabs, some Indians and Pakistanis, Afghanis,North Africans and some people from the horn of Africa countries. It is NOT an ethnic classification. Cau·ca·sian (ko-kô, -kzhn) kzhn. adj. 1
The term Caucasian race was coined by the German philosopher Christoph Meiners in his The Outline of History of Mankind (1785). ... the Cro-Magnons were already racially European, i.e., Caucasoid. This has always been accepted because of the general appearance of the skulls: straight faces, narrow noses, and so forth. It is also possible to test this arithmetically. ...
Neither is Caucasian an ethnic grouping such as Italian, Mexican or Anglo-Saxon. So Caucasian is in essence a label used to justify the hierarchy of race that is prevalent in western cultures to the detriment of the non white peoples. Best Answer: It's a racial classification, generally applied to Europeans, Arabs, some Indians and Pakistanis, Afghanis,North Africans and some people from the horn of Africa countries. It is NOT an ethnic classification. Cau·ca·sian (ko-kô, -kzhn) kzhn. adj. 1
No. Caucasian is a euphemism for White and is a race. Races are  much broader than ethnicities and refer to general gradations in  skin color as opposed to nations or region … s of origin, which is  what ethnicities refer to. Answered. Caucasian is one of the human races, known informally as the white race. They are mainly of European descent, and are named after the Caucasus region.
For other uses, see Ethnic groups in Europe. The Caucasian race (also Caucasoid or occasionally Europid) is a taxon historically used to describe the physical or biological type of some or all of the populations of Europe, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, Western Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia. ... the Cro-Magnons were already racially European, i.e., Caucasoid. This has always been accepted because of the general appearance of the skulls: straight faces, narrow noses, and so forth. It is also possible to test this arithmetically. ...
The main difference between White and Caucasian is related to the skin colour. When compared to the Caucasian, the white people have a lighter skin. Unlike the white people, the Caucasian people have thin noses and thin lips. The concept of white race or white people originated in the 17th century. White vs Caucasian. White and Caucasian are terms that have been widely termed as the same. But it is only a misconception. A White is never called as Caucasian whereas a Caucasian can be called as white. When comparing the two races, Caucasian is a larger race when compared to the other. The Caucasian race consists of North Africans, Arabs, Whites, Somalians, some people in India and Ethiopians. On the other hand, white are mostly people who belong to Europe
The term race refers to the concept of dividing people into populations or groups on the basis of various sets of physical characteristics (which usually result from genetic ancestry). Significance. Ethnicity connotes shared cultural traits and a shared group history. An example of race is brown, white, or black skin (all from various parts of the world), while an example of ethnicity is German or Spanish ancestry (regardless of race).