If a tooth is chipped, find the chip, save it and visit your dentist immediately. Put the chip in a plastic baggie, and keep the chip moist by adding a few drops of water to the bag or wrapping it in wet gauze. The most important factor when you have a chipped tooth is to visit your dentist as soon as possible.
If you get a small chip in your tooth and it is feeling sensitive, try a painkiller (if it is safe for you to take it), and make a dental appointment. For more serious fractures, rinse your mouth out with warm water, and make a dentist appointment as soon as possible. Even if your tooth only got chipped, the dentist is probably going to take an x-ray of the damaged tooth and recommend being gentle with it for a few days. Usually a minor chip can be smoothed out/polished, or perhaps filled with a composite material. If the break is more serious, rapid treatment is needed.
How to Care for a Chipped or Broken Tooth. If your tooth is broken, chipped, or fractured, see your dentist as soon as possible. Otherwise, your tooth could be damaged further or become infected, possibly causing you to end up losing the tooth.
If you have a chipped tooth, the first step in the repair process is usually an evaluation from your dentist. This is primarily to assess whether the damage is purely cosmetic or whether it is more serious and the root of the tooth has been affected. However, if your tooth is badly chipped and causing you pain, there is still no need to panic. There are plenty of other options that you can explore with your dentist. Many people opt for porcelain veneers which are popular because they cover a wide variety of irregularities.
It's common to break, chip or knock out a tooth after a blow to the face, or even after eating something hard. If the tooth is just chipped, you should make a non-emergency dental appointment to have it smoothed down and filled. If the tooth has been knocked out or is badly broken, see a dentist immediately. Find your nearest dentist
If you have a chipped tooth, make an appointment to see your dental professional as soon as possible. Meanwhile, follow these steps: 1  Rinse: Rinse your mouth with warm water. 2  Press: If there is any bleeding in your mouth as a result of a chipped tooth, use a piece of gauze to apply pressure to the area.
Yes, chipping a tooth means you have lost valuable tooth structure and potentially laid the foundation for additional chips and cracks. Or you may need a root canal if the chip is close to the pulp containing the nerve and it doesn't heal properly from the trauma. As for repairing a chipped tooth, your dentist can usually fix minor chips with modern bonding techniques using tooth-colored filling materials. 
Continue. If you have a chipped tooth, you might not feel any tooth pain unless the chip is large enough to expose the nerves in the inner layer of the tooth. Meanwhile, follow these steps: 1  Rinse: Rinse your mouth with warm water. 2  Press: If there is any bleeding in your mouth as a result of a chipped tooth, use a piece of gauze to apply pressure to the area.
A broken or chipped tooth. If you have broken your tooth, do not try to reimplant the fragment back into your gum – store it in a clean container and cover the fragment with milk or saliva until you can see a dentist. It may be possible to reattach the broken fragment to the tooth. If the tooth is just chipped, you should make a non-emergency dental appointment to have it smoothed down and filled. If the tooth has been knocked out or is badly broken, see a dentist immediately.