Bronchodilator medicines, or bronchodilators, make breathing easier by relaxing the muscles in the lungs and widening the airways (bronchi). They are often used to treat long-term conditions where the airways become intermittently narrow and inflamed, such as: The side effects of bronchodilators can vary, depending on the specific medication you are taking, so make sure you read the leaflet that comes with your medication to see what the specific side effects are. General side effects of bronchodilators include: 1  trembling, particularly in the hands.
Bronchodilators are useful medications because they speed this process of relaxation of the bronchial muscles and can sometimes be used to prevent or block the contraction of the bronchial muscles in the first place. You may have made these observations yourself. Choices Among Bronchodilators. Bronchodilators can be taken in different forms. They can be breathed in as a spray or mist, swallowed as a tablet or capsule, and sometimes given as an injection or intravenous medication (through a needle in a blood vessel).
Short-acting bronchodilators are used as a quick relief or rescue medication, while long-acting bronchodilators can be used every day to control asthma -- in conjunction with an inhaled steroid. Recommended Related to Asthma. Short-acting bronchodilators are also used before exercise to prevent exercise-induced asthma. For more information, see WebMD's article on Asthma Inhalers. Short-acting bronchodilators can be used in an asthma nebulizer in the form of a liquid to treat an asthma attack at home. For in-depth information, see WebMD's article on Asthma Nebulizers (Breathing Machines)
Bronchodilators are medications that cause the bronchial muscles to relax and, as a result, the bronchial tubes to open wider or dilate. When these muscles relax, the bronchial tubes can usually open fully again and breathing can become normal. Choices Among Bronchodilators. Bronchodilators can be taken in different forms. They can be breathed in as a spray or mist, swallowed as a tablet or capsule, and sometimes given as an injection or intravenous medication (through a needle in a blood vessel).
A bronchodilator is a substance that dilates the bronchi and bronchioles, decreasing resistance in the respiratory airway and increasing airflow to the lungs. Bronchodilators may be endogenous (originating naturally within the body), or they may be medications administered for the treatment of breathing difficulties. They are most useful in obstructive lung diseases, of which asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are the most common conditions.
Bronchodilators are sometimes called either “rescue” or “control” medications. Rescue medications are usually short-acting and are used for quick relief from symptoms. They work by relaxing the bands of muscle surrounding the airways. Control medications are long-acting medications taken daily to prevent breathing difficulties from occurring and to prevent long-term damage to the airways. Patients continue to take these medications even when symptoms do not occur. Oral forms of bronchodilators tend to have more side effects because they are delivered in higher doses and absorbed into the bloodstream. Inhaled bronchodilators are directly deposited in the lungs and tend to cause fewer side effects.
Bronchodilators are either short-acting or long-acting. Short-acting medications provide quick or rescue relief from acute bronchoconstriction. Long-acting bronchodilators help to control and prevent symptoms. The three types of prescription bronchodilating drugs are β2-agonists (short-and long-acting), anticholinergics (short-acting), and theophylline (long-acting). Bronchodilators may be endogenous (originating naturally within the body), or they may be medications administered for the treatment of breathing difficulties. They are most useful in obstructive lung diseases, of which asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are the most common conditions.
Short-acting bronchodilators are called quick-acting, reliever, or rescue medications. These bronchodilators relieve acute asthma symptoms or attacks very quickly by opening the airways. The rescue medications are best for treating sudden asthma symptoms. Short-acting bronchodilators are also used before exercise to prevent exercise-induced asthma. For more information, see WebMD's article on Asthma Inhalers. Short-acting bronchodilators can be used in an asthma nebulizer in the form of a liquid to treat an asthma attack at home. For in-depth information, see WebMD's article on Asthma Nebulizers (Breathing Machines)
Bronchodilators are medications taken to improve breathing. They help expand the airways and improve the breathing capacity of patients with bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), emphysema, pneumonia, bronchitis and other lung diseases. Oral forms of bronchodilators tend to have more side effects because they are delivered in higher doses and absorbed into the bloodstream. Inhaled bronchodilators are directly deposited in the lungs and tend to cause fewer side effects.