Fort Vancouver Online. If you are reading this you are already hooked up to the Internet, which means you have access to an immense amount of information about Fort Vancouver and its history. If you're looking for a quick orientation to the blacksmith and carpenter shops in context, go HERE. You should also be able to go directly to the page with the Grant House image by typing Fort Vancouver Historical Studies (without any quotation marks) in Google's search box. Scroll down and dig in. Feel free to browse in the documents listed.
FORT VANCOUVER SENIOR PROJECT. Letter to the judges. One of the first impressions the judges will have of you will come from this letter. The purpose of this writing is to give the judges an introduction to you as a whole person, beyond the work you have done on the Senior Project. They will be able to see you as a young adult with goals, interests and opinions.
In May, Lieutenant Peter Puget, under Vancouver's orders, explored more remote western channels, while Vancouver surveyed south of Bainbridge Island's Restoration Point. George Vancouver's 1792 investigations of Puget Sound and environs were for the purpose of seeking scientific and commercial information. His principal assignment, however, was to arrange meetings with Spanish representatives in Nootka Sound on the west coast of Vancouver Island. He served for 25 years in the British Navy, and commanded the Discovery on her expedition to the North Pacific. In April 1792, George Vancouver entered the Strait of Juan de Fuca and commenced his exploration of Puget Sound. He named every island, mountain, waterway, and point of land in sight -- 75 in all.
By Ryan Ware On October 15, 2015 · Add Comment · In Archeology & Collections, News. Fort Vancouver entered the National Park Service in 1948 as Fort Vancouver National Monument. The fort acted to preserve the original Hudson’s Bay stockade of Fort Vancouver. Throughout the years the park was expanded. In 1961, the boundaries were enlarged and the park was renamed Fort Vancouver National Historic Site. In 2011 the army discontinued its operations at the East and South Vancouver Barracks, and in 2012 that area was transferred to the National Park Service as well.
Sir George Simpson was instrumental in establishing the fort, and Dr. John McLoughlin was its first Chief Factor (manager); a position he held for nearly 22 years. James Douglas spent nineteen years in Fort Vancouver; serving as Chief Accountant until 1834 when he was promoted to Chief Trader of the post. While the Hudson's Bay Company continued to operate out of Fort Vancouver, every year saw less and less fur trade and more and more settlers and U.S. Army warfare against the HBC's former customer base.
The OREGON TREATY of 1846 effectively terminated Fort Vancouver as Columbia district headquarters, and in 1849 it was superseded by Fort Victoria. The crown colony of Vancouver Island was also established in 1849 and Richard Blanshard, who became its first governor in 1850, resided at Fort Victoria.
Today, a full-scale replica of the fort, with internal buildings, has been constructed and is open to the public as Fort Vancouver National Historic Site. While the Hudson's Bay Company continued to operate out of Fort Vancouver, every year saw less and less fur trade and more and more settlers and U.S. Army warfare against the HBC's former customer base.
Named for Captain George Vancouver, the fort was located on the northern bank of the Columbia River in present-day Vancouver, Washington. While the Hudson's Bay Company continued to operate out of Fort Vancouver, every year saw less and less fur trade and more and more settlers and U.S. Army warfare against the HBC's former customer base.
Fort Vancouver was by far the largest settlement of non-natives west of the Great Plains at this time. The populace of the fort and the surrounding area were mostly French-Canadians and Metis; there were also English, Scots, Irish, Hawaiians and a large variety of Native Americans including Iroquois and Cree. While the Hudson's Bay Company continued to operate out of Fort Vancouver, every year saw less and less fur trade and more and more settlers and U.S. Army warfare against the HBC's former customer base.