The two main coronary arteries are the left main and right coronary arteries. Left main coronary artery (LMCA). The left main coronary artery supplies blood to the left side of the heart muscle (the left ventricle and left atrium). The left main coronary divides into branches: The left anterior descending artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and supplies blood to the front of the left side of the heart. The circumflex artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and encircles the heart muscle. This artery supplies blood to the outer side and back of the heart. Right coronary artery (RCA). The right coronary artery supplies blood to the right ventricle, the right atrium, and the SA (sinoatrial) and AV (atrioventricular) nodes, which regular the heart rhythm.
The terminal branch is usually the largest of these branches. More likely, the circumflex artery may continue through the AV sulcus to supply the posterior wall of the left ventricle and (with the right coronary artery) the posterior papillary muscle of the bicuspid valve. The left circumflex branches decrease in diameter along their lengths.
The two main coronary arteries are the left and right coronary arteries. The left coronary artery (LCA), which divides into the left anterior descending artery and the circumflex branch, supplies blood to the heart ventricles and left atrium. These include the following: 1  circumflex artery (Cx). 2  The circumflex artery branches off the left coronary artery and encircles the heart muscle. 3  left anterior descending artery (LAD). 4  The left anterior descending artery branches off the left coronary artery and supplies blood to the front of the heart.
Circumflex artery. The circumflex artery, fully titled as the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery, is an artery that branches off from the left coronary artery to supply portions of the heart with oxygenated blood. The circumflex artery itself divides into smaller arterial systems. 
The left main coronary artery arises from above the left portion of the aortic valve and then usually divides into two branches, known as the left anterior descending (LAD) and the circumflex (Circ) coronary arteries. In some patients, a third branch arises in between the LAD and the Circ. 
Main navigation | Main content. Go to the U of M home page. Location: The circumflex artery branches off of the left coronary artery and supplies most of the left atrium: the posterior and lateral free walls of the left ventricle, and part of the anterior papillary muscle. More likely, the circumflex artery may continue through the AV sulcus to supply the posterior wall of the left ventricle and (with the right coronary artery) the posterior papillary muscle of the bicuspid valve. The left circumflex branches decrease in diameter along their lengths.
Anatomy of the coronary arteries. Your left ventricle pumps blood into the main artery of your body, called the aorta. See a picture of the heart and coronary arteries. Close to the heart, the two main coronary arteries branch off of your aorta. 1  The left main coronary artery is a short vessel that branches into the: 1 In a small number of people, the circumflex artery supplies the lower and back portions of the left ventricle. 2  The right coronary artery supplies blood to the right ventricle and then supplies the underside (inferior wall) and backside (posterior wall) of the left ventricle.
The heart receives its own supply of blood from the coronary arteries. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet. These arteries and their branches supply all parts of the heart muscle with blood. 1  Left Main Coronary Artery. The rest of the right coronary artery and its main branch, the posterior descending artery, together with the branches of the circumflex artery, run across the surface of the heart's underside, supplying the bottom portion of the left ventricle and back of the septum.
: either of two arteries arching anteriorly near the inguinal ligament: a: an artery lying internal to the iliac crest and arising from the external iliac artery b: a more superficially located artery that is a branch of the femoral artery. 