Alsatian (Noun). A person from Alsace. Alsatian (Noun). English name for a breed of dog called German shepherd until the first World War, changed at that time due to anti-German sentiment. The language or dialect of Alsace. a
Originally formed as a Chapter of the White German Shepherd Dog Club of America, the club was renamed White Shepherd Club of Canada in 1973. Its first conformation show was held that year with 8 dogs entered and 25 people in attendance. In 1959 the German Shepherd Dog Club of America (GSDCA) adopted the exclusively colored breed standard of the parent German breed club. White-coated German Shepherd Dogs were officially barred from competition in the American Kennel Club conformation ring in the United States starting in 1968.
The German Shepherd Dog comes in a variety of colours, coat patterns and coat types. Coat patterns are solid, bi colour, saddleback, and, sable. Colours which occur are black, blue, liver, silver, cream, tan, red, and white. Solid pattern dogs have a coat that is one colour. 
The American Kennel Club changed the name of the breed to the Shepherd Dog and the German Shepherd Dog Club of America became the Shepherd Dog Club of America. In England, the name of the breed was changed to the Alsatian. With the end of World War I came a new appreciation for the breed. It is an outline of breed history from a North American perspective. The German Shepherd Dog is respected and admired throughout the world for its versatility, intelligence, and loyalty. It has existed as a recognized breed for a relatively brief period of time compared to other dog breeds.
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed of dog, with their origin dating to 1899. As part of the Herding Group, German Shepherds are working dogs developed originally for herding sheep. Horand was declared to be the first German Shepherd Dog and was the first dog added to the society's breed register. Horand became the centre-point of the breeding programs and was bred with dogs belonging to other society members that displayed desirable traits and with dogs from Thuringia, Franconia and Wurttemberg.
The first championships awarded German Shepherd Dogs was in 1913. In 1913 the German Shepherd Dog Club of America was formed by Benjamin Throop and Anne Tracy, with 26 charter members. The German Shepherd Dog Club of America's first specialty show was at Greenwich, Connecticut in 1915. It is an outline of breed history from a North American perspective. The German Shepherd Dog is respected and admired throughout the world for its versatility, intelligence, and loyalty. It has existed as a recognized breed for a relatively brief period of time compared to other dog breeds.
Alsatian (ProperNoun). The language or dialect of Alsace. alsatian (Noun). English name for a breed of dog called German shepherd until the first World War, changed at that time due to anti-German sentiment. Still commonly used in Britain
The German Shepherd Dog, also known as the Alsatian in Great Britain and parts of Europe, is among the top 10 most popular dog breeds in the U.S., and probably one of the world's most recognized breeds. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed, dating back to 1899, and he owes his existence to one man: Captain Max von Stephanitz, a career captain in the German cavalry with a goal of creating a German breed that would be unmatched as a herding dog.
The German Shepherd Dog, also known as an Alsatian, is a breed of medium-sized dog that originated in Germany. The breed is also called “Deutscher Schaeferhund” schäferhund In, german which “Means German shepherd”, hound and is how it got its common. name The breed is also called “Deutscher Schaeferhund” schäferhund In, german which “Means German shepherd”, hound and is how it got its common. Name german shepherds were bred from other shepherding breeds late in the 19th. Century they are true working, dogs bred not for show but to do-sheep herding tasks for. humans