American cheese—the kind you get in the individual plastic wrappers—is processed cheese or “cheese food,” meaning it’s not actually real cheese. The next time you’re at the grocery store, take a look at the packed singles and notice how many don’t actually have “cheese” in their name.
I love Gruyere, Brie and all of those fancy cheeses just as much as the next person, but there will always be a special little place in my taste buds for American cheese. As most kids do around these parts, I grew up on grilled cheese sandwiches that were made with smooth, creamy, and super-melty
Though “American cheese” describes that familiar sandwich staple, it does not encompass everything that truly is “American” and “cheese.” When it comes to cheeses made here in the U.S.A., there’s more than what comes in blocks and singles. American Cheeses for Your Consideration.
But if American cheese isn’t cheese… then what is it? Processed cheese product or “cheese food” is made from cheese as well as unfermented dairy products, emulsifiers (stabilizers – usually sodium phosphate, tartrate or citrate), salt, food coloring and whey (milk plasma).
Processed American cheese is sold in three varieties – individually wrapped cheese slices, small pre-sliced blocks and large blocks. Before cheese slices were invented, block American cheese was the only one available and hence is also considered classic or traditional. American cheese.
In simple terms, cheese is a concentrated form of milk. It's made by treating the milk so that it coagulates into curd (a thick, custard-like solid) and, at the same time, releases a thin, watery liquid called whey.. The curd is then prepared and ripened, becoming the basis for the cheese.
American cheese is processed cheese made from a blend of milk, milk fats and solids, with other fats and whey protein concentrates. At first it was made from a mixture of cheeses, more often than not Colby and Cheddar.
Pasteurized process cheese is real cheese. It's a good example of cheese made from cheese. For the most part, it consists of a blend of natural cheeses that have been treated with heat to stabilize their development and produce a uniform flavor and texture.
Sometimes, instead of the word cheese, it is called as American slices or American singles. Under the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, American cheese is a type of pasteurised processed cheese.