Top. 0 In my Nursing Terminology class, I have the option to take a pass/fail or an actual letter grade. I'm not able to really find any documentation saying why one would be better than the other, aside from personal preference. Jan 12, '08 by MB37. Getting a letter grade will help if you get an A, and hurt (unless your GPA is less than 3.0) if you get a B. Pass/Fail will not hurt your GPA unless you fail, but it won't help it either. Several of our courses, including all of our clinicals, are pass/fail (actually satisfactory/unsatisfactory)
The pass/fail grading system is an alternative to a letter grading system in higher education courses. Students who receive a C or higher grade typically will pass the course under this system, while those who receive a D or F will fail. Sometimes only an F means failure. The pass/fail system arguably puts less pressure on students and allows them to relax and study without obsessing about achieving a high letter grade. This also permits students to become more exploratory in the courses they choose to take.
personally, i prefer the pass/fail system. that is the way sci-arc use to be, but recently adopted a grade scale that is essentially the same as letter grades. the reason is that students needed to compete outside of the school, for example, for graduate school admission or for scholarships, many of which request a gpa. Many students actually see grades as motivators. If they get a poor grade, they will actually work harder to make sure they never get that grade again. Similarly, grades are a great indicator when a students' work is improving that would not be present in a
A pass / fail grading scale has its pros and cons as well as the standard grading scale. The main purpose for offering the pass / fail grading scale for students rather than the standard letter grade is just an easier... battle between standard grading scales and pass / fail scales due to its major differences. A... 
There was also more competition in letter graded courses than there was in pass/fail courses.2 The respondents indicated that students were less embarrassed to ask questions in a pass/fail classroom.2 This seems like a very important learning tool that was somewhat inhibited under a letter grade system. In another study, the authors examined the student’s perspective on the two grading systems and the affect they have on student motivation.2 A questionnaire was given to law students whose curriculum changed from pass-fail to a letter grade system.
A group of 25 third-year students, or one-fifth of the class, had recently petitioned to switch from a traditional letter-grade system to one that was pass/fail at their school, and the medical student government organized a townhall meeting for students to discuss the matter. A pass/fail grade indicates simply that a student has achieved an expected level of competence, information that is critically important if medical education is to fulfill its obligation to the public. The ideal grading system would also encourage the development of desirable professional behaviors.
Overview. A pass/fail grading system is one in which the student receives either a passing grade or a failing grade rather than a more accurate ranking of success. Any student that does work above a failing level--defined by either the school or the instructor--will pass the class. Less Stress. Students in a traditional grading system often feel stress to do exceptionally well on tests, papers and other assignments. When they receive only a pass or fail grade, they do not have to worry about a grade point average, which causes less perceived stress, according to a study by the Mayo Clinic.
The current grading system of my university allows graduate students to either receive a letter grade (A through F) or receive a Pass/Fail grade (where A-C is Pass) in any course offered. Each student must indicate his/her grading preference for each course within the first 2 weeks of the term. 