The MCH blood test is done as a component of a blood test called a Complete Blood Count (CBC), which evaluates the composition of the blood, checking hematocrit, white blood cells (WBC) and platelets as well as hemoglobin and red blood cells (RBC). It is usually ordered to get an overview of general health. What Low MCH Test Results Can Indicate. MCH levels below 26 pg are considered abnormally low. Common causes of Low MCH results include blood loss, iron deficiency and microcytic anemia, which is a condition in which red blood cells are abnormally small, carrying less hemoglobin.
A red blood cell count is a blood test that your doctor uses to find out how many red blood cells (RBCs) you have in your blood. It is also called an erythrocyte count. The test is important because RBCs contain hemoglobin, which carries oxygen to your body’s tissues. 
Red blood cells (RBCs) typically make up roughly 37% to 49% of the volume of blood. Since a hematocrit is often performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC) , results from other components, such as RBC count, hemoglobin, reticulocyte count, and/or red blood cell indices, are taken into consideration. Age, sex, and race are other factors to be considered. A hematocrit may be used to: 1  Identify and evaluate the severity of anemia (low RBCs, low hemoglobin, low hematocrit) or polycythemia (high RBCs, high hemoglobin, high hematocrit). 2  Monitor the response to treatment of anemia or polycythemia and other disorders that affect RBC production or lifespan.
The threshold for a high red blood cell count is somewhat different from one medical practice to another. A high red blood cell count is generally defined as more than 5.72 million red blood cells per microliter (mcL) of blood for men and 5.03 million per mcL for women. In children, the threshold for high red blood cell count varies with age and sex. 1  Causes. A high red blood cell count indicates there are too many red blood cells circulating in your bloodstream. Red blood cells (RBCs), also called erythrocytes, are produced in your bone marrow and transport oxygen from your lungs to tissues throughout your body
Since an RBC count is performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC) , results from other components are taken into consideration. A rise or drop in the RBC count must be interpreted in conjunction with other parameters, such as hemoglobin, hematocrit, reticulocyte count, and/or red blood cell indices. While an RBC count can be used to detect a problem with red blood cell production and/or lifespan, it cannot determine the underlying cause. In addition to the full CBC, some other tests may be performed at the same time or as follow up to help establish a diagnosis. Examples include: 1  Blood smear
A red blood cell (RBC) count is used to determine if a person has normal RBC level present in the body. This test is used to determine if the person has high or low red blood cell count. 
The Test. A red blood cell (RBC) count is typically ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) and may be used as part of a health checkup to screen for a variety of conditions. While an RBC count can be used to detect a problem with red blood cell production and/or lifespan, it cannot determine the underlying cause. In addition to the full CBC, some other tests may be performed at the same time or as follow up to help establish a diagnosis. Examples include: 1  Blood smear
1 The value is given as a percentage of red blood cells in a volume of blood. 2  For example, a hematocrit of 38 means that 38% of the blood's volume is made of red blood cells. 3  Hematocrit and hemoglobin values are the two major tests that show if anemia or polycythemia is present. 4  Hemoglobin (Hgb). A CBC test usually includes: 1  White blood cell (WBC, leukocyte) count. 2  White blood cells protect the body against infection. 3  If an infection develops, white blood cells attack and destroy the bacteria, virus, or other organism causing it. 4  White blood cells are bigger than red blood cells but fewer in number.