succinct adjective. › said in a ​clear and ​short way; ​expressing what ​needs to be said without ​unnecessary words: Keep ​your ​letter succinct and to the ​point. succinctly adverb uk us /-li/ › I ​thought she ​expressed her ​feelings most succinctly at the ​meeting. adverb uk us /-li/. succinctness noun [U] uk us /-nəs/. As part of our occasional series on idioms used in or in relation to business, we look today at the important area of making projects happen – getting projects started, making progress with those projects and, as sometimes happens, failing to make progress.
(Especially of something written or spoken) briefly and clearly expressed: use short, succinct sentences. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Further, the dietetic text provided the model for the early written recipes, typically succinct and summary. 1 It presents the theory of dimension for separable metric spaces with what seems to be an impossible mixture of depth, clarity, precision, succinctness, and comprehensiveness.
succinct. adjective brief, to the point, concise, compact, summary, condensed, terse, laconic, pithy, gnomic, compendious, in a few well-chosen words Make sure your work is accurate, succinct and to the point. suc·cinct. adj. suc·cinct·er, suc·cinct·est. 1. Characterized by clear, precise expression in few words; concise and terse: a succinct reply; a succinct style. 2.
1. succinct-briefly giving the gist of something; a short and compendious book; a compact style is brief and pithy; succinct comparisons; a summary formulation of a wide-ranging subject. suc·cinct. adj. suc·cinct·er, suc·cinct·est. 1. Characterized by clear, precise expression in few words; concise and terse: a succinct reply; a succinct style. 2.
The word Mamihlapinatapai (sometimes spelled mamihlapinatapei) is derived from the Yaghan language of Tierra del Fuego, listed in The Guinness Book of World Records as the most succinct word, and is considered (for example by Austrian playwright Clemens Berger) one of the hardest words to translate. 
1 2009. 2  As Esther Benbassa recounts in her dry but impressively succinct and informative history, they arrived in the Roman province of Gaul in the first centuries of the common era, and soon found themselves trod underfoot by the ascendant Christian church. — 3 David A. Bell, New Republic, 28 Feb. 2000. 1 —Zachary Karabell, Newsweek, 9 Mar. 2  2009. 3
Middle English, from Latin succinctus having one's clothes gathered up by a belt, tightly wrapped, concise, from sub- + cinctus, past participle of cingere to gird — more at cincture. First Known Use: 15th century. concise, terse, succinct, laconic, summary, pithy, compendious mean very brief in statement or expression. 1 —Zachary Karabell, Newsweek, 9 Mar. 2  2009. 3  As Esther Benbassa recounts in her dry but impressively succinct and informative history, they arrived in the Roman province of Gaul in the first centuries of the common era, and soon found themselves trod underfoot by the ascendant Christian church.
succinct adjective. › (of writing or ​speech) ​clear and ​short; ​expressing what ​needs to be said without ​unnecessary words: Keep ​your ​letter succinct and to the ​point. (Definition of succinct from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). As part of our occasional series on idioms used in or in relation to business, we look today at the important area of making projects happen – getting projects started, making progress with those projects and, as sometimes happens, failing to make progress.
1 He gave a succinct overview of the expansion project. 2  succinct. 3  Other experts are in the business of selling their research. 4  Alan Greenspan made his reputation and career as a partner of Townsend-Greenspan, whose clients were a who's who of old Wall Street. 1 —Zachary Karabell, Newsweek, 9 Mar. 2  2009. 3  As Esther Benbassa recounts in her dry but impressively succinct and informative history, they arrived in the Roman province of Gaul in the first centuries of the common era, and soon found themselves trod underfoot by the ascendant Christian church.
1 Further, the dietetic text provided the model for the early written recipes, typically succinct and summary. 2  The text fields are clearly separated and succinct, and keep the reader interested. 3  There aren't many movie directors prepared to offer succinct class-war summaries in an interview. 1 It presents the theory of dimension for separable metric spaces with what seems to be an impossible mixture of depth, clarity, precision, succinctness, and comprehensiveness.