The total cost of manufacturing a product, including the direct labor costs, direct material costs, overhead costs, and any other expenses associated with production. Manufacturing costs are generally separated from other expenses in order to gauge the efficiency and productivity of the company. 
Definition: Manufacturing costs are the costs incurred during the production of a product. These costs include the costs of direct material, direct labor, and manufacturing overhead. The costs are typically presented in the income statement as separate line items. An entity incurs these costs during the production process. Direct material is the materials used in the constr
DEFINITION of 'Production Cost'. A cost incurred by a business when manufacturing a good or producing a service. Production costs combine raw material and labor. To figure out the cost of production per unit, the cost of production is divided by the number of units produced. In production, there are direct costs and indirect costs. For example, direct costs for manufacturing an automobile are materials such as the plastic, metal or labor incurred to produce such an item.
Factory overhead as a type of manufacturing costs. Factory overhead is any manufacturing cost that is not direct materials or direct labor. Factory overhead can have variable or fixed nature, depending on whether overhead changes in direct proportion with production volumes. 
Manufacturing and Nonmanufacturing Costs. Manufacturing (direct materials, direct labor, factory overhead) and non-manufacturing costs; product and period costs; raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods; cost of goods manufactured and cost of goods sold; cost accounting cycle. Direct materials as a type of manufacturing costs. Direct materials are raw materials that become an integral part of the finished goods. Direct materials should be distinguished from indirect materials (part of overhead costs), about which we will talk later.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Manufacturing cost is the cumulative total of resources that are directly used in the process of making various goods and products. In some formulas, the cost of manufacturing includes the expenses associated with the purchase of raw materials. At other times, the cost for raw materials is excluded. 
A: Production costs include any expenses associated with business activity for an organization. Manufacturing costs only include the expenses of actually producing the product. These two figures provide different means of understanding the total expense of operating a manufacturing company. 
Direct labor is also called touch labor cost. Manufacturing Overhead: All costs of manufacturing a product other than direct materials and direct labor, such as indirect materials, indirect labor, factory utilities, and depreciation of factory equipment.
Manufacturing cost is the sum of costs of all resources consumed in the process of making a product. The manufacturing cost is classified into three categories: direct materials cost, direct labor cost and manufacturing overhead. Manufacturing overhead is any manufacturing cost that is neither direct materials cost or direct labor cost. Manufacturing overhead includes all charges that provide support to manufacturing.