Diet soda is a better choice than regular soda because regular soda has empty calories that offer no nutritional benefit. It would be a better choice to choose a beverage with nutritional benefits, such as a glass of low-fat milk or 100 percent fruit juice, if we're talking about calories. It's probably not good for you, and there's a lot of studies that point in that direction, though there isn't anything definitive to say yes or no. There are three subsets of issues with drinking diet soda. The first is that our hunger and eating pathways were developed to associate sweetness with calories.
You may unsubscribe at any time. Your Privacy Rights | About Us. High rates of soda consumption have been linked with numerous health problems, including weight gain, poor dental health, diabetes and cardiovascular disease—which can ultimately lead to heart attacks, stroke and premature death. The unanimous answer from experts: “Very.” And regular soda isn’t the only culprit. Even diet drinks, which utilize artificial sweeteners in place of sugar, could still negatively impact an individual’s health.
Also, it has acid in it (citric acid I think) which is not bad in itself, but if it is consumed too much, it can cause damage to teeth. Soda is not too bad if its consumed in small enough quantities, and not too often; but dont make it a regular part of your diet. φοίνικας · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. Soda contains high levels of sugar in the forms of High Fructose Syrup and Sucrose Syrup. The average can - 12oz-is 66% sugar. So the answer is yes, its' bad for you. Even diet sodas can trigger a response to the sweetness making you carve carbs. Check out the Atkins Diet for more details on how soda can throw off a diet
Follow us on Pinterest. There are few foods on the planet that offer absolutely zero nutritional value, and soda falls into this category. I'm always surprised at how many people ask me if diet soda is really that bad for you. If you're not convinced, it's time to get the facts and understand the real risks that come along with this unhealthy habit. It messes with your skin: Studies have shown that a regular soda habit has been linked to accelerated aging. If the long-term effects aren't enough to scare you, diet soda lowers your pH levels, which can cause acne and leave your skin looking dull and tired. 
Right now, you've seen dietary guidelines that the No. 1 source of added sugars in the diet is sugar-containing soda, soft drinks, fruit drinks and energy drinks. We're getting too many calories from added sugars, so we need to look at reducing the amount we're taking in. It's probably not good for you, and there's a lot of studies that point in that direction, though there isn't anything definitive to say yes or no. There are three subsets of issues with drinking diet soda. The first is that our hunger and eating pathways were developed to associate sweetness with calories.
Bubble trouble. by Mary Squillace. When taken at face value, diet soda seems like a health-conscious choice. It saves you the 140-plus calories you'd find in a sugary soft drink while still satisfying your urge for something sweet with artificial sweeteners like aspartame, saccharin, and sucralose.
Best Answer: Soda water is free of any kilojoules and therefore more suitable than alcohol or juices or mixers, if you are trying to lose weight. Soda water does contain sodium (ie. salt as bicarbonate) but the amount is not as great as in some mineral waters. Sometimes people need to restrict soda water if their organs are accumulating too much fluid as in the case of cardiomyopathy or renal kidney failure or hypertension. Soda water is just ordinary water with Carbon Dioxide dissolved in it. This makes it very dilute Carbonic Acid which is what gives it that nice sharp taste. It has no fat or calories and is harmless. Jules.
Pass it on: Diet soda has fewer calories and sugar than regular soda, and some experts say its fine in moderation. Others point out that diet soda can increase the risk of stroke and metabolic syndrome, and its long-term effects are unclear. 1  10 New Ways to Eat Well. 2  7 Foods You Can Overdose On. It's probably not good for you, and there's a lot of studies that point in that direction, though there isn't anything definitive to say yes or no. There are three subsets of issues with drinking diet soda. The first is that our hunger and eating pathways were developed to associate sweetness with calories.
Soda doesn't just rot your teeth. Either sugar-free or sweetened soft drinks have at one point been linked to obesity, depression, and diabetes. We've gathered the scariest findings from recent soda studies: 1  Soda increases your risk of heart attack. 