A new influenza vaccine is available each year. You should get the vaccine as soon as it is available in your area. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that infants over the age of 6 months and all children and adults get flu shots every year.
The nasal-spray vaccine contains live but weakened viruses. You cannot get the flu from the flu shot or the nasal-spray vaccine. The flu vaccine is given at the beginning of the flu season, usually in October or November. The flu shot is safe for children 6 months of age and older. The nasal spray vaccine is safe for children 2 years of age and older. Because flu viruses change from year to year, it is very important for your child to get the vaccine each year so that he or she will be protected.
Everyone 6 months of age and older should get a flu vaccine every season. This recommendation has been in place since February 24, 2010 when CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) voted for “universal” flu vaccination in the United States to expand protection against the flu to more people.
An annual seasonal flu vaccine (either the flu shot or the nasal spray flu vaccine) is the best way to reduce the chances that you will get seasonal flu and spread it to others. When more people get vaccinated against the flu, less flu can spread through that community.
Everyone 6 months of age and older are recommended to get the flu vaccine, including even the healthiest adults. Vaccination is especially important for people at higher risk of serious influenza complications or people who live with or care for people at higher risk for serious complications.
However, there are several injectable influenza vaccines that can be given to children age 3 years or older. The nasal spray live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV, FluMist, AstraZeneca) is approved for healthy children age 2 years and older.
1 Some are approved for use in people as young as 6 months of age. 2  Most flu shots are given with a needle. 3  One standard dose trivalent shot also can be given with a jet injector, for persons aged 18 through 64 years. 4  A high-dose trivalent shot, approved for people 65 and older.
People who have had a severe reaction to an influenza vaccination, and children younger than 6 months of age should not be vaccinated. People who are moderately or severely ill with or without fever should usually wait until they recover before getting flu vaccine.