Adipose tissue is a form of loose connective tissue that stores fat. Adipose lines organs and body cavities to protect organs and insulate the body against heat loss. Even though it has a different function in comparison to other connective tissues it does have an extracellular matrix. The matrix consists of the plasma, while red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended in the plasma. Lymph. Lymph is another type of fluid connective tissue.
Connective tissue is one of the four traditionally classified types of biological tissue. There are many different kinds, and they mainly serve as structure and support, often connecting two other types of tissue to each other. Loose connective tissue includes areolar, adipose, and reticular tissue. Areolar tissue is a mesh-like tissue with a fluid matrix that supports the epithelium, tissue that makes up the skin and other membranes.
connective tissue. a fibrous type of body tissue with varied functions. The connective tissue system supports and connects internal organs, forms bones and the walls of blood vessels, attaches muscles to bones, and replaces tissues of other types following injury. Connective tissue consists mainly of long fibers embedded in noncellular matter, the ground substance.
In patients with connective tissue diseases, it is common for collagen and elastin to become injured by inflammation. Many connective tissue diseases feature abnormal immune system activity with inflammation in tissues as a result of an immune system that is directed against one's own body tissues (autoimmunity). Diseases in which inflammation or weakness of collagen tends to occur are also referred to as collagen diseases. A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a primary target of pathology. The connective tissues are the structural portions of our body that essentially hold the cells of the body together.
Blood is considered a connective tissue for two basic reasons: (1) embryologically, it has the same origin (mesodermal) as do the other connective tissue types and (2) blood connects the body systems together bringing the needed oxygen, nutrients, hormones and other signaling molecules, and removing the wastes. 
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water
A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed. The proteins and the body parts they connect are harmed. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) — Rheumatoid arthritis is one of the most common connective tissue diseases and can be inherited. RA is an autoimmune disease, meaning the immune system attacks its own body.
As a result of this basic topology, other tissues are either supported upon connective tissue (epithelial surfaces), invaginated into connective tissue (glandular epithelium), or embedded within the connective tissue (blood vessels, muscles, and nerves). Ordinary connective tissue, or connective tissue proper , is a generalized form of connective tissue which contains all of the basic components of connective tissue in reasonable proportion, including cells (of several types), extracellular fibers, and extracellular ground substance.
In vertebrates, the most common type of connective tissue is loose connective tissue. It holds organs in place and attaches epithelial tissue to other underlying tissues. Even though it has a different function in comparison to other connective tissues it does have an extracellular matrix. The matrix consists of the plasma, while red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended in the plasma. Lymph. Lymph is another type of fluid