The sugar-phosphate backbone forms the structural framework of nucleic acids, including DNA and RNA. This backbone is composed of alternating sugar and phosphate groups, and defines directionality of the molecule. In double-stranded DNA, the molecular double-helix shape is formed by two linear sugar-phosphate backbones that run opposite each other and twist together in a helical shape. The sugar-phosphate backbone is negatively charged and hydrophilic, which allows the DNA backbone to form bonds with water.
Best Answer: A phosphodiester bond is a group of strong covalent bonds between a phosphate group and two 5-carbon ring carbohydrates (pentoses) over two ester bonds. In DNA and RNA, the phosphodiester bond is the linkage between the 3' carbon atom of one sugar molecule and the 5' carbon of another, deoxyribose in DNA and ribose in RNA. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phosphodies...
Image courtesy of the National Human Genome Research Institution. The sugar and phosphate group make up the backbone of the DNA double helix, while the bases are located in the middle. A chemical bond between the phosphate group of one nucleotide and the sugar of a neighboring nucleotide holds the backbone together. Chemical bonds (hydrogen bonds) between the bases that are across from one another hold the two strands of the double helix together. Bases. 
Phosphodiester bonds are central to all life on Earth, as they make up the backbone of the strands of nucleic acid. In DNA and RNA, the phosphodiester bond is the linkage between the 3' carbon atom of one sugar molecule and the 5' carbon atom of another, deoxyribose in DNA and ribose in RNA. Strong covalent bonds form between the phosphate group and two 5-carbon ring carbohydrates (pentoses) over two ester bonds.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A phosphodiester bond is a group of strong covalent bonds between a phosphate group and two 5-carbon ring carbohydrates (pentoses) over two ester bonds. Phosphodiester bonds are central to all life on Earth, as they make up the backbone of the strands of DNA. In DNA and RNA, the phosphodiester bond is the linkage between the 3' carbon atom of one sugar molecule and the 5' carbon of another, deoxyribose in DNA and ribose in RNA. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phosphodies...
What bond hold the backbone of DNA together (sugar-phosphate)? Hydrogen bonds hold the base pairs, but I don&#39;t know the outside of the double helix. 
Structure of DNA and chemical bond connects the neucleotides of each strands and what type of bond holds the strands together. DNA is made up of a sugar phosphate backbone and rungs are made up of nitrogen bases and the two strands of DNA are anti parallel. Hydrogen bond holds the two strands together and an phosphodiester bond holds nucleotides together. 
1 The connection that forms between nucleotides is between the sugar of the first nucleotide and the phosphate group of the second. 2  Each connection between nucleotides is a covalent bond, so the nucleic acids have a covalently attached sugar-phosphate backbone. 1 In RNA, Adenine binds to Uracil. 2  These hydrogen-bond interactions between nucleotides C-G and A-T or A-U are referred to as base-pairing or complementary base-pairing. 3  Base-pairing holds the double-stranded DNA molecule together. 4  Base-pairing is necessary for DNA synthesis, RNA synthesis, and Protein synthesis to occur.
DNA and RNA are composed of nucleotides that are linked to one another in a chain by chemical bonds, called ester bonds, between the sugar base of one nucleotide and the phosphate group of the adjacent nucleotide. The sugar is the 3' end, and the phosphate is the 5' end of each nucleiotide. The phosphate group attached to the 5' carbon of the sugar on one nucleotide forms an ester bond with the free hydroxyl on the 3' carbon of the next nucleotide. In double-stranded DNA, the molecular double-helix shape is formed by two linear sugar-phosphate backbones that run opposite each other and twist together in a helical shape. The sugar-phosphate backbone is negatively charged and hydrophilic, which allows the DNA backbone to form bonds with water.
See Fig. 1. The nucleotides within each strand are held together by the phosphodiester bonds between the 5' carbon of one nucleotide and the 3 ' carbon of the adjacent nucleotdie. These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific.