For this reason, when you ask “How long does marijuana stay in your system?” you have to realize that it’s very unlikely that you’ll be able to get a usable answer. The most common period of time is anywhere from 3-30 days, depending on your metabolism and the amount of marijuana that you’ve smoked. When you ask the question “How long does marijuana stay in your system?” you need to take into account the fact that there is no simple answer to this question. THC (Tetrahydrocannabinol) can stay in a person's body for as long as 3 to 90 days after smoking or being ingested orally.
Best Answer: The active ingredient in marijuana -- Tetrahydrocannabinol or delta-9-THC or simply THC -- enters the body's bloodstream rapidly after smoking marijuana. If marijuana is ingested, rather than smoked, it takes longer to be absorbed into the blood, usually from 20 minutes to an hour and a half. Of course, you are interesting in a question “How long does marijuana stay in your system?” But you need to keep in mind the fact there is no simple answer to this question. THC can stay in a person's body for as long as 3 to 90 days after smoking or being ingested orally.
On a Urine Drug Test, THC will appear as a positive within 2-5 hours of use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days. 2  Moderate User may show positive for 7-13 days
The shelf life for marijuana in the system after one time use is around 12 days. If you're really that worried, drink lots of water and work up a sweat at least once a day until the test. The average pot smoker can clean their system out in six weeks if done properly. When you ask the question “How long does marijuana stay in your system?” you need to take into account the fact that there is no simple answer to this question. THC (Tetrahydrocannabinol) can stay in a person's body for as long as 3 to 90 days after smoking or being ingested orally.
A person who has never smoked weed before would take just 3-5 days to clean up. A person who smokes one a week would have up to 10 days and so on. So the more often you smoke weed, the more time you will take for the THC to become undetectable in your drug test. Oh, by the way, marijuana is also known as weed, herb grass, and even pot! No matter what you call it, or how much you enjoy getting high using the 'gift of God', the fact is that it remains in your system for a very very long time, and you can easily get caught in a
If you smoke it occasionally it will remain in your system for up to 10 days. If you smoke marijuana on a regular basis it will stay in your system for as long as 45 days, and if you smoke marijuana at a constant pace, it can stay in the body for 90 days, Marijuana is fat soluble. It stores in the fat cells of the body, the brain, the liver, the kidneys, in other words the major organs. When you ask the question “How long does marijuana stay in your system?” you need to take into account the fact that there is no simple answer to this question. THC (Tetrahydrocannabinol) can stay in a person's body for as long as 3 to 90 days after smoking or being ingested orally.
If you smoke marijuana on a regular basis it will stay in your system for as long as 45 days, and if you smoke marijuana at a constant pace, it can stay in the body for 90 days, Marijuana is fat soluble. It stores in the fat cells of the body, the brain, the liver, the kidneys, in other words the major organs. 
On a Saliva Drug Test, THC will test positive within one hour of use, but may only show positive for about 12 hours after last use. On a Hair Drug Test, THC will show up about 7 days after use and most hair drug tests will test for a 90 day period. However, THC does not always bind to the hair follicle which makes it not always considered an accurate testing method for marijuana use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days.
The amount of time marijuana can be detected in urine depends on the amount and frequency of its consumption. Marijuana can stay in the urine for up to two months in cases of very frequent, prolonged use. Basically, the more you use marijuana, the longer it will remain in your urine. If you have just tried marijuana, for example, and that was your only use, it will probably be out of your urine within a week. - The time that marijuana stays in the system depends on the amount of marijuana intake and the frequency at which it is consumed. - When you smoke marijuana, your body breaks it down like it would anything else. The products of this breakdown are known as metabolites. The main metabolite of marijuana is THC-COOH.
Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. Occasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months. 