The requirements to be eligible for a marriage differ in each country, and you are bound for those of your own country. Japanese citizens can get married at 16 years old for female and 18 years old for male, but need parents agreement if you are under 20 years old. If you get divorced from your Japanese spouse, it is required to report the divorce to the Immigration office under the new law from July 9, 2012. The Immigration may revoke your spouse visa after 6 months from the divorce. It is eventually possible to change your spouse visa to a Long Term Resident visa if you have lived long enough in Japan (approximately 5 years) or if you have a child of Japanese nationality to raise in Japan
1 It is important to note that if your fianc (e) is given the visa, you must get married within 90 of his or her arrival in the US, or your fianc (e) will have to leave. 2  Your fianc (e) may not be given another US visa if this happens. 3  The visa cannot be extended beyond 90 days. 
If the marriage will not take place within 90 days of the fiance(fiancé) e visa'applicant s arrival in The. U., s it will not be possible to process an application for a(fiance) fiancé. E visa visa free travel Under The Visa waiver program or a nonimmigrant visitor or work visa is. not appropriate My fiance(fiancé) e And i will not marry within 90 days of our. Arrival can/he she still apply for a(fiance) fiancé? E visa if the marriage will not take place within 90 days of(the) fiance fiancé'e visa applicant s Arrival. In., the u s it will not be possible to process an application(for) a. fiance fiancé e visa
Unmarried Partner. You may apply for this visa if you are in a long-term relationship with a British citizen or a person who has settlement status in the UK. You and your partner must be able to provide evidence that you have been living together in a relationship akin to a marriage for 2 years or more. After being on the spousal visa for a total of 5 years you must submit evidence to the Home Office that you have been living together for that time, after which you may be eligible to apply for ILR yourself. In order to apply for this visa you and your spouse must: 1  Have met.
If your fiance(fiancé) e has a green, card/he she IS not a citizen but a permanent. Resident/he she can petition for you to become a permanent, resident but because of the quota there is a long wait before you can even apply for the green. Card the waiting period is currently 5. years If you marry a permanent resident and are not able to file for green card yet, you can only work if you have a valid non-immigrant visa which allows you to work. Once I've filed the application with USCIS how long does it take? It varies at different USCIS offices and can take up to 12 - 18 months to process.
The best time to apply for a Chinese VISA is between two months and fifteen days before your departure. You can’t apply for your VISA too early because if you don’t use it, the VISA will expire after 90 days (or 180 days, in some cases), starting from the day you obtained it. 
A fiance fiancé visa will get you into The United states to get. Married to be eligible for a fiance, fiancé visa you do not have to intend to live permanently In The united states after. Your marriage whether you decide to stay In The united states and apply for a green card is up. to you A fiance fiancé visa is not available to you at this. Time a fiance fiancé visa will get you Into The united states to. Get married to be eligible for a, fiance fiancé visa you do not have to intend to live Permanently In the united states. after your marriage
You may intend to go some later date too. But if you are given 6 months visa, you have to go to U.S. within next 6 months, else it will expire and you will have to apply for new visa. If you get 10 years visa, it is not mandatory to go to U.S. within a specified time period. You can go to the U.S. anytime within next 10 years. 