Any bacteria that is not assigned to the species level but can be assigned to the Enterobacter genus level. Definition (NCI). A genus of Gram-negative, motile, facultative anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria with peritrichous flagella in the phylum Proteobacteria. Definition (NCI). A genus of facultatively anaerobic, Gram negative, rod shaped bacterium in the phylum Proteobacteria and the family Enterobacteriaceae. Definition (MSH). A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, straight rods which are motile by peritrichous flagella.
The Enterobacteriaceae family includes genera of Escherichia, Shilgella, Salmonella, Enterobacter, Klebsiella, Serratia, Proteus, amongst others. The gram-negative bacteria resides in soil, water, dairy products and inhabits a natural flora in the gastrointestinal tract of animals as well as humans. Different species of Enterobacter like E. cloacae are known to be found on a number of seeds and plants while E. sakazakii is commonly seen in infants who were given infant milk-based powder formulas (9).
Enterobacter. A genus of aerobic, facultatively anaerobic, non-spore-forming, motile bacteria (family Enterobacteriaceae) containing gram-negative rods. The cells are peritrichous, and some strains have encapsulated cells. Glucose is fermented with the production of acid and gas. The Voges-Proskauer test result is usually positive. a genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, motile, rod-shaped bacteria. Organisms are widely distributed in nature and occur in the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. They are frequently a cause of nosocomial infections.
Enterobacter is a genus of common Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae. The genus Enterobacter ferments lactose with gas production during a 48-hour incubation at 35-37 °C in the presence of bile salts and detergents. It is oxidase-negative, indole-negative, and urease-variable.
Cell Structure and Metabolism. Enterobacter bacteria are motile, rod-shaped cells, some of which are encapsulated. They also possess peritrichous flagella. As facultative anaerobes, some Enterobacter bacteria ferment both glucose and lactose as a carbon source. Gas is produced from the metabolic processes, but they do not produce hydrogen sulfide. However, some species of Enterobacter, such as Enterobacter sakazakii, are opportunistic human pathogens. Enterobacter cloacae A-11 and similar bacteria can be found on cucumber and radish seeds as well as peas, soybeans, sunflowers, and sweet corn seeds.
Enterobacter. a genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, motile, rod-shaped bacteria. Organisms are widely distributed in nature and occur in the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. They are frequently a cause of nosocomial infections.
A genus of small motile peritrichous bacteria in the Enterobacteriacaea family consisting of Gram-negative rods. Definition (NCI_CDISC). Any bacteria that is not assigned to the species level but can be assigned to the Serratia genus level. Definition (NCI). A genus of facultatively anaerobic, Gram negative, rod shaped bacterium in the phylum Proteobacteria and the family Enterobacteriaceae. Definition (MSH). A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, straight rods which are motile by peritrichous flagella.
Enterobacter. a genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, motile, rod-shaped bacteria. Organisms are widely distributed in nature and occur in the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. They are frequently a cause of nosocomial infections. A genus of aerobic, facultatively anaerobic, non-spore-forming, motile bacteria (family Enterobacteriaceae) containing gram-negative rods. The cells are peritrichous, and some strains have encapsulated cells. Glucose is fermented with the production of acid and gas. The Voges-Proskauer test result is usually positive.
Enterobacter. A genus of aerobic, facultatively anaerobic, non-spore-forming, motile bacteria (family Enterobacteriaceae) containing gram-negative rods. The cells are peritrichous, and some strains have encapsulated cells. Glucose is fermented with the production of acid and gas. The Voges-Proskauer test result is usually positive.