Michael Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana on August 19, 1958. Michael's father, Joe Jackson, worked as a crane operator at a steel mill. His mother, Katherine, took care of the family and sometimes took part time jobs. Both of Michael's parents loved music. 
Michael Jackson was important because of his AMAZING voice and INCRE … DIBLE dancing! But what made him even more important was the media, they put Michael down and therefore he did strange things.that was not his fault it was because he had no childhood what so ever... I say MICHAEL JACKSON ROCKS!!! HOPE THAT ANSWERS YOUR QUESTION... He was the first black artist to have a music video on MTV of which was Billie jean he was also one of the very famous black artists to win 8 grammies and 1 acadamy.
Why was Michael Joseph Jackson important to black history? Michael Joseph Jackson is important because HE, was the first African American to enter the MTV. and show them truly what is music. he is a pioneer and influence to many ar … tists you see out there. He was the first black artist to have a music video on MTV of which was Billie jean he was also one of the very famous black artists to win 8 grammies and 1 acadamy.
Best Answer: Because Michael was a proud black man.Not like many think.he did not want to be white.He was a black musical genius a superstar one of a kind there will never ever be another like him and the world knows that.He was also a proud black humanitarian who gave kindly to many charity's.God Bless him always. He was the first black artist to be played in heavy rotation on MTV he tartedthe trend for choreography in videos, he holds the record for donating the most money to charity, set the record for most grammys won in one night. · 6 years ago.
Michael Jackson was important to the world because people based their musical (Choreography, singing) careers on him. They loved his music so much, and they looked up at him … as they're god because he gave everything to help out others and people love him so much for it. He was the first black artist to have a music video on MTV of which was Billie jean he was also one of the very famous black artists to win 8 grammies and 1 acadamy.
Michael Joseph Jackson (August 29, 1958 – June 25, 2009) was an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, and actor. Called the King of Pop, his contributions to music and dance, along with his publicized personal life, made him a global figure in popular culture for over four decades. Aspects of Michael Jackson's personal life, including his changing appearance, personal relationships, and behavior, generated controversy. In the mid-1990s, he was accused of child sexual abuse, but the civil case was settled out of court for an undisclosed amount and no formal charges were brought.
Covach, professor of music and chair of the Department of Music at the University of Rochester and professor of music theory at the Eastman School of Music, reacted to Jackson's sudden death with this assessment: Michael Jackson is arguably the most important figure in 1980s popular music. Though he got his start as a child singing a series of hits in the 1970s with his brothers in the Jackson 5, Jackson's ascent to the status of The King of Pop occurred as a solo artist. Jackson's career touched on so many important aspects of pop-music history in the second half of the 20th century. Signed initially to Motown by Berry Gordy Jr., the Jackson 5 became a kind of bubblegum version of the Temptations, continuing the crossover tradition with catchy songs and choreographed dance steps.
Michael Jackson made more music history in 1982 with Quincy Jones for his “Thriller” album, which holds the record as the best-selling record of all time. He is the first artist to be inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of fame twice and the composite of his music sold over 750 million records worldwide. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Misfits998. Confidence votes 27. Michael Joseph Jackson is important because HE, was the first African American to enter the MTV. and show them truly what is music. he is a pioneer and influence to many artists you see out there. michaels the one who started new genre. 
Report Abuse. Michael Jackson was very important in black history, as well as entertainment history. He was the first African-American person to be featured on MTV, which is very important because MTV was considered an all white network, until Billie Jean came out. He was the first black artist to be played in heavy rotation on MTV he tartedthe trend for choreography in videos, he holds the record for donating the most money to charity, set the record for most grammys won in one night. · 6 years ago.