Answer: The word starfish refers to about 1,800 species of marine animals that are star-shaped. The common term starfish is confusing, though. Starfish aren't fish-finned, tailed animals with backbones-they are echinoderms, which are marine invertebrates. So scientists prefer to call these animals sea stars. Sea stars come in all sizes, shapes and colors.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Starfish belong to the phylum Echinodermata. Mollusks are a separate phylum of animals. Although both phyla are made up of invertebrates, differences in their anatomy are why starfish are classified as echinoderms and not mollusks. Echinoderms have spiny skin and many physical attributes that are unique in the animal kingdom
Starfish are echinoderms. This means they are in the Phylum Echinodermata, which contains starfish (sea stars), brittle stars, basket stars, sea urchins, sand dollars, sea lilies, feather stars and sea cucumbers. Overall, this phylum contains over 6,000 species. This profile of starfish includes information on what starfish look like, how they are classified, how they feed, reproduce and about their unique vascular system, all organized with easy-to-navigate section headings. More ». Sea star (starfish). Arrows point to red eye spots, located at the end of the arm
Sea stars, commonly called, starfish, are not fish. There are approximately 2,000 species of sea star, all of which live in marine waters. Sea stars live underwater, but that is where their resemblance to fish ends. They do not have gills, scales, or fins. Sea stars live only in saltwater.
1 There are over 2,000 species of starfish. 2  All echinoderms have five-point radial symmetry, which means that their body plan has five sections arranged around a central disk. 3  Starfish are found in the deep blue sea of the ocean and shallow water as well. 4  They are found in every ocean of the world. Remove these ads. 1 
Echinoderms are a totally unrelated to fish. They are a huge group. Their members include sea stars, sea cucumbers, brittlestars, sea urchins and crinoids. The group is actually a phylum of its own, on the same rank as chordata, which are basically vertebrates and a few other creatures. In other words, the echinoderm group is the same rank as the group containing all mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds, fish and many others. Echinoderms are the only group of animals which have radial symetry, in other words, more than a single symmetry.
Starfish are classified in the Class Asteroidea. All asteroids have several arms arranged around a central disk. Asteroidea are known as the true stars.. These animals are in a separate class from the brittle stars and basket stars, which have a more defined separation between their arms and their central disk. This profile of starfish includes information on what starfish look like, how they are classified, how they feed, reproduce and about their unique vascular system, all organized with easy-to-navigate section headings. More ». Sea star (starfish). Arrows point to red eye spots, located at the end of the arms
What kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, and species is a starfish classified in? Help, please. I can't seem to find all the answers; order, family, genus, and species, typically those. Within the order Valvatida there are many families, including the very cool family Ophidiasteridae (from the Greek work meaning of snakes). One of the most common species within this family is Nardoa novaecaledoniae, the Yellow Starfish.
Starfish are marine invertebrates. They typically have a central disc and five arms, though some species have a larger number of arms. The aboral or upper surface may be smooth, granular or spiny, and is covered with overlapping plates. Starfish have tube feet operated by a hydraulic system and a mouth at the centre of the oral or lower surface. They are opportunistic feeders and are mostly predators on benthic invertebrates. Several species have specialized feeding behaviours including eversion of their stomachs and suspension feeding.