Noun. 1. respiration-the metabolic processes whereby certain organisms obtain energy from organic molecules; processes that take place in the cells and tissues during which energy is released and carbon dioxide is produced and absorbed by the blood to be transported to the lungs. respiration. n. 1. (Biology) the process in living organisms of taking in oxygen from the surroundings and giving out carbon dioxide (external respiration).
Definition. Respiration is the metabolic process of most living things in which food molecules (glucose) are turned into usable energy for the cell (ATP). It is the anti-process to photosynthesis, in which plants use sunlight and carbon dioxide to build food molecules, releasing oxygen as a waste product. Aerobic respiration is the process most living things undergo to use food energy. Here we will investigate the definition, the steps of the process, what goes in and what comes out of the process, and the chemical formula.
Definition of RESPIRATION for Kids. 1. : the act or process of breathing: the inhaling of oxygen and the exhaling of carbon dioxide. 2. : the process by which cells use oxygen to break down sugar and obtain energy. Full Definition of RESPIRATION. 1. a: the placing of air or dissolved gases in intimate contact with the circulating medium of a multicellular organism (as by breathing) b: a single complete act of breathing. 2
Noun. 1. cellular respiration-the metabolic processes whereby certain organisms obtain energy from organic molecules; processes that take place in the cells and tissues during which energy is released and carbon dioxide is produced and absorbed by the blood to be transported to the lungs. internal respiration, respiration.
2. : the physical and chemical processes (as breathing and diffusion) by which an organism supplies its cells and tissues with the oxygen needed for metabolism and relieves them of the carbon dioxide formed in energy-producing reactions. 3. : cellular respiration. Full Definition of RESPIRATION. 1. a: the placing of air or dissolved gases in intimate contact with the circulating medium of a multicellular organism (as by breathing) b: a single complete act of breathing. 2
Respiration is the antithesis to the process of photosynthesis, in which carbon dioxide and water are taken in by autotrophs, along with sunlight, to make glucose and oxygen. Balance With Photosynthesis. Respiration is the antithesis to the process of photosynthesis, in which carbon dioxide and water are taken in by autotrophs, along with sunlight, to make glucose and oxygen. Autotrophs include any photosynthesizing organisms, such as plants and algae, all of whom also undergo respiration.
Respiration is the biochemical process in which the cells of an organism obtain energy by combining oxygen and glucose, resulting in the release of carbon dioxide, water, and ATP, the currency of energy in cells. Balance With Photosynthesis. Respiration is the antithesis to the process of photosynthesis, in which carbon dioxide and water are taken in by autotrophs, along with sunlight, to make glucose and oxygen. Autotrophs include any photosynthesizing organisms, such as plants and algae, all of whom also undergo respiration.
1 The process of inhaling and exhaling; breathing, breath. 2  An act of breathing; a breath. 3  Any similar process, in organisms that lack lungs, that exchanges gases with its environment. 4  The process by which cells obtain chemical energy by the consumption of oxygen and the release of carbon dioxide. 1 the processes by which a living organism or cell takes in oxygen from the air or water, distributes and utilizes it in oxidation, and gives off products of oxidation, esp. carbon dioxide. 2  an analogous process in anaerobic organisms involving some substance other than free oxygen.
respiration. 1  act or process of respiring; breathing; inhaling and exhaling air. 2  the processes by which a living organism or cell takes in oxygen from the air or water, distributes and utilizes it in oxidation, and gives off products of oxidation, esp. carbon dioxide. 1 the processes by which a living organism or cell takes in oxygen from the air or water, distributes and utilizes it in oxidation, and gives off products of oxidation, esp. carbon dioxide. 2  an analogous process in anaerobic organisms involving some substance other than free oxygen.