Of the metals, silver conducts electricity the best, although it is relatively expensive. Copper is very commonly used because it is the second most conductive metal. We know that Group 1 and Group 2 metals (the alkali and alkaline earth metals) from the periodic table are good conductors. Well, rubber can be made to conduct electricity-your car tyres have a lot of carbon in their construction (to improve their wear characteristics) and this will make the tyre … s conductive.
Once water contains these ions it will conduct electricity, such as from a lightening bolt or a wire from the wall socket, as the electricity from the source will seek out oppositely-charged ions in the water. Too bad if there is a human body in the way. 
Pure water does not conduct electricity very well. However, when certain substances are dissolved in water, the solution does conduct electricity. You can make a simple device that shows how well a solution conducts electricity. This device uses a flashlight bulb to indicate how well the solution conducts electricity. When a solution conducts electricity, the charge is carried by ions moving through the solution. Ions are atoms or small groups of atoms that have an electrical charge. Some ions have a negative charge and some have a positive charge. Pure water contains very few ions, so it
up vote 1 down vote. Gases do conduct electricity, as all materials do. However, they conduct electricity so poorly that we consider them insulators. Electricity requires the movement of electrons. In a gas, these electrons are too dispersed to provided any measurable current. The lightning example is slightly different. This refers to capacitative discharge. 
Some substances that are made of molecules form solutions that do conduct electricity. Ammonia is such a substance. When ammonia dissolves in water, it reacts with the water and forms a few ions. This is why laundry ammonia, which is a solution of ammonia in water, conducts electricity, but not very well. When a solution conducts electricity, the charge is carried by ions moving through the solution. Ions are atoms or small groups of atoms that have an electrical charge. Some ions have a negative charge and some have a positive charge. Pure water contains very few ions, so it does not conduct electricity
Water by itself when very pure, i.e. deionized water, can conduct electricity but is explained by dissolved impurities because no water can completely be free of impurities. So deionized water can conduct, from experiment, 5.5 × 10^-6 S·m^-1. Anything will conduct electricity if the potential difference is high enough. What does conduct electricity are SOLUTIONS, solutions which contain ions, which come from substances that dissolve in the water and dissociate into ions. So pure water. Not a good conductor
In physics and electrical engineering, a conductor is an object or type of material that allows the flow of electrical current in one or more directions. For people, a wire is an electrical conductor that can carry electricity along its length. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell. The ampacity of a conductor, that is, the amount of current it can carry, is related to its electrical resistance: a lower-resistance conductor can carry a larger value of current. The resistance, in turn, is determined by the material the conductor is made from (as described above) and the conductor's size.
Conduction Insulators, conductors, semiconductors, and superconductors Every material in the world can be defined in terms of how well it conducts electricity. Certain things, such as cold glass, never conduct electricity. They're known as insulators. Materials which do conduct electricity, like copper, are called conductors. In the middle are materials known as semiconductors, which don't conduct as well as conductors, but can carry current. Last, are materials called superconductors, which when brought down to very low temperatures turn into superhighways of current -- they conduct electricity without any resistance whatsoever
Aqueous solutions which conduct electricity (General). Remember firstly, that water is considered to be a non-conductor of electricity. It can allow some electricity through it if a high current is applied to it. This is due to the presence of a minute concentration of H + (aq) and OH - (aq) ions in the water. 