1 Compatible with Amazon Kindle Fire. 2  Includes black stand case features smooth synthetic leather and heavy-duty stitching, auto-securing magnetic flap for the best combination of security and ease of use, allows easy access to all buttons. 1 Includes black 2 A USB car charger, used to charge any device that relies on USB power with this USB car charger adapter, adapter plugs into your car's cigarette lighter jack to become a powered USB port.
Related: kindle fire charger kindle wall charger kindle paperwhite charger kindle fire wall charger kindle fire hd charger amazon kindle charger kindle powerfast. Follow kindle charger to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed.
If you didn’t lose or misplace your Kindle Charger, but want an extra for the car or office, trusted online retailer Amazon has one for less than $20.A â the small and portable (charger which is pictured) above is the WALL ac charger which works on both The kindle 2 And KINDLE. dx Help! I have lost the charger for my Kindle, but the photos I see on the internet don’t look like my instrument. My kindle is fairly old. The screen diameter measures 9 1/2 inches, and there’s a keyboard at the bottom.
Level 3 (780 points). I don't think it will work--my Kindle charger has a small (mini) connection which plugs into the reader and a regular USB at the other end. This regular USB fits into an optional electric plug. The iPad has a broad based connector which attaches to the device. The Apple power adapter has a USB plug on it. That's where I would plug it in. Level 7 (25,075 points). the iPad power block puts out 10W of power. Make sure the Kindle can handle that or that the power block can not over charge it.
1 Compatible with Amazon Kindle Fire HD 7-inch 2012 edition/Blackberry/LG/Motorola. 2  Includes hot-pink zebra stand leather case features smooth synthetic leather and heavy-duty stitching, auto-securing magnetic flap for the best combination of security and ease of use, allows easy access to all buttons. 1 Includes black 2 A USB car charger, used to charge any device that relies on USB power with this USB car charger adapter, adapter plugs into your car's cigarette lighter jack to become a powered USB port.
The Kindle comes with a USB cable. The Apple power adapter has a USB plug on it. That's where I would plug it in. Level 7 (25,075 points). the iPad power block puts out 10W of power. Make sure the Kindle can handle that or that the power block can not over charge it.
All the Mains Chargers, Cables and Portable Charging options below are compatible for use with all Kindle e-Reader and Tablet models-including Amazon Kindle, Kindle Touch, Kindle Paperwhite, Kindle Fire / HD / HDX. 
The cable part is a standard USB to microUSB. I saw some just yesterday in a CVS. I'm sure you could find those in Walmart, Target, Best Buy, Kmart, etc. Or you can get the real white cable at Amazon http://www.amazon.com/Replacement-Cable-... You can connect that to the USB port of a computer OR more people prefer a faster charger like http://www.amazon.com/CrazyOnDigital-Cha..
1 Compatible with Amazon Kindle Fire. 2  Includes black stand leather case features smooth synthetic leather and heavy-duty stitching to ensure the long-life of your Amazon KindleFire, auto-securing magnetic flap for the best combination of security and ease of use. 1 Includes black 2 A USB car charger, used to charge any device that relies on USB power with this USB car charger adapter, adapter plugs into your car's cigarette lighter jack to become a powered USB port.
Compatible with Kindle, Kindle Fire and Kindle Fire HD; micro USB connector; 2.4-amp output; 6' coiled cable. 4.6(105 Reviews). Check Shipping & Availability. $ 4.99. Clearance. Save $5 (Reg. 