Mineral spirits, called white spirit in UK, is a solvent that is used for thinning of paints and also as a cleaning agent. It is a petroleum distillate that is not only excellent degreaser, but also serves as a solvent in different kinds of products such as spray paints, wood preservatives, varnish, and aerosols. This is a solvent that is also used to clean brushes and other objects. There are many different types of solvents or chemicals available in the market that are used in the paint industry as paint thinners such as acetone, mineral spirits, turpentine, Naphtha, and so on.
The Klean Strip Green products are formulated for effective performance as well as having a reduced impact on the world in which we live. Klean-Strip 1 gal. Green Odorless Mineral Spirits is a unique, patent-pending formula that thins oil-based paint, stain and varnish. It will also clean brushes, paint splatters and equipment. The formula is milky-white formula but is safe for use in all colors of coatings. Rated 1.0 out of 5.0 by mikeorama Horrible product -- N OT MINERAL SPIRITS! This is NOT mineral spirits; it is mineral spirits SUBSTITUTE and a very poor substitute it is. It's thick and milky white. Works okay for cleaning oil paint and varnish off your hands, but useless for thinning purposes.
Mineral spirits and paint thinner both work well, but thinner is cheaper. Print. Share: Paint thinner and mineral spirits both work well for cleaning oil-based paint, but there are subtle differences, including odor and cost. This brief run-down will help you decide what's best for you. Other than the price, the differences between the two solvents are subtle: 1  Both are petroleum products. 2  Both can be used to thin oil-based paints and varnishes and to clean paintbrushes. 3  Paint thinner is mineral spirits, but in a less refined form. 4  Mineral spirits is not as stinky.
White spirit (UK) or mineral spirits (US), also known as mineral turpentine, turpentine substitute, petroleum spirits, solvent naphtha (petroleum) , varsol, Stoddard solvent, or, generically,  paint thinner , is a petroleum-derived clear liquid used as a common organic solvent in painting and decorating. Use [edit]. White Spirit is a petroleum distillate used as a paint thinner and mild solvent. In industry, mineral spirits are used for cleaning and degreasing machine tools and parts, and in conjunction with cutting oil as a thread cutting and reaming lubricant.
Definition of MINERAL SPIRITS. : a petroleum distillate that is used especially as a paint or varnish thinner. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Mineral spirits is also used in combination with other liquids as a kind of lubricant for thread cutting. However, mineral spirits are not always a very pleasant substance to use. It is volatile and highly flammable. If you are planning to use mineral spirits, you should at least know how they should be handled. 
Mineral spirits are great for thinning oleoresinous paints, enamels, and varnishes. Mineral spirits can be used for cleaning paint tools, brushes, rollers, sprayers, and buckets. Low odor, purest grade, general mineral solvent from Recochem. 
Mineral spirits are also utilized for the cleaning and degreasing of machinery, and as a lubricant for the screw threads reaming. Mineral spirits do have little odor that is unpleasant for some painters, who use odorless paint thinners. Though turpentine is a suitable thinner, mineral spirits are a better alternative because of their superior chemical properties. Some of the important characteristics of the mineral spirits are described below: 1  Mineral spirits are rather volatile, and include a fair quantity of aromatic content.
A mixture of aliphatic and alicyclic C7 to C12 hydrocarbons, white spirit is used as an extraction solvent, as a cleaning solvent, as a degreasing solvent and as a solvent in aerosols, paints, wood preservatives, lacquers, varnishes, and asphalt products. Use [edit]. White Spirit is a petroleum distillate used as a paint thinner and mild solvent. In industry, mineral spirits are used for cleaning and degreasing machine tools and parts, and in conjunction with cutting oil as a thread cutting and reaming lubricant.