THE PLAYERS Stadium Course at TPC Sawgrass was built in 1982 to host THE PLAYERS Championship. As the first true “Stadium Course,” the golf course was designed to improve the overall on-site fan experience. This championship-caliber golf course is accessible to all golf fans. As the world headquarters of professional golf, the golf courses at TPC Sawgrass offer an unparalleled experience. If you are headed to Florida for a golf vacation, TPC Sawgrass boasts two immaculately-maintained golf courses, both designed by the legendary Pete Dye.
The multi-platinum country duo, which is celebrating their 10th year together, will be the musical act for Military Appreciation Day -- which will move to Tuesday, May 5, two days before the first round of The Players at the TPC Sawgrass Players Stadium Course. 
The tournament — held at TPC Sawgrass in Ponte Vedra Beach, home of the famous island green on its 17th hole — also will: 1  Hold a Military Appreciation Day on May 5 that will include a concert (artists to be announced, but past performers include Dierks Bentley). A PGA Tour-backed military charity will offer free tickets to service members at selected golf events this year, including this weekend's AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in Monterey, California. (Photo: Stephen Morton/The Associated Press).
Home of THE PLAYERS Championship, birthplace of the TPC (Tournament Players Club) Network, and backdrop to the PGA TOUR headquarters, the TPC Sawgrass golf course in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., is perhaps the world’s most famous golf course. Golf enthusiasts will find not one, but two PGA TOUR championship courses at the club, both designed by world-renowned architect Pete Dye. THE PLAYERS Stadium and Dye’s Valley Course offer two, perfectly balanced game experiences.
100505-N-8590G-001 PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. (May 5, 2010) Country music singer Tim McGraw poses with a Sailor before performing a five-song musical tribute dedicated to the nation's military and their families at the Tournament Player's Club at Sawgrass during The Players military appreciation day. It means a lot to us on the tour to be a big supporter of the military and it will continue to mean a lot to us, said professional golfer Fred Funk, who won the Players Championship at TPC Sawgrass in 2005.
THE PLAYERS No. 17. Witness the incredible competition by the world's best golf players at Pete Dye's masterpiece TPC Sawgrass-THE PLAYERS Stadium Course in beautiful Ponte Vedra, Florida May 10-15, 2016. THE PLAYERS features the strongest field and one of the largest purses on the PGA TOUR. The event held Mother's Day weekend in May each year is a must see and experience event for golf fans. The World Golf Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony is held the week of THE PLAYERS at the nearby World Golf Village. See your favorite player at TPC Sawgrass on golf's greatest stadium in Ponte Vedra Beach. THE PLAYERS is recognized by PGA TOUR members as their championship tournament. THE PLAYERS has evolved into one of the most prestigious events in golf
By Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class Daniel Gay, Navy Public Affairs Support Element East, Detachment Southeast. PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. (NNS) -- Service members from the Navy, Army, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard were honored during Military Appreciation Night at The Players Club (TPC) Sawgrass May 5. The ceremony began with the national anthem followed by a fly over by jets from the Navy's Blue Angels. It means a lot to us on the tour to be a big supporter of the military and it will continue to mean a lot to us, said professional golfer Fred Funk, who won the Players Championship at TPC Sawgrass in 2005.
Military ID is required for admittance. Tickets to THE PLAYERS Championship 2012 are on sale at First Coast Publix Super Markets locations, at TPC Sawgrass, online at www.PGATOUR.COM/theplayers and via telephone by calling Ticketmaster at (888) 401-8000. Once again in 2012, THE PLAYERS will offer hospitality to active, Reserve and retired military and dependents at the Birdies for the Brave Patriots’ Outpost, located on the hill between No. 16 and No. 18 fairways.