Skin receptors, also called cutaneous receptors, are part of the somatosensory system. They detect pressure, temperature, and vibrations on or around the skin. Cutaneous mechanoreceptors respond to pressure sensations on the skin and include Merkel's corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, and bulboid corpuscles. Receptors that detect temperature are made up of free nerve endings on the skin and are called thermoreceptors. Pain receptors on the skin are also free nerve endings called nociceptors. Cutaneous mechanoreceptors are probably the first type of skin receptors that come to mind for most people.
pressure. The force per unit area exerted by a gas or liquid over a surface in a direction perpendicular to that surface. The SI unit of pressure is the pascal (Pa), although blood pressure and intraocular pressure remain specified in the non-SI unit millimetres of mercury (mmHg). n a pressure to the body–in excess of that which stimulates Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's disks, or the hair receptors of light touch–that stimulates the deeper receptors such as Pacini's corpuscles. These latter deep-pressure perception organs lie in the inner layers of the dermis and in the muscle and tendon groups.
pressure. n. 1. the state of pressing or being pressed. 2. the exertion of force by one body on the surface of another. 3. a moral force that compels: to bring pressure to bear. 4. an urgent claim or demand or series of urgent claims or demands: to work under pressure. 5. a burdensome condition that is hard to bear: the pressure of grief. pressure-the pressure exerted by the atmosphere. air pressure, atmospheric pressure. gas pressure-the pressure exerted by a gas. barometric pressure-atmospheric pressure as indicated by a barometer.
Receptor: 1. In cell biology, a structure on the surface of a cell (or inside a cell) that selectively receives and binds a specific substance. There are many receptors. There is a receptor for (insulin; there is a receptor for low-density lipoproteins (LDL); etc. To take an example, the receptor for substance P, a molecule that acts as a messenger for the sensation of pain, is a unique harbor on the cell surface where substance P docks. Without this receptor, substance P cannot dock and cannot deliver its message of pain.
Noun. 1. pressure-the force applied to a unit area of surface; measured in pascals (SI unit) or in dynes (cgs unit); the compressed gas exerts an increased pressure. force per unit area, pressure level. physical phenomenon-a natural phenomenon involving the physical properties of matter and energy. pressure-the pressure exerted by the atmosphere. air pressure, atmospheric pressure. gas pressure-the pressure exerted by a gas. barometric pressure-atmospheric pressure as indicated by a barometer.
A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. Normally there are four main types in glabrous skin: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's discs, and Ruffini endings. Lamellar corpuscles, or Pacinian corpuscles, are pressure receptors located in the skin and also in various internal organs. Each is connected to a sensory neuron. Because of its relatively large size, a single lamellar corpuscle can be isolated and its properties studied.
Dermal pressure receptors (DPRs) are dotted sensory pits found on the scales of animals in the Crocodilia order, which includes alligators, caimans, and crocodiles. Animals in the Alligatorinae family of this order only have the pits in the head area, mainly along the jawline, eyes, nose and upper palate. Dermal pressure receptors are not well understood, but it is assumed that their function differs depending on where they are located on the animal's body. Those on the head are very sensitive to the slightest changes in pressure from surrounding water.
baroreceptor. BARORECEPTOR. A sensory nerve ending stimulated by changes in pressure. Baroreceptors are found in the walls of the cardiac atria, the vena cava, aortic arch. The baroreceptors of the lung are stretch receptors that are stimulated by inflation. 
1 Pacinian corpuscles are large receptors sensitive to deep pressure and to pulsing or high-frequency vibrations. 2  They are found in the skin, fingers, breasts, and external genitalia, as well as in joint capsules, mesenteries, the pancreas, and walls of the urinary bladder. 1 Free nerve endings are sensitive to touch and pressure. 2  They are situated between epidermal cells and have no apparent differences in structure with those of the free nerve endings that provide temperature or pain sensations. 3  Root hair plexus is made up of free nerve endings to detect hair movement.