Physical Therapist (PT) Education Overview. Physical therapist (PT) professional education refers to the didactic and clinical education that prepares graduates for entry into practice of physical therapy. Education for the advancement of practicing physical therapists is termed post-professional. 
First and foremost, you must find a therapist you feel comfortable with. Therapy is not an easy process and your therapist is not there to be your friend. Having said that, however, you can certainly choose a therapist whom you feel respects your individuality, opinions, and self. Take the opportunity to ask about the therapist's experience with your issue. For instance, questions such as: are all appropriate to ask your therapist in the first session. Listen to the answers and make your decision about whether this therapist will help you or not accordingly.
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. 1 Social work will prepare you to become a licensed clinical social worker. 2  Child psychology programs train you to work with children. 3  Counseling equips you to work with a wide variety of people across the lifespan. 4  Marriage and family therapy courses can help you become a marriage and family
In order to work as a physical therapist, you must complete a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree program. As of 2014, there were 228 physical therapy programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), most of which last three years. 
Most people look for a therapist who is a fit for their financial resources, has some expertise in their particular issue, is licensed and has a sufficient degree or credential, and seems like a caring person. These basic elements are a great start, but successful therapy often requires a little more. A helpful therapy relationship will move at the pace that is comfortable for the client and respects the time needed for growth. Clients don’t thrive when they feel pushed or feel a need to please their therapist. Listening – Therapists are human and can’t be expected to recall the names of everyone in your life.
Earning Your Bachelor’s Degree. Your first step in becoming certified to practice Occupational Therapy is to get your Bachelor’s degree. There are a few different choices for majors that will assist in becoming a certified occupational therapist. Some of these choices include anthropology, sociology, and psychology
If you do not feel relief from your emotional problems, you may not be getting the best treatment available. Look for these types of warning signs as reasons to think about choosing another therapist if you are already in therapy, or signs to look out for during your initial few sessions with a new therapist. Take the opportunity to ask about the therapist's experience with your issue. For instance, questions such as: are all appropriate to ask your therapist in the first session. Listen to the answers and make your decision about whether this therapist will help you or not accordingly.
If you feel the need to take care of your therapist. If your therapist is suggesting your relationship extend beyond the time and place of your therapy sessions. If you feel like you’re talking to a brick wall. If you feel a romantic advance from the therapist. A helpful therapy relationship will move at the pace that is comfortable for the client and respects the time needed for growth. Clients don’t thrive when they feel pushed or feel a need to please their therapist. Listening – Therapists are human and can’t be expected to recall the names of everyone in your life.
Seek out a therapist with specific experience with your issue -- you don't want to be any therapist's first time client for the problem you're grappling with! Ask point-blank questions about the therapist's experience in your first session with them. Don't be shy! Take the opportunity to ask about the therapist's experience with your issue. For instance, questions such as: are all appropriate to ask your therapist in the first session. Listen to the answers and make your decision about whether this therapist will help you or not accordingly.