Eukaryotic parasites typically fall into one of two categories; either protozoa or helminthes. Protozoa are one-celled eukaryotes and can be transmitted by a vector or by water, as they have difficulty surviving in the environment since they are susceptible to desiccation. 
EUKARYOTIC CELL: in eukaryotic cell a true nucleus is present. a true nucleus has four parts namely: nucleolus, nuclear membrane, nuclear reticulum, nucleoplasm. all cell organells are present in eukaryotic cell. examples: amoeba, spirogyra. 1.PROKARYOTIC. 2.EUKARYOTIC. PROKARYOTIC CELL: in prokaryotic cell [unorganised nucleus] no nucleus is present; instead a ring like nucleic acid DNA is present. it is also termed as nucleoid. all cell organlles are absent except ribosomes.
The Protists-Eukaryotic Organisms Kingdom Protista Single-celled, eukaryotic organisms are called protists. They are grouped together in Kingdom Protista. Those protists that are animal-like are put in Subkingdom Protozoa, and the protists that are plantlike belong to Subkingdom Algae. Algae are unicellular or multicellular organisms (formerly classified as plants) that have chlorophyll but lack true stems, roots, and leaves. Algae include the seaweeds, diatoms, and spirogyra. Prokaryotic Organisms-The Cyanobacteria Cyanobacteria belong to Domain Bacteria. These microscopic organisms lack nuclei.
Protozoa is eukaryotic. A cell on the basis of organisation of its nucleus is of two kinds: 1.PROKARYOTIC 2.EUKARYOTIC PROKARYOTIC CELL: in prokaryotic cell [unorganised nu … cleus] no nucleus is present; instead a ring like nucleic acid DNA is present.
Answer by Make-me-blue. Confidence votes 128. Protozoa is eukaryotic. A cell on the basis of organisation of its nucleus is of two kinds : 1.PROKARYOTIC. 2.EUKARYOTIC. PROKARYOTIC CELL: in prokaryotic cell [unorganised nucleus] no nucleus is present; instead a ring like nucleic acid DNA is present. it is also termed as nucleoid. all cell organlles are absent except ribosomes.
Any of a large variety of usually one-celled organisms, including the protozoans, most algae, and the slime molds. Protists are eukaryotes (that is, they have cell nuclei) and live in water or in watery tissues of organisms. They are grouped as a separate kingdom in taxonomy. Also called protoctist. any of various complex one-celled organisms, of the kingdom Protista, that have nuclei and organelles and that are either free-living or aggregated into simple colonies: includes the protozoans, slime molds, and eukaryotic algae.
n. Any of numerous eukaryotic organisms that are not fungi, plants, or animals and are chiefly unicellular or colonial. Protists that are multicellular do not have cells differentiated into tissues. The protists include the protozoans, certain algae, oomycetes, and slime molds. any of various complex one-celled organisms, of the kingdom Protista, that have nuclei and organelles and that are either free-living or aggregated into simple colonies: includes the protozoans, slime molds, and eukaryotic algae.
Bacteria are prokaryotic cells; fungi, protozoa, algae, plants, and animals are composed of eukaryotic cells. 7. Viruses are not cells so they are neither prokaryotic nor eukaryotic. They can replicate only inside a living cell. According to the cell theory, t he cell is the basic unit of life. All living organisms are composed of one or more cells. Based on the organization of their cellular structures, all living cells can be divided into two groups: prokaryotic and eukaryotic (also spelled procaryotic and eucaryotic).
EUKARYOTIC CELL: in eukaryotic cell a true nucleus is present. a true nucleus has four parts namely: nucleolus, nuclear membrane, nuclear reticulum, nucleoplasm.all cell organells are present in eukaryotic cell. examples: amoeba, spirogyra. 20 people found this useful. A cell on the basis of organisation of its nucleus is of two kinds: 1.PROKARYOTIC 2.EUKARYOTIC PROKARYOTIC CELL: in prokaryotic cell [unorganised nu … cleus] no nucleus is present; instead a ring like nucleic acid DNA
No. Protozoa are Eukaryotic and unicellular organisms because they possess nucleus while prokaryotes are organisms which lack a nucleus in cell .. A cell on the basis of organisation of its nucleus is of two kinds: 1.PROKARYOTIC 2.EUKARYOTIC PROKARYOTIC CELL: in prokaryotic cell [unorganised nu … cleus] no nucleus is present; instead a ring like nucleic acid DNA is present.