Meaning of Todd. English name. In English, the name Todd means-fox. Other origins for the name Todd include-English, Scottish.The name Todd is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-fox. Origin-England.
[ 1 syll. tod (d), to-dd ] The baby boy name Todd is pronounced TaaD †. Todd is of Old English origin and it is used largely in the English language. The first name is derived from the surname, itself originally a byname derived from the dialect word todde. Variants of Todd include Todde, Toddie, and Toddy. Todd is an all-time favorite. 
Todd ▼ has 1 variant: Tod ▼ . Todd is a very popular first name for men (#88 out of 1220, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#423 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Todd /todd/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced tahd. It is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Todd is fox. The name possibly refers to a fox hunter. It remains a dialectal word for a fox in some parts of Britain. Tod is a Scottish nickname for a clever or wily person. Todd is a very popular first name for men (#88 out of 1220, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#423 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).
The name Todd is of English origin, and it means Fox . It's a name commonly given to boys. 
Incoming search terms: biblical meaning of the name todd, what does the name todd mean in the bible, hebrew meaning of name todd, meaning of todd in german, persoanlity traits of a name Todd. 
(see http://wiki.name.com/en/Todd#ORIGIN_AND_HISTORY) The name Todd originates as a surname deriving from the Middle English tod or todde meaning a fox.. The surname probably derived to describe those who were fox hunters. In Scottish, the name Tod means clever or wily.. The name Todd is not short for anything. It is a word in its own right. It means Fox. The surname, and later given name derives from the Middle English word for Fox (see be … low).
The name Todd is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Todd is: Fox. American Meaning: The name Todd is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Todd is: Fox. English Meaning: The name Todd is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Todd is: Fox. Tod is a Scottish nickname meaning a clever or wily person
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Todd is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Todd. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1071 in baby name popularity for boys with 180 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Todd Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Todd has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Todd to other names. Variants of the name Todd include Tod. The name Tokala is a form of Todd. Todd falls into the animal name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Todd Eldredge, Todd Rundgren