It is important to note that constructivism is not a particular pedagogy. In fact, constructivism is a theory describing how learning happens, regardless of whether learners are using their experiences to understand a lecture or following the instructions for building a model airplane. Jean Piaget called these systems of knowledge schemata. Constructivism is not a specific pedagogy, although it is often confused with constructionism, an educational theory developed by Seymour Papert, inspired by constructivist and experiential learning ideas of Piaget.
Therefore, the purpose of the following article will be to use logic to support Chomsky's innatism and to argue against Piaget's constructivism. Piaget argues that language is a shared phenomenon that is created by active involvement among individuals in a culture. The following is an article response to the discourse between two prominent researchers, Noam Chomsky and Jean Piaget, who debated on the psychogenesis of knowledge and its epistemological significance (Beakley, & Ludlow, 1992).
Chomsky developed the LAD in the 1950s and since then, has moved on to a greater theory called universal grammar (or UG) to account for the rapid language development in humans. While universal grammar is a bit beyond the scope of this article, just remember for now that LAD later evolved into this theory. The language acquisition device is a hypothetical tool in the brain that helps children quickly learn and understand language. Noam Chomsky theorized the LAD to account for the rapid speed at which children seem to learn language and its rules.
The cause, according to Chomsky, can only be explained by innatism. Piaget and Chomsky debate whether knowledge is a product of constructivism or innatism. Against associationism and behaviorism, Piaget does not address how certain elements of language are consistent in all languages. The following is an article response to the discourse between two prominent researchers, Noam Chomsky and Jean Piaget, who debated on the psychogenesis of knowledge and its epistemological significance (Beakley, & Ludlow, 1992).
Chomsky's Views on Language Acquisition. Chomsky proposed some ideas that were new ways of thinking about language: the theory of universal grammar, the idea that language is innate and the notion that language acquisition occurs during critical development stages. American-born linguist Noam Chomsky believes that we are born with a predisposition to learn language. The essence of his theories of language acquisition state that human beings are pre-wired to learn language and in fact are born with the basic rules for language intact.
Constructivism is a contemporary epistemology which holds that human beings construct knowledge by giving meaning to current experience in light of prior knowledge, mental structures, experiences and beliefs. 
Universal grammar -- the hypothesis that the acquisition device and parts of the grammar of all human languages are innate -- is a theory of human language learning and computation and is thus a theory of natural computation as well. It is important, when considering issues of natural computation in the domain of language acquisition, to examine the new constructivism and the established nativism to see what each theory can contribute.
Jean Piaget, founder of constructivism. Constructivism is a theory of knowledge that argues that humans generate knowledge and meaning from an interaction between their experiences and their ideas. It has influenced a number of disciplines, including psychology, sociology, education and the history of science. Jean Piaget called these systems of knowledge schemata. Constructivism is not a specific pedagogy, although it is often confused with constructionism, an educational theory developed by Seymour Papert, inspired by constructivist and experiential learning ideas of Piaget.