If an infrared sauna is not available, but you have access to a regular sauna, you can still achieve some degree of detoxification with 10- to 20-minute sessions at 180-190 degrees Fahrenheit. The heat generated by the sauna will also help to relax muscles and relieve tension throughout the body, allowing you to relax and de-stress. 3. Pain Relief. If you suffer from muscle aches or joint pain, infrared saunas can relieve this form of inflammation by increasing circulation and relaxing your muscles.
An Infrared Sauna is a device used to create radiant heat from a spectrum of light through a process called conversion. One of the main differences between an infrared sauna and a traditional steam sauna is the temperature of the sauna. A steam sauna operates between 180°f and 220°f whereas the infrared sauna operates between 110°f and 150°f.
Many infrared sauna manufacturers make grand claims about the health benefits of infrared saunas in general and in relation to traditional saunas. We live in the information age. We encourage all our customers to do as much research as they can before you buy a sauna. 
An infrared sauna is a type of sauna that uses light to create heat. These saunas are sometimes called far-infrared saunas — far describes where the infrared waves fall on the light spectrum. A traditional sauna uses heat to warm the air, which in turn warms your body. An infrared sauna heats your body directly without warming the air around you. The appeal of saunas in general is that they cause reactions, such as vigorous sweating and increased heart rate, similar to those elicited by moderate exercise. Perhaps. Several studies have looked at using infrared saunas in the treatment of chronic health problems, such as high blood pressure, congestive heart failure and rheumatoid arthritis, and found some evidence of benefit. However, larger and more-rigorous studies are needed to confirm these results.
Infrared saunas help your body release a number of toxins, including heavy metals like mercury and lead, and environmental chemicals. The benefits don’t stop there. With infrared sauna technology, you can also lose weight, relax, relieve unwanted pain, increase your circulation, and purify your skin. 6 Benefits of Infrared Sauna Therapy. 1. Detoxification. Sweating is one of the body’s most natural ways to eliminate toxins, making it a crucial part of detoxification. The heat generated by the sauna will also help to relax muscles and relieve tension throughout the body, allowing you to relax and de-stress. 3. Pain Relief. If you suffer from muscle aches or joint pain, infrared saunas can relieve this form of inflammation by increasing circulation and relaxing your muscles.
As the heat from infrared saunas increases your core body temperature, your circulation will increase along with it. Consistent infrared sauna sessions, especially in the middle-infrared level, can stimulate blood flow, improve muscle recovery, and decrease pain and inflammation after intense exercise. 6. The heat generated by the sauna will also help to relax muscles and relieve tension throughout the body, allowing you to relax and de-stress. 3. Pain Relief. If you suffer from muscle aches or joint pain, infrared saunas can relieve this form of inflammation by increasing circulation and relaxing your muscles.
An infrared sauna uses infrared heaters to emit infrared light experienced as radiant heat which is absorbed by the surface of the skin. Traditional saunas heat the body primarily by conduction and convection from the heated air and by radiation of the heated surfaces in the sauna room. 
An infrared sauna is an investment in your health. Infrared saunas could be seen as an indulgence, with top-quality units starting at about $1,800. But I see them as a great investment in your health. Infrared saunas tend to be compact, and require little maintenance, no water or plumbing. Not only do infrareds offer more body benefits than conventional saunas, but also they’re less of a drain on resources
FAR Infrared Saunas. Infrared heat primarily warms only objects in its direct path and has a lesser effect on temperature of the surrounding air. To understand how infrared heat works, picture yourself outdoors on a summer day with the sun beaming overhead. Infrared heaters warm the body in the same manner as natural sunlight. Infrared emitters in the sauna mimic and intensify this effect. All life requires heat from the sun. FAR Infrared heat is not ultraviolet radiation but a narrow band of energy within the 5.6 to 15 micron (µ) level.