  . All of the chemical reactions of the cell are called catabolism. redox reactions. phosphorylation. metabolism. cellular respiration. The breakdown of peptidoglycan to N-acetylmuramic acid, N-acetylglucosamine and peptides is an example of anabolism. catabolism. phosphorylation. fermentation. biosynthesis. 3. Enzymes are broken down in ... no 
The enzymes present in an organism depend on the genes present in the organism. Catabolism refers to chemical reactions that result in the breakdown of more complex organic molecules into simpler substances. Catabolic reactions usually release energy that is used to drive chemical reactions. Anabolism refers to chemical reactions in which simpler substances are combined to form more complex molecules. Anabolic reactions usually require energy. Anabolic reactions build new molecules and/or store energy. The energy of catabolic reactions is used to drive anabolic reactions. The energy for chemical reactions is stored in ATP. Often when I ask students What is ATP the answer they give is Energy.
1 Enzymes increase the rate of a reaction by decreasing the activation energy. 2  Enzymes will increase the rate constant, k, for the equation rate = k[A][B]. 3  Enzymes do NOT change the K eq of a reaction. 4  Enzymes do not change K eq because it lowers the activation energy for BOTH forward and reverse reactions. 1 Enzymes do NOT change the K eq of a reaction. 2  Enzymes do not change K eq because it lowers the activation energy for BOTH forward and reverse reactions. 3  Enzymes will make the reverse reaction go faster also. 4  Enzymes do not change δG, the net change in free energy.
Catabolic reaction and enzymes – Lactose a case study. Background: As you know, enzymes are important molecules because they reduce the activation energy of major chemical reactions in the body. If enzymes were not present chemical reactions in organisms would occur at such low rates that life would not be possible. One such enzyme is lactase. This enzyme is responsible for a catabolic reaction that breaks down the dissaccharide lactose, a milk sugar. Lactose is a dissacharide consisting of a glucose molecule and a galactose molecule.
Enzymes control cellular reactions. As you remember, reactions that break down substances and release energy are called catabolic reactions. Examples are respiration and digestion. The other types of reactions are called anabolic reactions. These reactions consume (use) energy.
I. Catabolic and Anabolic Reactions. a. Metabolism is the sum of the chemical reactions in an organism. i. Catabolism refers to the energy-releasing processes (degradative, hydrolysis reactions, exergonic). 
Enzymes. Enzymes are proteins, produced by living cells; they catalyze chemical reactions by lowering the activation energy. Activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to occur. Enzymes are generally globular proteins with characteristic three-dimensional shapes. The active site is the binding site for the enzyme’s substrate. Enzymes are specific for substrate molecules.
Catabolic and anabolic reactions are metabolic processes. Both the capture and use of energy by organisms involves a series of thousands of reactions (metabolism). A cat … abolic reaction is one that breaks down large molecules to produce energy; an example is digestion. The main function of enzymes in catabolic and anabolic reactions is  to speed up the reactions and are therefore regarded as catalysts.  Catabolic refers to break down of mo … lecules while anabolic refers  to build up of molecules.
Enzymes allow many chemical reactions to occur within the homeostasis constraints of a living system. Enzymes function as organic catalysts. A catalyst is a chemical involved in, but not changed by, a chemical reaction. Many enzymes function by lowering the activation energy of reactions. By bringing the reactants closer together, chemical bonds may be weakened and reactions will proceed faster than without the catalyst. The use of enzymes can lower the activation energy of a reaction (Ea). Image from Purves et al., , 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates (www.sinauer.com) and WH Freeman (www.whfreeman.com), used with permission.