Chromate conversion coating is a type of conversion coating used to passivate steel, aluminum, zinc, cadmium, copper, silver, magnesium, and tin alloys. The process is named after the chromate found in chromic acid, also known as hexavalent chromium, the chemical most widely used in the immersion bath process whereby the coating is applied.
Well, in that context chromate and dichromate really mean the same thing, in that they mean a yellow chromate coating from a hexavalent chromium solution. So, rather than confusing the person you are writing the spec for, I would use whichever wording you find in B633, which I believe will be chromate. 
A dichromate conversion coating provides an extra layer of protection by preventing the oxidation of the zinc plate. Chromated zinc lasts longer, looks better and provides the added benefit of increased galvanic compatibility with aluminum items, such as cylinder heads. 
The iridescents in this type of chromate application is a little closer to goldish hues and is considered normal for this process. Trivalent dichromate conversion coating is a type of coating used to passivate, zinc, cadmium, copper, silver, magnesium, and tin alloys. The process is named after the chromate found in the chromic acid used in the bath, more commonly known as trivalent chromium. Cody Metal Finishing has the capabilities to plate to the ASTM B633 zinc trivalent dichromate application standards and similar applications of companies specifications.
Traditionally Potassium Dichromate is used to darken Cherry, Mahogany, Oak or Walnut. Preparation: -- Mix in Plastic or Glass only. Dissolve the Potassium Dichromate •• 1 teaspoon in 8 Oz, of hot water or •• 4 oz by weight into 1 Qt .hot water (100g into 1L). Test the result on a spare piece of wood. (Bichromate of Potash). Potassium Dichromate is a water soluble chemical stain that reacts with the tannin in the wood. The oxidizing action replicates and accelerates natural aging and darkening associated with UV exposure. The results are rich tones, with clarity of. the wood grain and pattern.
The Yellow Chromate is a yellow/bronze iridescent finish on plated cadmium and zinc. Liquid concentrate is used at 0.5% to 3% by volume in water at 65° to 90°F. The finish has outstanding resistance to salt spray, greatly surpasses the normal 96 hour salt spray resistance specified for yellow chromates on zinc. 
Zinc Dichromate Plating Dichromates were originally used as primers for paint until their natural appeal was realized. Zinc dichromate plating provides additional protection for corrosion vs. clear chromates. Zinc dichromate remains a Superior chromate for primer applications. The iridescents in a dichromate conversion, can display different iridescent hues. These hues can appear to be yellow, green, red, blue and etc. in appearance. Cody Metal Finishing has capabilities to plate to the ASTM B633 zinc dichromate application standards and similar applications.
Potassium Dichromate is a water soluble chemical stain that reacts with the tannin in the wood. The oxidizing action replicates and accelerates natural aging and darkening associated with UV exposure. The results are rich tones, with clarity of the wood grain and pattern. (Bichromate of Potash). Potassium Dichromate is a water soluble chemical stain that reacts with the tannin in the wood. The oxidizing action replicates and accelerates natural aging and darkening associated with UV exposure. The results are rich tones, with clarity of.
Zinc Trivalent Dichromate Plating Zinc trivalent dichromate plating provides a similar finish to the hexavalent finish, with the added benefit of ROHS Compliance. The process is named after the chromate found in the chromic acid used in the bath, more commonly known as trivalent chromium. Cody Metal Finishing has the capabilities to plate to the ASTM B633 zinc trivalent dichromate application standards and similar applications of companies specifications.
Chromate conversion coatings on an aluminum substrate are known by the following terms: chemical film, yellow iridite, and the brand names Iridite and Alodine. It is also commonly used on aluminum alloy parts in the aircraft industry. Iridite NCP is a non-chromium type of conversion coating for aluminum substrates. The process is named after the chromate found in chromic acid, also known as hexavalent chromium, the chemical most widely used in the immersion bath process whereby the coating is applied.