But here's the catch with dark chocolate: To get all of these health benefits, you have to choose the right kind. It is a myth that all dark chocolate is good for you, says McDaniel. Sugar is often the first ingredient listed on many dark chocolate bars.. Steer clear of these.
3. It can protect your skin: German researchers found that the flavonoids in dark chocolate absorb UV light, help protect and increase blood flow to the skin, and improve skin’s hydration and complexion. For all of its health benefits, though, dark chocolate does contain a lot of calories.
Antioxidants in Dark Chocolate. Dark chocolate -- but not milk chocolate or dark chocolate eaten with milk -- is a potent antioxidant, report Mauro Serafini, PhD, of Italy's National Institute for Food and Nutrition Research in Rome, and colleagues. Their report appears in the Aug. 28 issue of Nature.
Dark chocolate has recently been discovered to have a number of healthy benefits. While eating dark chocolate can lead to the health benefits described below, remember that chocolate is also high in fat. Use FitDay to keep track of your calories and nutrition as you work towards your weight loss goals.
Dark Chocolate Lowers Blood Pressure. Dark chocolate -- not white chocolate -- lowers high blood pressure, say Dirk Taubert, MD, PhD, and colleagues at the University of Cologne, Germany. Their report appears in the Aug. 27 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association.
When it comes to the health benefits of chocolate, bitter is better. Cacao in its purest form is bitter and cacao is what offers all the great health payoffs. So, if you want to experience these health benefits, you’ll have to reach for dark chocolate with 70% or higher levels of cacao.
1) Dark Chocolate is Good for Your Heart. Studies show that eating a small amount of dark chocolate two or three times each week can help lower your blood pressure. Dark chocolate improves blood flow and may help prevent the formation of blood clots.
1. It can help prevent heart disease: Like tea, dark chocolate contains flavonoids, which are compounds that act as antioxidants. Flavonoids protect cells from harmful molecules—called free radicals—that are produced when the body breaks down food or is exposed to sunlight or smoke.