When cooking lamb, do not cook it above medium rare. There are recipes that call for the use of raw lamb, raw lamb is safe to consume as long as it has been constantly refrigerated at 38-40-F (4.C) and if frozen, thawed out in a refrigerator at that temperature until preparation. ROAST LEG OF LAMB. W ash leg of lamb, then brush lamb lightly with olive oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in a roasting pan and add one teaspoon ground marjoram, one stick celery, one carrot, and one cup tomato juice.
Sear the lamb roast for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Do Not Cover the roast. Insert meat thermometer so tip is in thickest part of lamb (not resting in fat). Cook until the lamb roast reaches an internal temperature of 120 degrees F. Remove from oven, cover with aluminum foil, and let sit approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Remember, the lamb roast will continue to cook as it sets.
1 Roast the lamb in preheated oven for 12 to 18 minutes, depending on the degree of doneness you want. 2  With a meat thermometer, take a reading in the center of the meat after 10 to 12 minutes and remove the meat, or let it cook longer, to your taste. 
RecipeTips. When cooking lamb, the proper lamb cooking time and the correct cooking temperature are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various cuts of lamb can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the guidelines for the recommended lamb cooking times and cooking temperatures. 
The oven temperature should be at least 400 degrees F. to properly roast potatoes, which is clearly too hot of an oven to roast a leg of lamb. I am lucky enough to have two ovens so that I was able to cook them separately. Set the bag in a dish and let the lamb marinate in the refrigerator for several hours or overnight-up to 24 hours. Step 6. Roasting the Boneless Leg of Lamb. Remove the lamb from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before cooking it.
As always, there are many different recipes for cooking a leg of lamb. Elise cooks her leg of lamb with the bone in by starting at 425 degrees for 20 minutes then turns the oven down to 300°F and continues to roast the meat for about 10-12 minutes per pound for medium rare lamb. Set the bag in a dish and let the lamb marinate in the refrigerator for several hours or overnight-up to 24 hours. Step 6. Roasting the Boneless Leg of Lamb. Remove the lamb from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before cooking it.
“For safety, the USDA recommends cooking lamb patties and ground lamb mixtures such as meat loaf to a safe minimum internal temperature of 160 °F as measured on a food thermometer. However, whole muscle meats such as roasts, steaks, and chops may be cooked to 145 °F (medium rare), 160 °F (medium), or 170 °F (well done). For approximate cooking times for use in meal planning, see the following chart compiled from various resources. Times are based on lamb at refrigerator temperature (40 °F).
(I strongly recommend using an oven-proof meat thermometer for roasting a leg of lamb. This should allow you to peek through the window of your oven door without opening the door and changing the internal temperature of the oven. Set the bag in a dish and let the lamb marinate in the refrigerator for several hours or overnight-up to 24 hours. Step 6. Roasting the Boneless Leg of Lamb. Remove the lamb from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before cooking it.
Reduce oven temperature to 180°C/160°C fan-forced. Roast lamb, basting with remaining oil mixture every 20 minutes, for 1 hour 15 minutes for medium or until cooked to your liking. Add potatoes to pan for last 40 minutes, turning halfway through cooking. 1  Step 3. 