Image credit: Jack Hynes cc2.0. The golden snub-nosed monkey, also known as the snub-nosed leaf monkey, the orange monkey and the Sichuan golden-haired monkey, is a small monkey that can only be found in the mountains of central and southwest China, including the mountains of Tibet. The golden snub-nosed monkey isn’t the only snub-nosed monkey. There’s also the black or Yunnan snub-nosed monkey, the gray or Guizhou snub-nosed monkey, the Tonkin snub-nosed monkey and the Myanmar
The golden snub-nosed monkey is an Old World monkey in the Colobinae subfamily. It is endemic to a small area in temperate, mountainous forests of central and Southwest China. They inhabit these mountainous forests of Southwestern China at elevations of 1,500-3,400 m above sea level. 
The distribution of the golden snub-nosed monkey is limited to temperate forests on mountains in four provinces in China: Sichuan, Gansu, Shaanxi, and Hubei. This monkey is found at elevations of 1,500-3,400 m. It is also widely referred to as the Sichuan snub-nosed monkey. Of the three species of snub-nosed monkeys in China, the golden snub-nosed monkey is the most widely distributed throughout China.
Golden snub-nosed monkey. Golden snub-nosed monkeys live in family groups of one male and numerous females. The family groups band together with others, forming troops of 20 to 30 individuals in the winter and up to 200 individuals in the summer. Scientific name: Rhinopithecus roxellana. Rank: Species. 
The golden snub-nosed monkey is found only in temperate, montane forests in central China (Kirkpatrick et al. 1999). Generally speaking, the species is found in the Sichuan, Gansu, Hubei and Shaanxi provinces around the edges of the Sichuan Basin. R. r. hubeiensis is distinguished by a longer tail than the other subspecies of golden snub-nosed monkey, up to 125% of the head and body length. Of the golden snub-nosed monkeys, it is the palest in pelage (Wang et al. 1998)
Golden Snub-nosed Monkeys only live in the forests of China. In summer, Golden Snub-nosed Monkeys eat tree leaves. When snow falls in winter, they eat tree bark and lichen. Golden Snub-nosed Monkeys are said to have the largest herd among tree-dwelling monkeys. It also can be referred as the Golden Monkey. It is resistant to cold and lives in the second coldest habitat of all primates. (It is the human being who lives in the coldest habitat.) The Golden Snub-nosed Monkey keeps itself warm with a coat of beautiful golden fur.
The golden snub-nosed monkey (Rhinopithecus roxellana) is an Old World monkey in the Colobinae subfamily. It is endemic to a small area in temperate, mountainous forests of central and Southwest China. They inhabit these mountainous forests of Southwestern China at elevations of 1,500-3,400 m above sea level. The golden snub-nosed monkey eats (from greatest to least in amount) lichens, young leaves, fruits or seeds, buds, mature leaves, herbs, bark, and flowers. This diet varies from season to season, showing a correlation once again between food availability and home range.
The golden snub-nosed monkey (Rhinopithecus roxellana) is an Old World monkey in the Colobinae subfamily. It is endemic to a small area in temperate, mountainous forests of central and Southwest China. It is also widely referred to as the Sichuan snub-nosed monkey. Of the three species of snub-nosed monkeys in China, the golden snub-nosed monkey is the most widely distributed throughout China.
There are fewer than 2,000 Yunnan Golden (Snub-Nosed) Monkeys (Rhinopithecus bieti) left in Yunnan's old-growth alpine forests. They are considered one of the most endangered primates on Earth. Deep in the remote forests of southwestern China lives the rare and obscure Yunnan golden (or snub-nosed) monkey. Their human-like features have made them the subject of legends in China.