Absenteeism is a habitual pattern of absence from a duty or obligation. High absenteeism in the workplace may be indicative of poor morale, but absences can also be caused by workplace hazards or sick building syndrome.
DEFINITION of 'Absenteeism'. The habitual non-presence of an employee at his or her job. Possible causes of absenteeism include job dissatisfaction, ongoing personal issues and chronic medical problems. Regardless of cause, a worker with a pattern of being absent may put his reputation and his employed status at risk. However, some forms of absence from work are legally protected and cannot be grounds for termination.
Show more usage examples... For most employers, the habitual absenteeism of an employee will result in, at best, a very poor performance review and, at worst, the immediate termination of employment. 2 people found this helpful. The absenteeism of the employee was a factor in the verbal warning as we needed consistent participation in the new training method.
Full Definition of ABSENTEEISM. 1. : prolonged absence of an owner from his or her property. 2. : chronic absence (as from work or school); also: the rate of such absence. See absenteeism defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Absenteeism is a pattern or habit of an employee missing work, often for no good reason. Turnover is the number or percentage of an employer's workforce that must be replaced due to the voluntary and involuntary separation of employees from employment. A high degree of absenteeism and turnover can cause serious problems for businesses. Absenteeism hurts productivity and costs money. Caroline's company, for example, is currently suffering a high degree of absenteeism in its production department. Employees on the assembly line are often absent.
Traditionally, absenteeism has been viewed as an indicator of poor individual performance, as well as a breach of an implicit contract between employee and employer; it was seen as a management problem, and framed in economic or quasi-economic terms. High absenteeism in the workplace may be indicative of poor morale, but absences can also be caused by workplace hazards or sick building syndrome.
Absenteeism in employment law is the state of not being present that occurs when an employee is absent or not present at work during a normally scheduled work period. 1 No-fault: Absences are considered no-fault.. 2  No attempt to classify an absence as excused or unexcused is attempted. 3  Each employee is allowed a certain number of days off from work, at their discretion. 4  Progressive discipline is used when the employee exceeds the number of allowed absences
Or that the flu is going around, and your employees are passing it along. Or there could be a deeper meaning behind all of this employee absenteeism. Once you have a good absence tracking system in place, you may begin to discover patterns in your employee attendance problems. Here are the top five things chronic employee absence or late arrivals could mean, and what you should do about it. 
Let's review what we've learned. Absenteeism is a pattern or habit of an employee missing work, often for no good reason, while turnover is the number or percentage of an employer's workforce that must be replaced due to the voluntary and involuntary separation of employees from employment. A high degree of absenteeism and turnover can cause serious problems for businesses. Absenteeism hurts productivity and costs money. Caroline's company, for example, is currently suffering a high degree of absenteeism in its production department. Employees on the assembly line are often absent.