Also known as onychomycosis and tinea unguium, nail fungal infections are the most common diseases of the nails, making up about 50% of nail abnormalities. Both fingernails and toenails are susceptible to the infection, which usually manifests as discoloration and thickening of the nail and crumbling edges. 
1 This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 2  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin. 3  As it develops, the skin may thicken and crack. 1 It usually occurs between the two smallest toes. 2  This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 3  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin.
Anyone can get a fungal infection, even people who are otherwise healthy. Fungi are common in the environment, and people breathe in or come in contact with fungal spores every day without getting sick. However, in people with weak immune systems, these fungi are more likely to cause an infection. 
Fungal infections are infections caused by a fungus, a type of microorganism. Two common causes of fungal infections are a fungus called tinea and yeast infections caused by the fungus Candida albicans. Some very common types of fungal infections caused by tinea include: Athlete’s foot. Jock itch
A vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina that causes itching and burning of the vulva, the area around the vagina. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of the fungus Candida. Vaginal yeast infection. Most women will get a vaginal yeast infection at some point in their life. Symptoms of vaginal yeast infections include burning, itching, and thick, white discharge. Yeast infections are easy to treat, but it is important to see your doctor or nurse if you think you have an
Athlete's Foot. Athlete's foot, also called tinea pedis, is a fungal infection of the foot. It causes peeling, redness, itching, burning, and sometimes blisters and sores. Athlete's foot is a very common infection. The fungus grows best in a warm, moist environment such as shoes, socks, swimming pools, locker rooms, and the floors of public showers. 1 It usually occurs between the two smallest toes. 2  This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 3  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin.
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Sometimes, other types of candida fungus are to blame. Common treatments usually cure a Candida albicans infection. Yeast infections caused by other types of candida fungus can be more difficult to treat, and need more aggressive therapies. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.
The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.