Old Norse was divided into three dialects: Old East Norse, Old West Norse, and Old Gutnish. Old West and East Norse formed a dialect continuum, with no clear geographical boundary between them. The modern descendants of the Old West Norse dialect are the West Scandinavian languages of Icelandic, Faroese, Norwegian and the extinct Norn language of the Orkney and the Shetland Islands; the descendants of the Old East Norse dialect are the East Scandinavian languages of Danish and Swedish.
The Proto-Norse language developed into Old Norse by the 8th century, and Old Norse began to develop into the modern North Germanic languages in the mid-to late 14th century, ending the language phase known as Old Norse. These dates, however, are not absolute, since written Old Norse is found well into the 15th century. The modern descendants of the Old West Norse dialect are the West Scandinavian languages of Icelandic, Faroese, Norwegian and the extinct Norn language of the Orkney and the Shetland Islands; the descendants of the Old East Norse dialect are the East Scandinavian languages of Danish and Swedish.
Old Norse, the language of the Vikings, is a North Germanic language once spoken in Scandinavia, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Greenland, and in parts of Russia, France and the British Isles. The modern language most closely related to Old Norse is Icelandic, the written form of which has changed little over the years, while the spoken form has undergone significant changes.
The Viking Language Series teaches Old Norse-spoken by Vikings and Icelanders-runes, sagas, eddic and skaldic poetry, and the culture of the Viking World. The course is designed by Jesse Byock, Professor of Old Norse, Medieval Scandinavian Studies and Viking Archaeology, University of California Los Angeles. Sample pages of Viking Language 2. Viking Language 1 Audio Lessons: Pronounce Old Norse, Runes, and Icelandic Sagas are sound files of all the Old Norse reading passages and runic inscriptions in Viking Language 1.This is two albums for $11.99 each.
The Germanic languages are a branch of the Indo-European language family spoken natively by a population of approximately 500 million people mainly in North America, Oceania, Central Europe, Western and Northern Europe. The oldest Germanic languages have the typical complex inflected morphology of old Indo-European languages, with four or five noun cases; verbs marked for person, number, tense and mood; multiple noun and verb classes; few or no articles; and rather free word order.
Viking Language 1 is an introduction to Old Norse, runes, Icelandic sagas, and the culture of the Vikings. The 15 graded lessons include vocabulary and grammar exercises, 35 readings, pronunciation, 15 maps, 45 illustrations, and 180 exercises. Sample pages of Viking Language 2. Viking Language 1 Audio Lessons: Pronounce Old Norse, Runes, and Icelandic Sagas are sound files of all the Old Norse reading passages and runic inscriptions in Viking Language 1.This is two albums for $11.99 each.
It stands evergreen above Urd’s Well.” [1]). Old Norse was the language spoken by the Vikings, and the language in which the Eddas, sagas, and most of the other primary sources for our current knowledge of Norse mythology were written. 
The modern Nordic languages of Swedish, Danish, Norwegian and Icelandic descended from Old Norse. Old Norse has a rich literary history, and the most extensive body of literature of any Germanic language. Runes were written in Old Norse, as were the Icelandic Sagas. The Icelandic language of today is not very diifferent from Old Norse, making Old Norse more accessable to language learners. Anyone interested in the roots of Germanic languages such as English, German, Dutch and Swedish should take an interest in Old Norse. 1 This is THE book for English speakers who want to learn Old Norse, but be warned, it is very difficult to read. 2  You must be extremely patient and use other books like English grammar books to help you know what a participle is, what the passive voice is, etcetera.
Old Norse was a North Germanic language that was spoken by inhabitants of Scandinavia and inhabitants of their overseas settlements during about the 9th to 13th centuries. The modern descendants of the Old West Norse dialect are the West Scandinavian languages of Icelandic, Faroese, Norwegian and the extinct Norn language of the Orkney and the Shetland Islands; the descendants of the Old East Norse dialect are the East Scandinavian languages of Danish and Swedish.
Between 800 and 1050 AD a division began to appear between East Norse, which developed into Swedish and Danish, and West Norse, which developed into Norwegian, Faroese, Icelandic and Norn, an extinct language once spoken in Shetland, Orkney, and northern parts of Scotland. The modern language most closely related to Old Norse is Icelandic, the written form of which has changed little over the years, while the spoken form has undergone significant changes.