1 To serve, put a large pan over a medium heat, add the butter and let it melt over the base of the pan. 2  Add the leeks and plenty of seasoning and stir to coat in the butter. 3  Turn the heat down to low, cover the pan and cook the leeks gently for about 15 minutes, stirring half way through until they are tender. 1 The day before you want to serve this dish, cut the leeks from top to root and wash thoroughly under cold running water. 2  Thinly slice them on the diagonal and put into plastic bags and chill until ready to cook. 3  To serve, put a large pan over a medium heat, add the butter and let it melt over the base of the pan
How to Cook. Baby leeks can be pan-fried, baked, braised or roasted. To pan-fry, heat a little olive oil and butter in a frying pan, add the prepared whole leeks and cook gently for 10-15 minutes or until tender. Baby leeks. These tender little leeks are a member of the garlic and onion family, they have a wonderfully subtle, sweet flavour and are an attractive pale green colour. Baby leeks are ideal for cooking and serving whole.
Method. 1  The day before you want to serve this dish, cut the leeks from top to root and wash thoroughly under cold running water. 2  To serve, put a large pan over a medium heat, add the butter and let it melt over the base of the pan. 1 The day before you want to serve this dish, cut the leeks from top to root and wash thoroughly under cold running water. 2  Thinly slice them on the diagonal and put into plastic bags and chill until ready to cook. 3
How To Cook Baby Leeks Baby leeks can be pan-fried, baked, braised or roasted. To pan-fry, heat a little olive oil and butter in a frying pan, add the prepared whole leeks and cook gently for 10 - 15 minutes or until tender. To bake, preheat the oven to 190°C, gas mark 5, place the prepared leeks in an ovenproof dish, cover with cheese or white sauce and bake for 30 - 40 minutes or until tender. Add 2 tbsp olive oil to a roasting tin and heat in the oven, add the leeks, season well and roast for 35 - 45 minutes or until tender. How To Store Baby Leeks Keep in the fridge for 4 - 5 days. The information and images for this article have come from www.thinkvegetables.co.uk.
How to Use. Baby leeks are usually cooked before eating. Leeks go particularly well with lamb and pork. Serve as an accompanying vegetable in a cheese or white sauce, or saute sauté whole leeks in, butter wrap in, ham sprinkle with Grated cheddar cheese and bake in the oven for a simple. starter Baby leeks. These tender little leeks are a member of the garlic and onion family, they have a wonderfully subtle, sweet flavour and are an attractive pale green colour. Baby leeks are ideal for cooking and serving whole.
How To Use Baby Leeks Baby leeks are usually cooked before eating. Leeks go particularly well with lamb and pork. Serve as an accompanying vegetable in a cheese or white sauce, or saute sauté whole leeks in, butter wrap in, ham sprinkle with Grated cheddar cheese and bake in the oven for a simple. starter Add 2 tbsp olive oil to a roasting tin and heat in the oven, add the leeks, season well and roast for 35 - 45 minutes or until tender. How To Store Baby Leeks Keep in the fridge for 4 - 5 days. The information and images for this article have come from www.thinkvegetables.co.uk.
I like to serve 4 or 5 baby leeks per person, depending on their size. Lightly trim both ends and peel back the first or second layer of leaves and discard. Drop the leeks in a pan of boiling salted water for 2 to 3 minutes to soften-this is called blanching. Drain them well (if there's too much water in them they won't roast properly) and toss in a bowl with a good lug of olive oil, a splash of red wine vinegar, the chopped thyme leaves and the garlic.