Cranberries contain certain chemicals that prevent bacteria from growing in the urinary tract. Cranberry is safe for most people, but drinking too much cranberry juice can cause some side effects such as mild stomach upset and diarrhea. Drinking more than 1 liter per day for a long period of time might increase the chance of getting kidney stones. Some cranberry juice products are sweetened with extra sugar
And bacteria feeds and thrives on sugar. There are certain kinds of cranberry juice you can get like Knudson's Just Cranberry that is incredibly bitter and hard to drink, that will cure a new infection. If you start taking it the first day you suspect you may have one. Just cranberry. You want something that does not have sugar added, and not from concentrate because the sugar added feeds the bacteria that is giving you the infection...SO no ocean spray!! Best way to get it is from a store like whole foods.
UTI pain is not like ordinary pain, its unbearable and debilitating pain. Get FAST over-the-counter relief with AZO Urinary Pain Relief Maximum Strength that contains more of the active ingredient to provide maximum strength relief for pain, burning and urgency. 
The beneficial effects of cranberry supplements have long been recognized by health and nutritional experts. Cranberry contains phenols which are a type of antioxidant that works to fight off diseases, and its main function is to prevent and help repair damaged cells. 
Considerations. Cranberry juice is useful in preventing urinary tract infections because cranberries contain proanthocyanidins, or PACs, which prevent bacteria — including E. coli, the bacteria responsible for up to 90 percent of urinary tract infections — from adhering to and infecting the urinary tract. 
Cranberry has relatively high levels of oxalate, chemicals that may raise the risk of kidney stones in some people. If you have kidney stones, talk to your doctor before taking cranberry supplements or drinking a lot of cranberry juice. DO NOT use cranberry if you already have a UTI. You should see a doctor for prescription antibiotics. Most cranberry juice has added sugar. Adult. 1  Juice: Studies have used 3 or more fluid oz. of pure juice per day, or about 10 oz. of cranberry juice cocktail, for preventing UTIs. 2  Ask your doctor about the right dose for you. 3  Fresh or frozen cranberries: 1.5 oz.
Here's an overview of the evidence: The Pros. A few studies have found that drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry pills can prevent UTIs, especially in women who are at risk for these infections: 1  One study looked at women who had a history of urinary tract infections caused by E. coli bacteria. There is some science behind the claims that cranberries can protect against urinary tract infections, especially in women who are prone to getting UTIs. Yet the benefit for other groups of people isn't as clear.
However, studies suggest that cranberry does not work once you have a UTI. That is because it helps keep bacteria from attaching to the urinary tract. But it is less effective once the bacteria have already attached. That is why cranberry is better at preventing UTIs than treating them. Adult. 1  Juice: Studies have used 3 or more fluid oz. of pure juice per day, or about 10 oz. of cranberry juice cocktail, for preventing UTIs. 2  Ask your doctor about the right dose for you. 3  Fresh or frozen cranberries: 1.5 oz.