Lesson Summary. Both phylogenetic trees and cladograms help show the relationships between different organisms, but only phylogenetic trees have branches that represent evolutionary time and amount of change. These were formerly based on physical characteristics, but are more accurately based on genetic relationships. Biologists use cladograms and phylogenetic trees to illustrate relationships among organisms and evolutionary relationships for organisms with a shared common ancestor. Both cladograms and phylogenetic trees show relationships among organisms, how alike, or similar, they might be. We can see a typical cladogram and phylogenetic tree here
A phylogenetic tree, also known as a phylogeny, is a diagram that depicts the lines of evolutionary descent of different species, organisms, or genes from a common ancestor. 
Evidence from morphological, biochemical, and gene sequence data suggests that all organisms on Earth are genetically related, and the genealogical relationships of living things can be represented by a vast evolutionary tree, the Tree of Life. 
Organisms that are closely related are found closer together than those that are not closely related. We related this to a family tree in which people who are closely related are near each other and those who are not as closely related are further apart. Biologists use cladograms and phylogenetic trees to illustrate relationships among organisms and evolutionary relationships for organisms with a shared common ancestor. Both cladograms and phylogenetic trees show relationships among organisms, how alike, or similar, they might be. We can see a typical cladogram and phylogenetic tree here
The phylogen … tic tree shows us the degree of relatedness of organisms. The more recently a species diverged the more closely related they are as they still share genetic material and the organisms will look more similar eg. (humans and chimpanzees share 94% of genetic material). Yes, it is an eukaryote(cells co … ntain a nucleus), autotroph (makes its own food), and is vascular(a more complicated plant). Not only animals can be organisms. And organism is really any living thing.
Phylogenetic systematics, a.k.a. evolutionary trees : Reading trees: A quick review. A phylogeny, or evolutionary tree, represents the evolutionary relationships among a set of organisms or groups of organisms, called taxa (singular: taxon).
Humans, chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans and their extinct ancestors form a family of organisms known as the Hominidae. Researchers generally agree that among the living animals in this group, humans are most closely related to chimpanzees, judging from comparisons of anatomy and genetics. 
A phylogenetic tree or evolutionary tree is a branching diagram or  tree  showing the inferred evolutionary relationships among various biological species or other entities—their phylogeny —based upon similarities and differences in their physical or genetic characteristics. A rooted phylogenetic tree, illustrating how Eukaryota and Archaea are more closely related to each other than to Bacteria (based on Cavalier-Smith 's theory of bacterial evolution).