Excel's Data Validation is one of the more underutilised and understated features in Microsoft's spreadsheet application. Surprisingly, it is underemployed even by many expert Excel and financial model users, as a means to restrict data inputs into cells and improve the viability of a financial spreadsheet. 
That is right. A simple paste special can remove the data validation rules for us quickly. Here is how. 1  Select an empty cell without any data validation on it. 2  Press CTRL+C. 3  Now, go back to the cell(s) from which you want to remove data validation rules. 4  Press OK and you are done
1 On the Data menu, click Validation, and then click the Settings tab. 2  Set the following restrictions: In the Allow box, click Text Length; in the Data box, click between; in the Minimum box, type 10000; and in the Maximum box, type 50000. 3  Click the Error Alert tab. 1 Set the following restrictions: In the Allow box, click Text Length; in the Data box, click between; in the Minimum box, type 10000; and in the Maximum box, type 50000. 2  Click the Error Alert tab. 3  Make sure the Show error alert after invalid data is entered check box is selected. 4  In the Style box, click Stop.
How to find cells with data validation. Do one of the following: Find all cells with data validation. On the Home tab, in the Editing group, click the arrow next to Find & Select, and then click Go To Special. Click Data Validation, and then click All. Find cells that match certain data validation settings. Click a cell that has the data validation settings for which you want to find matches. On the Home tab, in the Editing group, click the arrow next to Find & Select, and then click Go To Special. Click Data Validation, and then click Same. On the Data tab, in the Data Tools group, click Data Validation. Issue: The Validation command is unavailable. An Excel table may be linked to a SharePoint site You cannot remove data validation from an Excel table that is linked to a SharePoint site. 
Advertisement. 1  Select the cells you want to protect. ( 2 It's a good idea to make a note of the cells you protect in case you need to remove that protection later.). 3  On the Data menu, click Validation, and then click the Settings tab. 1 Set the following restrictions: In the Allow box, click Text Length; in the Data box, click between; in the Minimum box, type 10000; and in the Maximum box, type 50000. 2  Click the Error Alert tab. 3  Make sure the Show error alert after invalid data is entered check box is selected. 4  In the Style box, click Stop.
1 Click the Data tab. 2  From the Data Validation dropdown, choose Data Validation. 3  In Word 2003, choose Validation from the Data menu. 4  When Excel displays the warning message, click OK to delete the validation settings for both ranges. That's the mouse way; now, let's work through another method: 1  Select a blank cell and press [Ctrl]+C. 2  Select the range you're removing validation from. 3  Press [Alt]+E+S+N, which will launch the Paste Special dialog box with the Validation option selected.
Chances are that once you've put these rules into place, you'll not want to remove it, but if you do, you might go about it the same way you set them: 1  Click the Data tab. 2  In the Data Tools group, click the Data Validation dropdown and choose Data Validation. 3  In Word 2003, choose Validation from the Data menu. That's the mouse way; now, let's work through another method: 1  Select a blank cell and press [Ctrl]+C. 2  Select the range you're removing validation from. 3  Press [Alt]+E+S+N, which will launch the Paste Special dialog box with the Validation option selected.
1 Click the Data tab. 2  In the Data Tools group, click the Data Validation dropdown and choose Data Validation. 3  In Word 2003, choose Validation from the Data menu. 4  On the Settings tab, choose Any Value from the Allow control's dropdown. 5  Or, simply click Clear All. 6  Click OK. That's the mouse way; now, let's work through another method: 1  Select a blank cell and press [Ctrl]+C. 2  Select the range you're removing validation from. 3  Press [Alt]+E+S+N, which will launch the Paste Special dialog box with the Validation option selected.
1 Select the cells you want to protect. ( 2 It's a good idea to make a note of the cells you protect in case you need to remove that protection later.). 3  On the Data menu, click Validation, and then click the Settings tab. 1 Set the following restrictions: In the Allow box, click Text Length; in the Data box, click between; in the Minimum box, type 10000; and in the Maximum box, type 50000. 2  Click the Error Alert tab. 3  Make sure the Show error alert after invalid data is entered check box is selected. 4  In the Style box, click Stop.