Changes in Perceptions of Safety. A police presence can make some communities feel safer; this is true for school communities as well. Most studies of the effects of SRO programs focus on reports that faculty, parents, and students feel safer when there is a police officer present in the school.
When asked about the assignment in the schools, SROs indicated that they spend 50 percent of their time on law enforcement duties, including such activities as foot patrols of their school campuses and site inspections to ensure the safety and security of their schools.
The successful school resource officer program is a collaborative effort by certified law enforcement officers, educators, students, parents and the community to offer educational programs in the schools, reduce crime, drug abuse and violence-all of which contribute to a safe school environment.
A School Resource Officer (SRO) program places law enforcement officers in schools with the goal of creating and maintaining. safe, secure, and orderly learning environments for students, teachers, and staff. With such a program, the officer represents much more than the cop in the shop.. An SRO program reflects a. community's desire to ensure that its schools are safe, secure, and orderly. SROs represent a proactive strategy designed to bring prevention and intervention into the schools.
33 Research on the Effectiveness of School Resource Officers SROs engage in many activities that could contribute to school safety. A national survey of schools found that schools with SROs had significantly greater levels of law enforcement involvement compared to schools without assigned officers.
35 In addition, schools with SROs were more likely to work with law enforcement to create an emergency plan agreement; develop a written plan to deal with shootings, large scale fights, hostages, and bomb threats; and conduct risk assessments of the security of school buildings or grounds.
Many school administrators and parents express satisfaction with their SRO programs, even in instances where there was initial resistance to the idea of placing police officers in schools. 13. School administrator, teacher, and parent satisfaction is one measure of the value of an SRO program.
The Anchorage Police Department (APD) and the Anchorage School District (ASD) initiated the city’s School Resource Officer program in May 2003. SROs entered Anchorage schools for the first time in the fall of the 2003–04 school year.