Botanical Name for Silver Mound Artemisia: Silver Mound artemisia is called Artemisia schmidtiana 'Silver Mound' in terms of plant taxonomy. As is standard in botanical language, the words in the single quotes are the cultivar name. An alternate cultivar name is 'Nana.' Whenever you see the latter, you know that the plant in question is a dwarf. Growing Zones for Silver Mound Artemisia: This silvery low perennial is native to Japan. Plant it in growing zones 3-7. Growing Conditions: This is one plant that actually craves what many other specimens will balk at: ground that is relatively low in fertility.
But oh, what leaves! Silver Mound artemisia not only bears pretty foliage but is also an example of a plant with aromatic foliage, to boot. Growing Zones for Silver Mound Artemisia: This silvery low perennial is native to Japan. Plant it in growing zones 3-7. Growing Conditions: This is one plant that actually craves what many other specimens will balk at: ground that is relatively low in fertility.
In modern usage, Artemisia continues to be a vermifuge and repellent. Plant CharacteristicsLife span: Depending on the species, Artemisia s are perennial, tender perennial, or rarely annual. Plant form: Shrub Size: Ranges from small 6 to 8 inch mounds to erect stems and branches reaching up to 10 feet in height. Most garden varieties are between 1 and 4 feet tall with a 3-foot spread
‘Lambrook Silver’ is a particularly beautiful silvery cultivar that grows to about 3 feet tall. It looks great in front of a red brick wall and next to plants with reddish foliage. ‘Powis Castle’, also 3 feet tall, is an outstanding plant with feathery silver leaves, more finely cut than those of A. absinthium. There are many ways to utilize the versatility of the artemisias. French tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus var. sativa) is an obvious choice for the kitchen garden, and wreath makers will want a stand of sweet Annie and/or Silver King.
Wormwood is an herb. The above-ground plant parts and oil are used for medicine. Wormwood is used for various digestion problems such as loss of appetite, upset stomach, gall bladder disease, and intestinal spasms. Wormwood is also used to treat fever, liver disease, and worm infections; to increase sexual desire; as a tonic; and to stimulate sweating. Wormwood oil is used as a counterirritant to reduce pain. In manufacturing, wormwood oil is used as a fragrance component in soaps, cosmetics, and perfumes. It is also used as an insecticide. Wormwood is used in some alcoholic beverages. Vermouth, for example, is a wine beverage flavored with extracts of wormwood.
Silver Brocade is a perennial used for planters and garden edging. Artemisia stelleriana, also known as Artemisia Silver Brocade, grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 3 through 9. Silver Brocade closely resembles an annual bedding plant known as Dusty Miller. The silvery white color of the Silver Brocade grows as a perennial and does well in the garden or as a filler in container plantings. 1. Clear away dead stems and leaves of the Silver Brocade plant. Inspect the plant for diseased areas that may lead to weak or rotting plants. Spread the leaves and stems to inspect the center of the plant for any existing problems, such as stem rot or powdery mildew.
A. abrotanum ‘Silver’ is a very hairy cultivar. A. absinthium (wormwood): Wormwood can eliminate the common roundworm and has been used against fungal infections of the skin. It is still used in some topical antifungal preparations. It is toxic to mites (Tucker & DeBaggio, pp. Plant CharacteristicsLife span: Depending on the species, Artemisia s are perennial, tender perennial, or rarely annual. Plant form: Shrub Size: Ranges from small 6 to 8 inch mounds to erect stems and branches reaching up to 10 feet in height.
Artemisia stelleriana 'Silver Brocade' (Dusty Miller). This plant was introduced to North America by the University of British Columbia Botanical Gardens. This is an excellent fast-growing plant that is grown primarily for its silvery cut-leaf foliage. It does produce bright yellow flowers, but they are very small. 
‘Silver’ is a very hairy cultivar. A. absinthium. (wormwood): Wormwood. can eliminate the common roundworm. and has been used against fungal. infections of the skin. It is still used in. some topical antifungal preparations. Plant CharacteristicsLife span: Depending on the species, Artemisia s are perennial, tender perennial, or rarely annual. Plant form: Shrub Size: Ranges from small 6 to 8 inch mounds to erect stems and branches reaching up to 10 feet in height.