Although Afrikaans is mainly spoken in South Africa and Namibia, smaller Afrikaans-speaking populations live in Argentina, Australia, Botswana, Brazil, Canada, Lesotho, Malawi, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Swaziland, the UAE, the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, the USA, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
The Afrikaans media, to me, means that I have a second soul, a second way of looking at life, at people through another window. I often get a more nuanced sense of the world as I discover layers of narratives, stories and ideas, which do not necessarily always reveal themselves in a monolingual English environment. Afrikaans media means that a brand actually made an effort – it took the time and spent the money to speak to me in my mother tongue. Some things are just better said in Afrikaans – take for instance the word ‘sommer ’ as in ‘just sommer ’. I don’t think there’s an English equival
This list of Afrikanerisms comprises slang words and phrases influenced by Afrikaans and other African languages. Typical users include people with Afrikaans as their first language but who speak English as a second language; and people living in areas where the population speaks both English and Afrikaans. 
Afrikaans media means so many different thing to different people. Melina Meletakos asks some media-savvy Afrikaners what they think. Some say Afrikaans is a dying language but not if you’re asking Afrikaners. Afrikaans media means that a brand actually made an effort – it took the time and spent the money to speak to me in my mother tongue. Some things are just better said in Afrikaans – take for instance the word ‘sommer ’ as in ‘just sommer ’. I don’t think there’s an English equivalent
• AFRIKAANS (noun). The noun AFRIKAANS has 1 sense: 1. an official language of the Republic of South Africa; closely related to Dutch and Flemish. Familiarity information: AFRIKAANS used as a noun is very rare. • AFRIKAANS (adjective). The adjective AFRIKAANS has 1 sense: 1. belonging or relating to white people of South Africa whose ancestors were Dutch or to their language. Familiarity information: AFRIKAANS used as an adjective is very rare.
Afrikaans (/ˌaːfrɨˈkɑːnᵗs/ or /-ˈkɑːnz/) is one of the official languages of South Africa. Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
In neighbouring Namibia, Afrikaans is widely spoken as a second language and used as lingua franca, while as a native language it is spoken in 11% of households, mainly concentrated in the capital Windhoek and the southern regions of Hardap and ǁKaras. Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
The main Afrikaans dictionary is the Woordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal (WAT) (Dictionary of the Afrikaans Language), which is as yet incomplete owing to the scale of the project, but the one-volume dictionary in household use is the Verklarende Handwoordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal (HAT). Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
Afrikaans Translation service by ImTranslator offers online translations from and to Afrikaans language for over 50 other languages. Afrikaans Translation tool includes Afrikaans online translator, multilingual on-screen keyboard, back translation, email service and much more. 