Mydriasis /mɨˈdraɪ.əsɪs/ is the dilation of the pupil, usually defined as when having a non-physiological cause, but sometimes defined as potentially being a physiological pupillary response. Non-physiological causes of mydriasis include disease, trauma, or the use of drugs. The opposite, constriction of the pupil, is referred to as miosis. Both mydriasis and miosis can be physiological. Anisocoria is the condition of one pupil being more dilated than the other.
An informal term for mydriasis is blown pupil, and is used by medical providers. It is usually used to refer to a fixed, unilateral mydriasis, which could be a symptom of raised intracranial pressure. The opposite, constriction of the pupil, is referred to as miosis. Both mydriasis and miosis can be physiological. Anisocoria is the condition of one pupil being more dilated than the other.
Structure and functions of the nervous system. Muscle contraction is initiated by the nervous system which together with the endocrine system controls the human organism. They are responsible for the steadiness of the inner environment and coordination of all the bodily functions. The nerve cell, a neuron, is the basic unit of the nervous system (Fig
The Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) is the involuntary division of the nervous system. It consists of autonomic neurons that conduct impulses from the central nervous system (brain and/or spinal cord) to glands, smooth muscle and cardiac muscle. The nucleus of the first neuron is located in the central nervous system. (SNS neurons begin at the thoracic and lumbar areas of the spinal cord, PNS neurons begin at the cranial nerves and sacral spinal cord). The first neuron's axons are located in the autonomic ganglia.
In medicine, the pupillary reflex or pupillary light reflex is the reduction of pupil size in response to light. It is a normal response and dependent on the function of the optic nerves and oculomotor nerves. Pupillary constriction is sometimes used as a synonym for pupillaryreflex but something more general. The Nervous System has FOUR FUNCTIONS that enable the body to respond quickly. The Nervous System: A. Gathers information both from the outside world and from inside the body. SENSORY FUNCTION B. Transmits the information to the processing area of the brain and spinal cord.
While the visual cortex in the back of the brain assembles the images we see, a different, older part of our nervous system manages the continuous tuning of our pupil size, alongside other functions—like heart rate and perspiration—that operate mostly outside our conscious control. 
Pupillary response. Pupillary response is a physiological response that varies the size of the pupil, via the optic and oculomotor cranial nerve. This response results in either constriction (miosis), narrowing the pupil, or dilation (mydriasis), widening the pupil. Use of central nervous system stimulant drugs and some hallucinogenic drugs can cause dilation of the pupil. In ophthalmology, intensive studies of pupillary response are conducted via videopupillometry. Anisocoria is the condition of one pupil being more dilated than the other.
Autonomic Nervous System. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) regulates the functions of our internal organs (the viscera) such as the heart, stomach and intestines. The ANS is part of the peripheral nervous system and it also controls some of the muscles within the body. We are often unaware of the ANS because it functions involuntary and reflexively. For example, we do not notice when blood vessels change size or when our heart beats faster.
Within the brain, the autonomic nervous system is regulated by the hypothalamus. Autonomic functions include control of respiration, cardiac regulation (the cardiac control center), vasomotor activity (the vasomotor center), and certain reflex actions such as coughing, sneezing, swallowing and vomiting. 