For nurse practitioners, a DEA number now costs $731 for a three-year period. The cost of a DEA number can be a hefty burden for a new grad to bear. Fortunately, many employers offer assistance in paying for licensing costs and other related expenses such as obtaining a DEA number. Apply as soon as possible to avoid any delays to your practice. To apply for a DEA number, visit the Drug Enforcement Administration website to begin your application. Have your social security number, state license information, and credit card handy. The online DEA application has six sections to complete.
Please have the following information available before you begin the application: Section 1. Personal/Business Information If you are applying for an Individual Registration (Practitioner, MLP, Researcher) you are required to provide your Full Name, Address, Social Security Number, and Phone Number. 1 No registration will be issued unless a completed application form has been received (21 CFR 1301.13). 2  In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no person is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. 3  The OMB number for this collection is (See Above).
The second section of the DEA number application inquires as to which schedules of drugs you plan to prescribe. If your state places limitations on which medication schedules nurse practitioners are permitted to prescribe, make sure to choose only those schedules that are within the scope of practice for your state. Apply as soon as possible to avoid any delays to your practice. To apply for a DEA number, visit the Drug Enforcement Administration website to begin your application. Have your social security number, state license information, and credit card handy. The online DEA application has six sections to complete.
Once your NP license is active, you may begin your application. Apply as soon as possible to avoid any delays to your practice. To apply for a DEA number, visit the Drug Enforcement Administration website to begin your application. Have your social security number, state license information, and credit card handy. The online DEA application has six sections to complete.
1 To obtain this license, the nurse practitioner must apply to the DEA and pay the required fee. 2  Once this license has been obtained, it must be renewed with the DEA. 3  Controlled substances, Class 2, 3, 4, & 5 can be prescribed. 4  Class 2 cannot be refilled. If you are going to prescribe and/or dispense controlled substances, you will need to apply to the Drug Enforcement Administration for a DEA number. 1  A DEA number cannot be obtained until you have received prescribing and/or dispensing authority from the Board.
For applicants who completed California Board of Registered Nursing a approved Nurse Practitioner (NP) Advanced Pharmacology Course, please provide the following: • Nurse Practitioner Furnishing Number Application form completed by the applicant and $50.00 application fee. • A verification(s) of employment history which contains a minimum of five (5) years experience working as a Nurse Practitioner and prescribing/furnishing medication. For applicants who completed a Nurse Practitioner (NP) Advanced Pharmacology course more than five (5) years preceding the date of submitting the application to the Board of California Registered Nursing, in addition to the items noted above, you must also
Completing the application for a DEA number itself takes just 20 to 30 minutes. The waiting period to receive your DEA number is about four to six weeks. For DEA number renewals, the waiting period is about four weeks. For most nurse practitioners, acquiring a DEA number will be essential to your practice. Apply as soon as possible to avoid any delays to your practice. To apply for a DEA number, visit the Drug Enforcement Administration website to begin your application. Have your social security number, state license information, and credit card handy. The online DEA application has six sections to complete.
Fees. The fee for certification and initial registration to practice as a nurse practitioner (NP) in each specialty practice area is $85. ($50 certificate application fee plus a $35 fee for initial registration.). Fees are subject to change. 1 Your NP registration certificate will authorize you to practice as a NP for 3 years. 2  You must renew your NP registration and your RN registration with NYSED in order to continue practicing as a nurse practitioner.