The purpose of taxes is to pay for government. Taxes should be based on how much government you are using rather than on how much money you earn. For example, I have no kids, no house, and no need for much of anything. I live a fairly minimalist lifestyle. Yes, because they can afford to. If the poor and rich pay same, then it's like there is no difference between them. But in the real world, we separate them. So, in the same way, for taxes, the rich should pay more. This could be a great contribution to the country, and its not much for the rich, it's just a little more than they usually pay
5 higher taxes for wealthy taxpayers. It's not a good time to be rich when it comes to taxes. Wealthy taxpayers faced several higher taxes, thanks to tax law changes in 2012. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, also known as the fiscal cliff tax bill, raised tax rates on wealthy individuals' ordinary and investment income. 
If you do not pay your taxes, the government agency that oversees taxes — the Internal Revenue Service or IRS — will require you to pay your taxes or else face penalties, such as fines or going to jail. The money you pay in taxes goes many places. When you buy things at a store, you also usually pay sales tax, which is a percentage of the cost of the item charged by the store. If you own property, you also pay property taxes on the value of your property. Paying your taxes is considered a civic duty, although doing so is also a requirement of the law.
For those who believe that the wealthiest Americans already pay most of the taxes, they couldn't be more wrong. Lower-income earners pay a much higher percentage in combined state and local income, property, sales and excise taxes. As America's wealth increased from $47 trillion to an incredible $80.66 trillion in just five years, the richest 1% are estimated to have added an average of $5 million each to their fortunes. They pay no wealth tax, they can defer their income taxes, and they pay a reduced capital gains tax when they decide to cash in.
I'm middle class so they should have higher taxes than us. Because we have to do all the work, that's why we should have less taxes. We help the economy with work in factories and are willing to work for our country. So that's why they should have higher taxes. Yes, because they can afford to. If the poor and rich pay same, then it's like there is no difference between them. But in the real world, we separate them. So, in the same way, for taxes, the rich should pay more. This could be a great contribution to the country, and its not much for the rich, it's just a little more than they usually pay
Rich should pay more taxes. Yes, I personally believe that the people who earn more and are rich should pay more taxes. Everyone should pay the same percentage of taxes as the next person. If someone make one million a year, they should pay 15% of taxes just like the person who makes $15,000 a year should pay 15%. No. Rich people already pay more than their fair share in taxes. The top 1% of people in this country (USA) pay for over a third (37%) of all income tax collected while reporting only 17% of all income. Millionaires account for only 9% of all income yet they pay 20% of the total income taxes.
The Rich Should Pay Their Share. I am not saying that taxes on the rich should be raised. What I'm saying is that the loopholes should be closed, thus raising the amount of taxes for which they are responsible. As it stands now, if a person makes $1 million per year, he or she does not need to pay any tax at all. No. Rich people already pay more than their fair share in taxes. The top 1% of people in this country (USA) pay for over a third (37%) of all income tax collected while reporting only 17% of all income. Millionaires account for only 9% of all income yet they pay 20% of the total income taxes.
All citizens of a country are morally and legally bound to pay their fair share of tax. In this article I will cover the importance of paying taxes to the government and why we should not do the mistake of hiding money or avoiding taxes. A large percentage of people who pay tax think as if government is trying to steal their hard earned money .. well thats not true. Therefore we pay for these services in form of tax and use them as a whole society.The result of not paying taxes could result in penalty and prison time. So next time when the time comes to pay taxes, do not feel too bad. It is your contribution to the services you receive in return