Inulin is a soluble, dietary fibre extracted exclusively from chicory root. As a soluble powder it can be added to any food or drink with little impact on taste or texture whilst adding a source of fibre to your daily diet. 100% natural, Inulin is a probiotic and bifidogenic and helps boost your fibre intake.
Inulin is a soluble fiber and fructo-oligosaccharide (FOS) that functions as a prebiotic to promote digestive health by stimulating beneficial bacteria in the gut. New chicory-derived Inulin powder from Swanson Ultra is suitable for adding to many of your favorite foods as a thickening agent and sweetener. Rated 5 out of 5 by M953 *BEST* Inulin powder I have EVER used! No joke... and I have used several brands to know what I'm talking about. First, this product has a nice, very mild, fruity taste. Second, this product dissolves better and faster in warm liquid than any other inulin powder I have purchased.
INULIN Overview Information. Inulin is a starchy substance found in a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, including wheat, onions, bananas, leeks, artichokes, and asparagus. The inulin that is used for medicine is most commonly obtained by soaking chicory roots in hot water. Inulin is used for high blood fats, including cholesterol and triglycerides. It is also used for weight loss, constipation, and as a food additive to improve taste.
Chicory is a Good Source of Inulin. Inulin or inulin fiber, as it is also known, is a carbohydrate. It is made up of a small number of linked sugar molecules and is therefore classed as an oligosaccharide. This term is derived from the Greek words oligos, meaning few and sacchar, which means sugar. 
Organic agave inulin powder is a nutritious sweetener with a neutral, clean, mildly sweet flavor that makes it a perfect substitute for sugar. Extracted from all natural organic blue agave, this powder is an excellent source of dietary fiber and acts as a prebiotic to support intestinal health. Organic agave inulin powder is a healthy and natural sweetener that can be substituted for sugar. It's highly soluble in cold water and has a neutral taste, which makes it a great option for sweetening beverages and just about any recipe.
Inulin is used by some plants as a means of storing energy and is typically found in roots or rhizomes. Most plants that synthesize and store inulin do not store other forms of carbohydrate such as starch. 
Inulin is a polysaccharide that is produced by plants such as onions, leeks, Jerusalem artichokes, and garlic. It can also be referred to as neosugar, alant starch, Alantin, and diabetic sugar. Many manufacturers are putting it in processed foods because it has tremendous health benefits. Onions and garlic are excellent natural sources of dietary inulin. The jerusalem artichoke, or sun choke, is a good source of inulin. Inulin is produced by plants such as spring onions. Too much inulin can lead to diarrhea in some people. Too much inulin can cause gas and bloating.
Inulin is a type of fiber that's found in certain plant foods. Chicory root is the main source of inulin in supplement form. Chicory was originally found in Europe and Asia. Egyptians grew it thousands of years ago as a medicine. 
Inulin is also used to replace some of the flour in baked goods. Both add fiber that doesn’t taste like fiber. Because of its wide use as a food ingredient, you may already have inulin in your diet without knowing it. You also can take supplemental inulin, which is available in capsule and powder forms. 1  1
Inulin is used as a nutritional supplement to fortify food products. Inulin and its byproduct, oligofructose, are both carbohydrates and fibers. Both add fiber that doesn’t taste like fiber. Because of its wide use as a food ingredient, you may already have inulin in your diet without knowing it. You also can take supplemental inulin, which is available in capsule and powder forms.