Attendance cost depends on the location of the school and state of residence but you can expect to pay from $300 to $600 for a typical nurse aide training class which lasts approximately six weeks. A certified nurse aide is usually payed by the hour and the amount you will earn varies in every state. If you work in a city you will receive a higher hourly salary than someone who does not. As an inexperienced nurse aide you can expect to earn a hourly wage of $8.00 to $11.00. The more experience you have the better your hourly pay will become. For example a nurse aide with at least one year of experience can expect to receive between $12.00 to $14.00 per hour. Most nursing homes pay the same hourly rates as hospitals and have very attractive benefits for their certified nurse aide employees.
Average Tuition Costs. The overall average tuition cost for in-state CNA students is about $71.50 per credit hour, and the average cost for out-of-state students is around $263.50 per credit hour. Of course, this varies depending on the school you choose to attend, and some facilities may charge a flat rate for the training program. Those were the average tuition costs and fees for most CNA programs today. However, it is essential to note that costs may vary significantly depending on the school you choose to train at. Additionally, some facilities such as the Red Cross may charge a flat rate cost of about $1,250 to $1,500.
Tuition for CNA programs will vary based on whether you enroll in a diploma program or an associate's degree program. As an example of tuition and fees, American Career College's medical assistant program runs about $17,000 for a nine-month program. An accelerated program totals about $13,000. This is broken into contact hours and clinic practice. State-approved programs offer a minimum of 75 hours of classroom instruction and clinical training. As an example, Daytona College's nursing assistant program divides 120 hours this way: Four weeks in class and two weeks in a clinical setting.
Report Abuse. I took a CNA course this semester at my community college. Many community college's are offering CNA courses now. It cost about $400 and there were 2 different classes. One that could be taken at nights but would take 15 weeks, and another that was during the day and would take 10 weeks. Some courses are 8 weeks long. That is probably the shortest amount of time you should anticipate being in the CNA program.
The training and state certification you receive, CNA License (after passing your state skills and knowledge test), is the same regardless of where you get the training or how much you pay for it. There are no restrictions on who can be a CNA based on gender. It cost about $400 and there were 2 different classes. One that could be taken at nights but would take 15 weeks, and another that was during the day and would take 10 weeks. Some courses are 8 weeks long. That is probably the shortest amount of time you should anticipate being in the CNA program.
To be a CNA all that is required is 75 hours of training (A few states require 100 hours), 40 hours of classroom and 35 hours of clinical. It cost about $400 and there were 2 different classes. One that could be taken at nights but would take 15 weeks, and another that was during the day and would take 10 weeks. Some courses are 8 weeks long. That is probably the shortest amount of time you should anticipate being in the CNA program.
To become a CNA, you'll need a high school diploma or GED, plus nursing assistant training. You can find these programs at community colleges, trade schools and medical facilities. Before enrolling, be sure the program is approved by your state's nursing board. CNA Pay and Benefits. CNA pay and benefits will depend on where you work, but the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) 2014-15 Occupational Outlook Handbook lists the annual median salary for CNAs as $24,400. The lowest 10 percent earn less than $18,300, but the top 10 percent earn $35,330