This source for the surname, also found as 'Frye' in the modern idiom is chiefly confined to the south and southwest of England. The second origin is from another nickname, here for a small person from the Middle English 'fry' meaning offspring, a child or small person. The surname is first recorded in the late 12th Century (see below). One, Thomas le Frye is noted in the Hundred Rolls of Wiltshire (1273). Elizabeth Fry (1780-1845), was a well known bearer of the name, she became a quaker minister at the age of 29 yrs., and thereafter was tireless in her work as a prison reformer, also inducing the government to regulate the transportation of criminals to Australia.
Now there is a third more likely possible origin that that actually encompasses the previously mentioned two. The name Fry is likely to have came from the Northern European god Freyr. Freyr was a fertility god and is the origin of several English words to do with new life. For example frog and fry (newly hatched fish). The nickname for child was also fry and there is an association with offspring and small.
Recorded in several spelling forms including: Fry, Frye, Fray and Free, this interesting English surname has two possible sources. The first is as a nickname or status name from the Old English pre 7th Century word 'freo' or 'frig' meaning 'free (born)' i.e., not a serf, and not belonging to a lord. The source for this version of the surname was originally confined mainly to the south and southwest of England. The second origin is from another nickname, this time for a small person from the Middle English word 'fry' meaning offspring, or small person.
Fry in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Fry genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Fry surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list. If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Fry in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Fry surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch.
Fry is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#838 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Fry for boys. Fry has not been listed in the Top 1000 so far. (2014 Birth Statistics). Fry /fry/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Old English and Old Norse origin, and the meaning of Fry is free; seed. Transferred use of the surname, in origin denoting a free person (frig) or a small person/seed (fri). Kreatif forms: Fofry, Fryfa, Fryfo. [ more ].
Fry in Ancestry Family Histories. Read online surname origin books, biographies, journals, county histories, multi-generational genealogies & family trees, memoirs and other first-hand historical narratives which pertain to the Fry family name to help add detail and personality to the pages of your family history. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Fry in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Fry surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch.
Fry Name Meaning. English (chiefly south and southwestern England): variant of Free, from the Old English byform frig.English: nickname for a small person, from Middle English fry ‘small person’, ‘child’, ‘offspring’ (Old Norse frjo ‘frjó’).Seed americanized spelling Of German, Frei. frey You can find out when most of the Fry families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
This interesting name has two possible sources, the first being as a variant of the nickname or status name 'Free' from the Old English pre 7th Century word 'freo' or 'frig' meaning 'free (born)' i.e., not a serf, not belonging to a lord. Elizabeth Fry (1780-1845), was a well known bearer of the name, she became a quaker minister at the age of 29 yrs., and thereafter was tireless in her work as a prison reformer, also inducing the government to regulate the transportation of criminals to Australia.
The surname Fry is English in origin, found chiefly in south and southwest England. It was previously thought to have two possible origins as follows: It is a variation of Free, taken from the Old English frig. The name Fry is likely to have came from the Northern European god Freyr. Freyr was a fertility god and is the origin of several English words to do with new life. For example frog and fry (newly hatched fish). The nickname for child was also fry and there is an association with offspring and small.