Found This Helpful. You may be hearing about medium density fiberboard (MDF) with increasing frequency, but be unsure what it is or how to use it. MDF is a wood-based building material made by cooking fine wood particles down to their fibers and bonding them together under heat and pressure. Ways to Cut MDF. Cut MDF using carbide, ceramic or diamond blades, and join it using yellow woodworking glue. Because it is denser than other wood products, you will need special tools to work with it, but you get a clean, sharp edge when you cut it properly. The uses for MDF are as varied as your ideas
MDF is a very cost affective material used as a solid wood alternative. MDF is defined as a medium-density fiberboard typically made from hard and softwood particles mixed wit … h resin to create a solid form. Common uses can include furniture, countertop (substrate), cabinets. 
Best Answer: MDF is mostly used in the furniture industry to make kitchen cabinets, wardrobes, cupboards etc.. It is also often used in loudspeaker enclosures, due to its increased weight and rigidity over normal plywood. It may be used to make display cabinets and interior fittings for shops and showrooms (Slatwall Panels made from MDF are used in this industry).
Medium-density fiberboard (MDF) is generally cheaper than plywood, but it is not as hard and can sag under heavy weight. MDF doesn't handle moisture very well, either, so it is more suited for indoor use, such as in furniture. 
Medium Density Fibreboard (MDF) is a reconstituted wood panel product. It is a dry-processed fibreboard manufactured from wood fibres, as opposed to veneers or particles, and is denser than plywood and particleboard. MDF has an even density throughout and is smooth on both sides. Like Standard MDF, MR MDF should only be used for interior applications. Being ‘moisture resistant' means it is suitable for high humidity areas and occasional wetting-areas such as bathrooms and laundries and for furniture in tropical areas.
It is made up of separated fibres, but can be used as a building material similar in application to plywood. It is stronger and much denser than particle board. The name derives from the distinction in densities of fibreboard. Large-scale production of MDF began in the 1980s, in both North America and Europe. Medium-density fibreboard output in 2005. In Australia and New Zealand, the main species of tree used for MDF is plantation-grown radiata pine; but a variety of other products have also been used, including other woods, waste paper and fibres.
MDF is commonly used for shelving in closets and cabinets because it’s inexpensive and smooth. But MDF isn’t as stiff as plywood and will sag over time. So when I use MDF shelving for heavy loads, I simply beef it up with wood. First, I rip a 1x4 right down the middle to get two strips about 1-5/8 in. wide. If you use MDF as baseboard, be sure to paint the lower edge before installation. That will provide short-term protection against occasional spills. Also install the baseboard about 1/4 in. above the floor and then cover the gap with wood base shoe molding.
Over time, the word MDF has become a generic name for any dry process fibre board. MDF density is typically between 500 kg/m 3 (31 lbs/ft 3) and 1000 kg/m 3 (62 lbs/ft 3). The range of density and classification as Light or Standard or High density board is a misnomer and confusing. Medium-density fibreboard output in 2005. In Australia and New Zealand, the main species of tree used for MDF is plantation-grown radiata pine; but a variety of other products have also been used, including other woods, waste paper and fibres.
MDF is a very cost affective material used as a solid wood alternative. MDF is defined as a medium-density fiberboard typically made from hard and softwood particles mixed wit … h resin to create a solid form. Common uses can include furniture, countertop (substrate), cabinets. 