Metallurgy in pre-Columbian America is the extraction and purification of metals, as well as creating metal alloys and fabrication with metal by Indigenous peoples of the Americas prior to European contact in the late 15th century. 
Iron ore was first discovered by European settlers when the early land surveyor, William Austin Burt, was shown iron ore by an Indian chieftain near what is now Negaunee, Michigan, in 1844. He had noticed a strange movement of his compass needle while surveying near where the present town of Ishpeming is located. 
A 2,000-year-old mine has been discovered high in mountains in Peru. The find offers proof that an ancient people in the Andes mined hematite iron ore centuries before the Inca Empire, archaeologists say. The mine was used to tap a vein of hematite, or ochre—the first such mine found in South America that predates the arrival of Spanish conquistadors, experts note. Enlarge Photo. 
I ron is such a primal need for any modern civilization. One of the first things that early colonists went after, as they tried to recreate Europe in the American wilderness, was iron. Iron ore had turned up on an island off the North Carolina coast in 1585. That was too inaccessible to mine, but then Jamestown settlers found iron ore on the mainland.
The history of the trade is therefore, one of absorbing interest. Iron ore was discovered on the Marquette Range on September 19, 1844 by William A. Burt, United States Deputy Surveyor, and party who were surveying in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. This was the first iron ever to be made from Lake Superior ore. The next step in development was the construction of a forge on Carp River, about three miles from the Jackson Mine, and on February 10, 1848, the first iron from the Lake Superior region was made in this forge by Ariel N. Berney.
Iron ore was discovered on the three iron ranges at different times. The first ore shipped from the Vermilion Range was in 1884, the Mesabi Range in 1892, and the Cuyuna Range in 1911. The mines were operated through the hard work of the miners. They used shovels and pickaxes to take the ore out of the rock. 
The next day land was discovered. A New World is Revealed. Columbus's journal of his first voyage to America has been lost. However, we do have an accurate abstract of the journal written by Bartolome de las Casas in the 1530s. Las Casas was an historian and Columbus's biographer who had access to the original journal of the voyage.
Christopher Columbus gets the lion’s share of the credit for discovering America in 1492, but the evidence weighs heavily against him being the first on­e to find the New World. If Columbus had actually discovered America, he'd have found an unpopulated terrain, and of course, he didn’t. While Columbus may have been the first European to reach Central America, it is Giovanni Caboto who is the first to have arrived in North America, landing in Labrador, off the east coast of Canada, in 1497.
Virginia Iron-making limped after that, and eyes turned to the Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts. In 1644, only 24 years after the Pilgrims landed, John Winthrop set out to build bog-iron smelters on two sites -- one in Braintree, south of Boston, the other just north of Boston on the Saugus River. One of the first things that early colonists went after, as they tried to recreate Europe in the American wilderness, was iron. Iron ore had turned up on an island off the North Carolina coast in 1585. That was too inaccessible to mine, but then Jamestown settlers found iron ore on the mainland.
Iron is such a primal need for any modern civilization. One of the first things that early colonists went after, as they tried to recreate Europe in the American wilderness, was iron. Iron ore had turned up on an island off the North Carolina coast in 1585. That was too inaccessible to mine, but then Jamestown settlers found iron ore on the mainland.