Patented one hundred years ago in 1912, the spiral wound gasket is the most frequently used gasket for high temperature, high pressure service. Whether you need a simple winding, or if you need inner and outer rings, Advanced Sealing can fill your needs with the latest in materials and design technology.
Style WR gaskets consist of a Spiral Wound sealing component with a solid metal outer guide ring. A general purpose gasket suitable for use with flat face and raised face flanges.. The outer guide ring provides additional radial strength to prevent gasket blowout and acts as a compression stop.
Spiral wound gaskets are constructed of a thin strip of metal (such as metal wire) and a nonmetallic filler material; the metal strip (metal wire) and the nonmetallic filler material are wound together, the end result being the spiral wound gasket.
Spiral wound gaskets can be used for sealing flange joints, manhole and handhold covers, tube covers, boilers, heat exchangers, pressure vessels, pumps, compressors and valves; in industries such as petrochemical, pharmaceutical, shipbuilding, and food processing, in power industries and nuclear power stations.
Semi-Metallic gaskets are composites of metal and non-metallic materials. The metal is intended to offer strength and resiliency, while the non-metallic portion provides conformability and sealability. Often used semi-metallic gaskets are spiral wound and camprofile, and a variety of metal-reinforced graphite gaskets.
Lamons Spiral Wound gaskets are available in a variety of styles to suit the particular flange facing being utilized on the flanges.
Advanced Sealing’s Style SW Spiral Wound gasket is made up of a spiral wound sealing element with an outer guide ring that serves to center the gasket in a standard flange. It is manufactured to the dimensions of ASME B16.20 for use in ASME B16.5 and ASME B16.47 flanges.
Spiral Wound gaskets can be fabricated of any metal which is available in thin strip and which can be welded; therefore they can be used against virtually any corrosive medium dependent upon the choice of the metal and filler.
Spirals are used in very high pressure applications or in very corrosive or high temperature environments such as pipelines in the chemical and petroleum industries. Construction of the sealing part of the gasket is a strip of high grade metal, commonly stainless steel, wound in a spiral (known as the winding).
The style LS spiral wound gasket has been engineered by Flexitallic to provide an alternative to sheet gaskets in Class 150 and Class 300 service. Style LS gaskets have the inherent strength, resiliency and blowout resistance of spiral wound gaskets, yet require low bolt load for seating.