Clastic sedimentary rocks contain clasts. These are fragments or pieces of rock or minerals. The composition of clastic sedimentary rocks is divided into three types-clay/silt, sand and gravel. Clay and silt are less than 1/16 mm. These are not visible to the unaided eye. Sand is clasts between 1/16 and 2 mm in size, and gravel is greater than 2 mm.
Examples of clastic sedimentary rocks are conglomerate and shale. Examples of non-clastic or chemical sedimentary rocks are rock gypsum and rock salt. sedimentary rock is a rock formed when small pieces of rock ,or sedimt together.
Medium-grained rocks can be composed of quartz grains, feldspar grains (arkose), or rock fragments and clay (graywacke). Sandstone (Photograph by Parvinder Sethi). Medium-sized grains in clastic sedimentary rocks form sandstone. This sample is a quartz
Most sedimentary rocks are derived by processes of weathering, transportation, deposition, and diagenesis. The final texture (grain size, shape, sorting, mineralolgy, etc.) in a sediment or sedimentary rocks is dependent on process that occur during each stage.
Shale, sandstone, and limestone are the most common types of sedimentary rocks. They are formed by the most common mineral that is found on or near the surface of the Earth. The mineral that forms these sedimentary rocks is feldspar.
Although feldspar eventually breaks down to clay minerals and quartz, it is still the third most abundant mineral in sedimentary rocks. Carbonate minerals, either precipitated directly or by organisms, make up most biochemical and chemical sedimentary rocks, but carbonates are also common in mudrocks and sandstones.
1 Feldspar. 2  Although feldspars are the most common minerals in igneous and metamorphic rocks, feldspars are less stable than quartz at conditions near the Earth's surface. 3  Thus feldspars make up only 10-15% of all sandstones.
Conglomerate is a clastic sedimentary rock that contains large (greater than two millimeters in diameter) rounded clasts. The space between the clasts is generally filled with smaller particles and/or a chemical cement that binds the rock together. Conglomerate can have a variety of compositions.