According to wikipedia the following also increase blood glucose levels (hyperglycemic hormones): S … omatostatin, Cortisol, Growth Hormone, Glucagon, Thyroxine, and Epineprine. Typically we use the term blood glucose, or blood sugar to describe the amount of glucose in someone's blood. There is more than one hormone that regulated blood glucose levels. The most important is insulin, which is the only one that lowers blood glucose when blood sugar levels are … high. It causes liver, fat, and muscle cells to take up excess glucose and convert it to glycogon which can be stored.
What is glucagon? Glucagon is a hormone that is involved in controlling blood sugar (glucose) levels. It is secreted into the bloodstream by the alpha cells, found in the islets of Langerhans, in the pancreas. Release of glucagon is stimulated by low blood glucose (hypoglycaemia), protein-rich meals and adrenaline (another important hormone for combating low glucose). Release of glucagon is prevented by raised blood glucose and carbohydrate in meals, detected by cells
Insulin is secreted by the beta cells of the pancreas in response to high blood sugar, although a low level of insulin is always secreted by the pancreas. After a meal, the amount of insulin secreted into the blood increases as the blood glucose rises. The human body requires that the blood glucose level is maintained in a very narrow range. Homeostasis is regulated by two hormones, insulin and glucagon which are both secreted by the endocrin
Glucagon is the main hormone that increases blood glucose levels. According to wikipedia the following also increase blood glucose levels (hyperglycemic hormones): S … omatostatin, Cortisol, Growth Hormone, Glucagon, Thyroxine, and Epineprine. Typically we use the term blood glucose, or blood sugar to describe the amount of glucose in someone's blood. Two hormones are released by the pancreas, which both regulate blood sugar levels. The best known is insulin, which encourages glucose to be stored in the muscles and liver as glycogen.
The pancreas is unusual among the body's glands in that it also has a very important endocrine function. Small groups of special cells called islet cells throughout the organ make the hormones of insulin and glucagon. These, of course, are hormones that are critical in regulating blood sugar levels. 
For homeostasis, insulin is the main hormone involved. Blood sugar regulation is the process by which the levels of blood sugar, primarily glucose, are maintained by the body.
Glucagon is released to stop blood sugar levels dropping too low, while insulin is released to stop blood sugar levels rising too high. Release of glucagon is stimulated by low blood glucose (hypoglycaemia), protein-rich meals and adrenaline (another important hormone for combating low glucose). Release of glucagon is prevented by raised blood glucose and carbohydrate in meals, detected by cells in the pancreas.
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). 
1 It stimulates your cells to release glucose, and this raises your blood glucose levels. 2  Insulin: This hormone regulates blood glucose by allowing many of your body’s cells to absorb and use glucose. 3  In turn, this drops blood glucose levels. 1 In turn, this drops blood glucose levels. 2  Somatostatin: When levels of other pancreatic hormones, such as insulin and glucagon, get too high, somatostatin is secreted to maintain a balance of glucose and/or salt in the blood.
The most important hormone that the pancreas produces is insulin. Insulin is released by the ‘beta cells’ in the islets of Langerhans in response to food. Its role is to lower glucose levels in the bloodstream and promote the storage of glucose in fat, muscle, liver and other body tissues. It makes hormones that control blood glucose levels. The pancreas produces hormones in its ‘endocrine’ cells. These cells are gathered in clusters known as islets of Langerhans and monitor what is happening in the blood. They then can release hormones directly into the blood when necessary.