For other uses, see Wind chill (disambiguation) . A chart of wind chill values for given air temperatures and wind speeds. Wind-chill or windchill, (popularly wind chill factor) is the perceived decrease in air temperature felt by the body on exposed skin due to the flow of air. The effect of wind chill is to increase the rate of heat loss and reduce any warmer objects to the ambient temperature more quickly.
Wind chill temperature is a measure of the combined cooling effect of wind and temperature. As wind increases, heat is carried away from the body at a faster rate, driving down both the skin temperature (which can cause frostbite) and eventually the internal body temperature (which can kill). 
A phenomenon called the Wind Chill factor makes us feel colder in winter than the air temperature really is. This is due to the interaction of air temperature and wind on the human body that is already giving off heat. 
Wind chill numbers are always lower than the air temperature for values where the formula is valid. The effect of wind chill is to increase the rate of heat loss and reduce any warmer objects to the ambient temperature more quickly.
The wind chill temperature (often popularly called the wind chill factor) is always lower than the air temperature, except at higher temperatures where wind chill is considered less important. In cases where the apparent temperature is higher than the air temperature, the heat index is used instead. A wind-chill factor of 25°F (- 4°C) will not freeze water if the air temperature is 35°F (2°C). Water changes state according to the temperature of the body of the water. In this case, the water and air temperature are about the same — too high to freeze water.
If the skin is wet there will be additional cooling from the evaporation of moisture. The stronger the wind the faster the cooling. The lower the temperature, the more impact the wind has. The equivalent of wind chill for warmer temperatures is the heat index-humidity is a major factor. These terms are needed because degrees Celsius doesn't always give a full picture of how it feels to be caught in a blizzard or trying to sleep in high humidity. 
The lower the temperature, the more impact the wind has. The equivalent of wind chill for warmer temperatures is the heat index-humidity is a major factor. These terms are needed because degrees Celsius doesn't always give a full picture of how it feels to be caught in a blizzard or trying to sleep in high humidity.
wind-chill factor. The temperature of motionless air that would make a person feel as cold as a particular combination of wind speed and air temperature. As the wind blows faster, heat is lost more quickly from exposed skin, making a person feel colder even though the air temperature remains the same. 
The Wind Chill Factor map shows the forecast wind chill. color contoured every 10 to 20 degrees F. Wind chill is the apparent temperature felt on exposed skin, which is a function of the air temperature and wind speed. A wind-chill factor of 25°F (- 4°C) will not freeze water if the air temperature is 35°F (2°C). Water changes state according to the temperature of the body of the water. In this case, the water and air temperature are about the same — too high to freeze water.