If stored in a cool, dry place, grass seed can last for 2-3 years. However, the germination rate (the number of seeds that will grow) will decrease over time, so you may not get the same results you would if you were using fresh seed. For best results, use fresh product and try to plant it within a year. It's easy to get confused about grass seed. What kind of seed to use, how to plant it, and even weather conditions can all add up to one big question mark for many people. That's why we had our experts answer some of the most commonly asked questions about planting
The species of grass seed you sow will help to determine when to expect germination. Ryegrass is the quickest species of grass to germinate. In the correct conditions, ryegrass can germinate in 5-7 days, usually 10-14 days if it is not too cold (see above!). Tall, chewings and creeping fescues are the next species to germinate, usually 14-21 days. The grass seed will germinate in the cup after 10-14 days. If it worked in this experiment you have to figure out why it did not grow on your lawn. You need to determine why it failed, read this article again, and do not always blame the grass seed.
Grass seed often begins to germinate in less than a month, which means you should start to see tiny green shoots in the areas you seeded. Establishment of those shoots into a lush, full lawn can take well into the growing season, but it should begin to resemble the lawn you want after you mow it the first time. Cool-season grasses tend to germinate quickly, usually between three and 14 days. Perennial rye grass (Lolium perenne), which thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8, can germinate in as few as five days, although it can take up to 10 days, for example.
Replanting New Grass Seed. Grass is a fast growing plant, but the exact rate at which it grows depends upon the type of grass used and the growing conditions. Germination. Grass seeds usually germinate between seven and ten days after they have been sown, although it can take between three and thirty days. Growth. A fast growing variety of grass sown under good growing conditions will produce a green covering in about a week, although it will not yet be properly established. 
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. It doesn’t need to be soggy or swimming, but moist. Once the new grass is visible, the roots are also growing down into the soil. Watering new grass seed puts you at risk for a mess: 1  seed washed away or floated into clumps and bare spots; 2  seed sticking to muddy shoes when you move the sprinkler; 3  soft sinking soil leaves a trail of footprints across the lawn.
Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow. The seed of the grass germinates faster with the availability of proper light, water and nutrition of soil. Excess of heat, over irrigation and over-use of pesticides and insecticides may kill the germination. A temperate and warm condition is most favorable for no matter how long does grass seed take to grow.
Grass seed that is planted in soil temperatures below 50 degrees just will not grow potentially for many weeks if it does not want to. Usually for the soil temperatures to reach 50 degrees you need 7-10 days of air temperatures to reach 60 plus degrees. The grass seed will germinate in the cup after 10-14 days. If it worked in this experiment you have to figure out why it did not grow on your lawn. You need to determine why it failed, read this article again, and do not always blame the grass seed.
How long does it take for seed to grow. Different seed mixtures establish at different speeds. As a general rule, hardwearing mixtures usually contain ryegrass and red fescue, two species that establish quite quickly-they can germinate in as little as 3-4 days, but 7-10 days is more average.