Mermaids really do exist, sweetheart. Many people have seen them, but are afrad to come forward. Just like U.F.O.s, Loch Ness Monster,etc. Mermaids are very sweet beings; they've saved many sailors from drowning--and ask for nothing in return. When death can not be prevented, the mermaids will often take the body to the mermaid cemetary. That's why they never find the body.
The word mermaid is a compound of the Old English mere (sea), and maid (a girl or young woman). The equivalent term in Old English was merewif. They are conventionally depicted as beautiful with long flowing hair. Mermaids are included in the Shanhaijing (Classic of Mountains and Seas) compilation of Chinese geography and mythology, dating from the 4th century BC. A 15th-century compilation of quotations from Chinese literature tells of a mermaid who wept tears which became pearls.
The earliest known mermaid legends come from Syria around 1000 B.C. where the Syrian goddess Atargatis dove into a lake to take the form of a fish, but the powers there would not allow her give up her great beauty, so only her bottom half became a fish and she kept her top half in human form. The roots of mermaid mythology are more varied than one would expect. In modern myth we tend to see mermaids in a singular way-kind and benevolent to humans who keep to their own kind in the deep waters of the ocean.
A mermaid is a mythical creature that is half woman and half fish. The name comes from 'mer' meaning sea. The male version is called a merman. Although some mermaids are described as monstrous and ugly, they are more usually very beautiful. Above the waist they appear as a lovely young woman, whilst from the waist down, they are like a fish with fins and a spreading tail. Some of the bad things that mermaids are accused of include telling sailors their ship is doomed and enchanting sailors and causing shipwrecks. Seeing a mermaid is a sure sign of a violent storm to come.
Mermaids come from stories and myths that are thousands of years old. The ancient Celts told stories about them. I love to travel and see other places. So far, I have lived in Germany, been to England, Scotland, Wales, Russia, Italy, Austria, Netherlands, and across the United States 5 time.
Mermaids are mythical creatures. They are said to be half-woman, half-fish. The myth seems to be that ancient fishermen saw mysterious creatures, of which they thought to be h … alf-woman, half-fish, thus the name mermaid. This could be true, but many people doubt it. 
1. Some mermaids do have holes similer to other fish, same with mermen. 2.Some mermaids have butts as you can see in somepaintings which also means they have a vaginal part in the front, same with mermen who possibly have a reproduct part in the front. 
A mermaid is a legendary aquatic creature with the upper body of a female human and the tail of a fish. Mermaids appear in the folklore of many cultures worldwide, including the Near East, Europe, Africa and Asia. The first stories appeared in ancient Assyria, in which the goddess Atargatis transformed herself into a mermaid out of shame for accidentally killing her human lover. Mermaids are included in the Shanhaijing (Classic of Mountains and Seas) compilation of Chinese geography and mythology, dating from the 4th century BC. A 15th-century compilation of quotations from Chinese literature tells of a mermaid who wept tears which became pearls.
In Greek legends there are mermaids that can sink ships and sirens that lure sailors to their doom. In a silvery cave, live the golden haired Nereids or sea nymphs that helped sailors fighting perilous storms. They are depicted as human from the head to the waist, with either a bird's body or a fishes tail. Some of the bad things that mermaids are accused of include telling sailors their ship is doomed and enchanting sailors and causing shipwrecks. Seeing a mermaid is a sure sign of a violent storm to come.
Mermaids have been a popular subject of art and literature in recent centuries, such as in Hans Christian Andersen 's well-known fairy tale . The Little Mermaid  (1836). They have subsequently been depicted in operas, paintings, books, films and comics. Mermaids are included in the Shanhaijing (Classic of Mountains and Seas) compilation of Chinese geography and mythology, dating from the 4th century BC. A 15th-century compilation of quotations from Chinese literature tells of a mermaid who wept tears which became pearls.