1 If you cook the turkey breast side down, all the juices will seep down to the breast meat, and that'll keep it moist and juicy. 2  It does prevent the breast side from browning, so you need to flip it back breast-side up for the last third of the cooking time. 3  You have to be careful. The breast meat is at 170F, and. The stuffing, if any, is at 165F. The turkey's temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees after you take it out of the oven. So you can actually take the turkey out when the meat is at 165F or so.
7 Roast the Turkey. Before you put the turkey in the oven, do a rough calculation of how much overall time it should take to cook the turkey. Usually they say to assume 15 minutes for every pound of meat, but I have found in practice that it's usually less than that, more like 13-14 minutes per pound. Which means that if you have a 15 pound turkey, it should take 75 hours, or a little over 3 days, to defrost. Remove the turkey from the refrigerator 2 to 3 hours (depending on the size of the bird) before cooking to allow it to come closer to room temperature. The turkey will cook more quickly and more evenly that way.
Once you remove the turkey from the oven, transfer it to a cutting board, tent it with aluminum foil to keep it warm, and let it rest for 15-30 minutes, depending on the size of the turkey. Turn the turkey breast side up to carve it. Which means that if you have a 15 pound turkey, it should take 75 hours, or a little over 3 days, to defrost. Remove the turkey from the refrigerator 2 to 3 hours (depending on the size of the bird) before cooking to allow it to come closer to room temperature. The turkey will cook more quickly and more evenly that way.
Bigger than a toaster oven, put it that way. – ElendilTheTall Nov 21 '14 at 11:36. It also depends on how you want to prepare the turkey-if you butterfly it or break it down, you'll end up with something considerably smaller / easier to cook. You only really need a large oven if you want to roast it. – Kogitsune Nov 21 '14 at 15:07. Even if you can get your turkey in a small oven, like a toaster oven, there still needs to be room for air flow so that the turkey cooks evenly. The oven in a standard 20 kitchen stove will accommodate a bird even as large as 20 lbs (9 kg). The very detailed chart here, the pertinent details of which are replicated in the chart below, establish the standard dimensions of such an oven as 18 X 16 X 14.5 inches (46 x 41 x 37 cm).
Instead of a roasting rack, you can roast the turkey breast over thick-cut onions and potatoes (instant side dish!). Let the turkey breast warm and preheat the oven to 450°F: Transfer the turkey breast to the rack inside a roasting pan, or place on top of vegetables in a skillet or other baking dish. Don't bother with a whole turkey — just roast a turkey breast! One half-breast or even a whole turkey breast makes more than enough for a small party of four to six. (And yes, you'll still have plenty of pan drippings to make gravy.) Turkey breasts are also a cinch to roast. No flipping, no basting, no fuss
From prepping and basting to roasting and carving, get all the tips you need to cook your bird. 1  Heat oven to 350 degrees F. 2  Roast turkey uncovered for 20 minutes per pound. 3  Cook to an internal temperature of 165 degrees measured at the thigh. 4  Let rest 20 minutes before carving. 1 If you are stuffing the bird, stuff it loosely, allowing about 1/2 to 3/4 cup stuffing per pound of turkey. 2  Tie drumsticks together with string, and brush the skin with melted butter or oil. 3  Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of
1 Preheat the oven to 450°F: Position an oven rack in the bottom third of your oven and preheat the oven to 450°F. 2  If you brined your turkey, as we did, no need to do anything now. 3  If your turkey is straight out of the package, rub it with some salt and pepper before putting it in the oven. Set the turkey breast-side up on the roasting rack and let it sit while the oven preheats. This takes the chill off the meat, which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly. It also gives the skin time to dry out, which promotes browning and crisping.
MetroKitchens suggests that for a 17-20 lb bird, you need a roasting pan that is 16 x 13 x 3 inches (about 41 x 33 x 8cm). The oven will need to be taller than the pan, because a turkey sticks out above a roasting pan, but you can reduce that considerably by spatchcocking the bird. The oven in a standard 20 kitchen stove will accommodate a bird even as large as 20 lbs (9 kg). The very detailed chart here, the pertinent details of which are replicated in the chart below, establish the standard dimensions of such an oven as 18 X 16 X 14.5 inches (46 x 41 x 37 cm).
You can even roast a chicken in this size of Dutch oven. Though Camp Chef does manufacturer several sizes, if you're new to cooking over an open fire or grill, start with a convenient size. Note that to cook a turkey, you would need a larger Dutch oven. 