SOLAR CELLS. Solar cells directly convert light into electricity. Solar cells are also called photovoltaic or photoelectric cells. Enough power can be generated to run a 100W light bulb from just one square meter of solar panel. Solar cells were originally developed in order to provide electricity for satellites.
Solar cells are made of the same kinds of semiconductor materials, such as silicon, used in the microelectronics industry. For solar cells, a thin semiconductor wafer is specially treated to form an electric field, positive on one side and negative on the other.
The other part of a typical solar cell is doped with the element boron, which has only three electrons in its outer shell instead of four, to become P-type silicon. Instead of having free electrons, P-type (p for positive) has free openings and carries the opposite (positive) charge.
A solar cell, or photovoltaic cell, is an electrical device that converts the energy of light directly into electricity by the photovoltaic effect, which is a physical and chemical phenomenon.
What Is A Solar Panel. Solar energy begins with the sun. Solar panels, also known as photovoltaics, are used to convert light from the sun, which is composed of particles of energy called photons, into electricity that can be used to power elecrical loads. Light from the sun is a renewable energy resource which provides clean energy, produced by solar panels.
Solar cells in the form of large arrays are used to power satellites and, in rare cases, to provide electricity for power plants. When research into electricity began and simple batteries were being made and studied, research into solar electricity followed amazingly quickly.
Further work brought the cell's efficiency up to 15 percent. Solar cells were first used in the rural and isolated city of Americus, Georgia as a power source for a telephone relay system, where it was used successfully for many years.
Assemblies of solar cells are used to make solar modules which generate electrical power from sunlight, as distinguished from a solar thermal module or solar hot water panel. A solar array generates solar power using solar energy.