Best Answer: Untreated Bipolar disorder gets worse with age, in that the more episodes of illness you have, the more likely it is that you will have another. I have been bipolar for 16years and find it has got BETTER, but ONLY because I have learnt how to manage my triggers and symptoms better.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Untreated Bipolar disorder gets worse with age, in that the more episodes of illness you have, the more likely it is that you will have another. I have been bipolar for 16years and find it has got BETTER, but ONLY because I have learnt how to manage my triggers and symptoms better.
Bipolar has been proven to get worse with age, its not a matter of belief its a matter of medical study-all mental illness gets worse with age as our brains age too and mental illness gets worse.
Report This | Share this:Does bipolar get worse as we age?Lifestyle has a lot to do with it as does medication. There's more and more research available about the elasticity of the brain.
So i just read bipolar gets worse the older you get as soon as i read this i didnt want to live anymore. Im suffering. It started at a young age wasnt diagnosable till 24. Ive heard of people getting better as they age and ive held that in my heart to keep me alive.
In answer to your question does Bipolar get worse as you get older. I have been dealing with bipolar for the past 16 years and from what I have experienced bipolar does get worse as you age. I do know that if its treated a person with bipolar can live a normal and healthy life.
46 what a great age,Im 46 too. Left untreated bipolar does get worse,its called the kindling effect. I think that with meds you can slow the progression, though.. peace.........
Report Abuse. No. Bipolar is a disorder that can get better or worse at any time in a sufferer's life, this is the nature of the condition. There is no research which documents it worsening with age. It is important to be able to identify what happens around a period of worsening so you can manage the condition better.