Child's Money. Many banks, brokers, and mutual funds will let you set up a custodial Roth IRA if your child is a minor (under age 18 in most states including Texas; under age 19 and 21 in others). Waterworth Wealth Advisors has the ability to open these accounts for our clients' children. A Roth IRA for a child with earned income can be very attractive. There's no minimum age to set up a Roth IRA, and many IRA providers will accept accounts for minors. In most cases, the only issue is whether the child has taxable compensation. Potential for Tax-Free Compounding
Another benefit of IRAs is that your child may be able to tap into the account for qualified higher education expenses and up to $10,000 towards a down payment on a first home without penalty. With a Roth IRA, you can withdraw any contributions, but not the investment earnings, for any reason without tax or penalty. Here, we take a look at two types of IRAs for kids, the benefits these tax-advantaged investment vehicles offer, and how to open and make contributions to an IRA for kids. Types of IRAs for Kids. There are two different types of IRAs that are suitable for children: traditional and Roth.
Opening a Roth IRA for your child is a great idea (see Why Your Kids Need a Roth IRA to learn more). But you can't open one unless your child has earned income from a job. And giving your child an allowance in return for doing chores around the house doesn't count as earned income. 
That savings vehicle is the Roth IRA. Unlike a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth don't earn a tax deduction, but the account's earnings will compound tax-deferred and be available for tax-free withdrawals when your child retires in, let's say, 2075.
Yours is one of the most common questions I get regarding Roth IRAs for kids. So it's worth emphasizing that in order to open a Roth the critical factor is earnings: A child can have a Roth IRA as long as he or she has earned income from a job. Birthday gifts from grandparents or interest on a savings account don't count, nor does an allowance for doing general household chore
The $500 contribution you make is not tax-deductible but, like the Roth IRA, you can withdraw it tax-free for your child's college education. (As a matter of fact, it can be transferred to another family member if the one for whom it's intended doesn't use it. The tax breaks for a Roth IRA are different. Again, you can put in up to $2,000 a year. But the money isn't tax-deductible. Taking the above example, you'd still be taxed on $30,000 even though you had put the same $2,000 into a Roth IRA.
you can contribute 100 % of your child s earnings to a roth ira up to a maximum of $ 5500 for 2014 if your son earned $ 2400 this summer you can contribute $ 2400 for him if he earned $ 6500 you can contribute $ 5500 you can use a roth ira to encourage your children to work or to save if your son earns $ 5000 in a part time job open a roth ira for him or if your daughter agrees to put $ 2500 of her salary from a summer job in a roth match it and put in another $ 2500
Yes, your daughter has until April 15 to contribute to a Roth IRA for 2007. But she can contribute only the amount of her earnings -- in this case, $1,500. If she has already spent the money, or if she's saving it for college or some other goal, you can come up with the cash to fund the account. So it's worth emphasizing that in order to open a Roth the critical factor is earnings: A child can have a Roth IRA as long as he or she has earned income from a job.
In general, the Roth IRA is the IRA of choice for minors who have limited income and who, therefore, would not benefit from a deductible traditional IRA. Benefits of IRAs for Kids. Opening an IRA for your child provides him or her not only a head start on saving for retirement, but also valuable financial lessons. Here, we take a look at two types of IRAs for kids, the benefits these tax-advantaged investment vehicles offer, and how to open and make contributions to an IRA for kids. Types of IRAs for Kids. There are two different types of IRAs that are suitable for children: traditional and Roth.