Smallpox is a serious, contagious, and sometimes fatal infectious disease caused by a virus called the variola virus. The disease gets its name from the Latin word for spotted and refers to the small pus-filled blisters that appear on the face and body of an infected person. People infected with smallpox develop some symptoms (e.g., fever, headache, backache, and general fatigue) that are typical of many less serious diseases.
Smallpox is spread from person to person by several means, including: 1  Direct, face-to-face and fairly prolonged contact with an infected person – the saliva of the infected person can spread the disease. 2  Direct contact with the fluid in the blisters in the infected person’s skin or other infected bodily fluids. People infected with smallpox develop some symptoms (e.g., fever, headache, backache, and general fatigue) that are typical of many less serious diseases.
Smallpox is a serious infectious disease caused by the Orthopox virus, variola. The last case in Vermont occurred in 1937, and there have been no confirmed cases worldwide since eradication was achieved in 1978. A single case today would be considered a national public health emergency. 
Smallpox. Smallpox is a disfiguring and potentially deadly infectious disease caused by the Variola major virus. Before smallpox was eradicated, there were two forms of the disease worldwide: Variola major, the deadly disease, and Variola minor, a much milder form. 
Smallpox is an infectious disease of the past that was eliminated by vaccination. The disease was caused by the variola virus, which spread from person to person. Affected people became very ill with a high fever and a characteristic rash. Up to one-third of people with smallpox died. 1 Smallpox is a contagious disease caused by the variola virus. 2  Smallpox was the first disease to be eliminated from the world through public-health efforts and
Smallpox is an extremely contagious and deadly virus for which there is no known cure. The last known case occurred in the U.S. in 1949 and due to worldwide vaccination programs, this disease has been completely eradicated. There is no cure for the smallpox virus. As a result of worldwide, repeated vaccination programs, the variola virus (smallpox) has been completely eradicated. The only people considered to be at risk for smallpox are researchers who work with it in a laboratory setting.
Definition. Smallpox is a contagious, disfiguring and often deadly disease that has affected humans for thousands of years. Naturally occurring smallpox was eradicated worldwide by 1980 the result of an unprecedented global immunization campaign. Samples of smallpox virus have been kept for research purposes. No cure or treatment for smallpox exists. A vaccine can prevent smallpox, but the risk of the vaccine's side effects is too high to justify routine vaccination for people at low risk of exposure to the smallpox virus.
Smallpox facts. 1  Smallpox is a contagious disease caused by the variola virus. 2  Smallpox was the first disease to be eliminated from the world through public-health efforts and vaccination. 3  Smallpox still poses a threat because existing laboratory strains may be used as biological weapons. 1
Smallpox disease is a serious, highly contagious, and often life-threatening infection marked by a rash of round pox (blisters) on the face, arms, and legs. It is caused by the Variola virus. Yes. Smallpox is highly contagious (spread from person to person). A person with smallpox is most contagious when the smallpox rash is present, but may also be contagious before the rash appears, when the only sign is fever.
Smallpox is an ancient disease caused by the variola virus. Early symptoms include high fever and fatigue. The virus then produces a characteristic rash, particularly on the face, arms and legs. The virus which causes smallpox is contagious and spreads through person-to-person contact and saliva droplets in an infected person’s breath. It has an incubation period of between 7 and 17 days after exposure and only becomes infectious once the fever develops. A distinctive rash appears two to three days later.