Photo BioFloyd Joy Mayweather, Jr. , is an American professional boxer. He is a five-division world champion, who has won eight world titles and the ... Olympic and Professional BoxerFloyd Mayweather, Jr. Photo BioFloyd Mayweather redirects here. For his father, see Floyd Mayweather, Sr. Floyd Mayweather, Jr. File:Floyd Mayweather, Jr. at DeWalt event.... Floyd Joy Mayweather, Jr. , is an American professional boxer. He is a five-division world champion, who has won eight world titles and the ... Bio. Olympic and Professional Boxer. Floyd Mayweather, Jr. Photo. 
Two months ago Mr. Mayweather and his father agreed to talk for the first time in nine years. Since then, Mr. Mayweather Sr., who also lives in Las Vegas, has been visiting the house several times a week, challenging his son to push-up and pull-up contests. As his career took off, Mr. Mayweather cultivated a larger-than-life public persona, throwing money around and traveling with a large entourage. In his last year of fighting Mr. Mayweather earned $50 million, making him the second-highest earning athlete in 2007 behind Tiger Woods.
Negotiations for a proposed match between Mayweather and The Ring #3 pound-for-pound Shane Mosley began right after Andre Berto pulled out of his scheduled January 30 unification bout with Mosley due to the 2010 Haiti earthquake. In the 12th round Mayweather's uppercut stunned and hurt Cotto, but Cotto was able to fight until the end. The judges scored the fight a unanimous decision for Mayweather by scores of 118–110, 117–111, and 117–111. After the fight, Mayweather said Cotto was the toughest fighter he ever faced.
While Mayweather’s money closet is the star of the show, the opulent lifestyle of the undefeated welterweight champion does not end there. In fact, it extends all the way across his 22,000 square foot mansion and into his massive garage full of Lamborghinis, Benzes and Rolls Royces. I’m blessed to be able to drive a Rolls-Royce every day. I think it’s kinda cool.”. Floyd Mayweather Jr. holds up a rare $500 from his money collection at his home in Las Vegas.(Photo: Ronda Churchill, For USA TODAY Sports). This, Gamedayr Nation, is the most Floyd Mayweather move ever.
Though he’s in a Las Vegas gated community and is friendly with some neighbors, Mr. Mayweather kept the address a secret from colleagues, most of his friends and even some family members. As his career took off, Mr. Mayweather cultivated a larger-than-life public persona, throwing money around and traveling with a large entourage. In his last year of fighting Mr. Mayweather earned $50 million, making him the second-highest earning athlete in 2007 behind Tiger Woods.
REUTERS/Las Vegas Sun/Steve Marcus. Floyd Mayweather is considered one of the hardest-working, most tactically brilliant boxers of all time. He's also one of the sport's all-time great characters. He's the highest-paid athlete in the world, and he acts like it. He'll make $32 million alone for this weekend's fight against Marcos Maidana.
In all, Mayweather’s home measures some 7,300 square feet and has a total of seven bedroom and nine baths. Celebrity Cribs: Come Inside The Boring Azz $3.35 Million Las Vegas Mansion That Floyd “Money” Mayweather Just Put On The Market! [Photos]. That would be adding a few more million to the coffers by selling his Las Vegas mansion. Mayweather looks to bank $3.35 million for his Sin City spread, which weighs in at 7 bedrooms, 9 baths and roughly 7,300 square feet.
Mayweather has appeared in the three biggest non-heavyweight pay-per-view events in the sport’s history: Mayweather vs. Oscar De La Hoya ($136,853,700), Mayweather vs. Ortiz ($78,440,000), and Mayweather vs. Shane Mosley ($78,330,000). In the 12th round Mayweather's uppercut stunned and hurt Cotto, but Cotto was able to fight until the end. The judges scored the fight a unanimous decision for Mayweather by scores of 118–110, 117–111, and 117–111. After the fight, Mayweather said Cotto was the toughest fighter he ever faced.
Las Vegas, Nevada (NV) , US. Professional boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr.’s house is in Las Vegas, NV. It was featured on MTV’s CRIBS and features a state-of-the-art kitchen with a Viking Stove, a master bedroom with sitting area, master bath with step-up bath tub and 12-person shower. Floyd Mayweather Jr.’s net worth is $295 million and his annual salary is estimated at $50 million. He is originally from Grand Rapids, MI and has fought in five different weight classes – Super Welterweight, Welterweight, Junior Welterweight, Lightweight, and Super Featherweight.