a greathearted general; a magnanimous conqueror. big, large, magnanimous (adj). generous and understanding and tolerant. a heart big enough to hold no grudges; that's very big of you to be so forgiving; a large and generous spirit; a large heart; magnanimous toward his enemies. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of magnanimous is big-hearted, noble and generous of spirit. Someone who can look the other way when he has been wronged and who can pardon the person who has done the wrong is an example of someone who ismagnanimous.
1 magnanimous. “ 2 No problem,” I dismissed his concerns with a magnanimous flick of the wrist. — 3 Tom Perrotta, Joe College, 2000. … 4  and many of them retain a respectful Eisenhower-or-Kennedy-era view of America as Japan's usually magnanimous elder brother. Words from the Latin anima have something to do with having breath or spirit. An anim al is a living creature that breathes and can move around on its own. To anim ate something is to give it breath or life. Someone magn anim ous has a courageous spirit.
1 More importantly, the ode implies that Henri is generous and magnanimous. 2  She decided that, in light of the news she was going to share, she could be magnanimous and forgive Aria. 3  It should be realised that without their good will and magnanimous gesture, such a major project as this could not go ahead. 
Examples of MAGNANIMOUS. 1  She was too magnanimous to resent all the things others had said to her. 2  magnanimous. “ 3 No problem,” I dismissed his concerns with a magnanimous flick of the wrist. Words from the Latin anima have something to do with having breath or spirit. An anim al is a living creature that breathes and can move around on its own. To anim ate something is to give it breath or life. Someone magn anim ous has a courageous spirit.
magnanimous. adjective generous, kind, noble, selfless, big, free, kindly, handsome, charitable, high-minded, bountiful, unselfish, open-handed, big-hearted, unstinting, beneficent, great-hearted, munificent, ungrudging He was a man capable of magnanimous gestures.
Word Root of MAGNANIMOUS. The Latin word anima, meaning “ breath ” or “ spirit, ” gives us the root anim. Words from the Latin anima have something to do with having breath or spirit. An anim al is a living creature that breathes and can move around on its own. To anim ate something is to give it breath or life. Someone magn anim ous has a courageous spirit.
Magnanimity (derived from the Latin roots magna great, and animus, mind, literally means greatly generous) is the virtue of being great of mind and heart. It encompasses, usually, a refusal to be petty, a willingness to face danger, and actions for noble purposes. Magnanimity is a latinization of the Greek word megalopsuchia which means greatness of soul and was identified by Aristotle as the crowning virtue. Although the word magnanimity has a traditional connection to Aristotelian philosophy, it also has its own tradition in English which now causes some confusion.
The team was magnanimous in victory. [=the team treated its defeated opponents in a respectful and generous way]. She was too magnanimous to resent all the things others had said to her. a magnanimous gesture. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. /ˌmaegnəˈnɪməti/ ˌmægnəˈnɪməti [noun]. noncount
See Magnate, and Animus.] 1. Great of mind; elevated in soul or in sentiment; raised above what is low, mean, or ungenerous; of lofty and courageous spirit; as, a magnanimous character; a magnanimous conqueror. [1913 Webster] Be magnanimous in the enterprise. --Shak. 