Foods for babies (solids) 1 - how and when to start. Starting babies on solid foods is an important milestone in their life. Until around six months of age, breast milk or infant formula meets all of your baby's nutritional needs. Even after your baby has started on solid foods, breast milk or infant formula is still an important source of nutrition.
O ne baby might seem to be ready for solids at 4 months, while another shows no signs of readiness until around 6 or 7 months. Just because your friend’s baby may have began eating solid foods at 3 or 4 months of age does not mean that your baby should. It is still common for pediatricians to just say “start solid foods when your baby is 4 months old” because this has been the norm for many years. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) acknowledges that there are no “strict” age guidelines on introducing solid foods to your baby.
There is less chance of him: If you feel your baby is ready for solids earlier than six months, it's worth offering him more of his usual milk first (BNF 2013, NCT 2010) . Keep your baby on just milk, whether it's breastmilk or formula, until the end of his fourth month (17 weeks). If you do decide to start your baby on solids between four and six months, it's safest not to give him foods he could react to (BNF 2013) .
How do you know if your baby is ready for solid foods? There are many signs to look for that will indicate that your little one may be ready to begin the journey into solid foods. Your baby may be 3 months old or 4 months old when you start to feel she may need “something more” than formula or breast milk. You should give your baby one new food at a time, and wait a a minimal of 2 to 3 days before starting another. Many parents follow the “ 4 day wait rule ” and choose to wait 4 days between introducing new foods. After each new food, watch for any allergic reactions such as diarrhea, rash, or vomiting.
Many parents say that their own pediatricians or their friends’ pediatricians have said that it’s fine to start solids (typically cereal) at 4 months of age. It is still common for pediatricians to just say “start solid foods when your baby is 4 months old” because this has been the norm for many years. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) acknowledges that there are no “strict” age guidelines on introducing solid foods to your baby.
Breast milk or formula is the only food your newborn needs. However, by ages 4 months to 6 months, most babies are ready to begin eating solid foods as a complement to breast-feeding or formula-feeding. 
Beginning Solid Foods. When you find that your baby is ready for solid foods, consider skipping the boxed cereal and starting out with avocado, sweet potato, banana or pear ! You should give your baby one new food at a time, and wait a a minimal of 2 to 3 days before starting another. Many parents follow the “ 4 day wait rule ” and choose to wait 4 days between introducing new foods. After each new food, watch for any allergic reactions such as diarrhea, rash, or vomiting.
Increase solids gradually if baby is interested. Aim for baby getting no more than 25% of her calories from solids by the age of 12 months (some babies eat less than this at 12 months and that’s also normal). Increase solids gradually if baby is interested, with a maximum of 2 meals per day. 9 – 12 months. Watch baby’s cues – this is particularly easy if baby nurses beforehand and most/all of the solids are offered to baby to self-feed.
This may not be the best indicator that your baby is ready for solids. Please keep in mind that a growth spurt will occur between 3-4 months of age, 6-7 months of age and also 9-10 months of age. Your baby may also be waking due to an illness or teething. It is still common for pediatricians to just say “start solid foods when your baby is 4 months old” because this has been the norm for many years. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) acknowledges that there are no “strict” age guidelines on introducing solid foods to your baby.
You should start giving your baby solid foods, often called weaning, when they are around six months old. Health experts agree that this is the best age. Before this, your baby's digestive system is not developed enough to cope with solid foods. If you're breastfeeding, feeding only breast milk up to around six months will give your baby extra protection against infection. 