Conjunctivitis may be caused by a viral infection, such as a cold, acute respiratory infection, or disease such as measles, herpes simplex, or herpes zoster. Symptoms include mild to severe discomfort in one or both eyes, redness, swelling of the eyelids, and watery, yellow, or green discharge.
Background. Inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctiva, or conjunctivitis, can be caused by allergies, viruses, or bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis is commonly caused by staphylococci, streptococci, chlamydial organism, and gonococci.
Bacterial Conjunctivitis. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye. 2  Is a leading cause of children being absent from day care or school (Patel, 2007).
Bacterial conjunctivitis is a common type of pink eye, caused by bacteria that infect the eye through various sources of contamination. The bacteria can be spread through contact with an infected individual, exposure to contaminated surfaces or through other means such as sinus or ear infections.
Irritation from a chemical splash or a foreign object in your eye is also associated with conjunctivitis. Sometimes flushing and cleaning the eye to rid it of the chemical or object causes redness and irritation.
Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye.
1 Discharge of pus, especially yellow-green (more common in bacterial conjunctivitis). 2  Itching, irritation, and/or burning. 3  Feeling like a foreign body is in the eye(s) or an urge to rub the eye(s). 4  Crusting of eyelids or lashes sometimes occurs, especially in the morning.
Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat.