Just curious, does anyone eat roosters? Are they suitable as a food source, and if not what do I do when i have too many? Thank you ~ Christa. That is what people do with them. If they are young, you can fry or roast them. If they have a little age on them you make soup, or chicken and dumplings, or put them in the crock pot. The obscure we understand eventually.
The chickens that you eat are often roosters but young and immature ones as a mature one would be tough and have a slightly gamey taste. I have eaten a mature rooster after it kept attacking the neighbours kids. It was made into a stew and had plenty of flavour. I have eaten it many times you can't tell the difference. Probably if they said they serve rooster, no one would know what they are talking about. But since they just leave it as chicken, then it could be either a hen or a rooster.
I butchered some of my Ameraucana roosters at around a month old and slow cooked them. At this age one rooster is a meal for one person. If you have a stuffing mix you like to wedge in there it helps. I cut up red potatoes and roasted them inside the bird. The 3 month old roosters were great! Just as juicy and tender as you could ever want a chicken to be, but there wasn't much meat on them. Dressed out one was 2 lbs 4 oz, the other was 2 lbs 14 oz. I didn't raise those two, a friend did and gave them to me for helping butcher.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Capons: Castrating the roosters at 4-8 weeks old and waiting 4-10 months to butcher. The downside is that you are stuck with the capons for a long time. But since they're castrated you can keep them in with your hens if you're short on space. The 3 month old roosters were great! Just as juicy and tender as you could ever want a chicken to be, but there wasn't much meat on them. Dressed out one was 2 lbs 4 oz, the other was 2 lbs 14 oz. I didn't raise those two, a friend did and gave them to me for helping butcher.
In Chickens and Roosters. even when the rooster is a chick it will have little bumps on the leg where the spurs will grow, my rooster is about 1 year old and you can see his spurs already, the older th … e rooster the longer the spurs will be. What age do roosters get spurs? even when the rooster is a chick it will have little bumps on the leg where the spurs will grow, my rooster is about 1 year old and you can see his spurs already, the older th … e rooster the longer the spurs will be.
Originally Posted by cassie. Of course you can eat roosters. That is what people do with them. If they are young, you can fry or roast them. If they have a little age on them you make soup, or chicken and dumplings, or put them in the crock pot. The obscure we understand eventually. The obvious takes a little longer
The chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a domesticated fowl, a subspecies of the red junglefowl. As one of the most common and widespread domestic animals, with a population of more than 24 billion in 2003, there are more chickens in the world than any other species of bird. Humans keep chickens primarily as a source of food, consuming both their meat and their eggs.
This is not a good thing. Roosters are good to have around only for protection of the hens, they aren't needed for egg production since the hen lays eggs every day (or every other day) whether there is a 'man' around or not. If you have more than one, they will fight, most often to the death of one or another. Having a rooster does give one fertilized eggs, which can be hatched into more chickens or sold as having (in some circles) specific health properties. 