Oscillococcinum is a brand name homeopathic product manufactured by Boiron. Similar homeopathic products are found in other brands. Homeopathic products are extreme dilutions of some active ingredient. 1 However, in people with flu symptoms, there is some evidence that oscillococcinum might help people get over the flu faster, but only by 6 or 7 hours. 2  This may not be of much importance. 3  The reliability of this finding is also questionable due to flaws in the study design.
Boiron Oscillococcinum (Oscillo), as soon as you start feeling run down or have other flu-like symptoms, such as headache, body aches, chills and fever, take Oscillococcinum. Oscillo is supported by published clinical studies, as well as more than 65 years of use throughout the world. Boiron Oscillococcinum -- 30 Doses 4.8 5 52 62. Excellent product I take Boiron Oscillooccinum at the immediate onset of a sore throat, and it has consistently and drastically reduced the effects of flu and colds. I always keep some in my purse because it is most effective when taken when early cold/flu symptoms appear
Oscillococcinum is a homeopathic product. Homeopathy is a system of medicine established in the 19th century by a German physician named Samuel Hahnemann. Its basic principles are that like treats like and potentiation through dilution.. 1 However, in people with flu symptoms, there is some evidence that oscillococcinum might help people get over the flu faster, but only by 6 or 7 hours. 2  This may not be of much importance. 3  The reliability of this finding is also questionable due to flaws in the study design.
Oscillococcinum is a homeopathic product. Homeopathy is a system of medicine established in the 19th century by a German physician named Samuel Hahnemann. 
However, homeopathic preparations are not held to the same safety and effectiveness standards as conventional medicines. Oscillococcinum is used for symptoms of influenza infections (the flu ) and H1N1 (swine) flu. 1 However, in people with flu symptoms, there is some evidence that oscillococcinum might help people get over the flu faster, but only by 6 or 7 hours. 2  This may not be of much importance. 3  The reliability of this finding is also questionable due to flaws in the study design.
In preparing Korsakov potencies, distilled water is used rather than alcohol (sometimes only after the 30th dilution), which saves a lot of money if one has to repeat the dilution step 200, 1000 or even 50,000 times. Oscillococcinum's manufacturer (Boiron) uses ultrapure water from the first step on. Oscillococcinum is designated as 200K—which means that the original amount is subjected to 200 Korsakov dilutions—and the resulting fluid is used to moisten small 5 milligram balls of milk sugar. Whenever the flu season nears, prudent consumers get immunized against the most virulent strains of flu that are expected. This is especially recommended for people who are elderly or have chronic lung disease, diabetes, or various other chronic diseases.
1 Flu (influenza) and H1N1 (swine) flu. 2  There is no reliable evidence that taking oscillococcinum can prevent the flu. 3  However, in people with flu symptoms, there is some evidence that oscillococcinum might help people get over the flu faster, but only by 6 or 7 hours. 1 However, in people with flu symptoms, there is some evidence that oscillococcinum might help people get over the flu faster, but only by 6 or 7 hours. 2  This may not be of much importance. 3  The reliability of this finding is also questionable due to flaws in the study design.
Oscillococcinum (or Oscillo) is a homeopathic preparation marketed to relieve influenza-like symptoms. It is a popular preparation, particularly in France. It is manufactured by Boiron, its sole manufacturer. Oscillococcinum is used in more than 50 countries and has been in production for over 65 years.