No room for a third child seat. Children under 3 must be in a child car seat. If there’s no room for a third child seat in the back of the vehicle, the child must travel in the front seat with the correct child seat. Children over 3 years can sit in the back using an adult belt. 
Booster seats make it possible for the lap belt to rest across the upper thighs instead of the child's vulnerable abdomen, and keeps its restraining force away from the abdomen by increasing the lap belt angle during a crash, according to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. You Might Also Like. Booster Seats. The underdeveloped body of a child is 59 percent more likely to be injured in an automobile accident when protected only by a lap and shoulder harness. Booster seats reduce the risk of injury to a child by raising a child up and giving her a shallow area to sit comfortably without slouching.
A backless booster. A booster seat is used to lift up a child and properly position the vehicle's lap/shoulder belts on children who are too small to fit the adult seat belt. Boosters are rated for use from 30-40 lbs to 80-100 lbs. Booster seats do not have a harness. 
Stephanie Tombrello. child passenger safety specialist. You can safely switch your child to a booster seat if she's at least 4 years old and she weighs 40 pounds or more or has grown too tall for her car seat (when her shoulders are higher than the top set of harness-strap slots in the car seat's back). 
Top Tips. 1  When your child is seated in the booster seat, make sure the lap and shoulder belts fit. 2  The lap belt should fit low across the hips and the shoulder belt across the shoulder. 3  Do not place the shoulder belt under the child’s arm or behind the child’s back. 
Weight-based car seats. Weight-based car seats must be rear-facing until your child weighs more than 9kg. After that the seat your child can use (and the way they must be restrained in it) depends on their weight. You may be able to choose from more than one type of seat. Height-based car seats. Height-based car seats are known as ‘i-Size’ seats. They must be rear-facing until your child is over 15 months old. Your child can use a forward-facing car seat when they’re over 15 months old. You must check the seat to make sure it’s suitable for the height of your child
Booster Seats Are the Law in Minnesota. Booster seats lift a child up to help adult seat belts fit children properly. Children must start riding in a booster upon outgrowing a forward-facing harness restraint (typically after turning age 4 and 40–60 pounds). Common Child Passenger Safety Mistakes. Turning a child from a rear-facing restraint to a forward-facing restraint too soon. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) now recommends keeping children rear-facing until 2 years old if possible.