Intrinsic factor antibodies are proteins produced by the immune system that are associated with pernicious anemia. This test detects intrinsic factor antibody (IF antibody) circulating in blood. Intrinsic factor is a protein produced by a type of specialized cells that line the stomach wall known as parietal cells. During digestion, stomach acids release vitamin B12 from food and bind to intrinsic factor to form a complex. 1 Intrinsic factor blocking antibody (type 1), which is more specific for pernicious anemia and is the one that is usually tested. 2  Intrinsic factor binding antibody (type 2), which interferes with the uptake of the vitamin B12-instrinsic factor complex.
Intrinsic factor (IF), also known as gastric intrinsic factor (GIF), is a glycoprotein produced by the parietal cells of the stomach. It is necessary for the absorption of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) later on in the small intestine. In humans, the gastric intrinsic factor protein is encoded by the GIF gene. Haptocorrin (also known as HC, R protein, and transcobalamin I, TCN1), is a glycoprotein secreted by the salivary glands which binds to vitamin B 12. Here in the less acidic environment of the small intestine, pancreatic enzymes digest the glycoprotein carrier and vitaminB 12 can then bind to intrinsic factor. This new complex is then absorbed by the epithelial cells (enterocytes) of the ileum.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Intrinsic factor is produced in the fundus and body of the stomach by parietal cells that line the stomach. The purpose of intrinsic factor is so vitamin B can be absorbed in the small intestine.
Parietal cells also produce intrinsic factor. Intrinsic factor is required for the absorption of Vitamin B12 in the diet. A long-term deficiency in vitamin B 12 can lead to megaloblastic anemia, characterized by large fragile erythrocytes. Parietal cells (also known as oxyntic or delomorphous cells), are the epithelial cells that secrete hydrochloric acid (HCl) and intrinsic factor. These cells are located in the gastric glands found in the lining of the fundus and in the body of the stomach.
Without intrinsic factor, vitamin B-12 can't be absorbed and leaves your body as waste. Lack of intrinsic factor may be due to an autoimmune reaction in which your immune system mistakenly attacks the stomach cells that produce it. Vitamin B-12 deficiency anemia caused by a lack of intrinsic factor is called pernicious anemia. 1  Vitamin C deficiency anemia. Vitamin deficiency anemia occurs when your body doesn't have enough of the vitamins needed to produce adequate numbers of healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen from your lungs throughout your body.
Share. Intrinsic factor is a protein produced by the cells of the stomach, parietal cells, which also produce the acid (gastric juice) for digestion. The intrinsic factor is the compound which facilitates and allows the absorption of vitamin B12 from food in the stomach and the intestines. In pernicious anemia, an autoimmune disease, autoantibodies direct themselves against the intrinsic factor and/or parietal cells themselves and lead to an intrinsic factor deficiency, which results in malabsorption of vitamin B12.
Glossary. Intrinsic factor is a glycoprotein secreted by parietal (humans) or chief (rodents) cells of the gastric mucosa. In humans, it has an important role in the absorption of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) in the intestine, and failure to produce or utilize intrinsic factor results in the condition pernicious anemia. Dietary vitamin B 12 is released from ingested proteins in the stomach through the action of pepsin and acid.