Silver, in its pure form, is very soft and like gold is alloyed with other metals. Sterling Silver is marked 925 which means it is certified as having 92.5% pure silver, plus 7.5% alloy---usually copper. Vermeil is gold plated sterling silver. Sometimes it is gold plated pure silver, or nearly pure (97%) silver. The gold is usually 18k or higher, up to pure 24k gold. Vermeil has a lot more gold than other gold plated pieces. Vermeil is regulated by the FTC and has to have a minimum gold thickness of 2.5 microns on all surfaces. The term gold filled is actually a misnomer. It is not a tube that is filled with gold. It's actually a thin layer of gold that is bonded to a base metal, usually brass. It's sometimes called rolled gold or rolled gold plate.
Vermeil (/ˈvɜrmɪl/ or /vərˈmeɪ/ ; [vɛʁˈmɛj]) is an alternative for the usual term silver-gilt, or silver plated or gilt with gold. Vermeil pieces appear to be gold but are much cheaper and lighter than solid gold. It is a traditional luxury material used for table plate, toilet services and grand decorative pieces.
Gold Vermeil: Vermeil is sterling silver that has been gold-plated. This is a good combination for those with allergy to normal, plated jewelry items. The layer of gold used for vermeil jewelry is very thin so extra care should be used to protect it from scratching and from the elements. 
The word “vermeil” comes from French and is pronounced “ver-may.”. An alternative term is “silver-gilt” (or “gilded silver”), which has the same meaning as “vermeil.”. Vermeil is a term used to refer to jewelry or other items made of silver and coated with gold. © Aleksandr Ugorenkov / Fotolia. How Gold Vermeil Is Made. Vermeil jewelry is made by first creating the base of the item out of silver and then plating it with a thin layer of gold. The method used to cover the surface of the piece with gold is called electrolysis.
True gold vermeil does not have any other kind of metal in it other than sterling silver before the gold layer is applied. If you are allergic to nickel or other metals, gold vermeil is a good choice for you because none of these metals are in it, and sterling silver does not cause allergic reactions. One of the advantages of gold vermeil is that is doesn t tarnish easily, and the gold plating doesn t wear away if you take care of the item. Gold vermeil jewelry should be cleaned using a lint-free cloth that is soft and clean.
To qualify as vermeil, the item must consist of a sterling silver plated or coated base on all the important surfaces with gold alloy or gold of at least 10 karat fineness as well as a considerable thickness and a minimal thickness throughout the object that is equal to 1/1000ths of an inch of fine gold. One of the advantages of gold vermeil is that is doesn t tarnish easily, and the gold plating doesn t wear away if you take care of the item. Gold vermeil jewelry should be cleaned using a lint-free cloth that is soft and clean.
1 Most of our vermeil is plated with 22K-24K gold. 2  This is a good combination for those with allergy to normal, plated jewelry items. 3  The difference between vermeil, and gold-filled, is in the thickness of the gold and the base metal used. 4  In vermeil, the base is sterling silver. 1 This is a good combination for those with allergy to normal, plated jewelry items. 2  The difference between vermeil, and gold-filled, is in the thickness of the gold and the base metal used. 3  In vermeil, the base is sterling silver. 4  Gold-filled Memorials Jewelry-Also called rolled-gold.
Gold vermeil can be made with gold of varying purity, but in the U.S., there is a minimum requirement: To be considered vermeil, a piece needs to be plated with gold that is at least 10 karats (which corresponds to approximately 42% gold content). How Gold Vermeil Is Made. Vermeil jewelry is made by first creating the base of the item out of silver and then plating it with a thin layer of gold. The method used to cover the surface of the piece with gold is called electrolysis.
Vermeil is essentially .925 sterling silver jewelry layered with gold. Standard plating is 2 millionths of an inch of gold over the base metal, as compared to vermeils 100 millionths of an inch over sterling silver. 
And then there is gold vermeil (pronounced ver-may) which is in a class by itself. Gold vermeil is a type of gold plating in which the outer gold coating is not covering up some cheap metal like nickel, but is actually a coating of gold over top of sterling silver. But gold vermeil is not simply any gold covered silver as silver buyers will no doubt tell you. The metal beneath the gold must be pure sterling silver with no other metals between the silver and the gold, in addition the top gold layer must be 10 karat gold at a minimum and greater than 2.5 microns thick.