Zonal geraniums are also grown as standards-a single stem is trained to the desired height with a bushy globe of flowers and leaves above it. Related species: Pelargonium x peltatum, the ivy-leaved geranium, has pendulous branches loaded with flowers and excels in window boxes and hanging baskets. How to grow: Zonal geraniums benefit from full sun and moderate to rich, well-drained, moist soil. Incorporate a slow-release fertilizer into the soil at planting time. Plant after all danger of frost has passed and the soil is warm. Space them 12 inches apart.
Uses: Zonal geraniums provide pockets of color in any sunny spot. Group three or more together for color impact in flower borders or along walks and pathways. They're classics in containers, by themselves or mixed with other plants. How to grow: Zonal geraniums benefit from full sun and moderate to rich, well-drained, moist soil. Incorporate a slow-release fertilizer into the soil at planting time. Plant after all danger of frost has passed and the soil is warm. Space them 12 inches apart.
Along with zonal geraniums, there are 3 more types of Pelargonium: 1  Ivy-Leaf Geranium (Pelargonium peltatum) – As their name implies, these geraniums have a trailing habit and ivy-shaped leaves. 2  The flowers are smaller and less showy than zonal geraniums and the plants are often used as spillers in containers. Design Suggestions: Zonal geraniums have gotten a bad reputation by plant snobs. They've been considered garish and common. Too many of the brightly colored plants can start to look over the top, but these plants are excellent in all kinds of
Zonal geranium is a member of the Pelargonium family. Its botanical name is Pelargonium zonale. This erect or scrambling softly woody shrub, usually grows up to 1 m but it can reach heights of 3 m. The branches are almost succulent and are usually covered with hairs, while the older stems harden with age. 
Growth and Size. Seed geraniums are a compact version of the zonal geranium, but with smaller bloom heads, which typically measure 3 to 4 inches. Seed geraniums form a low, compact mound that is less than 1 foot tall and wide. Zonal geraniums tend to grow more upright, growing to about 18 inches in one season with large, 4- to 6-inch flower heads. Seed geraniums tend to have more numerous flowers and a more self-branching growth habit. Whichever type you choose, geraniums add color to your garden. What's commonly called a geranium comes from the Pelargonium genus, which includes several species of plants, which are categorized into different types based on growth habits and propagation.
The traditional zonal geranium product has red flowers, green foliage, and is grown in a 4 pot. This product remains the bulk of the market. Customers are now seeking different container sizes, different flower and foliage colors, and cultivars that perform in sun or part shade. 
Overview. Glowing, green foliage and bright flower clusters over a long season make zonal geraniums (Pelargonium x hortorum) some of the most popular home garden annuals. Equally comfortable in garden beds, window boxes or porch and patio containers, these are easy-care, sun-loving plants. Seed Geranium Propagation. Small, hard zonal geranium seeds germinate in 7 to 14 days if scratched before planting so water can enter them. Commercial growers plant them in flats or pots of sandy growing medium three months before the final spring frost date. They need consistently moist--not wet--soil.
Description: Zonal geraniums are bushy plants, mainly used for containers and bedding. There has been considerable breeding done, particularly for size and abundance and colors of flowers, so there is a good deal of variety. 1  Leaves: Oval leaves grow on succulent stems. 2  The leaves often have zones of maroon or bronzy-green. Design Suggestions: Zonal geraniums have gotten a bad reputation by plant snobs. They've been considered garish and common. Too many of the brightly colored plants can start to look over the top, but these plants are excellent in all kinds of containers.
The geranium, zonal, is an annual flower named for the horseshoe-shaped band of dark color in the leaves of most varieties. Pelargonium species come from South Africa, but through hundreds of years of breeding, the parentage of today's varieties has been obscured. Annuals Image Gallery. How to grow: Zonal geraniums benefit from full sun and moderate to rich, well-drained, moist soil. Incorporate a slow-release fertilizer into the soil at planting time. Plant after all danger of frost has passed and the soil is warm. Space them 12 inches apart.
Seed geranium clusters have large numbers of single flowers. Zonal geraniums' clusters have fewer, semi-double or double flowers. Flower colors for both varieties range from white to shades of pink, red, orange and purple. Seed Geranium Propagation. Small, hard zonal geranium seeds germinate in 7 to 14 days if scratched before planting so water can enter them. Commercial growers plant them in flats or pots of sandy growing medium three months before the final spring frost date. They need consistently moist--not wet--soil.