An express contract is a contract in which the terms of the agreement are stated in words, (oral or written) while an implied-in-fact contract is a contract formed in whole or … in part from the conduct of the parties. 
DEFINITION of 'Implied Contract '. A legal substitute for a contract. An implied contract is an agreement created by actions of the parties involved, but it is not written or spoken. This is a contract assumed to have been drawn. In this case, there is no written record nor any actual verbal agreement. A form of an implied contract is an implied warranty provided automatically by law. BREAKING DOWN 'Implied Contract '. Implied contract is an agreement which is not reduced to writing but is created on the basis of the behavior of the parties involved. Under an implied contract, it is suggested that the parties involved are acting under an agreement.
Implied In-Fact Contracts. An implied in-fact contract creates an obligation between the parties based on the facts of the situation. If the parties’ conduct or the circumstances suggests they had an agreement or understanding that created an obligation, then the law will find that they had an implied in-fact contract.
A court will often assume that some contract terms are implied. This allows the court to enforce the contract and follow through with the parties' intent and protect parties from fraud by omission or misrepresentation. One common example is an implied warranty of merchantability. A contract drafter normally attempts to cover all of the terms and provisions of the agreement. Implied terms are words or provisions that a court assumes were intended to be included in a contract. This means that the terms aren't expressly stated in the contract.
Contracts implied in fact are inferred from the facts and circumstances of the case or the conduct of the parties. However, such contracts are not formally or explicitly stated in words. The law makes no distinction between contracts created by words and those created by conduct. As a general rule, if an express contract between the parties is established, a contract embracing the identical subject cannot be implied in fact, as the law will not normally imply a substitute promise or contract for an express contra
An implied contract is created when two or more parties have no written contract, but the law creates an obligation in the interest of fairness based on the parties’ conduct or circumstances. There are two types of implied contracts: contracts that are implied in-fact and contracts that are implied at-law. An implied in-fact contract creates an obligation between the parties based on the facts of the situation. If the parties’ conduct or the circumstances suggests they had an agreement or understanding that created an obligation, then the law will find that they had an implied in-fact contract.
There are two types of contracts: an expressed contract, which states the promises in clear language, and an implied contract, which is where behaviors or actions lead parties to believe an agreement exists. An implied contract works differently. This type of contract evolves when no written contract is present, but circumstances may cause one person to become unjustly enriched as a result of their actions or an understanding exists. There are two types of implied contracts: 1  Implied in fact. 2  Implied in law.
For example, a contract is implied when a party knowingly accepts a benefit from another party in circumstances where the benefit cannot be considered a gift. Therefore, the party accepting the benefit is under a legal obligation to give fair value for the benefit received. Opposite of express contract. 
Implied Contracts Although contracts that are implied in fact and contracts implied in law are both called implied contracts, a true implied contract consists of obligations arising from a mutual agreement and intent to promise, which have not been expressed in words. The courts may not create a contract for the parties. When the parties have no express or implied agreement on the essential terms of a contract, there is no contract. Courts are only empowered to enforce contracts, not to write them, for the parties. A contract, in order to be enforceable, must be a valid.