It was possibly south of the Israelites' crossing point, and to the west of the Sin Wilderness. Thus, Elim is generally thought to have been located in Wadi Gharandel, an oasis 100 km southeast of Suez. Professor James K. Hoffmeier disagrees on the basis that it is too close to the preceding site (seven miles/twelve kilometres) and would require the next four sites (using the Numbers itinerary) to be compressed into only 23 miles/38 kilometres.
Elim (Hebrew: אֵילִם ‎, ’elim) êlim was one of the places where The israelites camped following Their exodus From. egypt Professor James K. Hoffmeier disagrees on the basis that it is too close to the preceding site (seven miles/twelve kilometres) and would require the next four sites (using the Numbers itinerary) to be compressed into only 23 miles/38 kilometres.
Elim is located on the northwest shore of Norton Bay on the Seward Peninsula, 96 miles east of Nome. It lies 460 miles northwest of Anchorage. Elim is located in the Cape Nome Recording District. The area encompasses 2.4 sq. miles of land and 0.0 sq. miles of water. This settlement was formerly the Malemiut Inupiat Eskimo village of Nuviakchak. The Native culture was well-developed and well-adapted to the environment.
1 The wilderness of Sin was located between Elim and Sinai. 2  Based upon Ex 16:1, geographically Elim should be located halfway between the mountains and the Red Sea on the same side the Mt. Sinai as both the wilderness of Sin and the wilderness of Sinai. 1 Israel camped in the eastern of these two area. 2  When you look at both halves of the wilderness of Sin, you find that it is indeed, in direct line of sight between Elim and the Wilderness of Sinai. 3  Elim, the wilderness of Sin and the Wilderness of Sinai must all be on the same side of the mountain range.
Exodus 16:1 They took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt. It was a contrast to the previous camp called Marah because of the bitterness of the waters, for there were twelve springs of water, and threescore and ten palm trees (Exodus 15:27; Exodus 16:1 Numbers 33:9 f). The traditional site is an oasis in Wady Ghurundel, circa 63 miles from Suez.
1 Marah and Elim are both in the Wilderness of Shur: Then Moses led Israel from the Red Sea, and they went out into the. 2  Little is known about Elim except two things: 1. 3  There were 70 date palms and 12 springs of water. 4  2. 5  The wilderness of Sin was located between Elim and Sinai. 1 Israel camped in the eastern of these two area. 2  When you look at both halves of the wilderness of Sin, you find that it is indeed, in direct line of sight between Elim and the Wilderness of Sinai. 3  Elim, the wilderness of Sin and the Wilderness of Sinai must all be on the same side of the mountain range.
ELIM Outreach Training Center is located close to the intersection of Dixie Highway and Ridge Road in Homewood, IL. We are east of the intersection on Ridge Road and on the north side of the street. Our address is: 1820 Ridge Rd., Suite 300-301Homewood, IL 60430Tel. 
Elim (Neviarcaurluq in Central Alaskan Yup'ik) is a city in Nome Census Area, Alaska, United States. At the 2010 census the population was 330. 
1 Elim must be a significant location because it is used as a reference marker to locate the Wilderness of Sin which is between Elim and Sinai. 2  The wilderness of sin is divided like two lungs on either side of a valley rift. 1 Israel camped in the eastern of these two area. 2  When you look at both halves of the wilderness of Sin, you find that it is indeed, in direct line of sight between Elim and the Wilderness of Sinai. 3  Elim, the wilderness of Sin and the Wilderness of Sinai must all be on the same side of the mountain range.
Elim Home was first located in Appomattox County and has since relocated to Amherst County, six miles north of Lynchburg. The home is located on property donated by Ray and Amanda Horsley, directors of the ministry from 1964-1984. 