Drinking the right amount of water and taking in as much fluid as you can may lessen the smell of your urine. 3. Pregnancy – Pregnancy also causes smelly urine in women since the body of the female goes through various changes in hormone balance, vitamin intake, and food and diet changes. These are just normal events happening since the body is making room for the development of the baby. Smelly Urine in Women. Most doctors will tell you that urine should be clear and straw-yellow in color. However, sometimes urine can have a very bright color depending if you are taking any supplements like vitamin and mineral drugs. Some of the most common causes of smelly urine in women include any of the following: 1. Cystitis – Also known as urinary tract infection or UTI, cystitis is the presence of bacteria in one’s body. If you are infected with this you will find it very difficult to pass urine
1 You have symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI) , such as pain or a burning sensation when urinating and a need to urinate often. 2  This is the most likely cause of unexplained foul-smelling urine. 3  A UTI will often get better on its own, especially if you increase your fluid intake. See your GP if: 1  You have symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI) , such as pain or a burning sensation when urinating and a need to urinate often. 2  This is the most likely cause of unexplained foul-smelling urine.
The presence of bacteria in the urine, such as with a urinary tract infection (UTI), can affect the appearance and smell of urine. When there is an infection in the urinary tract, the urine may take on a foul-smelling odor as well as appear cloudy or bloody. A burning sensation during urination may be a symptom of a UTI. The urine may also have an abnormally sweet odor in uncontrolled diabetes, and some rare genetic conditions can also cause the urine to have an abnormal or strange odor.
Normal urine is clear and has a straw-yellow color. While the odor of urine can vary somewhat, in most cases, it does not have a strong smell. With dehydration, the urine is more concentrated and may have a stronger ammonia scent than normal. Consumption of certain foods, such as asparagus (which can impart a characteristic odor to urine), and taking some medications may be causes for changes in the odor of urine. A burning sensation during urination may be a symptom of a UTI. The urine may also have an abnormally sweet odor in uncontrolled diabetes, and some rare genetic conditions can also cause the urine to have an abnormal or strange odor.
Presence of smelly urine in women can signify certain health-care conditions that need to be addressed immediately. Although it is a given fact that urine has a certain pungent smell, really bad-smelling urine can mean something that needs to be given medical attention. Smelly Urine in Women. Most doctors will tell you that urine should be clear and straw-yellow in color. However, sometimes urine can have a very bright color depending if you are taking any supplements like vitamin and mineral drugs. Some of the most common causes of smelly urine in women include any of the following: 1. Cystitis – Also known as urinary tract infection or UTI, cystitis is the presence of bacteria in one’s body. If you are infected with this you will find it very difficult to pass urine
If you think you may have a UTI, then get your urine tested and follow the advice of the doctor. Vaginal Infection. Many women often associate the strong smell in their urine with a UTI. While this may be true in some cases, in others, a vaginal infection can also be the cause of a strong odor in the urine. The odor that they associate with the urine may actually be an odor from the vagina. So avoid these foods and the strong smell from your urine may vanish. The causes and treatment for strong smelling urine in women may differ from person to person. It depends on the physical structure, constitution, and also the lifestyle of the person. The ones mentioned above are the most common causes and treatments.
Strong or Unusual Smelling Urine. Urine naturally has an odor, but it is usually not very strong smelling. Strong smelling urine is usually not a cause for concern. Sometimes, however, strong or unusual smelling urine is a sign of an underlying medical problem. Other foods that may change the odor of your urine include onions, garlic, and coffee. If you suspect food is to blame, eliminating the food source should allow your urine to return to a normal smell in less than 12 hours.
Normally, urine that contains a lot of water has little to no odor. If your urine becomes highly concentrated — a high level of waste products with little water — urine odor may have a strong ammonia smell. Many foods and medications, such as asparagus or certain vitamins, can affect the odor of urine. Sometimes, unusual urine odor may indicate a medical condition or disease, such as: 1  Bladder infection.