Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first. Upper front teeth usually come in 1 to 2 months after the lower front teeth. See a picture that shows when the primary teeth come in.
When to Expect Teething to Begin. Most babies' teeth begin to erupt between the ages of 4 to 6 months, though for some it may be earlier or later, Dr. Josen says. And no matter what Grandma says, when your child's first tooth pops in, it has nothing to do with smarts. The age the baby cuts his or her first tooth depends on family history of teething and nothing more, says Jill Lasky, D.D.S., a pediatric dentist at Lasky Pediatric Dental Group in Los Angeles. So, if you got your teeth early, your child probably will too. Same thing if you were late.
Your baby is teething when his or her first set of teeth, called primary teeth, break through the gums. Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first
Most babies get their first tooth at around 6 months, but your child's chompers may appear as early as 3 months or as late as 14, depending on such factors as when Mom and Dad started sprouting teeth and whether or not your baby was a preemie (preemies tend to teethe on the late side). 
Teething occurs when the 'baby teeth' (or milk teeth) come through the gums. It is a normal part of development. Although the milk teeth develop when the baby is growing in the womb, the teeth only start to grow throughout the gums when the baby is 6-9 months old (although it can be before or after these ages). 
The vast majority of babies sprout their first tooth when they're between 4 and 7 months old. An early developer may get his first white cap as early as 3 months, while a late bloomer may have to wait until he's a year old or more. By age 3, your child should have a full set of 20 baby teeth, and they shouldn't start to fall out until his permanent teeth are ready to start coming in – around age 6.
Infant development experts say that teething usually starts when your baby is around four months old, and continues until he or she is about two years old, at which time you get a reprieve until about five years old when the baby teeth start being replaced by grown-up teeth. 
Teething can be a long drawn-out process for your baby (and you). In fact, the move from that gummy grin to a mouthful of gleaming teeth can take your baby his first three years to complete. Most babies sprout their first tooth at around six months (BDHF 2010, NHS 2009) . But your baby may have his first white cap, usually in the front at the bottom, any time between three months and his first birthday, although it can come as late as 14 months (CKS 2009) . 
Next review due: 22/01/2017. A baby’s first teeth (known as milk or deciduous teeth) usually develop while the child is growing in the womb. In most babies, these teeth start to emerge through the gums when they are around six months old. The teething process. Most babies start teething at around six months. However, all babies are different and the timing of teething varies. Some babies are born with their first teeth. Others start teething before they are four months old, and some after 12 months. Early teething should not cause a child any problems, unless it affects their feeding. A rough guide to the different stages of teething is: