The amount of gold held at Fort Knox has fluctuated over the years. It was at its greatest amount during World War II when several European governments moved their gold reserves to Kentucky for safe keeping. At this time, the amount of gold at Fort Knox peaked at 20,205 metric tons (650 million oz. troy).
According to some sources, Fort Knox holds 4,578 metric tons of gold bullion, and is second in the United States to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which holds 7,000 metric tons, some of it in trust for foreign nations, central banks and official international organizations.
Protected by a 109,000-acre U.S. Army post in Kentucky sits one of the Federal Reserve's most secure assets and its only gold depository: the 73-year-old Fort Knox vault.
Fort Knox is located in Fort Knox, Kentucky at the intersection of Gold Vault Road and Bullion Boulevard. It was built in 1936 to house the massive gold reserves that came about because of an order issued by President Roosevelt in 1933.
View full size image. To keep up with the country’s mounting gold reserves, the United States Bullion Depository opened at the Fort Knox U.S. Army Garrison in Kentucky in 1937. The first shipment of gold arrived from Philadelphia in trains surrounded by military troops. Fort Knox is framed in steel with walls of concrete.
1 The gold is held as an asset of the United States at book value of $42.22 per ounce. 2  The Depository opened in 1937; the first gold was moved to the depository in January that year. 3  Highest gold holdings this century: 649.6 million ounces (December 31, 1941).
The present gold holdings at the Fort Knox Gold Bullion Depository amount to approximately 147.3 million ounces worth more than 6 Trillion Dollars! Except for small samples removed to test its purity, no gold has been transferred to or from the Depository for many years.
As you might expect, the security around Fort Knox is very tight, with some people even speculating that the vaults are actually empty (!). The vault was built in 1936 in Fort Knox, Kentucky, in order to hold all of the gold collected from President Roosevelt's Executive Order 6102.