About us. Scott Brothers Entertainment is an independent production company defined by a commitment to produce high-quality, multi-genre content across all platforms. In 2004, Jonathan, Drew and JD Scott founded the indie film company, Dividian Production Group. In 2010, Jonathan and Drew launched Scott Brothers Entertainment. In 2013, they shifted the focus from film to creating original content for television and digital platforms, while continuing to build the Scott Brothers brand globally.
Wiki Biography: Andrew Alfred Scott, better known as Drew Scott, was born in Vancouver, Canada. Drew is the youngest of three boys. His father, Jim Scott, worked in the film industry as an actor and assistant director until the late 70s, when he decided to focus on raising his family. Drew's mother, Joanne, worked as a paralegal in downtown Vancouver. Twin brother, Jonathan Silver Scott, is an accomplished actor, host and illusionist
$10 Million. Drew Scott net worth: Drew Scott is a Canadian actor, host and real estate agent who has a net worth of $10 million. Drew Scott was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada on April 28, 1978. His father, Jim Scott, worked in the film industry as an actor and assistant director. Drew Scott has a twin brother, Jonathan Silver Scott, who is an actor and illusionist. 
Mini Bio (1). Andrew Alfred Scott, better known as Drew Scott, was born in Vancouver, Canada. Drew is the youngest of three boys. His father, Jim Scott, worked in the film industry as an actor and assistant director until the late 70s, when he decided to focus on raising his family. Drew's mother, Joanne, worked as a paralegal in downtown Vancouver.
Property Brothers Jonathan and Drew Scott's Biography. Get to know the Property Brothers, Jonathan and Drew Scott, in a video bio.
Drew Scott Biography. Andrew Alfred Scott, better known as Drew Scott, was born in Vancouver, Canada. Drew is the youngest of three boys. His father, Jim Scott, worked in the film industry as an actor and assistant director until the late 70s, when he decided to focus on raising his family. Drew's mother, Joanne, worked as a paralegal in downtown Vancouver.
Jonathan was born and raised in Vancouver, Canada with his identical twin brother Drew Scott, and older brother J.D. Scott. Official Photos ». Jonathan was born and raised in Vancouver, Canada with his identical twin brother Drew Scott, and older brother J.D. Scott. His passion for entertaining started at the young age of 7 when he began performing in small theatre productions and on weekends as an apprentice clown.