Most rust pits on sheet metal can be filled with a surfacer or primer surfacer. Apply and sand off 2 or 3 times, whatever it takes. You cannot fill pits with paint. Apply the surfacer over true epoxy primer. Re: rust pits-how to fill them in reply to mdelfert, 02-22-2012 11:01:29. I like CNKS's solution the best. Prime first with epoxy primer and use a filler primer over the top. Evercoat Featherfil can be used without having a sealer coat over it.
Scrape up the blended filler on the edge of a plastic putty knife and spread it over the pitted metal. Drag the edge of the knife over the surface to remove the excess filler, leveling the pits to be even with the rest of the metal. 1. Sand the metal and hardened filler with a sanding block and 80-grit sandpaper, if necessary, and wipe off the dust with a dry rag. Sanding with coarse sandpaper is only necessary if you were unable to scrape off the excess filler evenly, which leaves ridges and bumps of filler on the metal.
First, remove any rust using the above methods. Then, these methods have been mentioned: 1  Clamp a piece of copper to the other side of the panel, covering the pinhole. 2  Weld won't stick to the panel, and will act as a heat sink so the panel doesn't warp as much. 3  Then, fill the hole in with a MIG welder. 
Heavy rust often accompanies pits in metal. To fix pitted metal, whether it is a fender, picture frame or decorative item for your garden, head to an auto parts store. Pits in metal are more than unattractive, this corrosion can weaken the metal. 1. Sand the metal and hardened filler with a sanding block and 80-grit sandpaper, if necessary, and wipe off the dust with a dry rag. Sanding with coarse sandpaper is only necessary if you were unable to scrape off the excess filler evenly, which leaves ridges and bumps of filler on the metal.
1. Wrap a sheet of 80-grit sandpaper around a sanding block and sand the pitted area aggressively. You can use a power sander instead of sanding by hand, but it might remove too much material and weaken the metal. If the metal item is very heavy, you can likely sand with a power sander. 1. Sand the metal and hardened filler with a sanding block and 80-grit sandpaper, if necessary, and wipe off the dust with a dry rag. Sanding with coarse sandpaper is only necessary if you were unable to scrape off the excess filler evenly, which leaves ridges and bumps of filler on the metal.
Re: rust pits-how to fill them in reply to mdelfert, 02-22-2012 11:01:29. clean all the rust out by sandblasting, then put a coat or two of icing on it. icing is a pourable body filler used as a finishing coat over body filler before priming. Re: rust pits-how to fill them in reply to mdelfert, 02-22-2012 11:01:29. I like CNKS's solution the best. Prime first with epoxy primer and use a filler primer over the top. Evercoat Featherfil can be used without having a sealer coat over it.
Step by step instructions on how to repair pitted pot metal or zinc die cast parts. Classic car owners know that pits are prevalent on most antique autos, and typically this repair is difficult due to the low melting point of pot metal. 
Secure an 80-grit flapper wheel to a grinder. Sand the pitted metal with the flapper wheel until no rust or old paint remains on its surface. Remove the flapper wheel. Attach a wire wheel to the arbor of the grinder. Wire wheel the entire surface of the metal to remove debris from the metal pits. Spray degreasing cleaner on the surface of the metal