References to yucca root as food often stem from confusion with the similarly pronounced, but botanically unrelated, yuca, also called cassava or manioc (Manihot esculenta). Roots of soaptree yucca (Yucca elata) are high in saponins and are used as a shampoo in Native American rituals. From Baja California in the west, northwards into the southwestern United States, through the drier central states as far north as Alberta in Canada (Yucca glauca ssp. albertana). Yucca is also native to the lowlands and dry beach scrub of the Gulf and South Atlantic states from coastal Texas to easternmost Virginia.
Yucca is a genus of perennial shrubs and trees in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae. Its 40-50 species are notable for their rosettes of evergreen, tough, sword-shaped leaves and large terminal panicles of white or whitish flowers. From Baja California in the west, northwards into the southwestern United States, through the drier central states as far north as Alberta in Canada (Yucca glauca ssp. albertana). Yucca is also native to the lowlands and dry beach scrub of the Gulf and South Atlantic states from coastal Texas to easternmost Virginia.
YUCCA Overview Information. Yucca is the common name for the more than 40 species of plants in the Yucca genus. The root of the non-flowering plant is used to make medicine. Yucca is used for osteoarthritis, high blood pressure, migraine headaches, inflammation of the intestine (colitis), high cholesterol, stomach disorders, diabetes, poor circulation, and liver and gallbladder disorders. 
The natural distribution range of the genus Yucca (49 species and 24 subspecies) covers a vast area of North and Central America. From Baja California in the west, northwards into the southwestern United States, through the drier central states as far north as Alberta in Canada (Yucca glauca ssp. albertana). Yucca is also native to the lowlands and dry beach scrub of the Gulf and South Atlantic states from coastal Texas to easternmost Virginia. To the south, the genus is represented throughout Mexico and extends into Guatemala (Yucca guatemalensis)
The starchy root of the yucca is not only rich in carbohydrates but also contains a healthy mix of vitamins, minerals and plant-based nutrients. Researchers are finding that yucca root’s phytonutrients, including steroidal saponins and resveratrol, endow it with significant health benefits. 
A tropical root vegetable, grown as a shrub in temperate zones of Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, and South America, that is harvested for its root and leaves. Commonly used to make tapioca, tapioca flour, pancakes, and snack chips, this root may also be referred to as Cassava Root, Manioc Yuca, Manioc, Manihot, Mandioca, and Eddoes. At times, it is mistakenly referred to as Yucca, which is a non-edible plant from the Agave plant family.
You say potato, we say yucca! Yucca describes a type of shrub that grows in drier parts of the Southwest of the United States and parts of Mexico and Latin America. It has a long history as an important plant to Native Americans, who have used it for everything from cooking and crafting to treating medical conditions. It has been used as a food source and has been used to make products such as soap, shampoo, clothing, and rope. Native Americans ate the yucca flowers, fruits, and root. The sharp leaves were even used as tools to create art. Yucca has also been used as a remedy for conditions and symptoms like: 1  Inflammation.
Yucca has many different traditional uses. It has been used as a food source and has been used to make products such as soap, shampoo, clothing, and rope. Native Americans ate the yucca flowers, fruits, and root. The sharp leaves were even used as tools to create art. Yucca has also been used as a remedy for conditions and symptoms like: 1  Inflammation.
Full Definition of YUCCA. 1. : any of a genus (Yucca) of sometimes arborescent plants of the agave family that occur in warm regions chiefly of western North America and have long sword-shaped often stiff fibrous-margined leaves on a usually woody base and bear a large panicle of white blossoms. 2