1 Norse mythology: when Odin and Valkyries tasted victory, they used the wolf as their symbol. 2  Celtic mythology: for the Celts, the wolf was a symbol of the power of the moon and several stories abound related to it. 3  Asian mythology: for several Asian cultures, the wolf was given the status of doorkeeper to the heavens. They were used as symbols on totems and were a reflection of a person’s inner heart. In the Mohawk tribe, wolf tattoos indicated a totem-like power and showed an affiliation with that particular tribe.
1 Roman mythology: the founders of Rome, Romulus and Remus had wolf totem symbols and were believed to have been raised on the milk of a wolf. 2  Norse mythology: when Odin and Valkyries tasted victory, they used the wolf as their symbol. They were used as symbols on totems and were a reflection of a person’s inner heart. In the Mohawk tribe, wolf tattoos indicated a totem-like power and showed an affiliation with that particular tribe.
One of the oldest links to wolf symbolism is that of the Native Indian culture. They were used as symbols on totems and were a reflection of a person’s inner heart. In the Mohawk tribe, wolf tattoos indicated a totem-like power and showed an affiliation with that particular tribe.
Wolf Symbol The wolf is a symbol for cruelty, cunning and greed in some cultures but others admires it because it represents courage and victory. Wolf is a symbol for companion and guardian. In a positive light they are a symbol of loyal, faithful, honesty and willing to fight injustice. It is seen as a powerful symbol of loyalty, intelligence and vigilance. As a descendant from the Asiatic Wolf man’s relationships with wolfs goes back over 40,000 years and then it was the 11th sign of the Zodiac where it represented symbols both positive and negative. In some ancient civilizations the Wolf was a symbol of the underworld.
1 Greek/Roman: In Greek and Roman mythology the wolf symbol and meaning is associated with the Gods of war, Ares/Mars. 2  The wolf spirit totem was also seen as the Great Goddess or Mother and many Greek and Roman heroes claim wolves as their ancestors. 1 Celtic: Two wolf totem’s drive the time as they chase the sun and moon. 2  Their image accompanied many clans as a symbol of strength and victory. 3  The great wolf Fenrir is the harbinger of Armageddon. 4 
Animals are often used in tattoos because they are easily recognized symbols. They are often considered a symbol of traits we ourselves think we possess or traits we want to possess. Wolves hold a special place in the history of mankind. They were used as symbols on totems and were a reflection of a person’s inner heart. In the Mohawk tribe, wolf tattoos indicated a totem-like power and showed an affiliation with that particular tribe.
The Wolf has always been a symbol of evil as well as good, either a demonic, brutal killer or a reflection of the mysterious, untamed wilderness. The reality of the matter, however, is that the wolf is neither evil nor exceptionally good. Wolves are simply predators. As with humans, wolves need to eat to survive. However, man's fear did not stop there. Worse then just the wolf was the human-wolf creature known as the werewolf. The thought that a human could transform into a wolf and be able attack, kill, and sometimes even gorge other humans struck deep fear in the minds and hearts of many medieval men.
The wolf is a national symbol of Chechnya. According to folklore, the Chechens are born of a she-wolf, as included in the central line in the national myth. The lone wolf symbolizes strength, independence and freedom. A proverb about the teips (sub-clans) is equal and free like wolves. She was depicted as a she-wolf with an escort of wolves. The wolf as a mythological creature is greatly linked to Balkan and Serbian mythology and cults. It has an important part in Serbian mythology. In the Slavic, old Serbian religion and mythology, the wolf was used as a totem.
The obvious attribute of the wolf is its nature of a predator, and correspondingly it is strongly associated with danger, destruction, making it the symbol of the warrior on one hand, and that of the devil on the other. The modern trope of the Big Bad Wolf is a development of this. She was depicted as a she-wolf with an escort of wolves. The wolf as a mythological creature is greatly linked to Balkan and Serbian mythology and cults. It has an important part in Serbian mythology. In the Slavic, old Serbian religion and mythology, the wolf was used as a totem.