Search Stocks. W.W. Grainger, Inc. (Grainger), incorporated on December 27, 1928, is a distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) supplies and other related products and services. The Grainger catalog offers approximately 590,000 facilities maintenance and other products, and is used by customers to assist in product selection. The catalog includes over 32,000 new items. Canada. Acklands-Grainger is a distributor of industrial and safety supplies.
More from FactSet ». W.W. Grainger, Inc. is a distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) supplies and other related products and services. The Company offers its products and services to businesses and institutions in the United States and Canada, with presence also in Europe, Asia and Latin America. The United States business offers a selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services. Acklands-Grainger is a distributor of industrial and safety supplies that distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and shop equipment, among others.
Techni-Tool is also owned by Grainger, and the situation is similar – there’s not complete overlap. Things are similar with MSC Industrial Supply Co and Enco. These two companies are competitors to Grainger and are linked to each other in a similar way as Grainger is to Zoro. I’ve read comments mentioning Zoro tools in many posts, among other industrial supply sources such as McMaster and Grainger. What I haven’t seen (I admit I’ve only been reading for about a year) is any reference indicating that Zoro is a subsidiary of Grainger.
Steve wrote in with a reminder that’s definitely worth repeating. Zoro Tools, or just Zoro as they call themselves these days, is a Grainger company that usually saves you some money. I’ve read comments mentioning Zoro tools in many posts, among other industrial supply sources such as McMaster and Grainger. What I haven’t seen (I admit I’ve only been reading for about a year) is any reference indicating that Zoro is a subsidiary of Grainger.
W. W. Grainger, Inc. is a Fortune 500 industrial supply company founded in 1927 in Chicago. Grainger's catalog includes such offerings as motors, lighting, material handling, fasteners, plumbing, tools, and safety supplies. In 1967, Grainger became a publicly traded company. Grainger is a profitable corporation and has increased dividends to its shareholders for thirty six consecutive years. The company has grown consistently since becoming public and has passed US$1 billion in annual sales in 1984 and US$5 billion in sales in 2004.
For items that are carried by both Grainger and Zoro, you can order from Zoro and have the items shipped to you for a lot less than you would probably pay to order from Grainger. That is, if you’re an individual consumer without a business account or discount arrangement. I’ve read comments mentioning Zoro tools in many posts, among other industrial supply sources such as McMaster and Grainger. What I haven’t seen (I admit I’ve only been reading for about a year) is any reference indicating that Zoro is a subsidiary of Grainger.
Zoro tools owned by grainger. We've collected zoro tools owned by grainger images, zoro tools owned by grainger videos and a couple of suggestions to related content. You want to learn more about zoro tools owned by grainger? This site teach you the information you need about zoro tools owned by grainger, giving the insights you are looking for. Drop a comment with your thoughts if you have any questions. Feel free to tell us about videos, images and links if you read interesting articles / blog posts
Description. W.W. Grainger, Inc. is a distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) supplies and other related products and services. The Company offers its products and services to businesses and institutions in the United States and Canada, with presence also in Europe, Asia and Latin America. The United States business offers a selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services. Acklands-Grainger is a distributor of industrial and safety supplies that distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, instruments, welding and shop equipment, among others.
Launched in 2011 to leverage the eCommerce expertise of both Grainger.com and MonotaRO, Zoro Tools Inc. meets the needs of smaller customers who need products to maintain, repair or operate facilities. The company is relocating from nearby 1000 Asbury Drive, also in Buffalo Grove. Keith Puritz of CBRE represented Zoro Tools. The building is located at 909 Asbury Drive in Buffalo Grove in the Arbor Creek Business Center. Developed on four acres in 1989, the building features 22-foot ceiling heights, three interior dock high doors and one drive-in door.