Because this disease can be transmitted through secretions on your hands and clothes, be very careful when handling other rabbits, and always wash your hands and clothes after handling a rabbit other than your own. Snuffles is a disease that can have devastating consequences to rabbits. In some severe cases, a rabbit may develop pneumonia or bacteremia (the bacteria enter the bloodstream). In a few cases, abscesses may form under the skin, in joints, or in the internal organs. Treatment. Snuffles is generally treated with antibiotics for 14-30 days.
Email Article. Snuffles is one of the most common diseases that strikes domestic rabbits. Almost every rabbit breeder or long-term rabbit owner has dealt with or is at least familiar with this devastating respiratory disease. This disease is very contagious and can also affect the eyes, ears, and other organs. If detected early, it can be treated, but it can become chronic or fatal if left untreated. This article will help rabbit owners identify, understand the treatment, and prevent snuffles in their own rabbits. Cause. In some severe cases, a rabbit may develop pneumonia or bacteremia (the bacteria enter the bloodstream). In a few cases, abscesses may form under the skin, in joints, or in the internal organs. Treatment. Snuffles is generally treated with antibiotics for 14-30 days.
Respiratory disease in rabbits is a common condition most often caused by a bacterial infection. Respiratory disease affects rabbits of all ages and results in sneezing, eye discharge (conjunctivitis), and labored breathing. Most rabbits are exposed to the Pasteurella bacteria but not all rabbits show symptoms. There are two components to the respiratory tract and both of these can be affected: the upper respiratory tract and the lower respiratory tract.
MYXOMATOSIS: is a viral infection of rabbits. It is usually transmitted by insects and is usually fatal. Blood-sucking insects, including mosquitoes, fleas, lice, ticks, and mites, are the main method of spread. This is a terrible disease related to eye problems that may lead to blindness or death. 
Heatley adds, Snuffles is a very common disease of rabbits and can be found in up to 10 percent of rabbits which appear normal. It is found in almost all rabbits that show clinical signs, such as a runny nose, skin infections, or a head tilt. Symptoms for snuffles vary among rabbits. Sub-clinical snuffles (infected rabbits that show no symptoms) can be diagnosed through a physical examination administered by your veterinarian. Physical examinations should be a routine part of your pre-purchase or initial 'well pet' health exam.
Pasteurellosis. Pasteurellosis is common in domestic rabbits. It is highly contagious, and is transmitted primarily by direct contact, although aerosol transmission may also occur. The etiologic agent is Pasteurella multocida, a gram-negative, nonmotile coccobacillus. 
He could have snuffles, a common upper respiratory infection in rabbits. Snuffles is a disease which affects the eyes and nose and sometimes the lungs, skin, or even the middle ear of rabbits, says Dr. Jill Heatley, associate professor at the Texas A&M College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences (CVM). Sub-clinical snuffles (infected rabbits that show no symptoms) can be diagnosed through a physical examination administered by your veterinarian. Physical examinations should be a routine part of your pre-purchase or initial 'well pet' health exam.
As low as $89.99. Snuffles is a respiratory disease in rabbits most commonly caused by Pasteurella multocida. It is one of the most common diseases that strikes domestic rabbits. Almost every rabbit breeder or long-term rabbit owner has dealt with, or is at least familiar with, this devastating respiratory disease. By understanding the disease and taking precautions against it, rabbit owners can help reduce both the severity and incidence of this disease. Snuffles is a respiratory disease in rabbits most commonly caused by Pasteurella multocida.
Pasteurellosis in rabbits is most commonly caused by the bacteria Pasteurella multocida. It is highly contagious and can be transmitted by direct or indirect contact. It is one of the most common disease-causing agents in rabbits. P. multocida is highly infectious and many infected rabbits remain clinically normal until they are stressed and then clinical signs of disease may occur. Most rabbits are exposed to the Pasteurella bacteria but not all rabbits show symptoms. There are two components to the respiratory tract and both of these can be affected: the upper respiratory tract and the lower respiratory tract.