Founded in 1964, Strategic Account Management Association (SAMA) is a unique non-profit association focused solely on helping to establish strategic, key and global account management as a separate profession, career path and proven corporate strategy for growth.
wwwe June 2013 Page 1 How Economic and Technological Changes Have Made Key Account Management a Strategic Imperative In the 1970s, companies like Xerox and IBM started to address their important customers as “Key Accounts”.
The alternative is to offer your customers best value. Key Account Management will help you to understand your client’s business, propose new ways of doing things and build stronger business relationships. Making it much harder for your competitors to sell to your customers. By entering into KAM relationships you will:
People at large companies bandy about the terms key account management and strategic account management in conversation every day. Ask 10 people to define what these are, or to tell you what the criteria are for an account to be named a key account, and you’re likely to get 10 very different answers.
Key Account Management (KAM) is a professional sales approach which involves the supplier and client’s business working together to gain understanding of each others business and achieve common goals.
Key Account Management is a strategic decision The broadened scope of superior key account management is reaching far beyond selling products or services to important clients with high sales turnover. It demands a new approach to the key account by including extra aspects of the client – supplier relationship.
1 The goal of any Key Account Manager is to develop a KAM strategy that reflects the different types of strategic customer that exist, agreeing which to target and how-based on time, resources and money available to target each type.
Key account management differs from sales in that the objective is not a transaction, and the measurement of success goes beyond the financial. The objective of a key account management program is “embeddedness”—that is, a successful key account management program will make you indispensable to your customer.