This page explains how Roman numerals work. This is the convention I was taught in school. The Romans (and subsequent users) weren't nearly as strict about how to write numbers in their day, but this is the way you will see Roman numerals written in almost all cases today. 1 In this case, a letter with a smaller value precedes one with a larger value and the value of the smaller is subtracted from the larger. 2  The result is then added to the rest of the letters. 3  The following rules apply to subtraction: 4  Only powers of ten (I, X, C, M) can be subtracted.
The Roman numeral system works by having separate symbols to represent different numbers but unlike your system there was no symbol for zero. 
Roman Numerals. Ancient Romans used a number system that is very different from ours. Learn to write numbers as the Romans did thousands of years ago. These worksheets include basic and advanced level Roman numeral activities. 
This time it just means to represent some numbers in roman numerals you need to subtract the value of the smaller number from the larger. e.g. XL = 50 - 10 = 40 Personally I like the way it is shown on the chalk board but you'll have to work out which way works for you. Yep!!! another 'techo' word. This time it just means to represent some numbers in roman numerals you need to subtract the value of the smaller number from the larger. e.g. XL = 50 - 10 = 40.
1 Manually add the Roman numeral to each of the pages you want to number this way. 2  Then, make the remaining pages into a separate document. 3  In Works 4.0 and later, select the header or footer of the separate document, and click Page Number on the Insert menu. SUMMARY. When you use the word processor in Works, you may want to number the preliminary pages in your document with Roman numerals and then switch over to regular (Arabic) page numbers. To do this, use either of the following options: 1  Manually type the page number on each page.
For example, in MCMIX (1909), M (1000) is the thousands, CM (1000 - 100 = 900) is the hundreds, and IX (10 - 1 = 9) is the ones. To put it most concisely: When converting to Roman numerals, convert each digit separately. For example, for 953 convert 900, 50, and 3 to give CM, L, and III to get CMLIII. For more information on how Roman numerals work, please check the sites in the Links section. 1 In this case, a letter with a smaller value precedes one with a larger value and the value of the smaller is subtracted from the larger. 2  The result is then added to the rest of the letters. 3  The following rules apply to subtraction: 4  Only powers of ten (I, X, C, M) can be subtracted.
Roman numerals, the numeric system used in ancient Rome, employs combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values. In tarot, Roman numerals (with zero) are also used to denote the cards of the Major Arcana. In theology and biblical scholarship, the Septuagint is often referred to as LXX, as this translation of the Old Testament into Greek is named for the legendary number of its translators (septuaginta being Latin for seventy).
To format these page numbers to be roman numerals, locate the design tab, which should appear in a green tab at the top of the page. Click Page Number and click Format Page Numbers. 4. Change the Number Format to roman numeral (i, ii, iii). 5. Click Ok. 2. Double click your now-inserted page numbers. 3. 
How to Learn Roman Numerals. Roman numerals are the numerical system used in ancient Rome. They use combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to represent different values. Learning Roman numerals can help you write outlines, understand ancient Roman culture, and become a more cultured human being.