This eliminates you paying an unknown amount when all is said and done. The cost of hiring an interior designer varies greatly. Most charge per hour, with the current market rate between $50 and $200 per hour. You would pay this in addition to the cost of furniture, accessories, artwork, etc. Some interior designers charge their clients by marking up the decor they choose. 
1 Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and. 2  Square foot basis-this is usually the manner by which commercial work is done and it pays the designer a fixed amount per square foot of space. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments
1 Consultation with designer on a bedroom decorating project; 2  Agreement on terms of the arrangement, which is going to usually include a discussion on the costs per service such as retainer amount, design fee, color selection, purchasing, etc; and. 3  Budget is set at $6,000 and will include all services. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignment
1 Budget is set at $6,000 and will include all services. 2  Hourly rates-this is for a smaller project and pays the designer based on the actual amount of time that they contribute to a specific project. 3  Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments
1 On the other end of the spectrum are premiere interior decorating companies who might charge $400 to $500 per hour or more. 2  Flat fee: some interior design decorators charge a pre-determined rate for certain services. 
Hourly Costs of Interior Designers. There are two different ways to hire interior designers, and the most common is an hourly wage. This may incur prices of $50 or more per hour, but it allows the homeowner to end the agreement whenever they want to depending on their budget or their total satisfaction with the project. It should be no surprise that the biggest influence on the total costs of interior design services is the size of the home. In addition, interior design firms with connections and discounts with local vendors may be able to offer lower rates to customers.
On average nationally, hiring an interior decorator or designer costs $7,125, with most homeowners spending between $5,544 and $8,706. If you decide to hire a professional for decorating your house, make sure you know the right kind of one that you need. 
Average Cost of Interior Design Services. Hiring an interior designer can be a serious investment, but many homeowners feel that the upfront expense is worth it in order to live in a beautiful and tastefully-decorated home. It should be no surprise that the biggest influence on the total costs of interior design services is the size of the home. In addition, interior design firms with connections and discounts with local vendors may be able to offer lower rates to customers.
1 Some decorators work for free; they're earning commissions from merchants and may steer you to the highest priced products. 2  Others charge a fixed fee, of $500-$10,000 or more depending on location and reputation. 3  Hourly rates can be $35-$500, again based on location and reputation. 1 Hourly rates can be $35-$500, again based on location and reputation. 2  Decorators working on a flat rate or hourly basis may also charge a percentage of any products purchased. 3  It's possible to hire a decorator for just a few hours, to give you guidance and ideas.