Smelly Ear Infections. An infection of the outer and middle ear (otitis externa and media) is the most common cause of a smelly ear discharge (otorrhea). A purulent discharge may appear white to pale yellow initially. Initially the discharge may be odorless but can progress into a foul smelling odor
Posted by Dr. Chris. Tweet. An offensive smelling odor from the ear is often assumed to be a sign of infection but there are a few other non-infectious causes that also need to be considered. The odor may be associated with an ear discharge, ear wax or occur on its own for no clearly identifiable reason. Due to the rather small entrance to the ear canal (concha cavity), an odor emanating from the ear without any discharge is not easily detectable unless there is close contact. An infection of the outer and middle ear (otitis externa and media) is the most common cause of a smelly ear discharge (otorrhea). A purulent discharge may appear white to pale yellow initially.
Symptoms. The symptoms that occur with your smelly earwax could help indicate the cause of the earwax odor. Ear pain that worsens when you tug gently on the external portion of your ear typically points to an external ear infection, notes MayoClinic.com. Never try to manually remove smelly earwax yourself in an attempt to determine the cause of your ear problems. Digging into an infected ear with pointed objects like cotton swabs or pen caps could worsen an ear infection or lead to a ruptured eardrum.
Ear Infections. An infection of the outer and middle ear (otitis externa and media) is the most common cause of a smelly ear discharge (otorrhea). A purulent discharge may appear white to pale yellow initially. Initially the discharge may be odorless but can progress into a foul smelling odor. An offensive smelling odor from the ear is often assumed to be a sign of infection but there are a few other non-infectious causes that also need to be considered. The odor may be associated with an ear discharge, ear wax or something even more serious. Causes of a Smelly Ear Odor. Hygiene.
In majority of cases smelly ear wax is accompanied with symptoms of underlying cause. Ear pain and tenderness on slightest touch indicates infection in the ear canal. Pain which is sudden and severe and disappearing abruptly may be an indication of ear drum perforation. This is unusual and an indication of an underlying pathology. Smelly ear wax can be due to various reasons such as an infection in the ear. It may be a bacterial infection or a fungal infection. Infection in external ear is common among swimmers.
Normally the ear wax is slightly smelly and bitter. It is because of the chemical composition and dead bacteria and debris which get entrapped in the canal. The smell prevents insects from entering inside the ear. However, sometimes there is strong odor emitted from ear wax. This is unusual and an indication of an underlying pathology. Smelly ear wax can be due to various reasons such as an infection in the ear. It may be a bacterial infection or a fungal infection. Infection in external ear is common among swimmers.
A sticky substance that helps preserve hearing by coating the ear canals, earwax typically possesses a distinctive, mild odor. Earwax that has an unusual or foul odor generally indicates a problem that could vary in severity from a mild buildup of wax to a potentially serious ruptured eardrum. Learn the facts about smelly earwax, including possible causes, accompanying symptoms and your doctor's most likely course of action. Never try to manually remove smelly earwax yourself in an attempt to determine the cause of your ear problems. Digging into an infected ear with pointed objects like cotton swabs or pen caps could worsen an ear infection or lead to a
1 Sometimes, because of the concentration of this chemical in the wax, the ear may emit a foul smell. 2  Presence of dead cells or bacteria in the wax can also cause smelly ears. 3  Bad hygiene: If you do not clean your ears regularly, there are chances of ear infection and foul smelling ear discharge. It is always important to know the cause of a foul smelling ear before you treat it. Here are some simple home remedies to get rid of bad ear smell: 1  Clean ears regularly. 2  It is the basic step in getting rid of the cheesy odor.
This waxy substance normally has typical mild odor. However, when the odor from the ear wax is extremely smelly and foul, it may be an indication of potential ear problem. Let us know the causes of smelly earwax and the ways to get rid of it. This is unusual and an indication of an underlying pathology. Smelly ear wax can be due to various reasons such as an infection in the ear. It may be a bacterial infection or a fungal infection. Infection in external ear is common among swimmers.