Overview. A flat tire on your riding lawn mower can be a big inconvenience. Most riding lawn mowers use tubeless tires. The air pressure inside the tire holds the tire tight to the rim, which prevents the air from escaping. Because they don't use tubes, you will not have to replace an interior tube when fixing the tire. Step 5. Take the air hose and pressure the nozzle on the valve stem to begin filling the tire with air. Remove the nozzle every 5 to 10 seconds and check the air pressure in the tire by pushing a tire gauge onto the valve stem.
Tractor tire pressure should be checked weekly at least. Learn how to use a tire pressure gauge to check the pressure in tractor tires in this free video on tractor operation. Part of the Video Series: How to Drive & Operate a Tractor. 1  Preparing a Tractor for Storage. 
Load distribution on the lawn tractor should be 40 percent on the front tires and 60 percent on the rear. Front tires usually contain more pounds per square inch (psi) of air than the rear tires. A Scott 1642 lawn tractor, for example, should have 14 psi in 15-inch front tires and 10 psi in 20-inch rear tires. Lawn tractor tires must produce good traction while reducing side-to-side-motion. Tire pressure should be adjusted according to load requirements. Inflation pressure recommendations can be found in the owner's manual or on the company's website.
When checking tire pressure, ensure that the mower is parked on a level surface such as a sidewalk or shop floor. If the mower was recently in use, allow the engine to completely cool; tires warm up when the mower is in use and should be inflated when cool. 
(2:01) Step 4: If you have damage in the sidewall area of the tire, the tire must be replaced. If you have damage in the tread areas of the tire a sealant can be used for the repair. (2:50) Step 5: Follow the instructions on the label to use the sealant. (2:59) Step 6: Raise and support the tractor and note the position of the valve stem. 
A lawn tractor that sits idle during the winter should have its rear tires removed and stored horizontally. The weight of the tractor sitting on its wheels during the winter can cause tire damage. Cold temperatures reduce air pressure in the tires and places undue stress on the rubber. Lawn tractor tires must produce good traction while reducing side-to-side-motion. Tire pressure should be adjusted according to load requirements. Inflation pressure recommendations can be found in the owner's manual or on the company's website.
Tire Pressure Indicators. Lawn tractor tires must produce good traction while reducing side-to-side-motion. Tire pressure should be adjusted according to load requirements. Inflation pressure recommendations can be found in the owner's manual or on the company's website. An accurate tire gauge should be used to check tire pressure and adjust it when necessary. Incorrect pressure can cause reduced traction and uneven wear of the tire
Refer to the owner's manual to determine the correct tire pressure for both front and back tires. You can also look at the sidewall of the tire to find the suggested pressure. Tire pressure is measured as pounds per square inch, or psi. Use an accurate tire gauge to check the air pressure in each tire. Adjust the amount of air to meet manufacturer's guidelines. Performance. Tire performance depends on the tire pressure. Often, the rear tires are larger for traction and power. The size difference causes the front tires to turn up to 5 percent faster so the front drive axle uses maximum efficiency. Tire rotation should be in an X pattern after 250 hours of use to improve wear