Capillary beds can consist of two types of vessels: true capillaries, which branch from arterioles and provide exchange between cells and the blood, and short vessels that directly connect the arterioles and venules at opposite ends of the beds, metarterioles, only found in the mesenteric circulation. Lymph capillaries connect with larger lymph vessels to drain lymph collected in the microcirculation. During early embryonic development new capillaries are formed through vasculogenesis, the process of blood vessel formation that occurs through a de novo production of endothelial cells which then form vascular tubes.
Diagram of a capillary. Blood flows from the heart through arteries, which branch and narrow into arterioles, and then branch further into capillaries where nutrients and wastes are exchanged. Lymph capillaries connect with larger lymph vessels to drain lymph collected in the microcirculation. During early embryonic development new capillaries are formed through vasculogenesis, the process of blood vessel formation that occurs through a de novo production of endothelial cells which then form vascular tubes.
Venous, Arterial, and Capillary Blood Specimens. Venous Blood. Venous blood is deoxygenated blood that flows from tiny capillary blood vessels within the tissues into progressively larger veins to the right side of the heart. Venous blood is the specimen of choice for most routine laboratory tests. Capillary Blood. Capillary blood is obtained from capillary beds that consist of the smallest veins (venules) and arteries (arterioles) of the circulatory system. The venules and arterioles join together in capillary beds forming a mixture of venous and arterial blood.
2. one of the minute vessels connecting the arterioles and venules, the walls of which act as a semipermeable membrane for interchange of various substances between the blood and tissue fluid. Capillary bed, showing the connection between the arterial and venous capillaries. 
Capillaries are where fluids, gasses, nutrients, and wastes are exchanged between the blood and body tissues by diffusion. Capillary walls contain small pores that allow certain substances to pass into and out of the blood vessel. These structures are located between arterioles and capillaries and contain muscle fibers that allow them to contract. When the sphincters are open, blood flows freely to the capillary beds of body tissue. When the sphincters are closed, blood is not allowed to flow through the capillary beds.
Definition. Capillaries are the smallest type of blood vessel in the body. Their job is to enable the exchange of substances between the blood and surrounding tissues. One place where they can be easily seen (no pun intended!) from the outside is on the whites of the eyes. Capillaries are found in every square inch of the body, from the skin to the deepest tissues in the body's cavities. Capillaries are the thinnest blood vessels in the body. These vessels are found throughout the body and bring oxygen and necessary nutrients to every cell in the body and remove cell waste. Capillary walls are selectively permeable, allowing some, but not all substances through.
Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cells. About 5 percent of the total blood volume is in the systemic capillaries at any given time. Another 10 percent is in the lungs. Smooth muscle cells in the arterioles where they branch to form capillaries regulate blood flow from the arterioles into the c
Capillaries. Capillaries are the smallest of all blood vessels and form the connection between veins and arteries. As arteries branch and divide into arterioles and continue to reduce in size as they reach the muscle they become capillaries. Capillaries have very thin walls comprised only of endothelial cells, which allows substances to move through the wall with ease. Capillaries are very small, measuring 5-10 micrometres in width. However, the cross-sectional area of capillaries within an average size muscle would be larger than that of the Aorta.
A capillary is an extremely small blood vessel located within the tissues of the body, that transports blood from arteries to veins. Capillaries are most abundant in tissues and organs that are metabolically active. These structures are located between arterioles and capillaries and contain muscle fibers that allow them to contract. When the sphincters are open, blood flows freely to the capillary beds of body tissue. When the sphincters are closed, blood is not allowed to flow through the capillary beds.
There are networks of capillaries in most of the organs and tissues of the body. These capillaries are supplied with blood by arterioles and drained by venules. Capillary walls are only one cell thick (see diagram), which permits exchanges of material between the contents of the capillary and the surrounding tissue. The following diagram summarises the sequence of blood flow through the heart, arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, veins, then back to the heart: The following diagram summarises the structural differences between different types of blood vessels. More information about this also follows in the next section.