The treatment for crenated or scalloped tongue focuses on determining the underlying cause of the condition. The treatment includes the following, 1  Thyroid supplements are important to treat hypothyroidism which is responsible for scalloped tongue. 2  Ensure that you always consume iodine fortified salt. 1 The condition is associated with disturbed breathing during sleep. 2  Scalloped tongue is caused as the tongue falls back into the oral cavity while sleeping. 3  Temporomeandibular joint syndrome is also associated with
Diana, Tongue scalloping can occur overnight, since sudden inflammation of the tongue (such as from allergies, colds, or acid reflux) can cause it to swell. Long-term scalloping can signify obstructive sleep apnea. 1  jack040 on December 13th, 2010 8:32 pm. Along with the small jaws and scalloping, you'll also have a high-arched hard palate, and the tongue sits very high in the mouth, preventing you from seeing the back of the throat more fully. This condition is also described in hypothyroid patients, but as I've stated before sleep apnea can cause hypothyroidism.
As with the scalloped tongue, a sore tip of the tongue is not a separate disorder but a symptom of a condition or a result of an action that hurt it. Scalloped tongue facts Save this for later. 10. Scalloped tongue is a medical term used to describe an augmented or an expanded kind of tongue. In and of itself, a swollen tongue is not a disorder but a sign that there is an abnormality happening in the body that manifests itself by producing the swelling of the tongue.
1 Scalloped tongue is caused as the tongue falls back into the oral cavity while sleeping. 2  Temporomeandibular joint syndrome is also associated with scalloped tongue. 3  In this case the lower jaw is unstable because of which the teeth need to be constantly clenched to hold the jaw in its position. 1 The condition is associated with disturbed breathing during sleep. 2  Scalloped tongue is caused as the tongue falls back into the oral cavity while sleeping. 3
Some nutrient deficiencies may be associated with scalloped tongue, and in Chinese medicine spleen deficiency is also considered a cause of scalloped tongue. If you have a scalloped tongue, you should talk to your doctor about these potential problems as well as sleep apnea, which may be caused by an enlarged tongue. This not only leads to scalloping of the tongue, it can further displace your teeth and make it even harder to stabilize your jaw for swallowing. Adjusting your bite so it comes together in a stable way can eliminate the need for this behavior, and therefore will help keep your teeth in place..
Scalloped tongue symptoms. When you have a tongue that is scalloped, it tends to be enlarged or be swollen with “groove like impression of the teeth and fissures along the sides of the tongue” [tandurust.com]. Although your tongue might retain its natural color, there might be some redness if there is pressure or friction on your tongue edges. Some people often describe it as wavy tongue edges, indentation on side of tongue, rippled tongue edge, tongue ridges along sides, teeth marks on side of tongue, among other descriptions. Serious tongue scalloping. Whenever your tongue becomes larger than normal, it will press onto your teeth.
There are a host of factors that are responsible for scalloped tongue, 1  Deficiency of the thyroid hormone or under-active thyroid gland is responsible for a scalloped tongue. 1 The condition is associated with disturbed breathing during sleep. 2  Scalloped tongue is caused as the tongue falls back into the oral cavity while sleeping. 3  Temporomeandibular joint syndrome is also associated with
A scalloped tongue is usually a harmless condition, however it can be associated with presence of a host of other symptoms which can be indicative of the underlying pathology, 1  Scalloped tongue may be associated with anemia, unexplained weight loss and fatigue which are all indicative of sleep deficiency. 1 The condition is associated with disturbed breathing during sleep. 2  Scalloped tongue is caused as the tongue falls back into the oral cavity while sleeping. 3  Temporomeandibular joint syndrome is also associated with scalloped tongue.
A scalloped tongue can be caused by a B12 deficiency, or by TMJ or  thyroid disorder. According to The Association of Tongue  Scalloping With Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Rel … ated Sleep  Pathology, scalloping is 70% indicative of sleep apnea. According to the famed nutritionist, Dr. Gillian McKeith, a scalloped tongue is caused by a sluggish or weak spleen. Your spleen is considered your energy battery. If you have a midline tongue crack it also indicates weak digestion. You could be taking all your vitamins but not digesting them.
A scalloped tongue can be caused by a B12 deficiency, or by TMJ or thyroid disorder. According to The Association of Tongue Scalloping With Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Related Sleep Pathology, scalloping is 70% indicative of sleep apnea. 