Though copper does corrode, this protective patina makes copper a corrosion-resistant material. TYPICAL USES Typical historical uses for copper included: - Sheathing for ships-Roofing and flashing: Sheet copper is light and easily formed.
Copper is the first element in the eleventh column of the periodic table. It is classified as a transition metal. Copper atoms have 29 electrons and 29 protons with 34 neutrons in the most abundant isotope.
Metals with a higher reactivity (such as magnesium, aluminum, iron, zinc, and tin) are much more prone to this kind of chemical destruction, or corrosion. When oxygen reacts with a metal, it forms an oxide on the surface of the metal. In some metals, like aluminum, this is a good thing.
Copper granules produced by Aurubis. Image © Aurubis. Copper is a ductile and malleable base metal that is valued for its high thermal and electrical conductivity. Easily identifiable because of its iridescent, golden red color, copper and its alloys, have been used by humans for thousands of years.
1 Silver is the only element with a higher electrical conductivity than copper. 2  It is one of the few metals that is not gray or silver in color. 3  The others are gold (yellow), cesium (yellow), and osmium (blue). 4  The compound copper sulfide is used to kill fungi and algae in rivers and ponds.
Copper is also used in plumbing, roofing, industrial machinery, integrated circuits (computer chips), cookware, coins, and electric motors. Around 5% of copper is used to make metal alloys such as brass (mixed with zinc) and bronze (mixed with tin).
For example, gun metal is an alloy used to make guns. It contains about 90 percent copper and 10 percent tin. Monel metal is an alloy of nickel and copper that is resistant to corrosion (rusting). Coinage metal is a copper alloy from which U.S. coins are made.
Copper is a transition metal, one of several elements found in rows 4 through 7 between Groups 2 and 13 in the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to each other.
Alloys of copper, such as bronze and brass, are also used in construction. These alloys find their way into roofs, heating and plumbing systems, and the skeleton of the building itself. A number of copper alloys have been developed for special purposes.