Definition. Radiation therapy, sometimes called radiotherapy, x-ray therapy radiation treatment, cobalt therapy, electron beam therapy, or irradiation uses high energy, penetrating waves or particles such as x rays, gamma rays, proton rays, or neutron rays to destroy cancer cells or keep them from reproducing. Radiation therapy can cause anemia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hair loss, skin burn, sterility, and rarely death. However, the benefits of radiation therapy almost always exceed the risks.
Radiation oncology is the medical specialty concerned with prescribing radiation, and is distinct from radiology, the use of radiation in medical imaging and diagnosis. Radiation may be prescribed by a radiation oncologist with intent to cure (curative) or for adjuvant therapy. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if they are localized to one area of the body. It may also be used as part of adjuvant therapy, to prevent tumor recurrence after surgery to remove a primary malignant tumor (for example, early stages of breast cancer).
treat cancer   Radiation therapy is a form of therapy that uses MegaVoltage (MeV) x-ray beams to treat cancer. There are several types of energies used such as electrons o … r photons.    Photons are used for patients who have cancers that are deep within the body such as the lungs, or the pelvis.    Electron therapy is used for patients who have cancers that are closer to the surface of the skin. In internal radiation therapy a source of radioactivity is surgically placed inside the body near the cancer. Edit. Share to: 1  A List of Psychology Definitions To an outsider, it can seem as though the world of psychology has a language of its own.
This allows more radiation to treat the tumor while reducing the radiation to healthy tissues. See conformal radiation therapy. Internal radiation: a type of therapy in which a radioactive substance is put into or close to the area needing treatment. Also called brachytherapy. Interstitial radiation (IN-ter-STISH-uhl) : a type of internal radiation in which a radioactive source (implant) is put right into the tissue (not in a body cavity). Hyperfractionated radiation (HI-per-FRACK-shun-ate-ed) : a radiation schedule in which the radiation is given in smaller doses and more than once a day, but the overall length of treatment is the same. Compare to accelerated radiation.
Radiation Therapist. Radiation therapists use ionizing-radiation producing equipment to administer therapeutic doses of radiation as prescribed by physicians for treatment of disease — generally cancer. Many work in hospital settings, while others work in physician offices, outpatient care centers, and labs. Previously, ARRT used radiation therapy technologist to refer to technologists working in radiation therapy. However, in 1990, the ARRT's Board of Trustees voted to change the terminology to radiation therapist, and the change went into effect in June 1992.
Radiation therapy or radiotherapy, often abbreviated RT, RTx, or XRT, is therapy using ionizing radiation, generally as part of cancer treatment to control or kill malignant cells. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if they are localized to one area of the body. It may also be used as part of adjuvant therapy, to prevent tumor recurrence after surgery to remove a primary malignant tumor (for example, early stages of breast cancer).
The precise treatment intent (curative, adjuvant, neoadjuvant, therapeutic, or palliative) will depend on the tumor type, location, and stage, as well as the general health of the patient. Total body irradiation (TBI) is a radiation therapy technique used to prepare the body to receive a bone marrow transplant. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if they are localized to one area of the body. It may also be used as part of adjuvant therapy, to prevent tumor recurrence after surgery to remove a primary malignant tumor (for example, early stages of breast cancer).
A. Radiation therapy is used to clear the surgical area with any leftover cancer cells. These cancer cells can again return with the cancer if left inside the body. This can also pass through the blood to other areas of the body and can develop into a cancer in other areas of the body. Radiation therapy can cause anemia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hair loss, skin burn, sterility, and rarely death. However, the benefits of radiation therapy almost always exceed the risks.
Accelerated radiation: a radiation schedule in which the total dose is given over a shorter period of time. Compare to hyperfractionated radiation. Adjuvant therapy (AD-juh-vunt) : a treatment used in addition to the main (primary) treatment. Radiation therapy often is used as an adjuvant to surgery. Hyperfractionated radiation (HI-per-FRACK-shun-ate-ed) : a radiation schedule in which the radiation is given in smaller doses and more than once a day, but the overall length of treatment is the same. Compare to accelerated radiation.