mechanism of phloem translocation.[4] A high concentration of organic substance inside cells of the phloem at a source, such as a leaf, creates a diffusion gradient that draws water into the cells. Movement occurs by bulk flow; phloem sap moves from sugar sources to sugar sinks by means of turgor pressure gradient. The phloem is composed of still-living cells that transport sap.The sap is a water-based solution, but rich in sugars made by the photosynthetic areas. [ These sugars are transported to non-photosynthetic parts of the plant, such as the roots, or into storage structures, such as tubers or bulbs
The mechanism by which sugars are transported through the phloem, from sources to sinks, is called pressure flow. At the sources (usually the leaves), sugar molecules are moved into the sieve elements (phloem cells) through active transport. 
Since sugars are being concentrated and making water flow through osmosis, there has to be fancy name for the movement of phloem. It is called the Pressure-flow Hypothesis. This just means that at the sugar sources (the leaves), sugar is found in high densities, which causes water to flow into cells through osmosis. Then the phloem moves to sugar sinks through turgor pressure. And there it is: pressure causes the phloem to flow, and we have the pressure-flow hypothesis.
Translocation is the movement of materials from leaves to other tissues throughout the plant. Plants produce carbohydrates (sugars) in their leaves by photosynthesis, but nonphotosynthetic parts of the plant also require carbohydrates and other organic and nonorganic materials. It is pressure, generated in the sieve elements and companion cells in source tissues. In leaves, sugar is synthesized in mesophyll cells (the middle layer of the leaf), and is then actively pumped into the phloem, using metabolic energy.
Phloem is the vascular tissue responsible for the transport of sugars from source tissues (ex. photosynthetic leaf cells) to sink tissues (ex. non-photosynthetic root cells or developing flowers). Other molecules such as proteins and mRNAs are also transported throughout the plant via phloem. 
A high concentration of organic substances, particularly sugar, inside cells of the phloem at a source, such as a leaf, creates a diffusion gradient (osmotic gradient) that draws water into the cells from the adjacent xylem. This creates turgor pressure, also known as hydrostatic pressure, in the phloem. Movement of phloem sap occurs by bulk flow (mass flow) from sugar sources to sugar sinks. The movement in phloem is bidirectional, whereas, in xylem cells, it is unidirectional (upward). The gradient of sugar from source to sink causes pressure flow through the sieve tube toward the sink. An area where sugar is made is called source e.g. green leaves and stem. Any area where sugar is stored or used is called sink e.g. young leaves, fruits, seeds and roots.
Since sugar leaves the phloem in the sink, water exits too (again by osmosis) and the pressure goes down. Therefore, there is a difference in pressure between source and sink phloem. This causes the solution to flow, just as water flows along a pressure gradient in a garden hose. It is pressure, generated in the sieve elements and companion cells in source tissues. In leaves, sugar is synthesized in mesophyll cells (the middle layer of the leaf), and is then actively pumped into the phloem, using metabolic energy.
The sugar and other organic molecules are transported through the plant by means of a special layer of tissue called phloem. Phloem is composed of living cells that transport a water solution of sugars that we commonly call sap. This movement is modeled by the pressure-flow theory, a part of which is that the sugar-containing fluid is moved through sieve tubes by fluid pressure. 
This causes water to move into the sieve-tube element by osmosis, creating pressure that pushes the sap down the tube. In sugar sinks, cells actively transport solutes out of the sieve-tube elements, producing the exactly opposite effect. Some plants, however, appear not to load phloem by active transport. 