Transnet also formerly owned Shosholoza Meyl, the non-luxury long distance passenger rail service. Shosholoza Meyl was transferred to the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa on 23 December 2008. A line in the Eastern Cape is leased to Kei Rail. 1 Maputo Corridor: Transnet Freight Rail is developing a plan with the Railroad Development Corporation to transport magnetite from Phalaborwa to Maputo as feedstock for a proposed steel plant in Maputo.
About Us Transnet is the largest and most crucial part of the freight logistics chain that delivers goods to every South African. T ransnet is the largest and most crucial part of the freight logistics chain that delivers goods to each and every South African. Transnet operates and an integrated freight transport company, formed around a core of five operating divisions that complement each other. These are supported by a number of Company-wide specialist functions such as Transnet Projects which underpin the group as a whole.
Welcome to Transnet. Transnet is the largest and most crucial part of the freight logistics chain that delivers goods to each and every South African. Every day Transnet delivers thousands of tons of goods around South Africa, through its pipelines and both to and from its ports. It moves that cargo on to ships for export while it unloads goods for overseas.
Its a program offered by Falcon International to handle automobile repossessions anywhere in the United States, and in many nations overseas. There's only one nationwide auto recovery network that has sprung forth from the repossession industry.... Transnet. We're not the new kids in town. Falcon International has been in the repossession business nearly 60 years. And, unlike an auction-based national repossession program, we're not trying to corral your cars into our sales. 
Transnet National Ports Authority is a division of Transnet Limited and is mandated to control and manage all eight commercial ports on the 2954km South African coastline. 
Transnet SOC Ltd is a large South African rail, port and pipeline company, headquartered in the Carlton Centre in Johannesburg. It was formed as a limited company on 1 April 1990. A majority of the company's stock is owned by the Department of Public Enterprises, or DPE, of the South African government. In December 2013, Transnet appointed nine black-owned companies to supply it with fuel over the following five years in a $1.5 billion deal aimed at promoting the South African government’s black economic empowerment drive.
Transnet Freight Rail is a freight logistics and passenger transport railway. It is the largest freight hauler in Africa. The company comprises several businesses: 1  GFB Commercial (General Freight Business) – Transnet's largest division; handles over 50% of its freight; 1 Maputo Corridor: Transnet Freight Rail is developing a plan with the Railroad Development Corporation to transport magnetite from Phalaborwa to Maputo as feedstock for a proposed steel plant in Maputo.
Every day Transnet delivers thousands of tons of goods around South Africa, through its pipelines and both to and from its ports. It moves that cargo on to ships for export while it unloads goods from overseas. Transnet operates and an integrated freight transport company, formed around a core of five operating divisions that complement each other. These are supported by a number of Company-wide specialist functions such as Transnet Projects which underpin the group as a whole.
Transnet Engineering is dedicated to in-service maintenance, repair, upgrade, conversion and manufacture of freight wagons, mainline and suburban coaches, diesel and electric locomotives as well as wheels, rotating machines, rolling stock equipment, castings auxiliary equipment and services. In December 2013, Transnet appointed nine black-owned companies to supply it with fuel over the following five years in a $1.5 billion deal aimed at promoting the South African government’s black economic empowerment drive.