1 The fee for the examination will only cover the payment for the actual MCAT examination. 2  There are additional fees involved that serves different purposes depending on the need. 3  When you apply for the MCAT, you will be able to choose a specific testing location near your area. 1 This fee will usually include the price for the actual examination only. 2  When you factor in the additional fees such as late registration fees or a change of test date, the total fees can vary anywhere from $275 to as much as $350.
1 On average, the price for the MCAT exam can be anywhere from $210 to $255. 2  This fee will usually include the price for the actual examination only. 3  When you factor in the additional fees such as late registration fees or a change of test date, the total fees can vary anywhere from $275 to as much as $350. 1 This fee will usually include the price for the actual examination only. 2
MCAT Registration Fees. In January 2010, the standard fee for regular MCAT Registration is $230. For individuals registering to take the exam at an international test site, there is an additional $65 fee. The Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) is a national standardized test designed to gage medical school applicants' knowledge of basic science concepts, as well as their skills in problem-solving, critical thinking, and writing.
1 The MCAT regular registration fee is $240. 2  Regular registration closes 14 days before the test date; however, early registration as much as 60 days in advance is required by some testing locations. 1 This program offers a reduced MCAT testing fee of $85 (regular $235), and is fully refundable if the registrant decides to cancel. 2  Students should plan to take the MCAT during the same year they plan to apply for medical school, according to the Georgia Tech Office of Pre-Health Advising.
1 When you factor in the additional fees such as late registration fees or a change of test date, the total fees can vary anywhere from $275 to as much as $350. 2  According to MCATPrepInfo.com, pricing for the MCAT exam can be anywhere from $210 to $220. 1 This fee will usually include the price for the actual examination only. 2 
I Can't Afford MCAT Fees! The AAMC does offer a fee assistance program (FAP) for students who just can't afford to pay the MCAT registration fees, but the benefits of the program vary according to which registration period you choose to use. * Gold Zone FAP Program 1  *. Registration Fee: $100. 2  Date and/or Test Center Reschedule Fee: $25 extra. If you're late registering for the MCAT, the good news is that you can still take it. The bad news is that you're going to have to pay a bit more for the test than if you'd planned ahead. * Bronze Zone Registration 1  *. Registration Fee: $325.
Shopping for the mcat: 1  The Association of American Medical Colleges offers a Fee Assistance Program for applicants whose total family income is 300 percent or less of the poverty level. 2  This program offers a reduced MCAT testing fee of $85 (regular $235), and is fully refundable if the registrant decides to cancel. 1 This program offers a reduced MCAT testing fee of $85 (regular $235), and is fully refundable if the registrant decides to cancel. 2  Students should plan to take the MCAT during the same year they plan to apply for medical school, according to the Georgia Tech Office of Pre-Health Advising.
1 According to MCATPrepInfo.com, pricing for the MCAT exam can be anywhere from $210 to $220. 2  There are also different fees to consider that may apply when you take the examination. 1 This fee will usually include the price for the actual examination only. 2  When you factor in the additional fees such as late registration fees or a change of test date, the total fees can vary anywhere from $275 to as much as $350.
Related articles: MCAT Prep, Medical School. 1  The MCAT regular registration fee is $240. 2  Regular registration closes 14 days before the test date; however, early registration as much as 60 days in advance is required by some testing locations. 1 This program offers a reduced MCAT testing fee of $85 (regular $235), and is fully refundable if the registrant decides to cancel. 2  Students should plan to take the MCAT during the same year they plan to apply for medical school, according to the Georgia Tech Office of Pre-Health Advising.
The MCAT is offered approximately 25 times per year between the months of January and September at Prometric test centers throughout the USA, Puerto Rico and Canada. It is offered in either a morning or afternoon session. Registration for the MCAT costs $240. Late registration costs an additional $70. There is an additional $70 fee for rescheduling the exam date or test center site. 