1 Use the Snipping Tool program to take and edit screenshots: If you’re having difficulty locating or using the Print Screen key you might prefer to use Snipping Tool. 2  Snipping Tool is a program that is included for free with Windows 7, Windows Vista and a number of other Windows products.
Use Print Screen Shortcuts. To capture a screen, simply press the PrtScn key. On some keyboards, this key may have a different name, such as Prtsc or Prnt Scrn. To take a screenshot of one window rather than the full screen, click the window to make it active, and press Alt-PrtScn.
Take a full-screen screenshot. To take a screen capture of your entire monitor, press the Print Screen button. It may be abbreviated, and is typically located between the F12 key and the Screen Lock key. You may need to use the Function or Fn key if you are using a laptop. 1  The image will be copied to the clipboard.
Step 1: Capture the image: Assuming the area you want to capture is displayed on your screen, press the Print Screen button typically located in the upper right-hand corner of your keyboard to capture a screenshot of your entire display.
1 To take a screenshot of just the program that is active, press and hold the Alt button (found on either side of the space bar), then press the Print Screen button. 2  To view this screenshot further or save as an image, you can use Microsoft Paint (Paint) or any other graphics program.
1 Hit the PrtScn button to take a screenshot of the entire screen: When using Windows, pressing the Print Screen button (located in the top right of the keyboard) will take a screenshot of your entire screen.
To take a screenshot and save it as a file. Press the Windows logo key +PrtScn. Or, if you're using a tablet, press the Windows logo button + the volume down button. The screen will dim for a moment when the screen is copied and saved as a file in the Screenshots folder (which is in your Pictures folder).
Press the Print Screen (Prt Sc) key on your keyboard. This will capture an image of your entire screen and copy it to the clipboard. The dimensions of the image will be the same as your desktop resolution. 1  The PrtSc button may be labeled PrtScn, Prnt Scrn, Print Scr, or something similar.
Mac. 1  Hit the Command, Shift and 3 keys together to take a screenshot of the entire screen: When using Mac, pressing the Command, Shift and 3 buttons together will take a screenshot of your entire screen. 2  Use the Grab tool to take a screenshot: An alternative to the keyboard shortcuts on Mac is to use the Grab tool.