Appearance. Tina, like the rest of the Belcher family, has slightly tan skin and black hair. She wears her hair in a bob style with uneven bangs across the front and a yellow hairclip. Like her mother, Tina's eyesight is impaired and she wears glasses to correct the problem. Jeff was an easy breezy shoe box with the name Jeff on him that appeared in Tina and the Real Ghost. Tina thought Jeff was a ghost who lived inside the box, but it turned out that Louise tricked her in to thinking he was a 13 year old boy.
1 She often inspires Luther because he does not want to disappoint her loft view of him, and the boys often come to her aid when she's in trouble. 2  Lisa Grubner (Abigail Mavity): A young, geeky girl who has an overwhelming crush on Zeke. On August 2, 2010, it was announced that Zeke and Luther had been renewed for a third season which premiered on February 28, 2011.
Bob and Linda ask Teddy to babysit the kids while they're on a romantic getaway at a Burger Convention. In the process, Teddy earns the title Uncle Teddy when he puts Tina's crush in his place for using her to get free burgers. Louise wanted to up the ante at Show & Tell, so she told the class her dad, Bob, uses human remains in Bob's Burgers. Linda's jealous ex-fiancee, Fiancée, hugo is the new health inspector sent to. Investigate tina And louise Advise linda to flirt With hugo to keep the restaurant. open
1 Kojo had a crush on Zeke's cousin Mia. 2  However, since Mia only stayed in Gilroy for a few days, he dated an extremely tall (yet pleasant and helpful) blonde model in the episode Daredevils. 3  As revealed in the episode Kojo's BFF, Kojo is also a big fan of turkey jerky. On August 2, 2010, it was announced that Zeke and Luther had been renewed for a third season which premiered on February 28, 2011.
Harper Anna Finkle is Alex's best friend. She is one of the three mortals (Zeke, Harperella, and Theresa) that know that wizards exist. She previously has an obvious crush on Justin, (which was used for comedy on the show) that freaked Justin out. Season 1. In the first season Harper is Alex's best friend, although she doesn't know her secret. Despite this, the two appear to know each other very well as Harper seems to usually be around the Russo house and restaurant. It is shown that Harper harbors a strong crush on Justin, despite his disinterest in her.
1 Bob doesn't like her very much and he always tries to hide from her when she and Al come over. 2  Gayle (voiced by Megan Mullally) - Linda's neurotic artist sister who is the aunt of Tina, Gene, and Louise. 3  She is desperately lonely and once fell in love with Bob because, Linda explains, she always wants what Linda has. 1 Gayle (voiced by Megan Mullally) - Linda's neurotic artist sister who is the aunt of Tina, Gene, and Louise. 2
1 Like his son, Big Bob is a restauranteur who owns his own business called Big Bob's Diner.. 2  Gloria (voiced by Renee Renée) - Taylor the mother Of, linda-mother-in law Of, bob and grandmother Of, Tina, gene And. 3  Louise bob'doesn t like her very much and he always tries to hide from her when she And al come.  over 1 Gayle (voiced by Megan Mullally) - Linda's neurotic artist sister who is the aunt of Tina, Gene, and Louise. 2  She is desperately lonely and once fell in love with Bob because, Linda explains, she always wants what Linda has.
convinces Zeke to ask Harper to be his science fair partner after Justin decided he wanted to be alone in the science fair this year. He said that he's always wanted to talk to Harper, and they both have a crush on each other. In Wizards Unleashed, they have their first kiss. It also stated in season 4  Zeke Finds Out  he found out that the Russo's are wizards and fainted, but he was very excited about his best friend being a wizard. He and Justin are also on the same Quiz Bowl team in  Smarty Pants .. Zeke and Justin have tried out for several sports teams, but have apparently failed at all of them (including cross country and tennis), except Justin in the basketball team, and Zeke in cheerleading.
Zeke is a student at Wagstaff School who is on the wrestling team with Jimmy Pesto, Jr. . He first appeared in The Belchies and has since had a recurring appearance throughout the show. Tina has a strong dislike towards Zeke, probably because Jimmy Jr. never pays attention to Tina when he is around. After Tina invited Jimmy Jr. to a treasure hunt at the abandoned Taffy Factory, he decided to invite Zeke, Andy, and Ollie as well. Throughout the episode, Zeke's cooking skills are showcased as he works as the head chef in Bob's home-ec-staurant.. In Midday Run it is believed that Zeke has a crush on Tina, as he is quoted saying: Damn Tina, now I got a story to tell on our wedding day. You think that's not gonna happen, but I'll getcha girl! I'm gonna getcha!