Chimney liners used today are most commonly made of flexible stainless steel or double-wall b-vent, and are a cost-effective way to repair old smooth mortar walls, or clay flue systems that have decayed or rotted over many years of use. As you try to determine whether having a chimney liner installed at your home is going to cost more or less than your neighbors, here are a few things that can easily increase the cost of installation.
We will look at chimney liner installation costs in this Installation Cost guide, what is usually included in price quotes, as well as who to contact to get a chimney liner installation estimate. As you try to determine whether having a chimney liner installed at your home is going to cost more or less than your neighbors, here are a few things that can easily increase the cost of installation.
Chimney liner cost can be surprising. There are a variety of factors that play into how much a chimney reline with installation costs, including your area of the country, but on average the cost to have your chimney professionally relined runs anywhere from $2,500 to $5,000. 
1 For those that want to do the job themselves, chimney liners can cost anywhere from $80 to $500 depending on the length and brand. 2  For example, the 25 foot Simpson DuraFlex retails for $265 to $310. 3  According to the site FlueAndFlame.com, the price for this procedure can range anywhere from $2,000 to $2,300. 1 On average, a chimney reline job can cost anywhere from $49 to $82 per linear foot. 2  Most chimneys are going to be within 20 to 25 linear feet. 3  The price for chimney relining depends on the type of materials that will be used for the job.
The cost to reline a chimney with a flexible stainless steel chimney liner may vary. It depends on the length of your masonry chimney. Most chimney liner installs require a 6 inch diameter chimney liner. The length of most chimneys is 20 to 25 linear feet. A chimney sweep may charge around $60 per foot for a chimney liner installation. If you install a chimney liner yourself you can save a lot of money. Visit Chimney Liner Depot now and get a price on a Flex King or Flex King Pro chimney liner.
1 Custom fit chimney reliners can cost anywhere from $2,000 to $3,000. 2  For those that want to do the job themselves, chimney liners can cost anywhere from $80 to $500 depending on the length and brand. 3  For example, the 25 foot Simpson DuraFlex retails for $265 to $310. 1 On average, a chimney reline job can cost anywhere from $49 to $82 per linear foot. 2  Most chimneys are going to be within 20 to 25 linear feet. 3  The price for chimney relining depends on the type of materials that will be used for the job.
Clay liner tiles are relatively inexpensive-about $10 for a typical 24′-tall unit. But what you save on materials will most likely exceed the cost of installation labor. Clay flue liners are hard to retrofit in an existing chimney, especially if it isn’t straight. 
Chimney Liner Materials. Stainless steel serves as the most common material for relining chimneys, according to the Hearth, Patio and Barbecue Association. It's also the most economical in most cases, with an installation cost of roughly $100 per foot of chimney height as of 2014, according to Old House Journal. Pricing varies from region to region and among materials used. In South Lyon, Michigan, Rockford Chimney Supply estimates that professionally relining a chimney costs between $2,500 and $5,000.
Chimney Liner Installation Cost. This type of chimney liner is used when clay tiles fail. Generally used to vent solid fuel burning appliances and fireplaces. Customers continually are shocked at the cost of relining a chimney. Chimney liner cost can be surprising. There are a variety of factors that play into how much a chimney reline with installation costs, including your area of the country, but on average the cost to have your chimney professionally relined runs anywhere from $2,500 to $5,000. Chimney liner insulation kits, complete with all of the supplies needed to properly wrap your chimney liner pipe in insulation, can run between $200-300.