Cerebral Cortex: The cerebral cortex covers the outer portion (1.5mm to 5mm) of the cerebrum. It is the layer of the brain often referred to as gray matter. The cortex (thin layer of tissue) is gray because nerves in this area lack the insulation that makes most other parts of the brain appear to be white. The cortex also covers the cerebellum. The cerebrum is the most highly developed part of the human brain and is responsible for thinking, perceiving, producing and understanding language. Most information processing occurs in the cerebral cortex.
The cerebellum (Latin for little brain) is a region of the brain that plays an important role in motor control. It may also be involved in some cognitive functions such as attention and language, and in regulating fear and pleasure responses, but its movement-related functions are the most solidly established. 
Location: Directionally, the cerebrum and the cortex that covers it is the uppermost part of the brain. It is the anterior portion of the forebrain and is superior to other brain structures such as the pons, cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Images: 1  Cerebrum Images.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
The cerebral cortex, also known as the cerebrum, is the largest portion of the brain, located right under the forehead and it is divided into two parts, a right and a left hemisphere. They in turn have a total of four lobes – the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes. 
The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure. The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory, attention, perception, awareness, thought, language, and consciousness. The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick. In large mammals, the cerebral cortex is folded, giving a much greater surface area in the confined volume of the skull.
In the human brain more than two-thirds of the cerebral cortex is buried in the sulci. The cerebral cortex is gray matter, consisting mainly of cell bodies (with astrocytes being the most abundant cell type in the cortex as well as the human brain as a whole) and capillaries. It contrasts with the underlying white matter, consisting mainly of the white myelinated sheaths of neuronal axons. The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory, attention, perception, awareness, thought, language, and consciousness. The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick. In large mammals, the cerebral cortex is folded, giving a much greater surface area in the confined volume of the skull.
In short, the cerebral cortex is the outer and largest part of the brain, that covers its smaller parts and is usually easily visible on brain illustrations. It contai … ns gray matter (neurons) responsible for the higher functions of thinking and information processing. The cerebral cortex is the outer layer of the cerebellum. It processes information from the sense organs and controls body movement. The cerebral cortex is not the outer la … 
Now the cerebral cortex is divided into two hemispheres-the left and right hemispheres. For the most part the hemispheres exhibit what we call Contralateral control: which means the left hemisphere controls the right side of out body and the right hemisphere controls the left side. 
The cerebral cortex is the outer surface of the brain and is the location of the majority of the brains neurons. It largely functions as the center where we perceive sensations and how we direct our muscles to move. The cerebral cortex is the outer layer of the cerebellum. It processes information from the sense organs and controls body movement. The cerebral cortex is not the outer la … 