There are three main types of lymphocytes: B cells, T cells, and natural killer (NK) cells. Lymphocytes compose approximately 15 to 40% of the total white blood cells in the body. In a healthy adult a lymphocyte count of 1000 - 4800 cells per microliter of blood is considered the normal range. When the lymphocyte count is lowered, the body's ability to resist and fight off infections is severely compromised and its susceptibility to cancer is increased. In addition, low lymphocyte counts may also lead to damage to various organs. The following section will detail the potential causes of low lymphocytes.
1 A low lymphocytes count is also as dangerous a condition as a high lymphocytes count. 2  When the percentage of lymphocytes that form the total number of white blood cells in the human body is lower than fifteen percent, then it signifies low levels of lymphocytes in the body. Normal lymphocyte count in blood. 1  The normal levels of lymphocytes present in the blood usually range between 1200 and 3200 lymphocytes per milliliter of blood. 2  However, it may be noted that different laboratories may follow different standards of valuing the normal levels of lymphocytes.
Definition. Lymphocytosis (lim-foe-sie-TOE-sis), or a high lymphocyte count, is an increase in white blood cells called lymphocytes (LIM-foe-sites). Lymphocytes are an important part of the immune system. They help fight off diseases, so it's normal to see a temporary rise in the number of lymphocytes after an infection. A count significantly higher than 3,000 lymphocytes in a microliter of blood is generally considered to be lymphocytosis in adults.
For adults, a lymphocyte count of less than 1000 cells per microliter of blood is considered a low number of lymphocytes in his blood. Lymphocytopenia or lymphopenia are alternate terms for low lymphocyte counts. When the lymphocyte count is lowered, the body's ability to resist and fight off infections is severely compromised and its susceptibility to cancer is increased. In addition, low lymphocyte counts may also lead to damage to various organs. The following section will detail the potential causes of low lymphocytes.
81 Followers. A. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell. White blood cells are part of your immune system and help your body fight off diseases, including infections and cancer. There are two main types of lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins in the body