Counseling Psychologist. You must have a master's degree and complete at least 100 hours of experience working directly with patients to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC). You may also have to pass an exam given by the state licensing board. Some states require counseling psychologists in private practice to have doctorates. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) reported in 2012 that some states will allow you to work as a school psychologist with a master's degree in psychology, but many states now require you to have an education specialist degree such as an Ed.S. in school psychology or a doctoral degree (www.bls.gov).
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. A doctoral degree is the highest educational level a therapist can achieve. While it is not required to practice as a therapist, you will have to get a doctorate if you want to become a licensed psychologist.
Undergraduate Studies. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school. A doctoral degree is the highest educational level a therapist can achieve. While it is not required to practice as a therapist, you will have to get a doctorate if you want to become a licensed psychologist.
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Master's Degree (2 to 3 Years). A master's degree will give you a broad introduction to the field of psychology. You can then use your electives to focus your study in a particular field. Successful graduates of this program often pursue positions in education, government, human services, health care mental health care, and marketing/advertising
A master's degree is the minimum requirement for most psychologist positions, and jobs in some branches of psychology will require you to have a doctorate degree. Upon completion of a doctorate program in psychology, you will be awarded either a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) or Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) reported in 2012 that some states will allow you to work as a school psychologist with a master's degree in psychology, but many states now require you to have an education specialist degree such as an Ed.S. in school psychology or a doctoral degree (www.bls.gov).
The training and licensing of clinical psychologists ranges from 4 year undergraduate degree plus a 4 to 6 year doctorate program. Most programs in the U.S. are PhD programs that have a strong focus on research and are typically housed in universities. 
Those interested in counseling psychology careers will usually start by earning a four year Bachelor's degree in psychology. In order to start their careers, however, advanced degrees are usually necessary. A number of universities offer Master's and Doctoral degrees in counseling psychology. The curriculum requirements to become a counseling psychologist are typically very similar from one university to the next. In addition to learning the fundamentals of psychology and research methods, future counseling psychologists will also often learn about different therapy and counseling techniques. Counseling psychology is a type of applied psychology that can be used to help people gain control of their feelings. This type of psychology focuses on treating individuals with a variety of different emotional, behavioral, and social problems or disorders.
The goal you choose will determine your path. A clinical psychologist, for example, will have heavy training in both the theory and practice of psychology. You’ll typically need a doctorate degree in a psychology-related field in order to build a career. A psychiatrist has even more rigorous demands; becoming one requires medical school training. Find out what graduate programs are available and/or required for the field you want to enter. Most fields require a master’s degree, although doctorates are often necessary for clinical psychologists, and medical degrees are typically required if you want to be a psychiatrist.