Heat oven to 425 F. Mix flour, salt, garlic powder, paprika, and pepper in a bowl. Dip chicken drumsticks into butter; roll in flour mixture to coat. Arrange in an ungreased or foil-lined square pan, 8 x 8 x 2 inches. Bake, uncovered, until done, about 50 minutes. Yields: 6 drumsticks.
Bake the turkey drumsticks. Place them in the preheated oven for 45 minutes. Turn them over and cook for another 45 minutes. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. They are ready when the internal temperature reaches 180ºF/82ºC. 
Lay the drumsticks in a dish with sides, season with salt and pepper, garlic powder if you have it. Some Italian seasoning or oregano. You can also roll the drumsticks in BBQ sauce before the steps above. Cover with a lid or foil and bake at 350 degrees for about 20-30 minutes. Remove from oven and prick one of the fattiest pieces. If the juice runs clear, they are done. If it's a bit pink, re-cover and put back in the oven for about 5-10 more minutes. You don't need meat thermometers for this meat. Just common sense.
Preheat your oven to 400 F. Season the drumsticks with salt and pepper. Place breadcrumbs or panko bread crumbs in a shallow bowl. Season the breadcrumbs, if desired, with your preferred seasonings, such as garlic and paprika. Top the potatoes and vegetable with drumsticks seasoned with salt and pepper. Cover the roasting pan with foil and roast it for approximately 20 minutes at 450 F before uncovering the pan. Roast the mixture for another 30 minutes until the vegetables are tender and the chicken is done.
Roast drumsticks for approximately 30 to 40 minutes in an oven that’s preheated to 425 F. To make a one-dish meal, roast chicken drumsticks on a bed of sliced or cubed potatoes and flavorful vegetables such as chopped kale, sliced onions and minced garlic. Top the potatoes and vegetable with drumsticks seasoned with salt and pepper. Cover the roasting pan with foil and roast it for approximately 20 minutes at 450 F before uncovering the pan. Roast the mixture for another 30 minutes until the vegetables are tender and the chicken is done.
Baking the Chicken: Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180°F when the chicken is done.
Arrange the drumsticks in a single layer and broil them for 15 to 30 minutes, turning the drumsticks periodically. You can broil chicken that’s been seasoned with a dry rub; toss it with olive oil and fresh herbs or marinate it for two hours or longer in your favorite marinade before broiling it. Top the potatoes and vegetable with drumsticks seasoned with salt and pepper. Cover the roasting pan with foil and roast it for approximately 20 minutes at 450 F before uncovering the pan. Roast the mixture for another 30 minutes until the vegetables are tender and the chicken is done.
Heat oven to 400 degrees. Rinse and pat dry the chicken (make sure it is completely thawed) and place it in a large roasting pan or a rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle the chicken with olive oil and season it generously with salt and pepper. Place the pan in the oven and bake for 25 minutes. Reduce the heat to 375. Remove the chicken from the oven and brush – on both sides and liberally – with barbecue sauce. I like my homemade apple juice bbq sauce but you can use whatever you like. You might also like this spicy bbq sauce. 
Baking your Chicken Legs... Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180°F when the chicken is done.