1 Pneumonia. 2  Different types of pneumonia, an infection of your lungs, may temporarily cause atelectasis. 3  Pneumothorax. 4  Air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, indirectly causing some or all of a lung to collapse. 5  Scarring of lung tissue. 6  Scarring could be caused by injury, lung disease or surgery. 1 Different types of pneumonia, an infection of your lungs, may temporarily cause atelectasis. 2  Pneumothorax. 3  Air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, indirectly causing some or all of a lung to collapse. 4  Scarring of lung tissue. 5  Scarring could be caused by injury, lung disease or surgery.
Without enough surfactant, part of the lungs may collapse. Other lung conditions and medical disorders that can cause atelectasis include pneumonia, lung cancer, and neuromuscular diseases. Rarely, asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), and cystic fibrosis are associated with atelectasis.
Conditions and factors that prevent deep breathing and coughing can cause atelectasis. For example, if you're taking shallow breaths or breathing with the help of a ventilator, your lungs don't fill with air in the normal way. Other lung conditions and medical disorders that can cause atelectasis include pneumonia, lung cancer, and neuromuscular diseases. Rarely, asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), and cystic fibrosis are associated with
Atelectasis is a condition in which all or part of a lung becomes airless and collapses. Blockage of the bronchial tubes is a common cause of atelectasis. Shortness of breath can develop if oxygen levels are low or pneumonia occurs. Chest x-ray is used to confirm the diagnosis. 
Asthma. Asthma (AZ-ma) is a chronic (long-term) lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. Asthma causes recurring periods of wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe), chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing. The coughing often occurs at night or early in the morning. Asthma affects people of all ages, but it most often starts during childhood
Intrinsic airway obstruction is the most common cause of atelectasis in children, and asthma is the most common underlying disorder that predisposes patients to atelectasis. Background. Atelectasis refers to collapse of part of the lung. It may include a lung subsegment or the entire lung and is almost always a secondary phenomenon, with no sex or race proclivities; however, it may occur more frequently in younger children than in older children and adolescents.
Bibasilar atelectasis is a partial or complete collapsing of the lungs or lobe of lungs when alveoli, the tiny air pockets become deflated. This condition causes problems in breathing and may occur after a surgery. Atelectasis may also occur due to other problems like cystic fibrosis, lung tumor, inhalation of foreign objects, accumulation of fluid in lungs, chest injuries, and severe asthma. Usually the tissue damage varies depending on the causal factor. Moreover, pneumonia is another cause of nonobstructive atelectasis. A large tumor outside the lungs can press against this organ causing deflation rather than blocking the airways thus causing atelectasis. Other causes are scarring of lung tissue from injury, surgery, or a lung disease.
An Airway Blockage. An airway blockage also can cause atelectasis. A blockage may be due to a foreign object (such as an inhaled peanut), a mucus plug, lung cancer, or a poorly placed breathing tube from a ventilator. When a blockage occurs, the air that's already in the air sacs is absorbed into the bloodstream. Other lung conditions and medical disorders that can cause atelectasis include pneumonia, lung cancer, and neuromuscular diseases. Rarely, asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), and cystic fibrosis are associated with