1 35 minute ride, the longest banana boat ride in Myrtle Beach! 2  Ride the ocean waves or cruise through scenic Murrells Inlet. 3  Several banana boats (6 passengers on each) Large Groups Welcomed!!! 4  Free Parking, Restrooms, showers, & changing rooms available. 5  Fun for the whole family, groups, or team building events. Meet The Crew. Bryan is a native of the area Born in Myrtle Beach and raised in Surfside Beach. Bryan has been with Express Watersports since 2000 working as a Parasail Mate on several parasail boats. He then moved up to get a USCG Captains License and began running the Murrells Inlets only full time Banana boat ride. He mapped out the inlet and ocean areas that would be great to ride in and timed his rides to 35 minute
JC 1st Property Management. JC 1st is a Myrtle Beach, South Carolina real estate and property management team. We specialize in long term rentals of 6 months or more along the Grand Strand including Myrtle Beach, North Myrtle Beach, Surfside Beach, Garden City, Murrells Inlet, Conway, Loris and the surrounding areas. For tenants, we offer a wide range of properties from condominiums to single family homes.
Enjoy a jet ski Eco Tour with one of our Jet ski Guides. Our guides will lead our guests through the Inlet as we pass Million dollar homes and make our way out into the ocean. We will look for dolphin sea turtles and other aquatic life! Jet Ski Express at Express Watersports offers top-of-the-line jet skis for your safety (and fun!) A Jet ski Ranger or guide will accompany each group to ensure safety, but freedom is given to responsible riders within a large designated riding area.
Everyday, Brookgreen offers a selection of tours, programs, and exhibits for all ages. You may stroll through the gardens on a guided tour or explore these beautiful spaces on your own. Each season, new exhibitions and special events make Brookgreen Gardens... Ever Changing. Brookgreen Gardens is one of the few places in the United States to have earned accreditation from the American Alliance of Museums and the Association of Zoos and Aquariums as well as being designated a National Historic Landmark and listed on the Register of National Historic Places.
How long is the drive from Charlotte, NC to Murrells Inlet, SC? The total driving time is 3 hours, 32 minutes. Your trip begins in Charlotte, North Carolina. It ends in Murrells Inlet, South Carolina. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from Charlotte, NC to Murrells Inlet, SC. You can also calculate the cost to drive from Charlotte, NC to Murrells Inlet, SC based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between Charlotte, NC and
1 Ride the ocean waves or cruise through scenic Murrells Inlet. 2  Several banana boats (6 passengers on each) Large Groups Welcomed!!! 3  Free Parking, Restrooms, showers, & changing rooms available. 4  Fun for the whole family, groups, or team building events. Meet The Crew. Bryan is a native of the area Born in Myrtle Beach and raised in Surfside Beach. Bryan has been with Express Watersports since 2000 working as a Parasail Mate on several parasail boats. He then moved up to get a USCG Captains License and began running the Murrells Inlets only full time Banana boat ride. He mapped out the inlet and ocean areas that would be great to ride in and timed his rides to 35 minute
This article is about the section of U.S. Route 17 in South Carolina. For the entire route, see U.S. Route 17. In the U.S. state of South Carolina, U.S. Route 17 (US 17) is a north–south highway located near the Atlantic Ocean. The route enters the state from Georgia at the Savannah River and serves Hardeeville, Charleston, Georgetown and Myrtle Beach before entering North Carolina near Calabash. The route was part of the 1926 approved plan for a national system of highways, and appears on the approved map. When first signed, US 17 followed a route that went through Florence and Marion. The original route through South Carolina was 288 miles (463 km) long.