1 High-density lipoproteins. 2  These lipoproteins are often referred to as HDL, or good, cholesterol. 3  They act as cholesterol scavengers, picking up excess cholesterol in your blood and taking it back to your liver where it's broken down. 4  The higher your HDL level, the less bad cholesterol you'll have in your blood. Understanding HDL cholesterol. Cholesterol is a waxy substance that's found in all of your cells and has several useful functions, including helping to build your body's cells. It's carried through your bloodstream attached to proteins. These proteins are called lipoproteins. 1  Low
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL because the HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level.
HDL (Good) Cholesterol. HDL cholesterol is considered “good” cholesterol because it helps remove LDL cholesterol from the arteries. Experts believe HDL acts as a scavenger, carrying LDL cholesterol away from the arteries and back to the liver, where it is broken down and passed from the body. LDL (Bad) Cholesterol. LDL cholesterol is considered the “bad” cholesterol because it contributes to plaque, a thick, hard deposit that can clog arteries and make them less flexible. This condition is known as atherosclerosis. If a clot forms and blocks a narrowed artery, heart attack or stroke can result.
This blood test checks the levels of cholesterol in your body. A lipid panel will show the levels of your total cholesterol, your LDL (bad) cholesterol, and your HDL (good) cholesterol. In general, the higher your total and LDL cholesterol levels, the higher your risk for coronary heart disease. Here's a breakdown of total cholesterol levels and health: Less than 200 mg/dL – you are at low risk for heart disease. 200 to 240 mg/dL – borderline high. 240 mg/dL and above – high. Ideally, HDL cholesterol should be above 40 mg/dL for men and above 50 mg/dL for women. The higher your HDL level, the better.
LDL cholesterol sometimes is called “bad” cholesterol. A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. (Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to your body.). HDL cholesterol sometimes is called “good” cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that’s found in all cells of the body. Your body needs some cholesterol to make hormones, vitamin D, and substances that help you digest foods. Your body makes all the cholesterol it needs. However, cholesterol also is found in some of the foods you eat.
Your total cholesterol is High, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. This could mean you have a high level of high-density lipoprotein, or good HDL cholesterol, which protects against heart disease. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL because the HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level.
The two types of lipoproteins that carry cholesterol to and from cells are low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, and high-density lipoprotein, or HDL. LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol, along with one fifth of your triglyceride level, make up your total cholesterol count, which can be determined through a blood test. LDL (Bad) Cholesterol. LDL cholesterol is considered the “bad” cholesterol because it contributes to plaque, a thick, hard deposit that can clog arteries and make them less flexible. This condition is known as atherosclerosis. If a clot forms and blocks a narrowed artery, heart attack or stroke can result.
HDL (good) cholesterol protects against heart disease, so for HDL, higher numbers are better. A level less than 40 mg/dL is low and is considered a major risk factor because it increases your risk for developing heart disease. HDL levels of 60 mg/dL or more help to lower your risk for heart disease. 
Educate yourself about good cholesterol. HDL, or high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, acts as the body's waste-disposal system in the blood. HSL combs through blood for bad cholesterol, LDL, and flushes it out to your liver for disposal. 