If you have Internet Explorer 7, in the top left corner, click on the small star icon. It will bring up a sidebar type menu. On the menu, click the history button. If you have Internet Explorer 6, there should be an icon on the top tool bar that looks like a clock with a green arrow around it. If you have older version, I'm afraid I cannot help you. T.K. · 8 years ago.
1 To delete a page, website or time period from your history, right-click it and choose Delete.. 2  Press Ctrl-Shift-Del to remove items in bulk. 3  Change history retention settings on the General tab of Internet Options, which you can reach through the Tools menu. Unlike many other browsers, which use separate windows to show browsing history, Internet Explorer's history shows up on a sidebar. There's no obvious button to see your history on the browser's menu bar, but the trick to finding it is simple: Open your favorites and switch to the history tab from there.
Save. Unlike many other browsers, which use separate windows to show browsing history, Internet Explorer's history shows up on a sidebar. There's no obvious button to see your history on the browser's menu bar, but the trick to finding it is simple: Open your favorites and switch to the history tab from there.
Step 4: Clear your History. To clear the browser history in Internet Explorer, click the cog icon at the top-right of the Internet Explorer window and select Internet Options. When the Internet Options dialog box opens, click the Delete button under Browsing history on the General tab.
Click on the history button in the icons at the top of the screen, or you can go to the top menu and select View - Explorer Bar - History. You can also type Ctrl and H on the keyboard. To change the number of days recorded in the browser's history you can select tools and internet options. 
To view your History on Firefox for Android, open a new tab in your Firefox browser. At the top of the window, underneath the address bar, you will see a menu. By default, it will be set to Top Sites. Swipe from left to right to open the History page. Select History. This will open a list of all of your stored browsing history. Alternatively, press Ctrl + H to open this page directly. 1  If you are signed into Chrome on multiple devices, all of your synced browsing history will be displayed. 2  You can see the different devices at the top of the page.
4. Click on the View Files button. The Internet Explorer history will display in a separate window, pulling data from the Temporary Internet Files folder on your computer. 5. Find the files manually. You can use the file explorer to navigate to the files on your hard drive without having to use Internet Explorer. 1. Click on the Favorites link. This is the button with a Star next to it in the upper left corner of an open session of Internet Explorer. 1  For Internet Explorer 11.0 the “Star” or favorites may be located at the upper right hand corner of the screen (between the “Home” icon and the “Gear” icon).
www. WebWiseKids.org WHAT YOU CAN DO To see which websites have been visited from a computer or cell phone, follow these steps: Internet Explorer 8 In Internet Explorer 8, look for the star icon with the word Favorites. Click on Favorites and select History. As a shortcut, you can also open Internet Explorer and hit CTRL and H simultaneously on your keyboard. Mozilla Firefox In Mozilla Firefox, find the Menu bar and click on the word History (or just hit CTRL and H simultaneously on your keyboard). Now click on Show All History. 
Tip: If you clear your Internet browser history often, you may want to consider browsing in incognito mode. Tip: If you click In the address bar, you may press the Shift + Del keys to delete items individually. Tip: If you do not see the File, Edit, View menu in Internet Explorer or Firefox, press the Alt key. or if you do have a home page set... 1  Open Firefox browser. 2  Press Ctrl + H to open the history bar on the left-hand side of the screen, or Ctrl + Shift + H to open the history window. 3  You can also click the Hamburger Menu icon in the top right-hand corner of the screen and select History in the menu.