10 most extreme places on Earth. Impressionism is a term that was first used to describe visual art in the late 19th century that emphasized the conveyance of an overall impression of a particular scene, usually outdoors, using primary colors and short brushstrokes to represent the appearance of reflected light. 
Impressionism. a movement in the late 19th century in French painting, characterized by the goal of reproducing an impression of a subject by use of reflected light and color and the blurring of outlines. — Impressionist, n ., adj. — Impressionistic, adj. impressionism. 1. A musical technique or movement that shared the aim of impressionism in painting, that is, to capture and convey an impression of changing reality or fleeting mood. The main exponent of this style was the French composer, Claude Debussy (1862–1918).
Impressionism. a movement in the late 19th century in French painting, characterized by the goal of reproducing an impression of a subject by use of reflected light and color and the blurring of outlines. — Impressionist, n ., adj. — Impressionistic, adj. impressionism. n. 1. (Art Movements) (often capital) a movement in French painting, developed in the 1870s chiefly by Monet, Renoir, Pissarro, and Sisley, having the aim of objectively recording experience by a system of fleeting impressions, esp of natural light effects.
According to the art critic who wrote the article, this was what stimulated the Impressionist movement, and later-on, modern art as we know it today. What is the saying, Necessity is the mother of invention. Best Answer: One possible answer was something I read a few years ago. Many artist's incomes depended on the steady work of painting portraits. However, when photography was invented everyone wanted their portraits photographed-the new, in thing.
The goal of the impressionists artists was to understand and expand the philosophy of aesthetics through painting. Impressionism was the beginning of modern art. The labor of creation anew stimulated by artistic vision and thought. They asked questions of the mind and applied it to their creations. Best Answer: One possible answer was something I read a few years ago. Many artist's incomes depended on the steady work of painting portraits. However, when photography was invented everyone wanted their portraits photographed-the new, in thing.
Post-Impressionism. (1880s-1900s). Post-Impressionist paintings were a broad reaction against Impressionism. The works continued to use the bright Impressionist palette, but rejected the Impressionism’s emphasis on the spontaneous recording of light and color. Post-Impressionists sought to create art with a greater degree of formal order and structure
See more pictures of Impressionist paintings. To learn more about art, famous artists, and art history, check out: Impressionism is a term that came to designate the work of a diverse circle of artists who shared a desire for artistic independence and an allegiance to modern expression.
Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. Impressionism emerged in France at the same time that a number of other painters, including the Italian artists known as the Macchiaioli, and Winslow Homer in the United States, were also exploring plein-air painting.