A Definition of Occupational Therapy. Occupational therapy is a health profession whose goal is to help people achieve independence, meaning and satisfaction in all aspects of their lives. 1 Consult with the person and the family or caregivers and, through evaluation and treatment, promote the client's capacity to participate in satisfying daily activities. 2  Address by intervention the person's capacity to perform, the activity being performed, or the environment in which it is performed.
Definition Occupation. In occupational therapy, occupations refer to the everyday activities that people do as individuals, in families and with communities to occupy time and bring meaning and purpose to life. Occupations include things people need to, want to and are expected to do. Definition of Occupational Therapy. Occupational therapy is a client-centred health profession concerned with promoting health and well being through occupation. The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in the activities of everyday life
occupational therapy assistant a health care professional who works under the supervision of an occupational therapist in planning and implementing programs to restore the self-care, work, and leisure skills of clients/patients. occupational therapy (OT), a health rehabilitation profession designed to help people of all ages with physical, developmental, social, or emotional deficits regain and build skills that are important for functional independence, health and well-being. See also occupational therapist.
Full Definition of OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY. : therapy based on engagement in meaningful activities of daily life (as self-care skills, education, work, or social interaction) especially to enable or encourage participation in such activities despite impairments or limitations in physical or mental functioning. occupational therapy. noun. Tweet. medical: treatment that helps people who have physical or mental problems learn to do the activities of daily life.
In its simplest terms, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants help people across the lifespan participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities (occupations). 
occupational therapy assistant a health care professional who works under the supervision of an occupational therapist in planning and implementing programs to restore the self-care, work, and leisure skills of clients/patients. occupational therapist a health care professional who provides services designed to restore self-care, work, and leisure skills to patients/clients who have specific performance incapacities or deficits that reduce their abilities to cope with the tasks of everyday living.
Occupational therapy (OT) is the use of assessment and treatment to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of people with a physical, mental, or cognitive disorder. Occupational therapists also focus much of their work on identifying and eliminating environmental barriers to independence and participation in daily activities. Occupational therapy is a client-centered practice that places emphasis on the progress towards the client's goals.
Occupational therapy is a health and rehabilitation profession. Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who need specialized assistance to lead independent, productive, and satisfying lives due to physical, developmental, social, or emotional problems. 