Abstract. In this study, cultures of astrocytes and capillary endothelial cells from the blood–brain barrier (BBB) of the postnatal (P1) mouse cerebral cortex were analyzed with the aim of acquiring information on the distinguishing characteristics of each cell type. The P-glycoprotein, mdr, is a specific marker for the BBB (reviewed in Garlanda and Dejana [16]). Lechardeur and Scherman [25] demonstrated the expression of P-glycoprotein on brain capillary endothelial cells in situ and in vitro.
Both blood and lymphatic capillaries are composed of a single layer of endothelial cells called a monolayer. In straight sections of a blood vessel, vascular endothelial cells typically align and elongate in the direction of fluid flow. These functions include fluid filtration, such as in the glomeruli of the kidney, blood vessel tone, hemostasis, neutrophil recruitment, and hormone trafficking. Endothelium of the interior surfaces of the heart chambers is called endocardium.
Endothelial Cells. Endothelial cells are a lining layer of cells or tissue (endothelium), especially the interior of the blood vessels. In fact, the endothelium lines the entire circulatory system including the one and only heart and all types of blood vessels. 
Abstract During embryonic development, endothelial cells differentiate from a common precursor called angioblast and acquire organ-specific properties. One of the important determinants of endothelial cell differentiation is the local environment, and especially the interaction with surrounding cells. One of the major limitations to the study of endothelial cell heterogeneity is the fact that these cells are still difficult to isolate and culture from the microcirculation of different organs, and once in culture, they tend to lose their specialized
The endothelial cell is thought to arise from the splanchnopleuric mesoderm. Endothelial cells form the inner lining of a blood vessel and provides an anticoagulant barrier between the vessel wall and blood. In addition to its role as a selective permeability barrier, the endothelial cell is a unique multifunctional cell with critical basal and inducible metabolic and synthetic functions. Cell facts: (1) Endothelium consists of approximately (1-6) x 10(13) endothelial cells forming an almost 1 kg organ. (2) They uniquely contain Weibel-Palade bodies, 0.1 microm wide, 3 microm long membrane-bound structures that represent the storage organelle for von Willebrand factor (vWF).
The endothelium lining the heart is also called the endocardium. The endocardium is sometimes affected by a heart attack. A diagram showing the composition of a blood vessel. The endothelium lines the inside of the vessels. A loss of healthy endothelial function can trigger hypertension, also known as high blood pressure. Endothelium is a thin layer of epithelial cells that line the blood vessels of the entire circulatory system. Endothelium helps to control blood pressure, and a loss of it can cause high blood pressure. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow. 
Crystal-like features of the endothelium were noted by Kraupa in 1920, who suggested that the epithelial changes were dependent on the endothelium. Using a slit lamp, Vogt described the excrescences associated with FCD as drop-like in appearance in 1921. Fuchs’ corneal endothelial dystrophy (FCED) is a degenerative disease of the corneal endothelium with accumulation of focal outgrowths called guttae (drops) and thickening of Descemet’s membrane, leading to corneal edema and loss of vision.
Introduction. All blood vessels and lymphatics are lined by endothelial cells; the layer being called the endothelium. These extraordinary cells were once considered to be simple lining cells with very few functional roles, other than to keep cells within the blood from leaking out of the vessels. 
For the endothelium of the cornea, see corneal endothelium. Endothelium is a type of epithelium that lines the interior surface of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood or lymph in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall. It is a thin layer of simple squamous cells called endothelial cells. These functions include fluid filtration, such as in the glomeruli of the kidney, blood vessel tone, hemostasis, neutrophil recruitment, and hormone trafficking. Endothelium of the interior surfaces of the heart chambers is called endocardium.