Polyphosphates cannot significantly improve the eating quality of fish, although claims in this respect are often made. Excessive treatment of small products such as shellfish or thin fillets can even result in undesirable flavour changes and sloppy texture. Many benefits have been claimed to result from the use of polyphosphates. This section describes those effects for which good evidence exists. The following section tells what polyphosphates will not do. The main value of polyphosphates lies in improving the retention of water by the protein in fish. The manner in which they do this is not clearly understood, but their effect is mainly on the surface of the fish. Other substances such as common salt give similar results but with undesirable flavour effects
Origin of POLYPHOSPHATE. poly- + phosphate. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
To test for polyphosphates in water, the total phosphate and orthophosphate concentrations must be known. The difference between these two values will be the polyphosphate. A minimum of 4 ppm polyphosphate is fed into the water to treat 2 ppm of iron or less. Polyphosphate is used, not to remove iron and hardness from water, but to sequester them so that they do not cause damage to fixtures and outdoor surfaces. This page contains some example of sequestering advice from a number of sources.
Polyphosphates are salts or esters of polymeric oxyanions formed from tetrahedral PO 4 (phosphate) structural units linked together by sharing oxygen atoms. Polyphosphates can adopt linear or a cyclic ring structures. In biology, the polyphosphate esters ADP and ATP are involved in energy storage. A variety of polyphosphates find application in mineral sequestration in municipal waters, generally being present at 1 to 5 ppm. GTP, CTP, and UTP are also nucleotides important in the protein synthesis, lipid synthesis, and carbohydrate metabolism, respectively. Cyclic trimetaphosphate. Adenosine diphosphate (ADP). The structure of tripolyphosphoric acid illustrates the principles which define the structures of polyphosphates. It consists of three tetrahedral PO 4 units linked together by sharing oxygen centres.
SODIUM POLYPHOSPHATES, GLASSY Prepared at the 46th JECFA (1996), published in FNP 52 Add 4 (1996) superseding specifications prepared by the 20th JECFA (1976), published in FNS 1B (1977) and in FNP 52 (1992). Metals and arsenic specifications revised at the 55th JECFA (2000). 
Sodium triphosphate (STP), also sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP), or tripolyphosphate (TPP),) is an inorganic compound with formula Na 5 P 3 O 10. It is the sodium salt of the polyphosphate penta-anion, which is the conjugate base of triphosphoric acid. It is produced on a large scale as a component of many domestic and industrial products, especially detergents. Environmental problems associated with eutrophication are attributed to its widespread use. Polyphosphates are hydrolyzed into simpler phosphates, which in moderate amounts are nutritious. For example, ATP, a related derivative of triphosphate, is essential for life. Thus, the toxicity of polyphosphates is low, as the lowest LD50 Similarly, no mutagenic, carcinogenic, or reproductive effects have been noted.
Introduction. This note describes what polyphosphates are, what use they are in fish processing, how to apply them and what regulations govern their use. The questions of patent restrictions and possible health hazards are also briefly discussed. Many benefits have been claimed to result from the use of polyphosphates. This section describes those effects for which good evidence exists. The following section tells what polyphosphates will not do. The main value of polyphosphates lies in improving the retention of water by the protein in fish. The manner in which they do this is not clearly understood, but their effect is mainly on the surface of the fish. Other substances such as common salt give similar results but with undesirable flavour effects
There are, in addition, several other techniques for the control of soluble iron in the water. These make use of polyphosphates to keep the iron in solution. Polyphosphates do not remove iron from water. Rather they stabilize and disperse the iron so that the water remains clear and does not produce iron stains. 