A cocktail wedding reception may cost less because less food is involved, but keep in mind that guests may drink more if they aren't served a full meal. The bottom line -- talk to your wedding reception banquet manager or caterer about the different options and how much they will cost (ask for an itemized estimate). That's the only way to really find out what's going to be most cost-effective for you. Reception Wedding Planning Budgeting Food + Catering.
1 The average wedding caterer cost, including food and food service, drinks and drink service and cake and cake cutting fees is $12,790, according to The Bridal Association of America, which treats these as three separate categories. 2  The average number of guests is 150, so it works out to about $85 per person. 1 While in-house catering typically includes service, outside caterers usually charge for labor --around $15 to $25 an hour each waiter and $45 an hour or more for a chef.
1 A cocktail hour and sit-down dinner at a fancy hotel, country club or resort with an in-house caterer can cost $125 to $350 or more per person, including service and gratuity. 1 While in-house catering typically includes service, outside caterers usually charge for labor --around $15 to $25 an hour each waiter and $45 an hour or more for a chef.
To calculate how much money per person you have to spend, take your budget and divide that by your number of guests. For example, a couple feeding 125 guests on a $2500 budget will have $20 per person to spend on the food, utensils, and equipment. This number will help you determine the type of menu to prepare. For a general guide on how much of each item your guests will eat, use our list below. Appetizers – 8 pieces of veggies with dip, 4 oz of cheese, 1 ½ lbs of crackers per 20 guests, 1 pint of dip per 10 guests. Take into consideration how long guests will be waiting before dinner.
A dessert buffet will significantly help reduce the cost spent on your wedding cake. To convert your ounces of food to pounds, multiply the number of ounces you need times your number of guests then divide by 16 for pounds of food. For n/a beverages like iced tea and lemonade, plan on 16oz per person. For a general guide on how much of each item your guests will eat, use our list below. Appetizers – 8 pieces of veggies with dip, 4 oz of cheese, 1 ½ lbs of crackers per 20 guests, 1 pint of dip per 10 guests. Take into consideration how long guests will be waiting before dinner.
You should plan on $30-$70 per guest for hot hors d'oeuvres, salads and a bar serving only wine and beer. Plan on costs up to as much as $125-$350 or more per person if you hold your reception at an upscale hotel, country club or resort and serve appetizers as well as a sit-down multi-course meal and open bar. Here is a list of questions to ask your caterer before you make a commitment. 1 You will need about 6 people per 100 guests to set up and serve buffet service meals. 2  Then you need to assign an equal number of fresh new people after the event for cleanup and rental return! 3  Before selecting a menu, thoroughly inspect the kitchen you will use.
Let's start with seated wedding reception meal vs. buffet. It would seem that a buffet would cost less across the board, but that's not necessarily true. It depends on the time of day (a seated lunch or brunch could well cost less than a dinner buffet), the number of guests, and the foods you choose to serve. The bottom line -- talk to your wedding reception banquet manager or caterer about the different options and how much they will cost (ask for an itemized estimate). That's the only way to really find out what's going to be most cost-effective for you. Reception Wedding Planning Budgeting Food + Catering.
An appetizer reception, though, requires an entirely different perspective on the reception, for you, your guests, and your caterer. There can definitely be drawbacks. One of the key things to remember is that this is not an option that will save you money, by and large. Appetizers are not a meal, true. Total cost – maybe $500. Today, guests generally expect a much more lavish outlay, including a full meal. There has been a gradual shift in the past few years, with some brides leaning more towards a smaller reception that features appetizers or small food stations.
If you like software, you could try this computerized catering cost calculator. According to the Bridal Association of America, as of 2009, the average cost for a wedding caterer is $12,790 for 150 guests, which includes food, drinks, cake and service. That cost works out to about $85 per guest. 1 You will need about 6 people per 100 guests to set up and serve buffet service meals. 2  Then you need to assign an equal number of fresh new people after the event for cleanup and rental return! 3  Before selecting a menu, thoroughly inspect the kitchen you will use.
Food will be one of your major wedding costs — typically, the catering bill accounts for 45 to 50 percent of the total wedding budget. The first big choice you'll make as you plan your dinner is how to serve your guests. Back in the day, couples pretty much had two choices: a sit-down dinner or a buffet. Pros: Everyone at the table gets their food at the same time. Also, your caterer will know exactly how much food to purchase since each meal is pre-selected, so your food costs will be lower than a buffet or family-style meal.