Lithium titanate (LTO) based batteries rely on a promising new technology that employs nanostructured materials to improve the performance, quality, and lifetime of these batteries. However, the anode in these batteries is covered with nano-structured lithium-titanate instead of carbon (in the case of Li-ion batteries). This new technology increases the electrode's active surface area and allows electrical charges to move more easily and quickly.
Category: LTO Batteries. The lithium–titanate battery (Li4Ti5O12,referred to as LTO in the battery industry) is a type of rechargeable battery based on advanced nano-technology, which has the following advantages than other lithium batteries. Advantages: Disadvantage: The disadvantage is that lithium-titanate batteries have a lower inherent voltage (2.4V/cell) , which leads to a lower energy density than conventional lithium-ion battery technologies. But the energy density of LTO ‐ based batteries is still higher than lead acid and NiCad
A disadvantage of lithium-titanate batteries is that they have a lower inherent voltage (2.4 V), which leads to a lower energy density than conventional lithium-ion battery technologies (which have an inherent voltage of 3.7 V). A lithium–titanate battery is a modified lithium-ion battery that uses lithium-titanate nanocrystals on the surface of its anode instead of carbon.
1 As described above, the anode of the lithium titanate battery is covered with lithium titanate nanocrystals that are chemically enhanced in order to provide a larger surface area (100 m /gram compared to the 3m /gram for carbon). 2  This allows greater charge and discharge rates and an increase in energy storage. However, the anode in these batteries is covered with nano-structured lithium-titanate instead of carbon (in the case of Li-ion batteries). This new technology increases the electrode's active surface area and allows electrical charges to move more easily and quickly.
Lithium Titanium Oxide (LTO) Powders ». Lithium titanate (Li 4 Ti 5 O 12) is an electrode material with exceptional electrochemical stability, often used as the anode in lithium-ion batteries for applications that require high rate, long cycle life, and high efficiency. LTO-based batteries are considered safer and have a wider operating temperature range
The lithium–titanate battery is a type of rechargeable battery, which has the advantage of being faster to charge than other lithium-ion batteries. A lithium–titanate battery is a modified lithium-ion battery that uses lithium-titanate nanocrystals on the surface of its anode instead of carbon.
The Lithium Titanate (lithium titanium oxide) technology (LTO) is a solution that is most ideal for mobile energy storage. The LTO cells utilize advanced nano-technology processes to produce anodes with a surface area that is substantially larger than that of other types of lithium based batteries. Lithium-titanate technology is based on modified lithium-ion batteries and employs additional lithium-titanate nanocrystals on the surface of its anode and instead of the conventional carbon material that is used in normal lithium-ion batteries.
Batteries with lithium titanate anodes have been known since the 1980s. Li-titanate replaces the graphite in the anode of a typical lithium-ion battery and the material forms into a spinel structure. The cathode is graphite and resembles the architecture of a typical lithium-metal battery.