1 This chart is based on the resulting pH ash of foods after digestion. 2  This is the reading you should go by when alkalizing foods for your body. 3  You should aim for a 70/30 ratio between high alkaline vs acid foods. 4  There is no need to be extreme with your diet and remove all acid foods. How The List of Alkaline Foods Works. 1  The color of the text under each food represents the pH rating. 2  This chart is based on the resulting pH ash of foods after digestion. 3  This is the reading you should go by when alkalizing foods for your body. 4
1 The color of the text under each food represents the pH rating. 2  This chart is based on the resulting pH ash of foods after digestion. 3  This is the reading you should go by when alkalizing foods for your body. 4  You should aim for a 70/30 ratio between high alkaline vs acid foods. How The List of Alkaline Foods Works. 1 
To maintain health, the diet should consist of 60% alkaline forming foods and 40% acid forming foods. To restore health, the diet should consist of 80% alkaline forming foods and 20% acid forming foods. Generally, acid forming foods include: meat, fish, poultry, eggs, grains, and legumes. Shifting Your pH Toward Alkaline... This chart is for those trying to adjust their body pH. The pH scale is from 0 to 14, with numbers below 7 acidic (low on oxygen) and numbers above 7 alkaline. An acidic body is a sickness magnet.
An alkaline diet emphasizes alkaline foods such as whole fruits and vegetables and certain whole grains, which are low in caloric density. Healthy Alkaline Diet Foods involve the ideal balance between acidifying and alkalizing foods. 
How the body reacts to certain foods is what determines what foods are alkaline-forming and what foods are acid-forming. For example lemons are acidic in nature, but have an alkalizing effect on the body once they are digested. Similarly, milk is alkaline outside the body, but acidic upon digestion. 
Alkaline foods are foods that raise the the amount of oxygen that your blood takes in. The most alkalizing foods are RAW green leafy vegetables, non-sweet fruits and (wheat) grasses. The opposite of alkaline foods are acid foods. How much oxygen your blood can absorb is measured on a pH scale that ranges from 0 to 14. A pH of 0 is most acidic while a pH of 14 is most alkaline.
An optimal 80% alkaline food and only 20% acid food is the recommended proper ratio of daily food intake, according to Dr. Ragnar Berg, the world’s famous Swedish nutritionist. Modern food processing and the advent of agriculture change the natural alkaline form of food and turn them into acid in form. Grains and even the white flour as main component of bread, and most cooking oils are considered highly acidic. Animal sources such as meat, prawns, fish, chicken, are also acid foods.
All foods that we digest release an alkaline ash (bicarbonate) or an acid ash into blood and tissues of the body depending on the mineral compounds that the foods contain. It is worth noting that acid-producing foods can lose some of the essential minerals such a potassium, magnesium, calcium, and sodium. Modern food processing and the advent of agriculture change the natural alkaline form of food and turn them into acid in form. Grains and even the white flour as main component of bread, and most cooking oils are considered highly acidic. Animal sources such as meat, prawns, fish, chicken, are also acid foods.
Generally, alkaline forming foods include: most fruits, green vegetables, peas, beans, lentils, spices, herbs and seasonings, and seeds and nuts. Generally, acid forming foods include: meat, fish, poultry, eggs, grains, and legumes. Shifting Your pH Toward Alkaline... This chart is for those trying to adjust their body pH. The pH scale is from 0 to 14, with numbers below 7 acidic (low on oxygen) and numbers above 7 alkaline. An acidic body is a sickness magnet.
The perfect way to balance alkaline-forming and acid-forming foods, if you are someone who eats chicken, fish or meat, is to follow the 80/20 rule: have plenty of vegetables, served on a base of grains, with your protein perched on top. Coffee and cola are among the most acidic foods, while vegetables and fruits including dates, figs, grapefruit, lemon, lime, fennel, broccoli, artichoke, asparagus, beetroot, kale, spinach, watercress and cauliflower are the most alkaline.