Cardiff was made a city in 1905, and proclaimed the capital of Wales in 1955. Since the 1990s, Cardiff has seen significant development. A new waterfront area at Cardiff Bay contains the Senedd building, home to the Welsh Assembly and the Wales Millennium Centre arts complex. The northern part of the county, being higher and inland—for example, The Garth (Welsh: Mynydd y Garth), about 7 miles (11 km) north west of Cardiff city centre, (elevation 1,007 feet (307 m))—tends to be cooler and wetter than the city centre.
The County Council of the City and County of Cardiff (Welsh: Dinas a Sir Caerdydd) is the governing body for Cardiff, one of the Principal Areas of Wales. The council consists of 75 councillors, representing 29 electoral wards. The first Mayor of Cardiff is listed by the County Borough Records as Ralph Prepositus de Kardi who took up office in 1126. In 1835, Thomas Revel Guest became the first elected Mayor of Cardiff when the first council elections were held.
News on Cardiff County, Wales continually updated from thousands of sources around the net. 
In 1905, Cardiff became a City, and the Borough Council became a City Council. The City of Cardiff is the county town of Glamorgan. However, prior to 1974, Cardiff was a County Borough in its own right and not subject to Glamorgan County Council. Council reorganisation in 1974 paired Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan together as district councils subject to the new county of South Glamorgan. The first Mayor of Cardiff is listed by the County Borough Records as Ralph Prepositus de Kardi who took up office in 1126. In 1835, Thomas Revel Guest became the first elected Mayor of Cardiff when the first council elections were held.
The city is county town of Glamorgan, although this role has diminished since council reorganisation in 1974 paired Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan together as the new county of South Glamorgan. Further local government restructuring in 1996 resulted in Cardiff City's district council becoming a unitary authority. · just now. Report Abuse. Cardiff is the main town in Cardiff county, in Wales, UK.. It has the county of Vale of Glamorgan to the west, Newport to the east and to the north two counties:Rhondda Cynon Taff and Caerphilly. abuela Nany · 9 years ago. Thumbs up
Welcome to the Cardiff and County Club, where the finest traditions of dining and friendship continue to be enjoyed in magnificent surroundings. The Club has an enviable reputation for its tradition of serving fine food in a convivial atmosphere, surrounded by magnificent Victorian splendour.
Cardiff is part of the Cardiff and south Wales valleys metropolitan area of about 1,100,000 people. Cardiff is a significant tourist centre and the most popular visitor destination in Wales with 18.3 million visitors in 2010. The northern part of the county, being higher and inland—for example, The Garth (Welsh: Mynydd y Garth), about 7 miles (11 km) north west of Cardiff city centre, (elevation 1,007 feet (307 m))—tends to be cooler and wetter than the city centre.
The city of Cardiff is the county town of the historic county of Glamorgan (and later South Glamorgan). Cardiff is part of the Eurocities network of the largest European cities. The Cardiff Urban Area covers a slightly larger area outside the county boundary, and includes the towns of Dinas Powys and Penarth. The northern part of the county, being higher and inland—for example, The Garth (Welsh: Mynydd y Garth), about 7 miles (11 km) north west of Cardiff city centre, (elevation 1,007 feet (307 m))—tends to be cooler and wetter than the city centre.