The electromagnetic spectrum is generally divided into seven regions, in order of decreasing wavelength and increasing energy and frequency: radio waves, microwaves, infrared, visible light, ultraviolet, X-rays and gamma rays.
Radio waves, gamma-rays, visible light, and all the other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are electromagnetic radiation. Electromagnetic radiation can be described in terms of a stream of mass-less particles, called photons, each traveling in a wave-like pattern at the speed of light.
The wavelength of light, and all other forms of electromagnetic radiation, is related to the frequency by a relatively simple equation: where c is the speed of light (in meters per second), n is the frequency of the light in hertz (Hz), and l is the wavelength of the light measured in meters.
The other types of EM radiation that make up the electromagnetic spectrum are microwaves, infrared light, ultraviolet light, X-rays and gamma-rays. You know more about the electromagnetic spectrum than you may think. The image below shows where you might encounter each portion of the EM spectrum in your day-to-day life.
All electromagnetic radiation is light, but we can only see a small portion of this radiation—the portion we call visible light. Cone-shaped cells in our eyes act as receivers tuned to the wavelengths in this narrow band of the spectrum.
The electromagnetic (EM) spectrum is the range of all types of EM radiation. Radiation is energy that travels and spreads out as it goes  the visible light that comes from a lamp in your house and the radio waves that come from a radio station are two types of electromagnetic
This range is known as the electromagnetic spectrum. The EM spectrum is generally divided into seven regions, in order of decreasing wavelength and increasing energy and frequency. The common designations are: radio waves, microwaves, infrared (IR), visible light, ultraviolet (UV), X-rays and gamma rays.
Electromagnetic Radiation. Electromagnetic radiation, the larger family of wave-like phenomena to which visible light belongs (also known as radiant energy), is the primary vehicle transporting energy through the vast reaches of the universe.
Radiation of wavelength less than m is invisible and is called ultraviolet radiation. Radiation with wavelength from m to m are called X-rays, and radiation shorter than m all the way to vanishingly small wavelength are called gamma-rays. The electromagnetic spectrum is given in Figure 6.1.
Visible light represents only a small portion of the entire spectrum of electromagnetic radiation (as categorized in Figure 1), which extends from high-frequency cosmic and gamma rays through X-rays, ultraviolet light, infrared radiation, and microwaves, down to very low frequency long-wavelength radio waves.