Reference 3 17 Office accommodation workspace and fitout standardsOffice Accommodation Management Framework Guideline 3: Fitout 11.2 Project cost 11.2.1 New fitouts (standard and green fitouts) HPW has set maximum benchmark targets for the costs of new office accommodation fitout projects. 
This will provide you a good indication at the likely fit out costs that you would be looking at to redesign the interior of your office. 1  Basic range: allow £750 – £1,000 per person. 2  Mid range: allow £1,000 to £1,750.00 per person. 3  High range: allow £1,750 – £2,500.00 per person. It is not a substitute for contacting Office Principles and requesting an accurate price based upon your specific needs and requirements. Please enter the square footage of your space in the input box below and move your mouse over the cost calculator grid to get an idea of cost. 1  Square Footage:
Using Our Costs Calculator. Since our fit-out costs specifically exclude furniture you now need to add in the costs of new furniture. You may find that a single desk may only cost you £250.00 but you need to add task seating, cable management, screens, pedestals and accessories to get an accurate price per person. It is not a substitute for contacting Office Principles and requesting an accurate price based upon your specific needs and requirements. Please enter the square footage of your space in the input box below and move your mouse over the cost calculator grid to get an idea of cost. 1  Square Footage:
1 Fit out estimates so you’ll know exactly how much your fit out will cost. 2  Give us a day and we can estimate your fit out within 20% of the final cost. 3  Give us 5 days and we’ll give you an estimate to the nearest penny. 4  Guaranteed. 
3 5 2 7 0. Hopefully by now you will have used our fit-out cost calculator to estimate a budget cost for the fit-out of your offices. You now need to consider whether you will be re-using your existing furniture or whether your new office deserves a new look. It is not a substitute for contacting Office Principles and requesting an accurate price based upon your specific needs and requirements. Please enter the square footage of your space in the input box below and move your mouse over the cost calculator grid to get an idea of cost. 1  Square Footage:
Measuring up. When you’ve decided on the type of fit out that best suits your needs and requirements, your office fit out company can put together an approximate cost. This typically includes everything from electrical services, lighting, furniture, contractor fees and everything else. If you need to rent out an alternative office space for a few weeks, then this will add to the overall office fit out costs and is something you need to budget for. Whatever type of fit-out you’re budgeting for, give Paramount a call and find out how we can help. Written by Steve Mullis, Finance & HR Manager. Tweet.
Office Fitout Calculator. Our calculate is designed to give you and your business an idea of the costs involved for your specific office fitout. Simply fill out the form to generate an estimate. Don't have all the info yet, no worries, just give us a call on 1300 90 22 18 to speak to a Project Manager and get professional expertise in helping your work out your office fitout calculator. This is only an estimate tool for giving you an idea of the costs involved, it does not include our builders fee and preliminary costs. For a more accurate quote give us a call today on 1300 90 22 18. Prices are based on ceiling height of 2.7m.
$400 per square metre. An average office fitout with a few offices traditionally costs approx. $550 - $750 per square metre depending on the level of finish required. High Grade fitout or renovation traditionally costs approx. $850 - $1000 per square metre. A prestige Sydney CBD office fitout traditionally costs between $1000 - $2000 per square metre. These costs are average costs only that have been provided as a guide and should in no way form the basis for commercial decisions. All costs are ex GST.
The Office Fit Out Cost Calculator is perfect for estimations for any business fit out need. Whether a downsizing or a growing business, space and cost estimation can be difficult and frustrating. With our office cost calculator, clients receive an instant estimate. 