1 trademark-A name, symbol, or other depiction identifying a product. 2  The first trademarks were stamps and symbols used by ancient cultures to indicate who had made goods; a trade name is the name of the maker, not the product, but has the status of a trademark. trade name. n. 1. (Commerce) the name used by a trade to refer to a commodity, service, etc. 2. (Commerce) the name under which a commercial enterprise operates in business.
A sign in a supermarket using  Jell-O  generically. A generic trademark, also known as a genericized trademark or proprietary eponym, is a trademark or brand name that has become the generic name for, or synonymous with, a general class of product or service, usually against the intentions of the trademark's holder. 
For trade names of pharmaceuticals, see drug nomenclature. For trade names of other products and services, see brand name. A trade name, trading name, or business name is a pseudonym used by companies to perform their business under a name that differs from the registered, legal name of the business. Many companies use trade names or business branding process easier. First, there are less preexisting connotations attached to the name and second, it is more likely that a trademark application for the name will succeed because it probably has not been used before as a mark for that particular service or product.
Generic (official) name. Brand (proprietary or trademark or trade) name. For example, phenytoin is the generic name and Dilantin is a brand name for the same drug. The generic name is assigned, in the United States, by an official body—the United States Adopted Names (USAN) Council. Not all off-patent drugs have generic versions. Sometimes a drug is too hard to duplicate, or adequate tests are not available to prove that the generic drug acts the same as the brand-name drug. Sometimes the market for the drug is so small that producing another version does not make good business sense.
Noun. 1. trade name-a name given to a product or service. brand, brand name, marque. Kinetoscope-a device invented by Edison that gave an impression of movement as an endless loop of film moved continuously over a light source with a rapid shutter; precursor of the modern motion picture. trade name. n. 1. (Commerce) the name used by a trade to refer to a commodity, service, etc. 2. (Commerce) the name under which a commercial enterprise operates in business.
The distinction between a registered legal name and a fictitious business name or trade name is important, as businesses with the latter give no obvious indication of the true identity of the entity that is legally responsible for their operation. Many companies use trade names or business branding process easier. First, there are less preexisting connotations attached to the name and second, it is more likely that a trademark application for the name will succeed because it probably has not been used before as a mark for that particular service or product.
Brand names and trademarks are valuable assets to a business. Often a brand or trademark becomes synonymous with the product. For example Xerox (R) is often used to mean copy. Because of a brand name's importance, many companies want to protect it through trademark. A trademark is a registered brand or trade name. It can include any combination of a name, slogan, logo, sounds or colors that identify the company or its products or services. For example, the Nike Swoosh is a registered trademark
Noun. 1. brand-name drug-a drug that has a trade name and is protected by a patent (can be produced and sold only by the company holding the patent). proprietary drug. drug-a substance that is used as a medicine or narcotic. generic drug-when the patent protection for a brand-name drug expires generic versions of the drug can be offered for sale if the FDA agrees; generic drugs are usually cheaper than brand-name drugs. 1  Facebook.
The brand name is developed by the company requesting approval for the drug and identifies it as the exclusive property of that company. When a drug is under patent protection, the company markets it under its brand name. Not all off-patent drugs have generic versions. Sometimes a drug is too hard to duplicate, or adequate tests are not available to prove that the generic drug acts the same as the brand-name drug. Sometimes the market for the drug is so small that producing another version does not make good business sense.