The mutation that gives male cats a ginger-colored coat and females ginger, tortoiseshell, or calico coats produced a particularly telling map. The orange mutant gene is found only on the X, or female, chromosome. As with humans, female cats have paired sex chromosomes, XX, and male cats have XY sex chromosomes. Calico cats are domestic cats with a spotted or particolored coat that is predominantly white, with patches of two other colors (often, the two other colors are orange tabby and black). Outside of North America, the pattern is more usually called tortoiseshell-and-white.
Confidence votes 9.7K. The colour of a cat doesn't determine what breed it is. Many cats can have a red (ginger) coat, with or without a tabby pattern on top, pointed (colour at the extremities such as tail, legs, face and ears), or with white. Many breeds of cats can be red with a variety of patterns. Even non-pedigree cats (moggies) vary wildy in many, many colours and patters. If you are unsure what breed your cat is, or if your cat did not come with papers when you bought it, it is most likely a non-pedigree moggy. There is no one breed of cat that is white. White is a coat colour that can be found in nearly all breeds, pedigrees and non-pedigrees: White Persian Cat: These are the most … popular cats and widely sought after white cat breeds. These royal divas are short and round with heads that are larger than most cats.
Like all tabbies, ginger tabbies have an 'M' on their foreheads. Ginger tabby is a coat pattern and not a breed, but any human who lives with one of these cats will tell you her baby has a distinct personality. Color and Pattern. Ginger tabbies, also called red or orange tabbies, are white striped with any shade of orange or red. Tabby patterns include classic swirls, mackerel, ticked and spotted, but all have the typical “M” on the forehead.
For the most part, ginger cats are domestic short-hair or long-hair felines with an orange coat, although cats representing other breeds may be referred to as ginger if orange is their primary color. An interesting fact about ginger or orange cats is that, in most cases, they are males. As a result of genetics, according to Dr. Arnold Plotnick of catchannel.com, the ratio of male to female gingers is 80-20.
Calico cat coloring from a top view. A young caliby, or calico tabby. Calico cats are domestic cats with a spotted or particolored coat that is predominantly white, with patches of two other colors (often, the two other colors are orange tabby and black). Outside of North America, the pattern is more usually called tortoiseshell-and-white.
Color Not Breed. Many references to ginger cats appear in books and films, leading people to believe the ginger cat is a distinct feline breed, like the manx or Egyptian mau. On the contrary, ginger simply refers to the coat color of a cat. An interesting fact about ginger or orange cats is that, in most cases, they are males. As a result of genetics, according to Dr. Arnold Plotnick of catchannel.com, the ratio of male to female gingers is 80-20.
Report Abuse. Of course, orange is a color, not a breed. You most likely have a domestic short hair. He is most likely a male (90% of orange cats are) and he is often called a ginger cat. But if you really want a breed, it is a domestic short hair. I think those orange cats are great cats. 
Ginger cats are so named because of their ginger-colored coats. Unlike the peppermint pig, chocolate bunny, sugar mouse or marshmallow chick, each of which is a holiday-related confection, the ginger cat is a living, breathing, orange-hued feline. But the ginger cat is not a distinct feline breed. An interesting fact about ginger or orange cats is that, in most cases, they are males. As a result of genetics, according to Dr. Arnold Plotnick of catchannel.com, the ratio of male to female gingers is 80-20.