So it is best to cook the meringue in a slow oven and then to turn off the oven and let it cool slowly. To make the Pavlova first beat the egg whites until soft peaks form. Then add the sugar, one tablespoon at a time, and continue to beat until the meringue forms stiff and shiny peaks. Beat in the vanilla extract. With a rubber spatula, gently fold in the cornstarch and vinegar. References: Pavlova: Preheat oven to 250 degrees F (130 degrees C) and place rack in center of oven. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and draw a 7 inch (18 cm) circle on the paper. Turn the parchment paper over so the circle is on the reverse side
Method. 1  Heat oven to 150C/130C fan/gas 2. Using a pencil, mark out the circumference of a dinner plate on baking parchment. 2  Whisk the egg whites with a hand mixer until they form stiff peaks, then whisk in the sugar, 1 tbsp at a time, until the meringue looks glossy. 3  Whisk in the vinegar, cornflour and vanilla. 1 Bake for 1 hr, then turn off the heat and let the Pavlova cool completely inside the oven. 2  When the meringue is cool, chop 100g of the strawberries. 3  Mix them with half the redcurrants and 2 tbsp icing sugar. 4  Place in a food processor, blitz until smooth, then push the fruit mixture through a sieve.
Pavlova: Preheat oven to 250 degrees F (130 degrees C) and place rack in center of oven. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and draw a 7 inch (18 cm) circle on the paper. Turn the parchment paper over so the circle is on the reverse side. 
Gradually add sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating well after each addition, until meringue is thick and glossy and sugar dissolved. Rub a little meringue between fingers. If still gritty with sugar, continue to whisk until sugar dissolves. Add cornflour, vinegar and vanilla and whisk until just combined. Spoon meringue onto the foil, using the marked circle as a guide. Smooth sides and top of pavlova. Use a small spatula to forms little peaks around edge of pavlova. Bake in oven for 11/2 hours or until pavlova is dry to the touch. Turn off oven. Leave pavlova in oven with the door ajar to cool completely. When completely cold, transfer to serving plate or store in an airtight container until required
1 Whisk the egg whites with a hand mixer until they form stiff peaks, then whisk in the sugar, 1 tbsp at a time, until the meringue looks glossy. 2  Whisk in the vinegar, cornflour and vanilla. 3  Spread the meringue inside the circle, creating a crater by making the sides a little higher than the middle. 1 Bake for 1 hr, then turn off the heat and let the Pavlova cool completely inside the oven. 2  When the meringue is cool, chop 100g of the strawberries. 3  Mix them with half the redcurrants and 2 tbsp icing sugar. 4  Place in a food processor, blitz until smooth, then push the fruit mixture through a sieve.
Pavlova is a light, airy meringue topped with fruit slices and whipped cream. Legend says that it was created in honor of Russian ballerina Anna Pavlova on her visit to Australia and New Zealand for a ballet tour early in the 20th century. This creamy dessert is the perfect end to a summer's meal. See Step 1 to learn how to make it.
This is a recipe for a homemade Pavlova 4 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla essence ¼ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vinegar 1 cup castor sugar 2 teaspoons cornflour (cornstarch). Preheat the oven to 150°C. Beat egg whites and salt in a bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add the castor sugar while beating. Continue until stiff peaks form. Beat in the remaining ingredients, vanilla essence, vinegar and cornflour. Turn mixture out onto a baking paper covered tray. Shape into a circle. 