The reference range for creatinine is 50 to 110 μmol/L (0.8 - 1.4 mg/dl). Men tend to have higher levels of creatinine because they have more skeletal muscle than women. Serum creatinine is not affected by diet or activity level. Creatinine. Creatinine is a breakdown product of creatine phosphate in muscle, and is usually produced at a fairly constant rate by the body (depending on muscle mass). It is filtered by the kidney. If the filtering of the kidney is deficient, blood levels rise. This effect is used as an indicator of renal function.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
Blood Creatinine 1. The reference ranges provided here represent a theoretical guideline that should not be used to interpret your test results. Some variation is likely between these numbers and the reference range reported by the lab that ran your test. Please consult your doctor. 
In blood, it is a marker of glomerular filtration rate; in urine, it can remove the need for 24-hour collections for many analytes or be used as a quality assurance tool to assess the accuracy of a 24-hour collection. *The reference interval varies with race, ethnicity, and gender. As a result, one should look at the calculated eGFR (estimated glomerular filtration rate), as reported from the measured serum creatinine, to assess renal function.
They can be seen with conditions that result in decreased muscle mass. Levels of 24-hour urine creatinine are evaluated with blood levels as part of a creatinine clearance test. Single, random urine creatinine levels have no standard reference ranges. They are usually used with other tests to reference levels of other substances measured in the urine. Some examples include the urine albumin test and urine albumin/creatinine ratio and the urine protein test. 
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
Creatinine is a chemical waste molecule that is generated from muscle metabolism. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
One mg/dL of creatinine is 88.4 μmol/L. The typical human reference ranges for serum creatinine are 0.5 to 1.0 mg/dL (about 45-90 μmol/L) for women and 0.7 to 1.2 mg/dL (60-110 μmol/L) for men. The significance of a single creatinine value must be interpreted in light of the patient's muscle mass. Serum creatinine (a blood measurement) is an important indicator of renal health because it is an easily measured byproduct of muscle metabolism that is excreted unchanged by the kidneys.