Report Abuse. Brioche is a light but rich French bread or cake made with a yeast dough enriched with eggs, milk, and butter. The crust is glazed before baking and turns a deep golden brown. The crumb is delicate and pale yellow in colour
1 To make brioche in a stand mixer, combine the water, yeast, flour, sugar, and eggs in a mixing bowl. 2  Mix on low speed with the dough hook until the dough is fully developed, 10 to 15 minutes, scraping the dough down occasionally. A fresh brioche can be served with jelly or other preserves to accompany tea or coffee, or with pate or hors d'oeuvre. The tops of the small ones can easily be pulled away, giving space for a sweet or savory filling.
Brioche can also be made in a pan without being rolled into balls to make an ordinary loaf. Brioche dough contains flour, eggs, butter, liquid (milk, water, cream, and sometimes brandy), leavening (yeast or sourdough), salt, and sometimes sugar. Common recipes have a flour to butter ratio of about 2:1. Brioche is often cooked with fruit or chocolate chips and served as a pastry or as the basis of a dessert with many local variations in added ingredients, fillings or toppings. Brioche is eaten with dessert or tea, but also has numerous uses in cuisine. Common brioche dough is suitable for coulibiac and fillet of beef en croute. Brioche mousseline surrounds foie gras, sausage, cervelat lyonnais; ..
July 13, 2010 in Baking, How-To's and Tips, Ingredients 10 Comments. Brioche is a type of bread that comes up often in recipes, particularly recipes for bread pudding and french toast where you might want to add some extra richness to the finished product. Brioche is often used in sweet dishes, leading to the perception that the bread is sweet.
Directions. 1  Put the milk, yeast, egg and 1 cup of the flour in the bowl of a heavy duty mixer. 2  Mix the ingredients together with a rubber spatula, mixing just until everything is blended. 3  Sprinkle over the remaining cup of flour to cover the sponge. 4  Set the sponge aside to rest uncovered for 30-40 minutes. 
Brioche is an enriched French bread, meaning that the dough contains a high proportion of fat it in. Brioche is often used in sweet dishes, leading to the perception that the bread is sweet.
Brioche is considered a Viennoiserie, in that it is made in the same basic way as bread, but has the richer aspect of a pastry because of the extra addition of eggs, butter, liquid (milk, water, cream, and, sometimes, brandy) and occasionally a bit of sugar. Brioche is often cooked with fruit or chocolate chips and served as a pastry or as the basis of a dessert with many local variations in added ingredients, fillings or toppings. Brioche is eaten with dessert or tea, but also has numerous uses in cuisine. Common brioche dough is suitable for coulibiac and fillet of beef en croute. Brioche mousseline surrounds foie gras, sausage, cervelat lyonnais; ..