The salary that an animal shelter manager earns can vary based on a variety of factors such as their specific responsibilities, their years of experience, their educational background, and the region in which the position is located. Most animal shelter manager positions do not carry particularly high salaries, but those who follow animal rescue career paths tend to be willing to sacrifice some earning potential for the prospect of being able to help animals in need.
Animal shelter managers’ salaries vary depending on their state and location. For example, the Midwest sits at the bottom of the list. Based on the May, 2010 Pay Scale survey, Illinois managers made $35,382, while the average Californian animal shelter manager earned $55,224. Size. The size of animal shelter also correlates to the manager’s salary. The more animals, the more employees, the more responsibility for the manager. In May, 2010, animal shelter managers working in a shelter employing 1 to 9 people, earned $33,835 on average.
Salary by Region. Salaries for animal shelter managers also vary by region. According to the Salary Expert website, the highest compensation for such positions, about $60,000 a year, is in San Francisco. Animal shelter managers in the New York and Atlanta metro areas can expect to earn about $50,000 a year.
Experience and years of service factor into an animal shelter manager’s salary. In May 2010, managers with 1 to 4 years of experience earned the least amount of money, $36,061. Those with 20 years or more experience, however, make $60,521, according to Pay Scale. Size. The size of animal shelter also correlates to the manager’s salary. The more animals, the more employees, the more responsibility for the manager. In May, 2010, animal shelter managers working in a shelter employing 1 to 9 people, earned $33,835 on average.
Average Animal Rescue Salaries. The average salary for animal rescue jobs is $36,000. Average animal rescue salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term animal rescue anywhere in the job listing. 
(United States). Pay for Animal Shelter Managers in the United States is very modest at just $39K per year. Earnings generally vary between $23K and $53K per year. Although the larger part have medical coverage and more than a third have dental coverage, more than two-fifths claim no health benefits at all. Men are in the minority of survey respondents, with female Animal Shelter Managers making up 78 percent. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Relatively untried employees who have fewer than five years of experience earn around $35K on average. People who have worked for five to 10 years can expect a higher median salary of $37K.
Animal shelter manager salaries range depending on the title and types of duties that particular manager does for the organization. Based on a May, 2010 survey, operations managers make an average of $38,639 per year, according to Pay Scale. Size. The size of animal shelter also correlates to the manager’s salary. The more animals, the more employees, the more responsibility for the manager. In May, 2010, animal shelter managers working in a shelter employing 1 to 9 people, earned $33,835 on average.
Average Animal Shelter Salaries. The average salary for animal shelter jobs is $50,000. Average animal shelter salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term animal shelter anywhere in the job listing.
Types of Manager. One factor in the salary range of an animal shelter manager is the type of position. According to the Salary Expert website, an executive director of a non-profit animal shelter averages between $50,000 to $60,000 a year in most U.S. markets. An operations manager might earn about $40,000 in most markets. According to the Salary Expert website, the highest compensation for such positions, about $60,000 a year, is in San Francisco. Animal shelter managers in the New York and Atlanta metro areas can expect to earn about $50,000 a year.