Polyphemus Moth (Antheraea polyphemus). The series of photos above start with a Polyphemus caterpillar emerging from the egg. It takes about 10 days for the egg to hatch into a tiny caterpillar and about 5-6 weeks to grow into the full its size of about 3 inches long and 3/4 inch in diameter. The caterpillars are green in all instars. The 5th instar caterpillars eat a tremendous amount. 
Larva of the casemaking clothes moth. Clothes moths mate and deposit their eggs usually within 1–2 days of emergence from the pupae. The females do not live long (3–16 days) after egg deposition although the males of the webbing clothes moth can survive for about one month. The eggs hatch in 4–10 days in the summer, but may take up to three or more weeks in the winter. 
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Best Answer: I believe it depends on the caterpillar species. First, moths do not make a chrysalis, they make cocoons (hairy things). Butterflies make a chrysalis. From Monarch Watch: If the pupae are kept at room temperature, the butterflies should emerge from the chrysalis within 10-14 days. 
In Ducks. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Luna Moths are huge moths, with a wingspan of four and a half inches. They have a white body, pinkish legs, and huge pale green wings. The hindwings have eyespots and long tails. They fly, only at night, in Spring and early Summer. The female Luna Moth lays eggs on the bottom of Black Walnut leaves. She lays about 200 eggs in small groups. You can tell a male from a female, because males have larger, bushier antennae. William Welch ©a natural selection Once the eggs are laid, it takes about 10 days for them to hatch. The caterpillars will continue to eat and grow, molting their skins as they grow. They will do this five times over a period of three to four weeks. When the caterpillar is fully grown, it will be 2 1/2 inches long and ready to become a pupa. It will spin silk from near its mouth and wrap itself in a leaf.
Egg fertility: If you have had a female moth hatch out of a cocoon, she will not lay fertile eggs unless she has paired with a male moth. Most females remain still for two to three nights. They are conserving energy, but are actively seeking a mate by extending a scent gland from the tip of the abdomen at night. Fresh eggs are shipped at a time appropriate to their rearing in the respective areas of customers. Shippers indicate the date of deposit with each shipment. Eggs typically take eight days (80-85 F) to twelve days (68 F) to incubate, depending on storage temperature.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
How long does it take for angelfish eggs to hatch?   Angelfish eggs will hatch in about 60 hours at 80° F-according to http://www.angelsplus.com/Breeding2.htm    3-4 days. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..