Vertebrates are animals that have a backbone or spinal column, also called vertebrae. These animals include fish, birds, mammals, amphibians, and reptiles. 
Vertebrate Traits and Diversity. Vertebrates have a central column of bones -- the vertebral column -- which houses much of the nervous system. Vertebrates are a very successful group of animals and they have diverged into numerous groups, including reptiles, fish, amphibians and mammals.
Kelp forests provide habitat for a variety of invertebrates, fish, marine mammals, and birds. Many species of fish and marine mammals inhabit kelp forests for protection and food. In kelp forests, the most commonly found invertebrates are bristle worms, scud, prawn, snails, and brittle stars. These animals feed on the holdfasts that keep kelp anchored to the bottom of the ocean and algae that are abundant in kelp forests.
Best Answer: VERTEBRATE: Vertebrates are members of the subphylum Vertebrata, chordates with backbones or spinal columns. Vertebrates comprise cyclostomes, bony fish, sharks and rays, amphibians, reptiles, mammals, and birds. Extant vertebrates range in size from the carp species Paedocypris, at as little as 7.9 mm (0.3 inch), to the Blue Whale, at up to 33 m (110 ft). INVERTEBRATE: An invertebrate is an animal lacking a vertebral column.
Whales are vertebrates, like all mammals. All whales are vertebrates. Fin whales, being mammals, are vertebrates. Vertebrates Vertebrates They are vertebrates, meani … ng they have a spine or a backbone.. An easy way to remember this is that all warmblooded creatures are vertebrates. They give birth alive and sometimes hatched    Invertebrates are animals without a backbone … (examples: snails,  starfish, worms). Invertebrates have no bones at all that they can  move by using tentacles. Vertebrates: animals with backbone are called
Whales are vertebrates, like all mammals. All whales are vertebrates. Fin whales, being mammals, are vertebrates. Vertebrates Vertebrates They are vertebrates, meani … ng they have a spine or a backbone.. An easy way to remember this is that all warmblooded creatures are vertebrate
Genus : Orcinus. Species: orca. Though killer whales, also called orcas, are considered whales by most people, they are actually members of the Delphinidae (dolphin) family. Killer whales are excellent hunters that a wide range of prey, including fish, seals, and big whales such as blue whales. 
Beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) inhabit the arctic and subarctic waters of the Northern Hemisphere. Like all other whales, belugas are mammals that breathe air and nurse their young. Mammals are one group of vertebrates, the first of which appeared about 450 million years ago, during the Cambrian Period. Vertebrates have a central column of bones -- the vertebral column -- which houses much of the nervous system. Vertebrates are a very successful group of animals and they have diverged into numerous groups, including reptiles, fish, amphibians and mammals.