You have two tonsils, one on either side at the back of the mouth. The picture below shows large non-infected tonsils (no redness or pus). Tonsillitis is an infection of the tonsils. A sore throat is the most common of all tonsillitis symptoms. In addition, you may also have a cough, high temperature (fever), headache, feel sick, feel tired, find swallowing painful, and have swollen neck glands. 
Tonsillitis (/ˌtɒnsɪˈlaɪtɪs/ TON-si-LEYE-tis) is inflammation of the tonsils most commonly caused by viral or bacterial infection. Symptoms may include sore throat and fever. When caused by a bacterium belonging to the group A streptococcus, it is typically referred to as strep throat. When tonsillitis is caused by a virus, the length of illness depends on which virus is involved. Usually, a complete recovery is made within one week; however, symptoms may last for up to two weeks. Chronic cases may be treated with tonsillectomy (surgical removal of tonsils) as a choice for treatment.
Tonsillitis is when your tonsils become inflamed, infected and swollen. Tonsils are glands that lie in two bands on either side of the back of your throat. They play an important part in helping to protect your body against infection. Tonsillitis is common in children but anyone can catch it no matter what their age. Regardless of whether tonsillitis is caused by a virus or by bacteria, the symptoms are very similar and include: 1  a sore throat; 2  fever; 3  difficulty swallowing; 4  headache;
At the back of your throat, two masses of tissue called tonsils help the body to fight infection. However, sometimes the tonsils themselves become infected. Overwhelmed by bacteria or viruses, they swell and become inflamed, a condition known as tonsillitis. Tonsillitis is common, especially in children. 
1 Tonsillitis happens when the tonsils become infected by bacteria or a virus. 2  Tonsillectomy is the surgical removal of the tonsils. 3  See your health care provider (HCP) if you have a sore throat, swollen glands, and fever. 
Pharyngitis and tonsillitis are infections in the throat that cause inflammation. If the tonsils are primarily affected, it is called tonsillitis. If the throat is primarily affected, it is called pharyngitis. A person might even have inflammation and infection of both the tonsils and the throat. This would be called pharyngotonsillitis. 
Tonsillitis is usually caused by a virus and does not require prescription medicine. For information on over-the-counter pain medicine and other self-care options, see Home Treatment. An antibiotic, usually amoxicillin or penicillin, is used to treat tonsillitis caused by strep bacteria. Although tonsillitis caused by strep bacteria usually will go away on its own, antibiotics are used to prevent the complications, such as rheumatic fever, that can result from untreated strep throat. 
Top. On right is a normal tonsil and on left is a red, inflammed, swollen tonsil with white spots. The inflammation of the tonsil is called tonsillitis. The infected tonsils become red and swollen, to work better to trap or stop the disease force-bacteria or virus. They also get coated (either partly or entirely) with yellow, grey, or white substance, depending upon the type of infection and pus formation. For example in patients of HIV, psoriasis, SLE and so on. The inflammation of the tonsil is called tonsillitis. The infected tonsils become red and swollen, to work better to trap or stop the disease force-bacteria or virus.
Inflamed tonsils. Tonsillitis is inflammation of the tonsils, two oval-shaped pads of tissue at the back of the throat — one tonsil on each side. Signs and symptoms of tonsillitis include swollen tonsils, sore throat, difficulty swallowing and tender lymph nodes on the sides of the neck. 