Rome back to A World of Obelisks Location: Piazza S. Giovanni, Laterano, Rome, Italy Pharaoh: Tuthmosis III (reigned 1504-1450 B.C.) Height: 105.6 feet Weight: 455 tons Story: The so-called Lateran obelisk is the largest standing obelisk in the world. 
The largest standing and tallest Egyptian obelisk is the Lateran Obelisk in the square in front of the Lateran Basilica in Rome at 105.6 feet (32.2 m) tall and a weight of 455 tons. Not all the Egyptian obelisks in the Roman Empire were set up at Rome. A number of obelisks were carved in the ancient Axumite Kingdom of today northern Ethiopia. Together with (21 m high) King Ezana's Stele, the last erected one and the only unbroken, the most famous example of axumite obelisk is the so-called (24 m high) Obelisk of Axum.
Hours: Viewable at any time, as long as the square is not closed to the public due to a papal appearance, which it probably will be on Wednesday mornings. The Vatican Obelisk has a height of 83.6 feet (134.5 feet with base) and weighs 331 tons. It stands on a base 27 feet wide. This is the only obelisk in Rome that has not toppled since Roman times.
The tallest Egyptian obelisk is in the square in front of the Lateran Basilica in Rome at 105.6 feet tall and a weight of 455 tons. Not all the Egyptian obelisks have erectians in the Roman Empire were set up at Rome. The Istanbul obelisk is 65 feet tall. Rome is the obelisk capital of the world. The most prominent is the 25.5 m/83.6 ft high 331 ton obelisk at Saint Peter's Square in Rome. The obelisk had stood since AD 37 on its site on the wall of the Circus of Nero, flanking St Peter's Basilica.
View over Saint Peter’s Square, with the Vatican Obelisk at the centre. © Lukask. There are a number of Egyptian obelisks standing in Rome, in fact 13 of them – more than anywhere else in the World, including Egypt. They were all brought to Rome by various Roman Emperors. It was the largest non-inscribed obelisk to leave Egypt, at 25.5 m high and weighing an estimated 326 tonnes. The obelisk was originally erected in gardens Caligula had inherited from his mother, and then on the central Spina of Caligula’s circus.
The city of Rome harbours the most obelisks in the world. There are eight ancient Egyptian and five ancient Roman obelisks in Rome, together with a number of more modern obelisks; there was also until 2005 an ancient Ethiopian obelisk in Rome. Tallest obelisk in Rome, and the largest standing ancient Egyptian obelisk in the world, weighing over 230 tons. Originally from the temple of Amun in Karnak. Brought to Alexandria with another obelisk by Constantius II, and brought on its own from there to Rome in 357 to decorate the spina of the Circus Maximus.
It was rediscovered broken to pieces in 1587 along with the Lateran obelisk and placed in it’s current location. Obelisks From Around The World: Flaminio Obelisk, Piazza del Popolo, Rome, Italy. 10. Obelisk of Axum, Axum, Ethiopia – A 24 meters tall (79 ft) granite obelisk. 9. Flaminio Obelisk, Rome, Italy – Another one of the 13 obelisks currently standing in Rome. Located in the Piazza del Popolo, this Egyptian monolithic obelisk is 24 meters (67 ft) high, 46.5 meters with the base.
Of the eight Egyptian obelisks remaining in Rome, the best known of all is the Vatican obelisk and can be found in the Piazza de San Pedro, standing 25m tall and weighing around 330 tonnes it is one of the few in Rome lacking inscriptions and hieroglyphics on its sides. 