Since carbon monoxide is a colorless, odorless poisonous gas, carbon monoxide detectors are designed to alarm you if levels of carbon monoxide in the home reach life threatening levels. Today, you’re going to learn how to install a smoke alarm and carbon monoxide detector like the one you see here. 
Place smoke detectors in the best places around the house. It is important to install detectors near sleeping areas and on every level of your home. Also place a detector in hallways and a carbon monoxide detector near heating, such as gas furnaces. Avoid installing a smoke detector in the kitchen. 1 Replace any smoke detector over the age of 10 years. 2  To be safe, when moving into a new residence, replace any detectors of unknown age. 3  Intermittent beeps from a smoke or carbon monoxide detector are a warning that you need to replace the batteries. 4  Keep batteries on hand for this and heed the beeping.
How to install carbon monoxide detectors: 1  Install at least one carbon monoxide detector on each level of your home. 2  Put a CO detector in or near each bedroom of your home. 3  Write the date purchased on the back of each alarm. 4  Since carbon monoxide doesn’t rise like smoke, CO detectors can be installed at any height in the room, including being 5  ... Wr The best location for carbon monoxide detectors is near bedrooms so that you can be awoken by the sound of the siren when the alarm detects carbon monoxide in your home. Knowing where to properly place your carbon monoxide alarm is crucial.
Homes with attached Garages. If you have an enclosed garage directly attached to the home, then you should also place a detector within 10 feet of the internal door to your garage. If a motor vehicle is left running in the garage, then a dangerous level of Carbon Monoxide can quickly build up inside your home. This means that the most important place is near your bedrooms. I recommend that you have a carbon monoxide detector within 15 feet of each bedroom door, 10 feet is even better if you can afford more detectors. If two bedroom doors are 30 feet apart or less, then place one in the middle. If however they are more than 30 feet apart you will need more than one detector
1. Do some research on the right carbon monoxide detector as per your needs: There are two basic types of detectors available in the market. One is battery powered while the other is AC powered. Do some research on the best option for your home, office or wherever you may want to install it. Install the detector base into the wall: If your carbon monoxide detector has a twist of base, take it off and screw it into position using your screwdriver and the supplied screws. In case your detector does not have a twist off base, place the screws into the anchors and screw then in without tightening.
Thanks. Rebecca Answer: According to information from one of our manufacturers, you can install a CO alarm at any height in your home. The reason is that the molecular weight of air is almost identical to the weight of carbon monoxide. Air is typically composed of 78% nitrogen and 21% oxygen. 
1 Install at least one carbon monoxide detector on each level of your home. 2  Put a CO detector in or near each bedroom of your home. 3  Write the date purchased on the back of each alarm. The best location for carbon monoxide detectors is near bedrooms so that you can be awoken by the sound of the siren when the alarm detects carbon monoxide in your home. Knowing where to properly place your carbon monoxide alarm is crucial.
How to Install a Carbon Monoxide Detector. Carbon monoxide poisoning takes the lives of around 400 people every year in non-fire related cases. It is quite important that you protect your family and employees from becoming another statistic. Install the detector base into the wall: If your carbon monoxide detector has a twist of base, take it off and screw it into position using your screwdriver and the supplied screws. In case your detector does not have a twist off base, place the screws into the anchors and screw then in without tightening.
The International Association of Fire Chiefs recommend a carbon monoxide detector on every floor of your home, including the basement. A detector should be located within 10 feet of each bedroom door and there should be one near or over any attached garage. Each detector should be replaced every five to six years. If you are installing only one carbon monoxide detector, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) recommends it be located near the sleeping area, where it can wake you if you are asleep. Additional detectors on every level and in every bedroom of a home provides extra protection against carbon monoxide poisoning.