Methods of extracting metals. The method used to extract a metal from its ore depends upon the stability of its compound in the ore, which in turn depends upon the reactivity of the metal: 1  The oxides of very reactive metals, such as aluminium, form stable oxides and other compounds. 2  A lot of energy is needed to reduce them to extract the metal
Metals are extracted from ores. An ore is a rock that contains  enough of a mineral (metal compound) for the metal to be extracted  from it. Most metals are extracted from a … n ore by reduction with  carbon or by electrolysis. In refining Iron from its ore you put the iron ore in an oxygen deprived environment. This is done by surrounding the ore with coal so that the Carbon in the coal 'robs' the oxygen off of the Iron to foster its own oxidation. This gives the iron not chance to re-oxidize.
To be useful, the metals have to be extracted from whatever they are mixed with. A metal ore is a rock containing a metal, or a metal compound, in a high enough concentration to make it economic to extract the metal. The method used to extract metals from the ore in which they are found depends on their reactivity. For example, iron ore is used to make iron and steel. Copper is easily extracted, but ores rich in copper are becoming more difficult to find. Aluminium and titanium are metals with useful properties, but they are expensive to extract. Most everyday metals are mixtures called alloys.
For nearly all metals a chemical reaction is used to extract the metal from its ore. Since chemical reactions are accompanied by either the release or absorption of heat, a form of energy, it can be concluded that for most metals the extraction reactions require the input of considerable amounts of energy (heat). The more common a metal is and the easier it is to extract and produce the. lower the commercial price. Aluminium is the most abundant metal, but is very. reactive and therefore requires large amounts of electricity to extract it from its. ore, Bauxite. Iron on the other hand is cheaper to extract
Copper ores such as chalcopyrite and chalcocite are exceptions. However, energy is also required to mine the ore, maintain high temperatures needed for certain reactions to take place and also to purify or concentrate the metal. Therefore, a large amount of energy is needed to extract a metal from its ore. 1.2.4 The use of metals closely parallels their ease of extraction. Therefore, approximately 200 years ago, aluminium for example, was not in use. Nowadays, the most common metals in use are iron and aluminium. Iron however, is not used in its pure elemental state, but as an alloy of steel for construction purposes. As aluminium is one of the Earth s most abundant metals, it is used for a variety of purposes ranging from saucepans, foil, aircraft and drink cans.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Many ores contain metal oxides. Metal oxides are more stable than metals. Energy is required to break the metal oxygen bond in these metal oxides to release the metal in its elemental form. In refining Iron from its ore you put the iron ore in an oxygen deprived environment. This is done by surrounding the ore with coal so that the Carbon in the coal 'robs' the oxygen off of the Iron to foster its own oxidation. This gives the iron not chance to re-oxidize.
-Explain why energy input is necessary to extract a metal from its ore In order to break the chemical bonds in the compounds, energy such as heat or electricity is required to break these bonds and extract the metal. -Identify why there are more metals available for people to use then there were 200 years ago. Metal + Oxygen Metal Oxide Metals with a low reactivity such as gold and silver are used in jewellery because of their shiny lustre and the fact that they do not tarnish easily. with a particular emphasis on current developments in the use of metals. This is because the metal tends to want to keep its electrons more.
Mn y y Explain why energy input is necessary to extract a metal from its ore Chemical reactions used to extract metals from its ore either absorb or release heat. aircraft bodies Dental amalgam Cupro-nickel Goldish coin Stainless steel Duralumin Hg. water and oxygen metal + acid salt + hydrogen gas eg. 
Metals are extracted from ores. An ore is a rock that contains  enough of a mineral (metal compound) for the metal to be extracted  from it. Most metals are extracted from a … n ore by reduction with  carbon or by electrolysis. So to extract a metal from an ore, you need to use an element higher up in t … he reactivity series, so that the metal will be replaced by the other element, and you are left with a more pure form of the metal.