Bike Courier. Bicycle delivery is available throughout the UK with P4D. Many people buy bicycles in shops and then transport them in the back of the car or attached to a roof rack. In the age of the internet, bikes can now be ordered to send to anywhere. 
1 Trek offers a wide variety of bikes for commuting and touring at an average of $1,000, though some bikes from the geometrically sound Pilot series models cost more than $3,000. 2  Trek also sells tandem bikes, or those for two riders, from $660 to $3,630. 1 Performance Bike sells a wide variety of helmets in an average range of $30 to $40, though some are high as $130 for the flashy red-and-black Bell Sweep R Road Helmet with 20 head vents. 2  Riding shoes are more for competitive riders, though leisure riders certainly benefit from the better grip they offer on the pedals.
How much does it cost to bicycle tour – Equipment Costs. BicycleHobo Equipment Costs: I have toured for over 15 years and have all the equipment I need. I would say that I carry less than 30 lbs. of equipment but it enables me to ride and live self-contained for 3-5 days at a time. How much does it cost to bicycle tour – Daily, Weekly, and/or Monthly Budget. BicycleHobo Daily Budget: I am shooting for $10 per day that will be mostly on food with the occasional laundry stop every 2 weeks.
Next. What is the cheapest way (or how long would a regular postage roughly cost) to send a bicycle to anywhere in the UK (such as one being sold on eBay)? 
Re: how to post a bike? i found this from royal mail http://www.royalmail.com/portal/rm/j...mediaId=400031 what you recon? they say Standard Parcels is ideal for items up to 1.5m long and 20kg in weight, provided the combined length and girth doesn’t exceed 3m. 
Problem A stuck or seized bicycle seatpost can mean anything from a nuisance to a new frame or even a complete new bike. With more varied frame/seatpost combinations being available in differing materials the problem of a stuck post in a bicycle frame is not uncommon.
I am going to sell a full size mountain bike on ebay and would like to know what the cheapest way to post it would be? I have a bike box from my local bike shop and it is quite large. About 180cm long and 130cm tall. 
Instructions. Obtain a box to mail a bicycle. Unless you are using USPS, the easiest way to do this is go to a bike shop and ask for a used box. They will either have one the right size or can save you one. Remove any shipping labels and you’re ready to go. Don’t forget the address label! Call for pick-up or take the bicycle to UPS, Federal Express, or the Post Office. Depending on how far you mail a bicycle, it will cost $20-40 and you can expect it to arrive at its destination in 3-5 business days. 1  If you are going to mail a bicycle that is expensive, be sure to insure it for enough to cover the cost of replacement
1 Mid-range bikes cost $300 to $1,000. 2  These aluminum or lighter metal bikes are the best bet for everyday riders because their higher-quality wheels, chains and pedals increase their durability. 3  These bikes often also offer numerous speed settings, water bottle holders and other features. 1 Performance Bike sells a wide variety of helmets in an average range of $30 to $40, though some are high as $130 for the flashy red-and-black Bell Sweep R Road Helmet with 20 head vents. 2  Riding shoes are more for competitive riders, though leisure riders certainly benefit from the better grip they offer on the pedals.