1 hurricane: Damage Caused by Hurricanes-Damage Caused by Hurricanes High winds are a primary cause of hurricane-inflicted loss of life and 2  ... hurricane-hurricane hurricane, tropical cyclone in which winds attain speeds greater than 74 mi (119 km) per ... More on hurricane Damage Caused by Hurricanes from Infoplease: 1  hurricane: Damage Caused by Hurricanes-Damage Caused by Hurricanes High winds are a primary cause of hurricane-inflicted loss of life and ...
A hurricane is a large rotating storm with high speed winds that forms over warm waters in tropical areas. Hurricanes have sustained winds of at least 74 miles per hour and an area of low air pressure in the center called the eye. Different Names for Hurricanes. The scientific name for a hurricane is a tropical cyclone.
Damage Caused by Hurricanes. High winds are a primary cause of hurricane-inflicted loss of life and property damage. Another cause is the flooding resulting from the coastal storm surge of the ocean and the torrential rains, both of which accompany the storm. The Saffir-Simpson scale is the standard scale for rating the severity of a hurricane as measured by the damage it causes. More on hurricane Damage Caused by Hurricanes from Infoplease: 1  hurricane: Damage Caused by Hurricanes-Damage Caused by Hurricanes High winds are a primary cause of hurricane-inflicted loss of life and ...
Most of the damage is caused by flooding and storm surge. Storm surge is when the ocean level rises at the coastline due to the power of the storm. Hurricanes also cause damage with high speed winds that can blow down trees and damage homes. Hurricanes have sustained winds of at least 74 miles per hour and an area of low air pressure in the center called the eye. Different Names for Hurricanes. The scientific name for a hurricane is a tropical cyclone.
Water vapor is the fuel for the hurricanes because it releases the latent heat of condensation when it condenses to form clouds and rain, warming the surrounding air. In low-lying areas, much of the damage from hurricanes can be from the storm surge, in which water being blown onshore by the high winds rises rapidly. The storm surge can destroy the lower floors of some buildings, or even destroy the foundations of residences causing the homes to wash away.
A tropical cyclone is a rapidly rotating storm system characterized by a low-pressure center, strong winds, and a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce heavy rain. For this reason, coastal regions are particularly vulnerable to damage from a tropical cyclone as compared to inland regions. Heavy rains, however, can cause significant flooding inland, and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to 40 kilometres (25 mi) from the coastline.
A hurricane is a huge storm! It can be up to 600 miles across and have strong winds spiraling inward and upward at speeds of 75 to 200 mph. Each hurricane usually lasts for over a week, moving 10-20 miles per hour over the open ocean. Hurricanes gather heat and energy through contact with warm ocean waters. Storm surges are frequently the most devastating element of a hurricane. As a hurricanes winds spiral around and around the storm, they push water into a mound at the storms center. This mound of water becomes dangerous when the storm reaches land because it causes flooding along the coast.
A category 1 storm is the weakest hurricane, with wind speeds of 74 - 95 mph. On the opposite end, a category 5 hurricane is a very strong storm. Category 5 hurricanes are very dangerous and do extensive damage. These storms have wind speeds of 155 mph and more. Hurricane Andrew in 1992 was a category 5 hurricane. The condensation is also what produces all the rain that comes with a hurricane, and the heat released helps the storm itself rise in the air. As it rises, it sucks up surface air, which creates a low-pressure area in the center, also known as the 'eye' of the
Hurricanes produce storm surges, tornadoes, and often the most deadly of all -- inland flooding. While storm surge is always a potential threat, more people have died from inland flooding in the last 30 years. Intense rainfall is not directly related to the wind speed of tropical cyclones. 
Usually, the heat released in this way in tropical thunderstorms is carried away by wind shear, which blows the top off the thunderstorms. But when there is little wind shear, this heat can build up, causing low pressure to form. The low pressure causes wind to begin to spiral inward toward the center of the low. In low-lying areas, much of the damage from hurricanes can be from the storm surge, in which water being blown onshore by the high winds rises rapidly. The storm surge can destroy the lower floors of some buildings, or even destroy the foundations of residences causing the homes to wash away.