The biggest cause of mercury in our food supply is from industrial waste and often is consumed by eating fish and shellfish. Lead is another toxic metal that enters our bodies through drinking water and through the food we eat.
The term heavy metal refers to any metallic chemical element that has a relatively high density and is toxic or poisonous at low concentrations. Heavy metals are natural components of the Earth's crust. They cannot be degraded or destroyed. To a small extent they enter our bodies via food, drinking water and air.
It’s one of the public health’s top ten goals for the 20 th century, creating a safer, more toxic-free food supply, but meanwhile virtually all food products are contaminated with various chemicals, bacteria, heavy metals, and residues from pesticides.
Toxic metals can be present in industrial, municipal, and urban runoff, which can be harmful to humans and aquatic life. Increased urbanization and industrialization are to blame for an increased level of trace metals, especially heavy metals, in our waterways.
We’re not talking Ozzy here, but in fact heavy metals that can be very harmful to your health if found in your drinking water. Severe effects include reduced growth and development, cancer, organ damage, nervous system damage, and in extreme cases, death.
Think again. We’re not talking Ozzy here, but in fact heavy metals that can be very harmful to your health if found in your drinking water. Severe effects include reduced growth and development, cancer, organ damage, nervous system damage, and in extreme cases, death.
The most common contaminants of foods are what are known as “heavy metals” which include mainly mercury, lead, and cadmium. Food like commercial high fructose corn syrup, an ingredient often found in the top five ingredients in many food stuffs shows significant levels of mercury.
The term heavy metal refers to any metallic chemical element that has a relatively high density and is toxic or poisonous at low concentrations. Examples of heavy metals include mercury (Hg), cadmium (Cd), arsenic (As), chromium (Cr), thallium (Tl), and lead (Pb).
Heavy metals cannot be detected by sight, smell or taste. If you are concerned about heavy metals in your drinking water, you should have the water tested by us. Ring us on 0800 787 392 for to organise this. We use reliable chemical laboratory's for our testing who give us comprehensive analysis.