HPV can cause cervical and other cancers including cancer of the vulva, vagina, penis, or anus. It can also cause cancer in the back of the throat, including the base of the tongue and tonsils (called oropharyngeal cancer). HPV is a different virus than HIV and HSV (herpes). HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. Some types can cause health problems including genital warts and cancers
HPV (human papillomavirus) is a sexually transmitted virus. It is passed on through genital contact (such as vaginal and anal sex). It is also passed on by skin-to-skin contact. At least 50% of people who have had sex will have HPV at some time in their lives. HPV is not a new virus. But many people don't know about it. 
Certain HPV types are classified as high-risk because they lead to abnormal cell changes and can cause genital cancers: cervical cancer as well as cancer of the vulva, anus, and penis. In fact, researchers say that virtually all cervical cancers -- more than 99% -- are caused by these high-risk HPV viruses. Usually, this virus does not cause any symptoms and doesn't cause disease. Often, the body can clear HPV infection on its own within two years or less. Some types of HPV, typically HPV 6 and HPV 11, cause genital warts. The warts are rarely associated with cervical cancers. They are considered low-risk HPV.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted disease, but because the disease can lay dormant for years, it is hard to determine where it originated. At least 50 percent of sexually active people contract some form of HPV during their lifetime. Low-risk forms may cause warts in men and women. Warts can appear on the penis, anus, vulva and vagina. Regular Pap smears detect changes in the cervix caused by HPV and can help identify potential cervical cancer cases.
Vulvar cancer. HPV can also cause cancer of the vulva, which is the outer or external part of the female genital organs. Nearly 7 out of 10 vulvar cancers and almost all vulvar pre-cancers are linked to infection with the high-risk HPV types. This is a much less common cancer than cervical cancer. There are vaccines that can be used to prevent infection with certain types of HPV. All HPV vaccines help prevent infections with HPV types 16 and 18. Some protect against other types, including types that can cause anal and genital warts.
HPV types 6 and 11 are the etiological cause genital warts. Persistent infection with high-risk HPV types—different from the ones that cause skin warts—may progress to precancerous lesions and invasive cancer. High-risk HPV infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer. Gardasil also protects against HPV types 6 and 11, which cause 90% of genital warts. Gardasil is a recombinant quadrivalent vaccine, whereas Cervarix is bivalent, and is prepared from virus-like particles (VLP) of the L1 capsid protein.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a DNA virus from the papillomavirus family that is capable of infecting humans. Like all papillomaviruses, HPVs establish productive infections only in keratinocytes of the skin or mucous membranes. Gardasil also protects against HPV types 6 and 11, which cause 90% of genital warts. Gardasil is a recombinant quadrivalent vaccine, whereas Cervarix is bivalent, and is prepared from virus-like particles (VLP) of the L1 capsid protein.
The most common of the high-risk strains of HPV are types 16 and 18, which cause about 70% of all cervical cancers. If the body clears the infection, the cervical cells return to normal. But if the body doesn't clear the infection, the cells in the cervix can continue to change abnormally. Usually, this virus does not cause any symptoms and doesn't cause disease. Often, the body can clear HPV infection on its own within two years or less. Some types of HPV, typically HPV 6 and HPV 11, cause genital warts. The warts are rarely associated with cervical cancers. They are considered low-risk HPV.
Prevention. There is now a vaccine, Gardasil, that can protect women from four types of HPV. They are the most common strains that cause cervical cancer and genital warts. It is recommended for girls as young as age 11 and up to age 26. Low-risk forms may cause warts in men and women. Warts can appear on the penis, anus, vulva and vagina. Regular Pap smears detect changes in the cervix caused by HPV and can help identify potential cervical cancer cases.