We can't live on air and sunshine alone. The human body needs food and water to survive. A human can go for more than three weeks without food (Mahatma Gandhi survived 21 days of complete starvation), but water is a different story. At least 60% of the adult body is made of it and every living cell in the body needs it to keep functioning
Shares & Saves. Save. The human body cannot survive without food and water for long periods of time. In fact, according to SurvivalTopics.com, the longest a person can go without water is 10 days--without food, it's four to six weeks. However, due to certain other variables, these numbers can vary. 
A person can survive only three to five days without water, in some cases people have survived for an average of one week. It is not recommended that anyone try this at home. Once the body is deprived of fluids the cells and organs in the body begin to deteriorate. 
Going without water isn't smart, and it doesn't take long before you're suffering from dehydration. Food is a different story. Humans can go quite a long time without food as long as they're well hydrated. Your body weight, overall health and the weather play into the scenario as well. So the answer to the question isn't easy and depends on the person and the situation. 
In moderate temperatures, and with very little exercise, a person can survive an average of 3-5days without water. You can live without food for a lot longer-you begin to … starve after 3 days-when your body begins to produce ketone bodies. 
The length of time someone can live without eating depends on their weight (or amount of body fat), health, and, many See also: After losing the ability to swallow, how long can my mom last? believe, attitude. Medical experts usually say the average person can live for 4 to 6 weeks without food. The amount of time someone can go without water is much shorter, roughly a week (or less).
You can live 3 minutes without air, though we don't recommend trying. In a harsh environment — it's snowing, say — you have 3 hours to survive without shelter. After 3 days, you need water or you'll perish. You can make it 3 weeks without food, though we promise you that won't be fun. Despite this possibly helpful rule, some people have survived 8 to 10 days without water. Again, leave such shenanigans to the truly desperate.
The question of how long you can go without food depends on a lot of factors. Will and determination definitely play a part. Political prisoners on hunger strikes and fasting religious leaders have been known to go for weeks at a time without any food. Gandhi fasted for 21 days while in his 70s. People lost in the wild have also survived for long periods of time without eating.
Confidence votes 40. A person will usually be able to live about 4-6 weeks without food. However there has been some cases where prisoners has lived for as long as 76 days without food. There is many other factors that decides how long a person will survive. A person with a lot of body fat will survive longer than a person with less body fat. The amount of muscles are also very important