The synthesis, release, reuptake, and metabolism of the excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA, respectively, are tightly controlled. Neurons cannot perform the net synthesis of glutamate and GABA from glucose due to the fact that neurons lack both the glutamine synthesizing enzyme, GS, and the prevailing anaplerotic enzyme in the brain, pyruvate carboxylase (PC) (Bak et al., 2006, Norenberg and Martinez-Hernandez, 1979 and Yu et al., 1983).
Figure 6.6. The synthesis, packaging, secretion, and removal of neurotransmitters. (A) The life cycle of transmitter agents entails (1) neurotransmitter synthesis, (2) packaging into vesicles, (3) fusion of vesicles resulting in neurotransmitter release, and (4) (more...). The mechanisms responsible for the synthesis and packaging of peptide transmitters are fundamentally different from those used for the smallmolecule neurotransmitters (Figure 6.6C). Peptide-secreting neurons generally synthesize polypeptides in their cell bodies that are much larger than the final, “mature” peptide.
Neurotransmitters are endogenous chemicals that enable neurotransmission. They transmit signals across a chemical synapse, such as in a neuromuscular junction, from one neuron (nerve cell) to another target neuron, muscle cell, or gland cell. 1 Reuptake – re-absorption of a neurotransmitter into the neuron. 2  Transporters, or membrane transport proteins, pump neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft back into axon terminals (the presynaptic neuron) where they are stored.
GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in mammalian brain. GABA is synthesized from glutamate and degraded to succinate in a bypath of the tricarboxylic acid cycle known as the GABA shunt. In rodent neocortex GABAergic neurons comprise ∼15–30% of neurons and consume ∼18% of the glucose oxidized by neurons.
The catecholamines that act as neurotransmitters include dopamine and norepinephrine. Epinephrine is not produced in the central nervous system, but in the peripheral nervous system (adrenals). The catecholamines share a common synthetic pathway. The rate limiting step is tyrosine hydroxylase. Catecholamines; synthesis and storage. The major biochemical difference between the norepinephrine and dopamine neurons is the presence of a vesicle bound copper containing enzyme in the neurons of the norepinephrine neurons.
As a rule, the synthesis of small-molecule neurotransmitters occurs within presynaptic terminals (Figure 6.6B). The enzymes needed for transmitter synthesis are synthesized in the neuronal cell body and transported to the nerve terminal cytoplasm at 0.5–5 millimeters a day by a mechanism called slow axonal transport. The mechanisms responsible for the synthesis and packaging of peptide transmitters are fundamentally different from those used for the smallmolecule neurotransmitters (Figure 6.6C). Peptide-secreting neurons generally synthesize polypeptides in their cell bodies that are much larger than the final, “mature” peptide.
Choline is taken up by the neuron. When the enzyme called choline acetyltransferase is present, choline combines with acetyl coenzyme A (CoA) to produce acetylcholine. Dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine are a group of neurotransmitters called catecholamines. Norepinephrine is also called noradrenalin and epinephrine is also called adrenalin. Each of these neurotransmitters is produced in a step-by-step fashion by a different enzyme. Neurotransmitters and Neuroactive Peptides. Communication of information between neurons is accomplished by movement of chemicals across a small gap called the synapse. Chemicals, called neurotransmitters, are released from one neuron at the presynaptic nerve terminal.
There are many neurotransmitters, but the basic transmitters are the amino acid neurotransmitters: glutamate, GABA (gamma-amino butyric acid) and glycine. In addition, there is acetylcholine, serotonin and the catecholamines: dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine. GABA [edit]. Gamma-amino butyric acid, or GABA, is an inhibitory amino acid. Its synthesis occurs from glutamate via glutamic acid decarboxylase. GABA has an ionotropic receptor, GABAA, that directly gates Cl-channels, and it has a metabotropic receptor, GABAB, that gates K+ and Ca2+ channels indirectly.
Cartoon summarizing the synthesis, packaging, release, transport, and metabolism of glutamate and GABA. Glutaminase converts glutamine to glutamate, which is converted to GABA by GAD in GABAergic neurons. The neurotransmitters are subsequently transported by vesicular transporters into vesicles for release. Neurons cannot perform the net synthesis of glutamate and GABA from glucose due to the fact that neurons lack both the glutamine synthesizing enzyme, GS, and the prevailing anaplerotic enzyme in the brain, pyruvate carboxylase (PC) (Bak et al., 2006, Norenberg and Martinez-Hernandez, 1979 and Yu et al., 1983).