FLOGGING, punishment by beating or whipping. This at all times has been the instinctive way to inflict disciplinary *punishment: a parent disciplines his son by beating him (cf. Deut. Offenses Punishable by this Method. The offenses carrying the punishment of flogging are, firstly, all those for which the *divine punishment of karet is prescribed; secondly, all violations by overt act of negative biblical injunctions (ibid. 18:1).
Flagellation (Latin flagellum, whip), flogging, whipping or lashing is the act of methodically beating the human body with special implements such as whips, lashes, rods, switches, the cat o' nine tails, the sjambok, etc. In June 1879, flogging in the British Navy was debated in the House of Commons. John O'Connor Power, the member for Mayo, asked the First Lord of the Admiralty to bring the navy cat-of-nine-tails to the Commons Library so that the members might see what they were voting for.
Typically, flogging is imposed on an unwilling subject as a punishment; however, it can also be submitted to willingly, or performed on oneself, in religious or sadomasochistic contexts. The strokes are usually aimed at the unclothed back of a person, in certain settings it can be extended to other corporeal areas. In June 1879, flogging in the British Navy was debated in the House of Commons. John O'Connor Power, the member for Mayo, asked the First Lord of the Admiralty to bring the navy cat-of-nine-tails to the Commons Library so that the members might see what they were voting for.
Flogging Molly is an American seven-piece Celtic punk band from Los Angeles, California and led by Irish vocalist Dave King, formerly of the hard rock band Fastway. They are signed to their own record label, Borstal Beat Records. Flogging Molly's music is influenced by various artists, such as The Dubliners, The Pogues, Horslips, Johnny Cash, and The Clash. The album Within a Mile of Home is dedicated to the memories of Cash and The Clash frontman Joe Strummer.
Noun. 1. flogging-beating with a whip or strap or rope as a form of punishment. lashing, whipping, flagellation, tanning. whacking, beating, drubbing, licking, thrashing, trouncing, lacing-the act of inflicting corporal punishment with repeated blows. self-flagellation-self-punishment inflicted by whipping. flog. tr.v. flogged, flog·ging, flogs. 1. To beat severely with a whip or rod. 2. Informal To publicize aggressively: flogging a new book.
Flogging is…. Flogging is the act of whipping or lashing someone or the act of methodically beating the human body with special implements such as whips, lashes, rods, or any other device that inflicts pain and harm. 
Flagellation or flogging is hitting the human body with a whip The word comes from flagellum the Latin word for Whip. Usually it is done as a punishment. Some people also do it as a form of sexual arousal, in the context of BDSM. 
Officially abolished in most Western countries, flogging or whipping, including foot whipping in some countries, is still a common punishment in some parts of the world, particularly in Islamic countries and in some territories formerly under British rule. In June 1879, flogging in the British Navy was debated in the House of Commons. John O'Connor Power, the member for Mayo, asked the First Lord of the Admiralty to bring the navy cat-of-nine-tails to the Commons Library so that the members might see what they were voting for.
More than any other punishment, flogging is a means of correction rather than retribution, and, being a substitute for the capital punishment which, in the rabbinic view, every violator of God's word properly deserves, it reflects God's infinite mercy (cf. Sanh. 10a, Rashi ibid. ). Offenses Punishable by this Method. The offenses carrying the punishment of flogging are, firstly, all those for which the *divine punishment of karet is prescribed; secondly, all violations by overt act of negative biblical injunctions (ibid. 18:1).
For a moderated subform of flagellation, described as bastinado, the soles of a person's bare feet are used as a target for beating (see foot whipping). In some circumstances the word flogging is used loosely to include any sort of corporal punishment, including birching and caning. In June 1879, flogging in the British Navy was debated in the House of Commons. John O'Connor Power, the member for Mayo, asked the First Lord of the Admiralty to bring the navy cat-of-nine-tails to the Commons Library so that the members might see what they were voting for.