A.G. Barr plc, commonly known as Barr's, is a Scottish soft drink manufacturer, based in Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is particularly notable for the manufacture of the popular Scottish drink, Irn-Bru. It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index. 
For years, its slogan was Barr's Irn-Bru: made in Scotland from girders. But now the beloved Scottish fizzy drink's catchphrase is wrong in two ways: first, the closest it gets to girders is 0.002 per cent of ammonium ferric citrate listed in its ingredients. And second, the last member of the Barr family, who have made Irn-Bru for more than 130 years, is to step down. Robin Barr, whose great-grandfather set up the family business in 1875, said he was retiring as chairman of AG Barr in May, after 31 years of running the company.
History of Irn-Bru   It appears the inventor of Irn-Bru was Robert Barr, founder of the A.G. Barr soft drink company. Irn-Bru was first produced in 1901 by A.G. Bar … r in Falkirk, Scotland under the name of Strachen's Brew. The name was changed to Irn-Bru in 1946 when the laws in Scotland changed and the carbonated soft drink, which was not brewed at all, could no longer contain the word brew in its name. Irn-Bru is a soft drink originating in Scotland and produced by A. G. Barr. Irn-Bru is bright orange and has a unique flavour. It is popular in its native Scotland where … it is arguably more popular than Coca-Cola
Irn-Bru's advertising slogans used to be 'Scotland's other National Drink', referring to whisky, and 'Made in Scotland from girders ', a reference to the rusty colour of the drink; though the closest one can come to substantiating this claim is the 0.002% ammonium ferric citrate listed in the ingredients. Irn-Bru was first produced in 1901, in the town of Falkirk, under the name Iron Brew. In 1946, a change in laws required that the word brew be removed from the name, as the drink is not brewed.
Irn-Bru and Diet Irn-Bru have been formulated since 2002 by A.G. Barr plc to meet the regulations for food colouring of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Ponceau 4R, used in the UK formulation, is prohibited by the FDA. Irn-Bru was first produced in 1901, in the town of Falkirk, under the name Iron Brew. In 1946, a change in laws required that the word brew be removed from the name, as the drink is not brewed.
An indescribable brand with a phenomenal taste. Launched in 1901 in Scotland, IRN-BRU is a carbonated soft drink made to an original secret recipe, which from 1901 has contained 32 flavours. IRN-BRU's unique combination of flavours delivers the brands indescribable and phenomenal taste. 
History of Irn-Bru   It appears the inventor of Irn-Bru was Robert Barr, founder of the A.G. Barr soft drink company. Irn-Bru was first produced in 1901 by A.G. Bar … r in Falkirk, Scotland under the name of Strachen's Brew. Irn-Bru is a soft drink originating in Scotland and produced by A. G. Barr. Irn-Bru is bright orange and has a unique flavour. It is popular in its native Scotland where it is arguably more popular than Coca-Cola
By Cara Sulieman. SCOTLAND’S best-kept secret has been revealed – Irn Bru really is made from girders. The keep of the recipe, Robin Barr, has let it slip that there is 0.002 per cent of ammonium ferric citrate (AFC) in the national drink. And ferric means iron – even if it is tiny quantities of the metal. 