When calculating the cost of adding an additional room to your house, a lot depends on what the space will be used for. In other words, you could half the average cost to add a 10x12 room to your house by simply doing the labor yourself, reducing the estimate from $11,400 to about $5,700.
Measure the distance from a swimming pool. If you already have a pool, there may be restrictions on how close you can build to it. In some areas the pool's depth closest to the house is how many feet you must be from the building. For example, if the pool is six feet deep, you must stay six feet from the house. Map out the location for your intended room. Some building codes define a bedroom as a room with a closet. Verify your setbacks with the local zoning department. Before adding a room to your house, make sure it will fit on your lot. Typically, you must stay a specific number of feet from the property line.
2. Figure out what fixtures you plan to add to the room. Plumbing work and the installation of a bath and sink will increase the cost of a bathroom over a similarly sized family room that which may just have furniture. Calculating room addition costs prepares you to focus on completing the project. The costs associated with adding a new room onto your home can be broken down into labor and materials.
You might also consider adding a room outside your house. Todd Stein, vice president of a communications company and a father of two in Sacramento, California, says he wanted to build an addition so his 10-year-old daughter could have a bedroom. She has been sharing her room with her six-year-old brother. You have contractors to hire, important decisions to make and a lot of money to spend. Know that a portion of your home will be filled with dust, plaster, nails and other construction materials. So if you're dreaming of a home addition, here's what you should consider before moving forward.
Shares & Saves. Save. When calculating the cost of adding an additional room to your house, a lot depends on what the space will be used for. A 10x12 kitchen or bathroom will be more expensive than a similarly-sized living space in the home as the price of fixtures and appliances tends to drive prices up. In other words, you could half the average cost to add a 10x12 room to your house by simply doing the labor yourself, reducing the estimate from $11,400 to about $5,700.
How much will you spend? The cost of an addition varies widely depending on the type of room and where you live. But just to give you a sense of how much it might cost, CostHelper.com estimates that adding a bathroom or bedroom could run from $25,000 to $50,000. A bedroom could easily cost just as much. You have contractors to hire, important decisions to make and a lot of money to spend. Know that a portion of your home will be filled with dust, plaster, nails and other construction materials. So if you're dreaming of a home addition, here's what you should consider before moving forward.
1. Decide on the square footage of the room you will be adding to your home. Room additions can cost up to 50 percent higher, between $80 and $130 per square foot before considering wiring and plumbing, than that same room had been constructed with the rest of the house, according to the Home Addition Plus website. Calculating room addition costs prepares you to focus on completing the project. The costs associated with adding a new room onto your home can be broken down into labor and materials.
1. Choose the type of room you wish to add to your home, based on your specific needs and the size of the property lot. Make a budget for the expansion project. Set a maximum amount to spend on the project, including design and building costs. A professional remodeling contractor can help you add a room to your home. If your home has been feeling a bit cramped lately, adding a room is a good way to both increase the livable space and the home's value. Whether you’re adding a sunroom to enjoy warm weather living, or adding a bedroom for a new member of the family, building a room is a large-scale project--regardless of the room size
2. Determine if you have the space in your home. Find an area in your home that would be a good place to construct your room. You can quickly do this by using a tape measure and seeing if the dimensions of your designed room will fit in your home. 1 Carefully consider your reasoning for why you want to add a new room. 2  If it is simply to add value to your house's worth then you may want to consult a home appraiser to determine if your expenses in building the new space will pay off. 3  Always treat any professional you deal with respect.