Forensic DNA analysis is used to identify individuals using genetic samples. Basically, the system uses a set of identifying numbers to match two different samples. The concept was first designed by Sir Alec Jeffreys at the University of Leicester in 1985. One facet of DNA analysis in forensics is the use of genetic material from a suspect's family members. Often a closely related suspect can be used to create a match. However, this concept receives a number of concerns due to the fact that an exact match is not needed
Forensic DNA may be found on clothing from a crime scene. Forensic DNA analysis is sometimes used to profile people involved in criminal cases. Forensic DNA analysis relies heavily on global databases. Forensic DNA analysis may start by taking DNA samples from an individual, often using a cheek swab. One facet of DNA analysis in forensics is the use of genetic material from a suspect's family members. Often a closely related suspect can be used to create a match. However, this concept receives a number of concerns due to the fact that an exact match is not needed
Purpose. To prove individual identity or genetic relationships. Method. Back in 1985, the first genetic fingerprint was a miracle of science. Today, DNA analysis is standard practice for defining paternity or maternity, predisposition to disease, embryonic health, criminal guilt or innocence, and so on. 
DNA fingerprinting, also called forensic DNA analysis, is considered by many to be the police investigator's secret weapon, a means of building cases or reanalyzing crimes using tiny bits of cryptic evidence. 
Types of DNA Analysis. DNA analysis is the process in which genetic sequences are studied. It is used by law enforcement and medical personnel to identify a particular person or species, and even specific cancers and diseases. At one point the analysis process was very limited. 
Sources of DNA Evidence & DNA Extraction. In terms of forensic DNA analysis, there is a variety of possible sources of DNA evidence. The more useful sources include blood, semen, vaginal fluid, nasal secretions and hair with roots. DNA Structure and Function. It is vital to understand the structure and function of DNA and how this relates to DNA analysis in forensic science. DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, is a molecule arranged into a double-helix, its structure first described by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953.
Forensic DNA analysis is sometimes used to profile people involved in criminal cases. Forensic DNA analysis relies heavily on global databases. One facet of DNA analysis in forensics is the use of genetic material from a suspect's family members. Often a closely related suspect can be used to create a match. However, this concept receives a number of concerns due to the fact that an exact match is not needed
DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is a forensic technique used to identify individuals by characteristics of their DNA. Although 99.9% of human DNA sequences are the same in every person, enough of the DNA is different that it is possible to distinguish one individual from another, unless they are monozygotic (identical) twins.
Short tandem repeat (STR) technology is a forensic analysis that evaluates specific regions (loci) that are found on nuclear DNA. The variable (polymorphic) nature of the STR regions that are analyzed for forensic testing intensifies the discrimination between one DNA profile and another. RFLP analysis requires a biological sample about the size of a quarter, but PCR can be used to reproduce millions of copies of the DNA contained in a few skin cells. Since PCR analysis requires only a minute quantity of DNA, it can enable the laboratory to analyze highly degraded evidence for DNA.