Traumatic brain injury (TBI), also known as intracranial injury, occurs when an external force traumatically injures the brain. TBI can be classified based on severity, mechanism (closed or penetrating head injury), or other features (e.g., occurring in a specific location or over a widespread area). 
The ACRM brain injury definition (American Congress of Rehabilitation) was a break through in 1993 when it was authored, as it was one of the first peer reviewed definitions of MTBI that did not require a finding of loss of consciousness for the diagnosis of traumatic brain injury. The most significant of those four is amnesia, but it is also the element that gets inadequate inquiry post accident. For the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicines (ACRM) definition of Mild Traumatic Brain Injury click here. J Head Trauma Rehabil 1993:8(3):86-87. The ACRM Brain Injury Definition reads;
Cal/OSHA“Recordable” Guidelines & Definition of First Aid C al/OSHA defines “first aid” as any one-time treatment, and any followup visit for thepurpose of observation of minor scratches, cuts, burns, splinters, or other minor industrialinjury, which do not ordinarily require medical care. 
Print Page. The word “trauma” is used to describe experiences or situations that are emotionally painful and distressing, and that overwhelm people’s ability to cope, leaving them powerless. Trauma has sometimes been defined in reference to circumstances that are outside the realm of normal human experience. 
Full Definition of TRAUMA. 1. a: an injury (as a wound) to living tissue caused by an extrinsic agent b: a disordered psychic or behavioral state resulting from severe mental or emotional stress or physical injury. 2. : an agent, force, or mechanism that causes trauma. — trau·mat·ic \trə-ˈma-tik, trȯ-, trau̇-\ adjective. 1 She never fully recovered from the trauma of her experiences. 2  an accident victim with severe head trauma. 3  repeated trauma to a knee. 4  The accident victim sustained multiple traumas.
First aid injuries mean personal injuries that do not lead to absence or require medical treatment. Source: Guidelines Regarding the Management Regulations, Norway, updated December 2012. Regulatory Guidance. Cases that are not sufficiently serious to be reported as medical treatment or more serious cases but nevertheless require minor first aid treatment, e.g. dressing on a minor cut, removal of a splinter from a finger are considered to be first aid injuries.
First Aid Injury. Cases that are not sufficiently serious to be reported as medical treatment or more serious cases but nevertheless require minor first aid treatment, e.g. dressing on a minor cut, removal of a splinter from a finger are considered to be first aid injuries.
Trauma is an emotional response to a terrible event like an accident, rape or natural disaster. Immediately after the event, shock and denial are typical. Longer term reactions include unpredictable emotions, flashbacks, strained relationships and even physical symptoms like headaches or nausea. Understanding the emotions and normal responses that follow a disaster or other traumatic event can help you cope with your feelings, thoughts and behaviors – and can help you on the path to recovery.
OSHA Definition of First Aid C al/OSHA defines “first aid” as any one-time treatment, and any followup visit forthe purpose of observation of minor scratches, cuts, burns, splinters, or other minorindustrial injuries, which do not ordinarily require medical care. 
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Traumatic brain injury occurs when an external mechanical force causes brain dysfunction. Traumatic brain injury usually results from a violent blow or jolt to the head or body. An object penetrating the skull, such as a bullet or shattered piece of skull, also can cause traumatic brain injury.