There are deciduous forests located in New Zealand, and southeastern Australia also. The average annual temperature in a deciduous forest is 50° F. The average rainfall is 30 to 60 inches a year. In deciduous forests there are five different zones. There are many deciduous forests in Asia. Some of the major areas that they are in are southwest Russia, Japan, and eastern China. South America has two big areas of deciduous forests in southern Chile and Middle East coast of Paraguay.
The eastern deciduous forest forms part of one of the major biomes on earth, the temperate deciduous forests, which can be found in eastern North America, Europe, China and Japan. The eastern deciduous forest forms part of one of the major biomes on earth, the temperate deciduous forests, which can be found in eastern North America, Europe... 1  Image credit. 2  How you can use this image.
TEMPERATE DECIDUOUS FOREST BIOME. The temperate deciduous forest biome occupies most of the eastern part of the United States and a small strip of southern Ontario. Precipitation varies from 28 inches per year in the northwestern section of the biome to 60 inches per year in the southeastern part; in most areas the precipitation is distributed evenly throughout the year. Frost occurs throughout the biome, and summer and winter are distinct seasons.
LOCATION: Most temperate, deciduous (leaf-shedding) forests are located in the eastern United States, Canada, Europe, China, Japan, and parts of Russia. Deciduous forests are broken up into five zones. The firstzone is the tree stratum zone. Following rainforests, temperate deciduous forests are the second-rainiest biome. The average yearly precipitation is 30 - 60 inches (75 - 150 cm). This precipitation falls throughout the year, but in the winter it falls as snow.
The temperate deciduous forest biome is characterized by its leaf-shedding trees and its seasons. This biome experiences all four seasons-winter, spring, summer, and fall. The temperate deciduous forest biome is located in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, and Japan. There are also some parts of Russia that contain this biome. Interesting Temperate Deciduous Forest Biome Facts: Temperate deciduous forests receive 30 - 60 inches of rain each year and are ranked second only to the rainforest as the rainiest biome. Although the average temperature is 50° F, the winter typically sees temperatures below freezing. The trees of the temperate deciduous forest are deciduous of course.
The deciduous forests are located in the temperate zone above the tropical forests and below the coniferous forests. Most of Europe, the eastern half of North America, parts of Japan and Asia were once covered with large deciduous forests. Most of the deciduous forests have now disappeared but many of the trees still grow in deciduous forest biome. There are many deciduous forests in Asia. Some of the major areas that they are in are southwest Russia, Japan, and eastern China. South America has two big areas of deciduous forests in southern Chile and Middle East coast of Paraguay.
The taiga biomes are usually North of the temperate deciduous forest biomes. However, with the changes in environment due to human issues including global warming, they often overlap. In fact, many people often confuse the two biomes on a regular basis. They create a type of canopy for the lower areas of the forest. The tallest of all trees that grow in a temperate deciduous forest biome is the Sequoia. They can be up to 275 feet tall and more than 95 feet in circumference. They are found in areas of California in the United States. However, the canopy is dense rather than thick like in a rainforest
For those temperate deciduous forest biomes high up in the mountains, they will be at the cooler side of temperatures. The average temperature is about 50 degrees. It can also snow during the winter in this particular biome. The average precipitation is from 30 to 60 inches per year. They create a type of canopy for the lower areas of the forest. The tallest of all trees that grow in a temperate deciduous forest biome is the Sequoia. They can be up to 275 feet tall and more than 95 feet in circumference. They are found in areas of California in the United States. However, the canopy is dense rather than thick like in a rainforest
Plants Animals Climate Northeast Asian Deciduous Forest Deciduous forests can be found in the eastern half of North America, and the middle of Europe. There are many deciduous forests in Asia. Some of the major areas that they are in are southwest Russia, Japan, and eastern China. South America has two big areas of deciduous forests in southern Chile and Middle East coast of Paraguay.