Building permits are needed for more than just new home construction. The national average cost of a building permit is $853, with most homeowners spending between $366 and $1,340. This data is based on actual project costs according to HomeAdvisor members. Depending on the area, they may be required for additions, renovations and even electrical or plumbing projects. The actual cost of a building permit will depend on the location of the property and the type of work that will be performed there. For many homeowners, the process of applying for a permit may seem daunting, but it cannot be avoided without risking fines or worse.
You need a construction permit to build a deck that is more than 18 inches above the ground or that is a roof deck (built on top of part of the building). You need a construction permit to build a deck of any height in an environmentally critical area (ECA), for example landslide-prone areas. Most decks require only a subject-to-field-inspection construction permit. Subject-to-field-inspection permits are issued over the counter, typically on the day you apply. 1  Tip 312, Decks, Fences and Arbors for Single Family Homes in Seattle. 2  Tip 316, Subject-to-Field-Inspection Permits.
A low-frills patio or deck is pretty cheap. Everyone's definition of cheap is different, but decks can be had for as low as $1,000, according to Jessica Piha, a spokeswoman for Porch.com, a website that helps homeowners find the right contractor. But the average deck costs $8,300, Piha says. And how much is a cheap patio? The cost to install a 200-square-foot concrete patio is about $740 to $840 on average, according to HomeWyse.com, an online reference for home projects.
To apply for a Deck or Porch Permit, you can download the PW1 Plan or Work Approval Application form online or pick up a copy at a Department of Buildings (DOB) Borough Office. Get general information about construction applications and permits. 
Q: How much does a building permit cost? The building permit fee is based on the reasonably estimated cost of the project at $13 per $1,000. The minimum building permit fee is $25 for up to $2,000 worth of work. New homes also include a $25 filing fee and a $50 occupancy fee. Commercial construction costs over $50,000 add a $25 filing fee. -- top of page --.
Ultimately they will tell you whether building permits for your deck are required or not. In some cases if the deck is small enough you may not need a permit. On the other hand if it exceeds a certain square footage or has footings you may well require a permit. 
1 Wood is the most traditional, common and easily available material for decks; it is typically easier to work with than composite materials. 2  Composite deck installation can cost $25-$70 or more a square foot (8,000 -$22,400 for 16'x20). Home Depot Cost of Materials today $1478.98 Lowes Cost of Materials today $1492.56 Local lumber supplier Cost of Materials today $1704.54 that comes out to $11.11 per square foot on an average cost of $1600.00 for materials. if it takes me and my three guys 2 1/2 - 3 days with footings.
The city fee for a deck building permit in Ontario is fairly minor, about a $100. The preparation of the drawings will cost you anywhere from $300 up to over $1000 depending on the size and complexity of the job as well as who you choose to prepare the drawings on your behalf. You need to consult with your building department to see if you need a permit. The common rule is, if your deck is over 2 feet above ground on average – it requires a permit. In many cases, however, decks that are under 2 feet in average elevation still require a building permit (i.e. very large deck).
The regulation for which projects require construction permits and which do not vary by municipality in Toronto. You need to consult with your building department to see if you need a permit. The common rule is, if your deck is over 2 feet above ground on average – it requires a permit. In many cases, however, decks that are under 2 feet in average elevation still require a building permit (i.e. very large deck).