Equipment Costs. The average price for a new gas furnace ranges from around $2,300 to $3,000 depending on manufacturer according to a November 2012 article by Consumer Reports. Qualitysmith.com estimates the cost of a new electric furnace at $1,000 to $1,500 as of December 2012. Despite its high efficiency, electric heating often costs more to operate than a traditional gas furnace. When comparing a gas furnace to an electric heater, consider not only the upfront and operating costs of each option, but also how these systems impact the environment.
Assuming a furnace with a 78 percent efficiency, consumers should expect to pay roughly $12.96 per million BTUs of heat. While prices for gas and electricity vary over time and by region, gas furnaces typically cost much less to operate than electric furnaces or heaters. Despite its high efficiency, electric heating often costs more to operate than a traditional gas furnace. When comparing a gas furnace to an electric heater, consider not only the upfront and operating costs of each option, but also how these systems impact the environment.
While natural gas remains the most widely-used home heating fuel in the U.S., this type of fuel may not be available in all areas. Homeowners without access to natural gas lines or those who prefer a different type of home heating fuel may turn to electricity to power home heating systems. Despite its high efficiency, electric heating often costs more to operate than a traditional gas furnace. When comparing a gas furnace to an electric heater, consider not only the upfront and operating costs of each option, but also how these systems impact the environment.
Drawbacks. To enjoy natural gas heating, you need a gas line that delivers gas to your home. In some areas, you may be able to install a storage tank or other vessel on your property to provide fuel. Both of these options are expensive and complex, and can increase the costs of a new heating system. Both electricity and natural gas can be used to power a variety of heating systems. Manufacturers produce electric furnaces or boilers, as well as baseboard units and heat pumps.
Gas and electric central heating systems are the most widely used heating mechanisms in residential construction. For a homeowner looking to purchase a new heating unit, the choice often has to be made between a gas and electric system. Both types of heating systems have their share of pros and cons, some of which are detailed below.
There are several pros and cons for purchasing an electric heating system. First, the purchase price of an electric furnace is generally lower than a gas-powered system. Your initial investment will be lower if you purchase an electric unit. Natural gas is a cheaper form of energy than electricity and over the past few years, the cost of natural gas has actually decreased. However, a gas-powered unit will require a larger initial investment than an electric unit. Gas heating systems generally heat the home faster than electric units.
A gas heating system is less expensive to operate than an electric unit. Natural gas is a cheaper form of energy than electricity and over the past few years, the cost of natural gas has actually decreased. However, a gas-powered unit will require a larger initial investment than an electric unit. Gas heating systems generally heat the home faster than electric units.
Another pro of the electric system is that these systems are quiet and usually more durable than gas units. The lifespan of an electric furnace is between 20 and 30 years. The installation process is generally faster than with a gas unit. Natural gas is a cheaper form of energy than electricity and over the past few years, the cost of natural gas has actually decreased. However, a gas-powered unit will require a larger initial investment than an electric unit. Gas heating systems generally heat the home faster than electric units.
Pros and Cons of Electric Furnaces. Electric heating systems are smaller than gas systems and don’t require any special ventilation equipment. In areas where natural gas isn’t available, electric heating is a cost effective solution to heat a home. Electric heating is safe and doesn’t produce any byproducts during the heating process. When you’re ready to put in a new gas or electric heating system, Airforce Heating and Air is here to help guide you through the installation process. We’ll help determine the right furnace size and help you compare energy efficient features and other options that can improve your home’s comfort.