You don't need to get a blood test. There is no waiting period after a license is issued. The current fee for a marriage license is $60.00, payable by cash, cashier's check, money order, or credit card. Applicants can use their American Express, Discover, MasterCard, or Visa at the main Las Vegas location only. Only one form of valid identification is required. You will need to apply for a marriage license. You can get this from the Marriage Bureau in Clark County. Both parties must be present at the Marriage License Bureau to obtain a marriage license. Courthouse Hours: 8am - 12 midnight every da
1 A marriage license is valid for one year after it is issued. 2  Be sure to bring all documents to Chapel of the Flowers the day of your ceremony. 3  You'll need a witness at your Las Vegas wedding ceremony. Other marriage license facts: 1  There is no blood test or waiting period in Nevada. 2  Your name on the application must be an exact match to what is on your proof of identity. 3 
Getting your marriage license in Las Vegas is as easy as 1, 2, 3. 1  You and your future spouse will fill out the Las Vegas Marriage License Pre-Application Form no sooner than 60 days prior to your wedding ceremony day. Other marriage license facts: 1  There is no blood test or waiting period in Nevada. 2  Your name on the application must be an exact match to what is on your proof of identity. 3  A marriage license is valid for one year after it is issued.
Additional Notes. There is no waiting period or blood testing required. Your marriage license is valid for one year. In other words, once you get your license you must have a wedding ceremony in Las Vegas within one year. To get married in Vegas you must be at least 18 years old. At 16 or 17, you can get married if you have written consent from one parent. Your parent may come in person or provide you with notarized written consent. Be sure to come on in for a tour or to drop off all your paperwork after visiting the license bureau! Fees. A marriage license in Las Vegas costs $77. The license bureau only accepts the following methods of payment: cash, cashier’s check, traveler's check or money order.
How to Get a Las Vegas Marriage License. It's easy to get married in Las Vegas; there are more than enough chapels and willing ministers. Your Las Vegas wedding can be anything from spur-of-moment to over-the-top. Only one form of valid identification is required. You will need to apply for a marriage license. You can get this from the Marriage Bureau in Clark County. Both parties must be present at the Marriage License Bureau to obtain a marriage license. Courthouse Hours: 8am - 12 midnight every day
Instructions. Verify that you meet the minimum age requirements to obtain a marriage license in Las Vegas. You will need to be at least 18 years of age, or have the written consent of your parent or guardian. You will need to be able to show a valid photo identification to prove that you are of legal age to obtain a marriage license in Las Vegas. Fill out a marriage application form. You can obtain this form online by visiting the Clark County website (see Resources). Print out the form and bring it with you to the Marriage Bureau, or you can request a paper application in person and fill it out at the Marriage Bureau. Go down to the Las Vegas Marriage Bureau office located at:
You are then legally married world wide. Fees: The fee for a Las Vegas Marriage License is $60, payable by cash, cashier's check, money order, or credit card. Applicants may use American Express, Discover, MasterCard, or Visa. 
Marriage License Requirements: Requirements for U.S. citizens and non U.S. citizens are the same. To obtain your Las Vegas Marriage License, both parties must appear in person before a Clerk at a Clark County Marriage Bureau location. Your Las Vegas Marriage License and Certificate will be prepared with your legal name exactly as it appears on the identification presented. You are then legally married world wide. Fees: The fee for a Las Vegas Marriage License is $60, payable by cash, cashier's check, money order, or credit card. Applicants may use American Express, Discover, MasterCard, or Visa.
The Las Vegas Marriage License Bureau Office is located at: 201 E Clark Ave. Las Vegas, NV 89155. Phone: 702-671-0580. Office Hours: 8:00a.m. - Midnight, 7 days a week/365 days a year-including holidays. Obtaining a Marriage License is very easy in Las Vegas. NO BLOOD TEST! NO WAITING PERIOD! You must Obtain the marriage license in Las Vegas. It can be the same day as the Wedding.