The food groups are carbohydrates, fats, protein, water, vitamins, minerals and fibre Fruits, vegetalbes, grains, dairy and protein foods are the   5 food groups. They pro … vide the nutritional building blocks to  optimal health.
Any fruit or 100% fruit juice is a part of the fruit group. You can choose fresh, frozen, dried or canned fruit, but you should go easy on the fruit juice. There are a number of foods in the fruit group to include: 1  Apples, apricots, bananas. 2  Strawberries, raspberries, blueberries. 3  Oranges, nectarines, peaches, pears, plums, prunes. 4  Cherries, grapefruit, kiwi fruit, lemons, limes. 5  Cantaloupe, watermelon, honeydew. 6  100% Fruit juices – grapefruit, apple, grape, orange.
Therefore, if a juice is bottled, and not squeezed fresh at home (or in a restaurant), the juice does not belong to any food group. The orange can no longer be considered a 100% true orange and, therefore, do not qualify as a true fruit.
Any fruit or 100% fruit juice counts as part of the Fruit Group. Fruits may be fresh, canned, frozen, or dried, and may be whole, cut-up, or pureed.
In general, 1 cup of fruit or 100% fruit juice, or ½ cup of dried fruit can be considered as 1 cup from the Fruit Group. This chart below shows specific amounts that count as 1 cup of fruit (in some cases equivalents for ½ cup are also shown) towards your daily recommended intake.
Any vegetable or juice that is 100% vegetable is a member of the vegetable group, according to the MyPlate program. Vegetables can be raw or cooked, canned, frozen, fresh, dehydrated or dried. Vegetables can also be mashed, cut or whole.
Any vegetable or 100% vegetable juice counts as a member of the Vegetable Group. Vegetables may be raw or cooked; fresh, frozen, canned, or dried/dehydrated; and may be whole, cut-up, or mashed.
One cup of fruit, ½ cup dried fruit, or 100% fruit juice can be considered as a cup within the fruit group. In other words: 1  1 cup from the fruit group = 1 cup of fruit or. 2  1 cup from the fruit group = 1 cup of 100% fruit juice or.