Anonymous said... I think when philosophers say time is an illusion, they don't mean it doesn't exist, but that the idea of time flowing is a human construct. Physics tells us that there are 4 dimensions. In our ordinary lives, we see these as the three spatial dimensions, and one time dimension.
Lot's of good thinking here. Thanks. It's certainly possible that the time is an illusion crowd are on to something but, unfortunately as you point out, a little bit of physics is a dangerous thing.
You write that the time is an illusion rubbish is based philosophical arguments. This is misleading (and insulting) since there is no accepted body of work in philosophy that supports this absurd idea.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Time is an illusion in that it's not a real, *natural* feature of the universe. Time is not absolute, meaning there's no Cosmic Master Clock that ticks off the correct time for the entire universe. For example, right now on the west coast of the USA it's 9:10 pm, but in New York City it's 12:10 pm.
We have an illusion of freedom. In return they are allowed the illusion of a guiltless life. 1. another meaning of 'illusion'. An illusion is also something that looks or sounds like one thing, but is either something else or is not there at all. It might be an optical illusion but he actually seems to lift some horses in races when they are tired.
4. a perception, as of visual stimuli (optical illusion), that represents what is perceived in a way different from the way it is in reality. 5. a delicate tulle of silk or nylon having a cobwebbed appearance, for trimmings, veilings, and the like. 6. Obs. the act of deceiving.
The fact that we think we know what past present and future is, is an illusion such as the theory of relativity proved with the fact that space-time depends on the inertial frame of the observer. Of course this can be aplied to space as well and everything in existence for that matter.
Best Answer: Time is an illusion in that it's not a real, *natural* feature of the universe.