A scientific paradigm, in the most basic sense of the word, is a framework containing all of the commonly accepted views about a subject, a structure of what direction research should take and how it should be performed. Don't miss these related articles: 1  1 Philosophy of Science. The word, like many scientific terms, comes from Greek, and means example. He came up with four basic ways in which a paradigm indirectly influences the scientific process. A paradigm dictates: 1  What is studied and researched. 2  The type of questions that are asked. 3  The exact structure and nature of the questions.
In science and epistemology (the theory of knowledge), a paradigm /ˈpaerədaɪm/ ˈpærədaɪm is a distinct set of concepts or thought, patterns including, theories research, methods, postulates and standards for what constitutes legitimate contributions to a. field Another use of the word paradigm is in the sense of  worldview . For example, in social science, the term is used to describe the set of experiences, beliefs and values that affect the way an individual perceives reality and responds to that perception.
noun. I. a model, trend, or representative example, as of the operations and interrelationships of a procedure, an action being analyzed, or the like. 2. an experimental construct or format of the many steps of an experiment. 3. a grammatical class or a compilation of all inflectional formations of a term. 
The word paradigm is also still used to indicate a pattern or model or an outstandingly clear or typical example or archetype. The term is frequently used in this sense in the design professions. Design Paradigms or archetypes comprise functional precedents for design solutions. Another use of the word paradigm is in the sense of  worldview . For example, in social science, the term is used to describe the set of experiences, beliefs and values that affect the way an individual perceives reality and responds to that perception.
Paradigm shift, sometimes known as extraordinary science or revolutionary science, is the term first used by Thomas Kuhn in his influential 1962 book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions to describe a change in basic assumptions within the ruling theory of science. It is in contrast to his idea of normal science. 
The Oxford English Dictionary defines the basic meaning of the term paradigm as a typical example or pattern of something; a pattern or model. Perhaps the greatest barrier to a paradigm shift, in some cases, is the reality of paradigm paralysis: the inability or refusal to see beyond the current models of thinking. This is similar to what psychologists term Confirmation bias.
Other uses Edit. The word paradigm is also still used to indicate a pattern or model or an outstandingly clear or typical example or archetype. The term is frequently used in this sense in the design professions. Design Paradigms or archetypes comprise functional precedents for design solutions. Perhaps the greatest barrier to a paradigm shift, in some cases, is the reality of paradigm paralysis: the inability or refusal to see beyond the current models of thinking. This is similar to what psychologists term Confirmation bias.
Paradigm comes from Greek παράδειγμα (paradeigma), pattern, example, sample from the verb παραδείκνυμι (paradeiknumi), exhibit, represent, expose and that from παρά (para), beside, beyond and δείκνυμι (deiknumi), to show, to point out. In rhetoric, paradeigma is known as a type of proof. Another use of the word paradigm is in the sense of  worldview . For example, in social science, the term is used to describe the set of experiences, beliefs and values that affect the way an individual perceives reality and responds to that perception.