Salary sacrifice can be financially beneficial for both employer and employee. For example, when part of an employee’s remuneration shifts from cash-on which tax and National Insurance contributions (. ) are due-to non-cash benefits that are wholly or partially exempt. A salary sacrifice arrangement can’t reduce an employee’s cash earnings below the National Minimum Wage rates.
The employer decides whether salary sacrifice affects contributions into a workplace pension scheme. Often, employers will use a notional level of pay to calculate employer and employee pension contributions, so that employees who participate in salary sacrifice arrangements are not put at a disadvantage. For example, when part of an employee’s remuneration shifts from cash-on which tax and National Insurance contributions (. ) are due-to non-cash benefits that are wholly or partially exempt. A salary sacrifice arrangement can’t reduce an employee’s cash earnings below the National Minimum Wage rates.
Salary sacrifice works by reducing your liability to National Insurance by getting your employer to make your pension contributions on your behalf. Your employer is able to make a bigger pension contribution on your behalf because it does not have to pay the employee's National Insurance. The tax savings from salary sacrifice come from both the saving in the employee's NI contribution and the employer's. The employee NI saving will increase the pension contribution of somebody paying 5pc of a £35,000 salary by 11pc.
Benefit of salary sacrifice for employers. The benefit is in the saving the employer achieves in National Insurance Contributions (NICs). The employer pays NICs on the employees' salaries but not on pension contributions. The higher the salary, the more the employer has to pay in NICs. It could do. If salary sacrifice pushes an employee's salary below the Lower Earnings Limit for the purpose of paying NICs then certain state benefits could be affected. These include the basic state pension, statutory sick pay and statutory maternity pay.
Employee and employer national insurance (NI) contribution are calculated based on gross pay in the normal way so, unless you use salary sacrifice arrangements, employees and employers do pay NI on the pension contributions deducted from employees pay. 
As you're effectively earning a lower salary, both you and your employer pay lower National Insurance Contributions (NICs). Better still, your employer may pay part or all of their NIC saving to your pension too (although they don't have to do this). There are some disadvantages though, which we explain below. So if your employer offers a salary sacrifice arrangement, you should investigate whether you should take up this offer. Your employer should give you an overview of how salary sacrifice might affect you and whether or not they would pay some or all of the NICs they save into your pension pot
Example. You earn £28,000 a year and decide you want to sacrifice £1,500 of your salary in return for your employer paying an extra £1,500 into your pension. Your take-home pay, after tax, National Insurance and your own pension contributions, falls from £20,452 to £19,492. Once you accept a salary sacrifice, your overall pay is lower, so you pay less tax and National Insurance. In addition, your employer will not have to pay their Employers’ National Insurance contributions on the part you sacrifice. Some employers pass on some or all of these savings to you.
The idea behind this is quite simple. You give up part of your salary and, in return, your employer gives you a non-cash benefit, such as childcare vouchers, or increased pension contributions. Once you accept a salary sacrifice, your overall pay is lower, so you pay less tax and National Insurance. In addition, your employer will not have to pay their Employers’ National Insurance contributions on the part you sacrifice. Some employers pass on some or all of these savings to you.
Salary Sacrifice can be a popular device to reduce the cost of pension contributions. The reduction is achieved by avoiding paying NI contributions on the part of pay that would be paid in employee pension contributions. The employer also makes a saving generally worth 13.8% of the employees pension contribution, whatever the employees salary level (only 10.1 % on the part of salary less than £42,484 if the employee is contracted-out).