How to tell if there is outstanding finance on a car. Before you buy a used car, you should carry out a car registration check, which will tell you if any money is owed on the vehicle, and also if it has ever been involved in an accident or if it’s stolen. If you’re buying from a dealer, you can ask if they have carried out these checks or you can do your own. Our Car Passport can check the history of a vehicle and is thus a reliable way to avoid buying a car with outstanding finance
Honest John explains to a reader how to find out if there's any outstanding finance on a car they'd like to buy. By Honest John. If it's on HP, a lease or PCP you can find out from HPI. Email your queries to letters@honestjohn.co.uk (please include your full name, postal address and phone number).
Even if a car is advertised with no finance outstanding it's imperative that you get a car history check to make sure that there's no negative history against it. The seller may either not be aware that there's an issue with the car, or they may simply not want to tell you. The reason you need to check is because if some kind of finance is outstanding on a car then the company responsible will still have an interest in it, until it is paid off in full.
What to do if there is outstanding finance on a car. If you haven’t bought the car yet and a search reveals outstanding finance on it, the first thing you should do is check with the listed company whether the account has been settled or if payments are still due. If money is still owed, you can ask the seller to settle the account, and then continue with the purchase. Before you buy a used car, you should carry out a car registration check, which will tell you if any money is owed on the vehicle, and also if it has ever been involved in an accident or if it’s stolen. If you’re buying from a dealer, you can ask if they have carried out these checks or you can do your own.
Make sure you get full information on outstanding finance when you buy your next used car. Some checks do not include finance. It is essential that you get correct finance information before you commit to buy your next car. No one checks with more loan companies than HPI. If you don't check for outstanding finance, your new car could be repossessed. You could lose the car and all the money you paid for it, even if you have a receipt from the vendor. All you need to check a vehicle is the registration number (VRM.
Report Abuse. Get the registration number of the car and go on line and do an HPI check (RAC offer this service). It costs about £20 and it will tell you immediately if there is outstanding finance. It is extremely important that you do this before purchasing a used car. I did this the other day on a car I was thinking about buying and it had outstanding finance! Best Answer: Go to www.rac.co.uk/web/vehicle-checks/car-dat... I have used this several times recently whilst looking for a car for my daughter and it has stopped me buying a couple of cars. It only costs £5.
It is the responsibility of the owner to ensure there is no outstanding finance on a vehicle. In the event that you purchase a vehicle with outstanding finance, it will be your responsibility to settle the outstanding finance, or the vehicle could be repossessed by the financial institution. You can easily find out if there is finance outstanding on a vehicle on MyWheels.ie. If you discover outstanding finance on the vehicle then contact the seller about it. They are responsible for clearing the finance before selling the car. Car ownership with outstanding finance is similar to home ownership with a mortgage, the “owner” does not legally hold the title of the car/house until the finance/mortgage is fully paid off.
‘It is up to you as a purchaser to check that there is no outstanding finance on the car you buy. However, if the lender is not registered with the code of practice, you do have a case and it should be found that the title has been passed to you. Tips from HPI to stay safe when buying a used car: • Get it checked: Conduct an HPI Check before you buy to confirm if a car has outstanding finance against it. This in turn, allows you to ensure that if there is debt against it, the vendor pays it off before you complete the purchase.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How do I find out if there&#39;s hire purchase outstanding on a car? My dad is looking to buy a car from someone he knows, but is wary in case there may still be hire purchase outstanding on the car, in which case, he may end up liable to pay it. Is there any way we can find out? 