The 23 East Lakeshore bus stops at Port Credit GO station as well as along Lakeshore Road East, and goes to Long Branch every 15-25 minutes (depending on weekday or weekend schedule) until roughly 1 a.m. Mind you, this will take a lot longer than the GO train, and cost more (two fares-Mississauga Transit and TTC). Much faster to hop in a cab in Port Credit, and go to Long Branch -- it's about $15, depending on fare increases, and maybe 10 minutes driving time. Here's a googlemap to help sort it all out: View Larger Map.
But if you miss the last train into Union, you can take the Mississauga Transit (23 East) bus to Long Branch, then take the TTC from Long Branch to wherever you need to go in Toronto.
Use your TTC transfer twice after taking GO Transit. If you ride the TTC immediately before and after a GO Train/Bus trip, you can use the TTC transfer from your first TTC ride to board the second TTC vehicle.
PRESTO customers who know they'll need to transfer between buses, and/or between trains and buses, please enter a transfer point to get a transfer credit. 1  Select the city/town where are you transferring: * 2  Select the station, terminal or major bus stop: 3  Not all transfer points are shown. 4  To calculate your monthly PRESTO cost enter the number of ...
Beginning Saturday, when off-peak round-trip rail discounts are discontinued and NJ Transit fare hikes go into effect system-wide, an off-peak round trip from Long Branch to New York Penn Station goes from $20.50 to $30.
GO Transit is Canada’s first, and Ontario’s only, interregional public transit system, linking Toronto with the surrounding regions of Halton, Peel, York, and Durham. GO Transit offers 180 train routes and 1,973 bus routes.
TTC times two with GO Transit. If you ride the TTC immediately before and after a GO Train/Bus trip, you can use the TTC transfer from your first TTC ride to board the second TTC vehicle.
(Use the Lakeshore West GO train and Bus schedule). For example, on a Friday night, you could take the GO train at Union at 5:43 p.m., or 6:03, 6:43. or at 7:42 (trains leave Union hourly after the quarter to seven train.) and arrive in Port Credit station in about 25 minutes. The fare each way for an adult is $4.55 as of today's date. Return is $9.10.