Idiopathic Urticaria has the symptoms of rashes, extreme and constant itching without a properly known cause. As the cause of idiopathic Urticaria is not known, the dermatologists face a hard time prescribing the treatment or cure for it. It becomes very difficult to cure idiopathic Urticaria as its cause remains unknown. Idiopathic Urticaria is also found in children at a chronic stage. This type of a skin disorder can occur at ant stage of your life and to people of any age group.
Abstract and Introduction. Purpose of Review: Chronic idiopathic urticaria has long been a demoralizing disease, baffling allergists and dermatologists alike, to the detriment of the patient. Recent findings, however, have shed light on causation in many, though not all, of these patients
Hives on dark skin. Hives are a skin reaction that causes red or white itchy welts. The welts vary in size and appear and fade repeatedly as the reaction runs its course. Chronic hives are a condition in which the welts last more than six weeks or recur over months or years. Chronic hives usually aren't life-threatening. But the condition can be very uncomfortable and interfere with sleep and daily activities. Often, the cause of chronic hives is not clear. In some cases, chronic hives are a sign of an underlying health problem, such as thyroid disease or lupus. You can try various treatments to relieve your symptoms. For many people, antihistamine and anti-itch medications provide relief from chronic hives
A. A. A. Urticaria, also known as hives, is an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of the body's reaction to certain allergens, or for unknown reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. The most common causes are certain foods, medications, or infections. Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, and milk. Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods.
XOLAIR ® (omalizumab) for subcutaneous use is an injectable prescription medicine used to treat adults and children 12 years of age and older with chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU; chronic hives without a known cause) who continue to have hives that are not controlled by H1 antihistamine treatment. 
Causes. While the cause of chronic idiopathic urticarial is unknown, the reaction may be caused by certain triggers, including pain medications, infection, insect bites or parasites, exposure to heat, cold or sunlight, stress, consumption of food or alcohol, or pressure on the skin. Common symptoms:
Chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU), defined as the occurrence of daily, or almost daily, wheals and itching for at least 6 weeks, with no obvious cause, has not been the subject of detailed epidemiological studies. Purpose of Review: Chronic idiopathic urticaria has long been a demoralizing disease, baffling allergists and dermatologists alike, to the detriment of the patient. Recent findings, however, have shed light on causation in many, though not all, of these patient
In most cases, urticaria is an acute condition triggered by exposure to soap, detergent, bubble bath or another allergen. Anti-itch cream can be applied to alleviate the symptoms of hives. Chronic idiopathic urticaria may cause daily itching. View slideshow of images above. Using oatmeal-based lotions may help to alleviate the symptoms of chronic idiopathic urticaria. Hives that appear for no known reason and that last for an extended period of time are called
Chronic urticaria (hives lasting longer than six weeks) is rarely due to an allergy. The majority of chronic hives cases have an unknown (idiopathic) cause. In perhaps as many as 30–40% of patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria, it is caused by an autoimmune reaction. 