Cuzco was the center of the Incan empire. The Incas, an American Indian people, were originally a small tribe in the southern highlands of Peru. In less than a century, during the 1400s, they built one of the largest, most tightly controlled empires the world has ever known. Many different languages were spoken in ancient Peru. The Incas of Cuzco spoke Quechua (KETCH-wah). To unify the empire, they spread the language, and as a result Quechua became, and still is, the most widely spoken Indian language in the Americas.
In 1500 C.E., the Inca Empire was the biggest, wealthiest civilization in Mesoamerica. They ruled over a diverse area of mountains and rain forest, some 2,500 miles in length. Hundreds of tribes with varying languages were commanded by the Inca from the capital city of Cuzco. Yet, by 1532 the Inca Empire was gone. The Inca called their empire Tahuantinsuyu, or Land of the Four Quarters. It stretched 2,500 miles from Quito, Ecuador, to beyond Santiago, Chile. Within its domain were rich coastal settlements, high mountain valleys, rain-drenched tropical forests and the driest of deserts.
Cuzco (also Cusco or Qosqo) was the religious and administrative capital of the Inca Empire which flourished in ancient Peru between c. 1400 and 1534 CE. The Incas controlled territory from Quito to Santiago, making theirs the largest empire ever seen in the Americas and the largest in the world at that time. Thupa Inka Yupanki (also known as Topa Inca), Pachakuti's successor from 1471 CE, is credited with having expanded the empire by a massive 4,000 km (2,500 miles). The Incas themselves called their empire Tawantinsuyo (or Tahuantinsuyu) meaning 'Land of the Four Quarters' or 'The Four Parts Together'.
Ancient Inca Facts. The Inca Empire, also known as the Inka Empire or Incan Empire, was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America. The administrative, political, and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru. 1 The man who established the Inca Empire was Manco Capac in 1438. 2  Manco Capac declared himself Sapa Inca, divine son of the Sun. 3  He was a skilled warrior and leader who exercised absolute power. 4  Most historians agree there were thirteen emperors during the time when the Inca Empire existed.
The Inca civilization flourished in ancient Peru between c. 1400 and 1533 CE, and their empire eventually extended across western South America from Quito in the north to Santiago in the south, making it the largest empire ever seen in the Americas and the largest in the world at that time. Thupa Inka Yupanki (also known as Topa Inca), Pachakuti's successor from 1471 CE, is credited with having expanded the empire by a massive 4,000 km (2,500 miles). The Incas themselves called their empire Tawantinsuyo (or Tahuantinsuyu) meaning 'Land of the Four Quarters' or 'The Four Parts Together'.
1 The Inca Empire existed in Peru. 2  It ran along the Pacific coast and Andean highlands from the northern border of what is today called Ecuador to the Maule River in Chile. 3  There were over a million people who were Inca. 4  The man who established the Inca Empire was Manco Capac in 1438. 1 The man who established the Inca Empire was Manco Capac in 1438. 2  Manco Capac declared himself Sapa Inca, divine son of the Sun. 3  He was a skilled warrior and leader who exercised absolute power. 4  Most historians agree there were thirteen emperors during the time when the Inca Empire existed.
The Inca Empire, or Inka Empire (Quechua: Tawantinsuyu), was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America. The administrative, political and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru. The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century. 
The Inca Empire was founded on, and maintained by, force, and the ruling Incas were very often unpopular with their subjects (especially in the northern territories), a situation that the Spanish conquistadores, led by Francisco Pizarro, would take full advantage of in the middle decades of the 16th century CE. Thupa Inka Yupanki (also known as Topa Inca), Pachakuti's successor from 1471 CE, is credited with having expanded the empire by a massive 4,000 km (2,500 miles). The Incas themselves called their empire Tawantinsuyo (or Tahuantinsuyu) meaning 'Land of the Four Quarters' or 'The Four Parts Together'.
The Inca Empire was a vast empire that flourished in the Andean region of South America from the early 15th century A.D. up until its conquest by the Spanish in the 1530s. Even after the conquest, Inca leaders continued to resist the Spaniards up until 1572 when its last city, Vilcabamba, was captured. 
The Inca Empire (Quechua: Tawantinsuyu, The Four Regions), also known as the Incan Empire, was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America. The administrative, political, and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru. The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century, and the last Inca stronghold was conquered by the Spanish in 1572. The Inca people were a pastoral tribe in the Cusco area around the 12th century. Under the leadership of Manco Capac, cápac they formed the small-city State kingdom Of (Cusco Quechua', Qusqu). qosqo