Etiology: Pseudomonas pneumonia is an infection caused by the microbe known as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. It is an opportunistic pathogen because it is capable of attacking its host while its immune system is compromised. This pathogen belongs to the Gamma Proteobacteria bacterial class. Signs and Symptoms: Common signs and symptoms of pseudomonas pneumonia include shortness of breath, fever, chills, increased heart rate, decrease appetite, malaise, systemic inflammatory response, productive cough, increase sputum production that may have a yellow-green pigment, is thick, and usually foul smelling.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common nosocomial pathogen that often causes pneumonia in hospitalized patients [1] and [2] , most of whom have underlying medical conditions or risk factors for Pseudomonas infection. Abstract. We describe three types of Pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia. Case 1. P. aeruginosa was isolated from the blood and sputum of a 29-year-old male non-smoker who developed severe community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
Practice Essentials. Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become an important cause of infection, especially in patients with compromised host defense mechanisms. It is the most common pathogen isolated from patients who have been hospitalized longer than 1 week, and it is a frequent cause of nosocomial infections. These pathogens are widespread in nature, inhabiting soil, water, plants, and animals (including humans). Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become an important cause of infection, especially in patients with compromised host defense mechanisms.
In general, the most important pathogen is Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which is especially common in pneumonia acquired in intensive care settings and in patients with cystic fibrosis, neutropenia, advanced AIDS, and bronchiectasis. Bacteria are the most common cause of pneumonia in adults. Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) includes ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), postoperative pneumonia, and pneumonia that develops in moderately or critically ill hospitalized inpatients.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an uncommon cause of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), but a common cause of hospital-acquired pneumonia. Controversies exist for diagnostic methods and antibiotic therapy. Pneumonia due to P aeruginosa occurs in several distinct syndromes: (1) CAP, usually in patients with chronic lung disease; (2) hospital-acquired pneumonia, usually occurring in the ICU; and (3) bacteremic P aeruginosa pneumonia, usually in the neutropenic host. Radiologic manifestations are nonspecific.
Topic Overview. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh). Healthy people often carry these bacteria around without knowing it and without having any problems. 
Serious Pseudomonas infections usually occur in people in the hospital and/or with weakened immune systems. Infections of the blood, pneumonia, and infections following surgery can lead to severe illness and death in these people. However, healthy people can also develop mild illnesses with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, especially after exposure to water. In hospitals, where the most serious infections occur, Pseudomonas can be spread on the hands of healthcare workers or by equipment that gets contaminated and is not properly cleaned.