Size: engine size, type, and ambient temperature determine what size cranking battery you need. High cranking power (and a larger battery) is required for cold temperatures, diesel engines, or large and high compression gas engines. Your boat's house battery bank uses deep cycle batteries, the marathon runners of the storage system. They power the electrical loads on your boat when no charge source (shore power charger, engine alternator, wind generator or solar panel) is available.
Gel Cell batteries are a closed system of battery, that is inaccessible to us with no need to check water or in this case gel levels. RATINGS. All batteries, car or marine come rated for the job they are supposed to do, namely starting engines & supplying power. 
What size battery cable do I need for ... is by far the most common question we get on a daily basis and we always do out best to help customers figure out the correct size. 2) Find the displacement in cubic inches for your engine. If you have the engine size in liters then you can convert it by 1 liter = 61.02 cubic inches so that a 5 liter (5L) engine is 5 x 61.02 = 305.1 Cubic Inches.
Johnson & Evinrude Outboards. 1. 25HP Johnson battery charging system. Johnson & Evinrude Outboards. 1. Battery for 90 hp Johnson gradually discharges. Johnson & Evinrude Outboards. 4. 94 Johnson 50hp. Battery drain through rectifier/regulator.
I was also informed that you do not need to charge the battery battery (mercury 60hp). Any information would be greatly appreciated. thanks in advance annette. Due to the amount of traffic on the Boat Batteries page and the number of e-mails on the subject, I've decided to post some of the questions and answers here. 
This is the information on the boat I own (yes I own it). The battery broke and I need to know what kind of battery I need to purchase. It's made in 1999. It's a Rinker 182 B/R. It's 18 feet 5 inches long. The power is inboard (whatever that means). 3.0 L MerCruiser. I don't know if that's all the information you need but I need to know what kind of battery I need for this boat model. Thank you and suggestions and guesses on the type of battery I might need would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.
Starting batteries. Starting batteries, which crank the starter of your boat's engine, are the sprinters of your electrical system. They deliver between 75 and 400 amperes for 5-15 seconds, and then are recharged in short order by your engine's alternator. Your boat's house battery bank uses deep cycle batteries, the marathon runners of the storage system. They power the electrical loads on your boat when no charge source (shore power charger, engine alternator, wind generator or solar panel) is available.
You’ll know when you have a marine battery because it’s usually a lot heavier than a normal battery. One of the most important preventive steps is to always check your battery connections to make sure they are tight, because boats do a lot of bouncing around. Shaking and rattling will back off the connections, especially if you your battery has wing nut connections.