The easiest way to open a BAK file is to double-click on it and let your PC decide which default application should open the file. If no program opens the BAK file then you probably don't have an application installed that can view and/or edit BAK files. 1 Open the BAK file in its default program and choose to save the open file as another file format. 2  Use a File Conversion Online Service or Software Program to convert the BAK file to
Backup file type. The bak File extension is for a long time used for backups. Generally a *.bak file is a backup of original file, when the original extension is renamed to somename .bak. So, to restore original file, rename file to its original extension, if you know it, that is
Backup file. BAK is a file extension for a file format typically used when creating a backup copy of a file. Normally, a BAK file is created as an automatic backup when an application is editing or making changes to the file in question. Certain database applications use BAK files when making a backup copy of their database. Mozilla Firefox also uses “bookmarks.bak” file to make an automated bookmarks backup.
Since we said that a .bak file can be created by different software systems and if you do not have any information about the origin of the file or the program that it was created from, then you need to pass through some additional steps in order to get the information from the backup file. You can find a more detailed list of software products which can create .bak files, here. Since this file-name extension is used for backup files of any type and there is no standard format which creates a .bak file, each program can create its own format of a backup, with the same .bak extension.
Tip: Use Notepad or another text editor to open the BAK file. Many files are text-only files meaning no matter the file extension, a text editor may be able to properly display the file's contents. This may or may not be the case with BAK files but it's worth a try. 1 Open the BAK file in its default program and choose to save the open file as another file format. 2  Use a File Conversion Online Service or Software Program to convert the BAK file to
A large number of applications and computer processes use the .bak extension to create backups of documents that the program is creating. The .bak file extension is a common file extension for the files that are created by the auto-save features that are found in many computer applications. For example, when you are editing a document in Microsoft Word and the auto-save feature kicks in, a .bak file will be created. Files with the .bak extension are also commonly created before your computer begins to execute a complex operation, ensuring your data will be restored if something happens during the process. These files are normally automatically deleted by the application that created them when the file is no longer need
In DOS systems, a file with a.BAK extension, indicating that the file is a backup. Many applications produce BAK files as part of their autosave procedure. Periodically, you may want to search for BAK files and delete old ones. 
In computing,  .bak  is a filename extension commonly used to signify a backup copy of a file. When a program is about to overwrite an existing file (for example, when the user saves the document he or she is working on), the program may first make a copy of the existing file, with. appended to the filename. This common.