Both bone and cartilage contain living cells embedded in an intercellular matrix. In bone, these cells are called osteocytes, which likewise occupy lacunae. However, the intercellular matrix of bone contains more collagen than found in cartilage and it is heavily mineralized with calcium salts.
Bone is specialized connective tissue with a calcified extracellular matrix (bone matrix) and 3 major cell types: the osteoblast, osteocyte, and osteoclast. The first type of bone formed developmentally is primary or woven bone (immature). This immature bone is later replaced by secondary or lamellar bone (mature).
1 Interstitial growth-Chondroblasts within the existing cartilage divide and form small groups of cells, isogenous groups, which produce matrix to become separated from each other by a thin partition of matrix. 2  Interstitial growth occurs mainly in immature cartilage.
The mature cell in cartilage is a chondrocyte. It rests in a lacunae surrounded by matrix. A chondroblast is an immature cartilage cell which produces the cartilaginous matrix. An osteocyte is a mature bone cell. An osteoclast is a bone cell which is involved in resorption of bone.
An osteon is also called a Haversian system. The mature bone cell is called an osteocyte. It sits in a space, called a lacuna. An osteoblast is an immature bone cell. The osteoblast is the bone forming cell. Osteoid is unmineralized bone matrix. 5.
CARTILAGE. 1  is a specialised type of connective tissue. 2  consists, like other connective tissues, of cells and extracellular components. 3  does, unlike other connective tissues, not contain vessels or nerves. 4  is surrounded by a layer of dense connective tissue, the perichondrium.
2. chondroblasts-immature cartilage cells. Secrete extracellular matrix, but are not yet rigidly embedded in that matrix. 3. chondrocytes-mature cartilage cells that are embedded in rigid extracellular matrix. These cells reside in small spaces within the matrix that are called lacunae. May be more than one cell in a lacuna. Living chondrocytes have an eliptic shape.