Demonstrating success is critical to building a long-term care business. How can your pharmacy make a difference? The long-term care (LTC) market in the United States was valued at $258 billion in 2010 and is expected to grow at approximately 6% each year, reaching nearly $354 billion by 2015. 1 Nine million Americans were in long-term care in 2012. By 2020, that number will increase to 12 million. 2. 
Long-term care (LTC) is a variety of services which help meet both the medical and non-medical needs of people with a chronic illness or disability who cannot care for themselves for long periods of time. 
Long-term care is a range of services and supports you may need to meet your personal care needs. Most long-term care is not medical care, but rather assistance with the basic personal tasks of everyday life, sometimes called Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) , such as: 1  Bathing. 2  Dressing. 3  Using the toilet. 4  Transferring (to or from bed or chair)
Long-term care insurance (LTCI) covers the risk that individuals may need medical and custodial care, either at home or ... Long-term care refers to a collection of services that are intended to meet the medical and non-medical needs of disabled ... Long-term care is usually very expensive, which is why most people need insurance. For example, on average, nursing facilities providing skilled care charge $150 to $300 per day-more than $80,000 a year or more. Even custodial home care at three visits per week can cost more than $9,000 a year.
BREAKING DOWN 'Loan-To-Cost Ratio-LTC'. The LTC ratio helps commercial real estate lenders assess the risk of making a construction loan. The higher the LTC ratio, the higher the risk. A similar, commonly used metric, the loan-to-value ratio, compares the amount of the loan to the fair-market value of the project. RELATED TERMS.
Long-term care insurance (LTC or LTCI), an insurance product sold in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, helps provide for the cost of long-term care beyond a predetermined period. 
Glossary of Insurance Terms. Long-Term Care is a term that is used to describe an array of services that are available to people with prolonged illnesses, disabilities or cognitive disorders. LTC services include health, medical, personal care, and social services, as described below. A final word on LTC: The decision to purchase Long-Term Care insurance is a big one with definite financial consequences, both in terms of premiums and future personal care. These types of decisions should not be made without consulting the most important people in your life-such as your family.
DEFINITION of 'Loan-To-Cost Ratio-LTC'. A ratio used in commercial real estate construction to compare the amount of the loan used to finance a project to the cost to build the project. If the project cost $1 million to complete and the borrower was asking for $800,000, the loan-to-cost (LTC) ratio would be 80%. The LTC ratio helps commercial real estate lenders assess the risk of making a construction loan. The higher the LTC ratio, the higher the risk. A similar, commonly used metric, the loan-to-value ratio, compares the amount of the loan to the fair-market value of the project. RELATED TERMS.
long-term care (LTC), the provision of medical, social, and personal care services on a recurring or continuing basis to persons with chronic physical or mental disorders. The care may be provided in environments ranging from institutions to private homes. long-term care (LTC), n the provision of medical, social, and personal care services on a recurring or continuing basis to persons with chronic physical or mental disorders.