Contributed by Chris Landsea (NHC). First, the right side of the storm is defined with respect to the storm's motion: if the hurricane is moving to the west, the right side would be to the north of the storm; if the hurricane is moving to the north, the right side would be to the east of the storm, etc.
The right side of the hurricane is the strongest because a hurricane rotates counterclockwise. As a result the wind speed on the right side is the sum of the speed at which the hurricane is rotating and the storm's forward speed.
The movements of the storm -- and the winds that rotate around the center -- play a big part in determining which section of a hurricane has the strongest winds and therefore causes the biggest damage. If a storm is moving due north, you'll find the strongest winds on the right-front side of the hurricane's center. This is the section of the hurricane that takes into account the forward storm motion along with the winds wrapping around the center.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. If a hurricane or other tropical cyclone is moving the winds on one side will be faster than on the opposite side in relation to the ocean or ground the storm is moving over. In the Northern Hemisphere the fastest winds will be on the right side, if you are looking in the direction of the storm's movement.
With counterclockwise winds of 100 mph added to the forward speed of 10 mph on the right side, a ship there will be hit by 110 mph winds because the 100 mph winds and forward motion of the storm are in the same direction..
To see why the winds on the right side of a Northern Hemisphere hurricane or typhoon are faster than those on the left, imagine the winds are circling the storm at 100 mph, and the entire storm is moving forward at 10 mph.
A: If a hurricane or other tropical cyclone is moving the winds on one side will be faster than on the opposite side in relation to the ocean or ground the storm is moving over. In the Northern Hemisphere the fastest winds will be on the right side, if you are looking in the direction of the storm's movement. That is, if the hurricane is moving toward the west, the strongest winds will be on the north side; if it's moving north, the strongest winds will be on the east side.