Examples of Project Deliverables. A blueprint drawing can be a project deliverable. Hemera Technologies/Photos.com/Getty Images. Whether you are producing products for your customers or reports for your employees, your small business will have projects and those projects must have deliverables. Project deliverables are the tangible products generated from a project. Without deliverables, projects would be pointless; deliverables are why projects are created. However, there are many kinds of project deliverables that are intended for both internal and external stakeholders.
BREAKING DOWN 'Deliverables'. Deliverables serves as a general term that encompasses the requirements of a project. A deliverable may be an object, used in the greater scheme of the project. For example, in a project meant to upgrade a firm's technology, a deliverable may be a dozen new computers. Alternatively, a deliverable may be a function or aspect of the overall project. For example, a software project may have a deliverable specifying that the computer program must be able to compute a company's accounts receivable.
Deliverable is a term used in project management to describe a tangible or intangible object produced as a result of the project that is intended to be delivered to a customer (either internal or external). A deliverable could be a report, a document, a server upgrade or any other building block of an overall project. A deliverable is more than just a project document in that a project document is typically part of a project deliverable. A project deliverable may contain a number of documents and physical things. In technical projects, deliverables can be further classified as hardware, software, or design documents
DEFINITION of 'Deliverables'. A project management term for the quantifiable goods or services that will be provided upon the completion of a project. Deliverables can be tangible or intangible parts of the development process, and are often specified functions or characteristics of the project. Next Up. Alternatively, a deliverable may be a function or aspect of the overall project. For example, a software project may have a deliverable specifying that the computer program must be able to compute a company's accounts receivable.
Goal: Define project deliverables. After you establish the objectives of your project, you define the actual product or service that meets those objectives. This product or service is called a deliverable. Where appropriate, you can record information about the deliverables in your project. Group similar deliverables or deliverables with the same stakeholders in a phase. This method allows you to schedule a team to work on a project until the deliverable is handed off. Then the team can move on to other projects.
In project management, a deliverable is a product or service that is given to your client. A deliverable usually has a due date and is tangible, measurable and specific. Training Program. Training programs can also be a deliverable for a client. Most often, the final product is the training program itself, but there are also other deliverables that must be produced along the way. First will be the training design that tells the client how the training program will be developed.
A deliverable differs from a project milestone in that a milestone is a measurement of progress toward an output whereas the deliverable is the result of the process. For a typical project, a milestone might be the completion of a product design while the deliverable might be the technical diagram of the product. A deliverable is more than just a project document in that a project document is typically part of a project deliverable. A project deliverable may contain a number of documents and physical things. In technical projects, deliverables can be further classified as hardware, software, or design documents
A frequent deliverable in project management is a software product. This could be a software program or source code that needs to be written by a specific deadline. When a software program is being customized for a client, these software products usually are delivered in phases or releases and they are numbered. Training Program. Training programs can also be a deliverable for a client. Most often, the final product is the training program itself, but there are also other deliverables that must be produced along the way. First will be the training design that tells the client how the training program will be developed.