1 On average, this examination is going to cost anywhere from $250 to $300 to complete the exam. 2  According to the Human Resource Certification Institute, the price for the examination may differ based on the membership status of the person taking the exam. 3  The price of the examination can be anywhere from $250 to $300.
Using its database of over profiles and 250 compensable factors, PayScale analyzed various aspects of Human Resources (HR) positions, comparing results for professionals with and without a Professional in Human Resources (PHR) or Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR) certification.
The cost of the PHR Certification exam itself is $300, but depending on your method of preparation, total costs can vary.
Sign up to attend the FREE 60-minute preview of this series: PHR/SPHR Study Certification Course: What’s It All About? and find out if an HR certification is right for you.
1 The price of the examination can be anywhere from $250 to $300. 2  The geographical location can also play a factor. 3  For example, the state of Colorado’s pricing for the exam certification is not much different from the ones being offered on some locations.
1 For example, the Human Resources Study Guide retails for $34. 2  While it can be considered as additional cost, applying for a membership with SHRM can provide plenty of benefits to you such as a discounted price of as much as $50 on the certification exam.
Pin It. Most HR professionals know that getting a Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR) or Professional in Human Resources (PHR) certification is worth the time and effort.
1 The books needed are not included with the PHR certification fees. 2  The price of the books varies depending on the type of books. 3  Books can start at $10 and go up from there. 4  For example, the Human Resources Study Guide retails for $34.
PHR certification is designed for those who: answer to another HR professional with approximately two years professional experience in HR and have a desire to improve their credentials and chances for promotion.