population bottleneck. A population bottleneck is an event that drastically reduces the size of a population. The bottleneck may be caused by various events, such as an environmental disaster, the hunting of a species to the point of extinction, or habitat destruction that results in the deaths of organisms
The term Bottleneck Effect is used when a population has been reduced at some point in time to a small number of individuals with a loss of genetic diversity as a result. bottleneck effect is an evolutionary event in which population size is radically reduced because of catastrophic events. founder effect occur when few individuals migrate fr … om main population and establishes a separate population in new geographical location.
In humans, this effect is referred to as population bottleneck or genetic bottleneck, and is believed to be an evolutionary event in which there is a drastic decrease in the population of the human species. 
(In biology) The bottleneck effect happens when the size of a population or even an entire species is suddenly reduced, with lasting effects on at least one generation. A popu … lation bottleneck may occur after an epidemic, drought, fire, hunting, or other destructive events. bottleneck effect is an evolutionary event in which population size is radically reduced because of catastrophic events. founder effect occur when few individuals migrate fr … om main population and establishes a separate population in new geographical location.
Northern elephant seals have reduced genetic variation probably because of a population bottleneck humans inflicted on them in the 1890s. Hunting reduced their population size to as few as 20 individuals at the end of the 19th century. Founder effects. A founder effect occurs when a new colony is started by a few members of the original population. This small population size means that the colony may have: 1  reduced genetic variation from
An example of a bottleneck: Northern elephant seals have reduced genetic variation probably because of a population bottleneck humans inflicted on them in the 1890s. Hunting reduced their population size to as few as 20 individuals at the end of the 19th century. A founder effect occurs when a new colony is started by a few members of the original population. This small population size means that the colony may have: 1  reduced genetic variation from the original population. 2  a non-random sample of the genes in the original population
Population bottleneck followed by recovery or extinction. A population bottleneck (or genetic bottleneck) is a sharp reduction in the size of a population due to environmental events (such as earthquakes, floods, fires, disease, or droughts) or human activities (such as genocide). In consequence of such population size reductions and the loss of genetic variation, the robustness of the population is reduced and its ability to survive selecting environmental changes, like climate change or a shift in available resources, is reduced.
Founder effects. A founder effect occurs when a new colony is started by a few members of the original population. This small population size means that the colony may have: 1  reduced genetic variation from the original population. 2  a non-random sample of the genes in the original population