Modified starch, also called starch derivatives, are prepared by physically, enzymatically, or chemically treating native starch to change its properties. Modified starch should not be confused with genetically modified starch, which refers to starch from genetically engineered plants, such as those that have been genetically modified to produce novel fatty acids or carbohydrates which might not occur in the plant species being harvested.
I’ve read so many conflicting explanations I don’t know what to think. Modified corn starch is an ingredient used in many foods. It is simply corn starch that has been altered by a chemical or enzyme to enable it to perform certain functions in food. For example, corn starch breaks down when heated, but modified corn starch used as a gelling agent better maintains texture in microwaved food
Modified corn starch is used in many products to make it thicker, especially when a liquid is added like a pudding. It can also be used as a stabilizer to thicken or gel the product. Stabilizers actually prevent another reaction from happening, for example, one that would make the product thinner. Modified means that the corn starch has been processed to change its physical properties – to change its texture, how quickly it dissolves, or its behavior when it is heated or frozen. It can be processed so that it swells but doesn’t fall apart.
A modified starch is a starch that has been chemically modified to allow the starch to function properly under conditions frequently encountered during processing or storage, such as high heat, high shear, low pH, freeze/thaw and cooling. 
Modified food starch is a chemically altered food ingredient made from starch. Because many starches may contain gluten or have been contaminated with gluten, be on the look out for this ingredient in many of the foods sold today if you are eliminating gluten from your diet. If you are concerned about gluten in foods containing modified food starch, there are a few ways you can avoid it: 1  Check the label for the words Gluten Free. 2  This means the company has undergone testing and is certifying their foods as safe for consumption. 3  Call the company who manufacturers the food and ask.
According to GlutenFreeLiving.com, wheat will be indicated on the product's labeling if wheat was the starch base. Because the other starches may be contaminated with gluten during their manufacturing, however, it is recommended that anyone following a gluten-free diet avoid modified food starch. If you are concerned about gluten in foods containing modified food starch, there are a few ways you can avoid it: 1  Check the label for the words Gluten Free. 2  This means the company has undergone testing and is certifying their foods as safe for consumption. 3  Call the company who manufacturers the food and ask.
It is a derivative of corn, wheat, potato, rice, or tapioc, chemically altered to disolve quickly and serve as a thickener. People who have wheat and gluten alergies should avoid products with this ingredient because it may contain gluten. 
73 Followers. A. Modified cornstarch is starch that is physically/chemically treated to change its properties and is mainly used as a thickening agent, stabilizer or emulsifier in various food products (as a food additiive and not for taste/nutrition). There are many different types of these starches around and they are considered safe. 
Modified starches are used in practically all starch applications, such as in food products as a thickening agent, stabilizer or emulsifier; in pharmaceuticals as a disintegrant; as binder in coated paper. They are also used in many other applications. Modified starch should not be confused with genetically modified starch, which refers to starch from genetically engineered plants, such as those that have been genetically modified to produce novel fatty acids or carbohydrates which might not occur in the plant species being harvested.
Modified corn starch is an ingredient that has confused new to the gluten free diet for a long time. They know that corn starch is gluten free but “modified” seems to raise questions. It is used as in an ingredient in many products. First of all, modified corn starch is acceptable for a gluten free diet. It is gluten free. Modified means that the corn starch has been processed to change its physical properties – to change its texture, how quickly it dissolves, or its behavior when it is heated or frozen. It can be processed so that it swells but doesn’t fall apart.