They were founded when Chicago didn't have a professional basketball team and needed one. The coach went to colleges to see who we're the best players and to see who he can pu … t on the team. He found Dennis Rodman, Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and more great players. Jean Baptiste Pointe du Sable is known as being the Founder of  Chicago.. He was the first settler in 1773 in the area that is  present-day Chicago. He was a trader from Ha … iti
The Chicago Blackhawks were founded on September 25, 1926, when the National Hockey League awarded a franchise to Major Frederic McLaughlin, a Harvard-educated local coffee tycoon who was able to come up with the $12,000 entry fee required to join the League. 
The first permanent settlement was founded in 1781 by Jean Baptiste Point du Sable, an African American from Santo Domingo. The location at the mouth of the Chicago river was chosen for its strategic value for a trading post as the river connected the Lake with the Mississippi river. 
They were founded when Chicago didn't have a professional basketball team and needed one. The coach went to colleges to see who we're the best players and to see who he can pu … t on the team. He found Dennis Rodman, Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and more great players. Who founded Chicago and where was he born? Answer   1772 --- A black man from Haiti named Jean-Baptiste Pointe du Sable, a fur trader, founded a settlement called Eschikagou on the north bank of the Chicago River.
Late-19th-century big city newspapers such as the Chicago Daily News-founded in 1875 by Melville Stone-ushered in an era of news reporting that was, unlike earlier periods, in tune with the particulars of community life in specific cities. By 1857 Chicago was the largest city in what was then known as the Northwest. In a period of twenty years Chicago grew from 4,000 people to over 90,000. Chicago surpassed St. Louis and Cincinnati as the major city in the West.
Jean Baptiste Pointe du Sable is known as being the Founder of  Chicago.. He was the first settler in 1773 in the area that is  present-day Chicago. He was a trader from Ha … iti. Who founded Chicago and where was he born? Answer   1772 --- A black man from Haiti named Jean-Baptiste Pointe du Sable, a fur trader, founded a settlement called Eschikagou on the north bank of the Chicago River.
The Art Institute of Chicago was founded as both a museum and school for the fine arts in 1879, a critical era in the history of Chicago as civic energies were devoted to rebuilding the metropolis that had been destroyed by the Great Fire of 1871. 
She outgrows his prophecies faster than he can make them.. - Mark Twain, 1883. Chicago was only 46 years old when Mark Twain wrote those words, but it had already grown more than 100-fold, from a small trading post at the mouth of the Chicago River into one of the nation’s largest cities, and it wasn’t about to stop. In 1795, the U.S. government built Fort Dearborn at what is now the corner of Michigan Avenue and Wacker Drive (look for the bronze markers in the pavement). It was burned to the ground by Native Americans in 1812, rebuilt and demolished in 1857.