Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (CIU) can be brought on by exercise or stress–and as we’ll see in just a minute, Hashimoto’s autoimmune hypothyroidism. About 30 years ago there was the first research to see the connection between CIU and autoimmune thyroid disease. Let’s talk about the connection between chronic urticaria and Hashimoto’s autoimmune hypothyroidism. Chronic idiopathic urticaria is a condition in which you get itchy wheals on your skin that can vary in size and number.
Hashimoto's Disease. Hashimoto's disease, an autoimmune condition, is the most common cause of hypothyroidism. In this case the immune system mistakenly targets and damages the thyroid gland, so not enough hormones are produced. Hashimoto’s disease is often inherited. 
Thyroid and hives are closely related in about 10% of all hives cases. Some people with chronic hives have a high level of anti-thyroid antibodies in their system, which can cause a hives rash. Remember that hives are caused by the body’s immune system thinking there is an allergen present. Sometimes thyroid and hives are connected in other ways. Some people have autoimmune thyroid disease, vitiligo and swollen joints along with the hives. Thyroid and hives problems like this are rare, but if you are unable to find out what is causing your hives, maybe the thyroid and hives are connected.
Chronic hives are defined as hives that last more than six weeks or hives that go away, but recur frequently. In most cases of chronic hives, a cause is never clearly identified. In some cases, chronic hives may be related to an underlying autoimmune disorder, such as thyroid disease or lupus. While the underlying cause of chronic hives is usually not identified, treatment can help with symptoms. Hives and angioedema also occasionally occur in response to blood transfusions, immune system disorders such as lupus, some types of cancer such as lymphoma, certain thyroid conditions, and infections with bacteria or viruses such as hepatitis, HIV, cytomegalovirus or Epstein-Barr virus.
Different medical reasons can cause hives to show up. Certain medications may lead some people to have allergic reactions that include such a rash. Some foods also produce such a response in individuals with allergies to them. Nuts, shellfish, soy, wheat, and eggs are some of the possibilities. Certain bacteria might also cause hives in a patient. Urticaria is another name that is used for this medical condition. Symptoms. The characteristic symptom in hives is the rash that appears. However, other symptoms may appear, especially due to any underlying medical conditions that led to the appearance of the urticaria.
But the condition can be very uncomfortable and interfere with sleep and daily activities. Often, the cause of chronic hives is not clear. In some cases, chronic hives are a sign of an underlying health problem, such as thyroid disease or lupus. You can try various treatments to relieve your symptoms. For many people, antihistamine and anti-itch medications provide relief from chronic hives.
About 40 percent of people with chronic hives also have angioedema. Signs and symptoms of angioedema include large welts or swelling of the skin that may occur around the eyes and lips, hands, feet, genitalia, and inside the throat. Swelling in the throat can obstruct breathing and requires emergency treatment. Hives and angioedema also occasionally occur in response to blood transfusions, immune system disorders such as lupus, some types of cancer such as lymphoma, certain thyroid conditions, and infections with bacteria or viruses such as hepatitis, HIV, cytomegalovirus or Epstein-Barr virus.
Hives. Hives is a name for a particular type of skin rash. The condition is characterized by raised bumps that are itchy and light red in color. It can be either acute or chronic in nature, with the former lasting less than six weeks. Urticaria is another name that is used for this medical condition. Symptoms. The characteristic symptom in hives is the rash that appears. However, other symptoms may appear, especially due to any underlying medical conditions that led to the appearance of the urticaria.