DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Tetracycline is a broad spectrum antibiotic, that is, it is active against many different types of bacteria. It is effective against Hemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia psittaci, Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and many others. Tetracycline prevents growth of bacteria by preventing the bacteria from manufacturing proteins that they need to survive.
STORAGE: Tetracycline should be stored below 30 C (86 F). PRESCRIBED FOR: Tetracycline is used for treating several types of infections caused by susceptible bacteria. Some examples include infections of the respiratory tract, urinary tract, and skin. It is effective against Hemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia psittaci, Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and many others. Tetracycline prevents growth of bacteria by preventing the bacteria from manufacturing proteins that they need to survive.
Drug Tetracycline. The generic Tetracycline is manufactured by 8 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. Please also note that Medindia's database currently has 13 Brands of Generics of Tetracycline listed
Stop using tetracycline and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  severe headache, dizziness, blurred vision; 2  fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms; 3  severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; 4  urinating less than usual or not at all; Tetracycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Tetracycline may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Stop using tetracycline and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  severe headache, dizziness, blurred vision; 2  fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms; 3  severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; 4  urinating less than usual or not at all; Last reviewed on RxList 9/18/2015. Sumycin (tetracycline hydrochloride) is an antibiotic used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Sumycin is available in generic form.
Drug Information. Tetracycline is an antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections such as respiratory tract infections, skin infections, and urinary tract infections. It is also prescribed for acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, typhus, cholera, brucellosis, anthrax, and so on. Tetracycline can cause side effects such as mild nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, dizziness, vaginal itching, and mouth sores. This is not a complete list of all side effects. Do concur with your doctor and follow his directions completely when you are taking Tetracycline.
Languages: DE-ES-FR-IT. Tetracycline (brand names Sumycin, Terramycin, Tetracyn and Panmycin) is a broad-spectrum polyketide antibiotic. It is used against many bacterial infections. Tetracycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Brand names: Sumycin, Terramycin, Tetracyn, Panmycin. Tetracycline (brand names Sumycin, Terramycin, Tetracyn and Panmycin) is a broad-spectrum polyketide antibiotic.