- DON’T use oven cleaners. - DON’T use steel wool, steel brushes, or highly abrasive scrubbing pads—these can cause scratches or leave a residue of small particles that may rust. - DON’T use abrasive cleansers on brushed stainless steel. - DON’T clean a stainless steel surface unless it is cool to the touch. - DON’T use gritty, dirty, or excessively hard water, as it can leave spots or brownish stains. Photo: tohop.com.
1 Don't... 2  Use rubber mats or dishpans in the sink to protect the finish. 3  Leaving rubber mats or dishpans in the sink can lead to surface rust or possible pitting. 4  Instead use stainless steel bottom grids. How to Care for Your Stainless Steel Sink. Stainless steel sinks aren't perfect; no material is perfect for all conditions/situations. We are not aware of any material that is more durable and more ideal for sinks than quality stainless steel. Stainless steel sinks are made from nickel bearing
Install a stainless steel bottom grid in your sink to protect the basin from scratches. Don't use a rubber mats because corrosive chemicals can become trapped between the mat and the sink. Bottom grids allow a free flow of water to keep the basin clean. 5. Disinfect and cleanse the sink whenever it begins to lose its luster. Fill it one-quarter full with equal amounts of bleach and water. Let the solution sit for 15 minutes, and then drain and rinse the sink thoroughly. Dry the sides and bottom with a towel.
Stainless Steel sinks always seem to deceive you. Their name suggests a sink that will take care of itself, but that's rarely the case. Take clean to a whole new level when you have a few extra seconds to give your sink a bit of TLC. Pin it. To clean your stainless steel sink, just mix a paste of baking soda and water. Scratches may also be removed with a very fine steel wool. Simply give the entire sink a gentle once over and it will obliterate and hairline scratches. Simply wash the residue away and continue with the rest of your cleaning. 
1 Don't... 2  Use a steel wool pad to clean your sink. 3  Steel wool pads have a tendency to break apart and small particles of steel can become embedded in the surface of the sink. 4  The steel particles will rust and will give the appearance that the sink itself is rusting. How to Care for Your Stainless Steel Sink. Stainless steel sinks aren't perfect; no material is perfect for all conditions/situations. We are not aware of any material that is more durable and more ideal for sinks than quality stainless steel. Stainless steel sinks are made from nickel bearing
3. Scour the sink along the finish lines once a week to remove scale buildup and buff off light scratches. Use a soft scour pad, not steel wool or harsh scrub pads. Avoid scouring across the grain of the finish, which can damage it. 5. Disinfect and cleanse the sink whenever it begins to lose its luster. Fill it one-quarter full with equal amounts of bleach and water. Let the solution sit for 15 minutes, and then drain and rinse the sink thoroughly. Dry the sides and bottom with a towel.
Rinse and dry your sink after using it. Stainless steel is designed to resist corrosion, but you can stain or scratch it if you aren't careful. Cleaners that are too abrasive will damage the finish, and corrosive substances -- including those in food and drinks -- can leave stains that dull the sink's shine. 5. Disinfect and cleanse the sink whenever it begins to lose its luster. Fill it one-quarter full with equal amounts of bleach and water. Let the solution sit for 15 minutes, and then drain and rinse the sink thoroughly. Dry the sides and bottom with a towel.
After you rinse the sink out, use a soft towel to dry it. Drying the sink will keep it free of tap water stains. Most tap water contains minerals that can ruin the stainless steel finish. Protect the bottom of your stainless steel from scratching and staining, with a rubber sink mat. The rubber sink mat will keep utensils, dishes, glasses and food off the surface of the stainless steel. This way, a handful of silverware thrown into the sink will not scratch the surface. Allow hot pots and pans to cool before you place them in your stainless steel sink. Pots and pans that go from the hot stovetop to a room temperature sink can cause warping and staining.
Tips & Warnings. 1  You can remove the stains that develop as a result of hot pots and pans placed on the stainless steel. 2  Stainless steel cleansers, sold in most supermarkets, home improvement centers and hardware stores, can keep your stainless steel sink shining like new. This way, a handful of silverware thrown into the sink will not scratch the surface. Allow hot pots and pans to cool before you place them in your stainless steel sink. Pots and pans that go from the hot stovetop to a room temperature sink can cause warping and staining.