Plant life on and around Antarctica is restricted to bryophytes  (mosses and liverworts),200 species of lichen, over 600 species of  algae (most of which are phytoplankton), seaweed, pearl-wort and  hair grass.    There are also no human populations native to the Antarctic  continent. There is nothing that lives permanently on the Antarctic continent  itself by way of animal life. There are no land animals that are  mammals, nor any reptiles or amphibians … native to Antarctica. The  continent is too cold to support
Habitat. Deer are found all over the world, with the exception of Australia and Antarctica. While other continents have a wide array of deer, Africa only has one, the Barbary red deer, according to ADW. The Southern pudu is native to Chile and Argentina. A deer common to North and South America is the white-tailed deer
· Deer have a worldwide distribution except Australia and Antarctica, but reindeer is restricted to arctic and subarctic regions of North America, Europe, and Asia. · Deer include small to large sized animals, while reindeer is always medium to large in their physique. Reindeer, Rangifer tarandus, aka Caribou in North America, is a deer species live in Arctic and Subarctic regions of Europe, Asia, and North America. Reindeer has several subspecies with variations according to their inhabited geographical regions.
Deer can be found around the world. They are native to all continents except for Australia and Antarctica. There are about 100 types of deer, including the whitetail deer, reindeer, elk, moose, mule deer, blacktail deer and caribou. Male deer are called bucks, bulls, stags or harts. Female deer are called does, cows or hinds.
No, there are no reindeer. The largest fauna are elephant seals. Reindeer are only native to the artic. A myth that they exist in Antarctica comes from the fact that reindeer exist on South Georgia, a small island between South America and Antarctica. These reindeer were introduced by Norwegian explorers early in the 20th century.
Cervidae-deer, elk, moose. There are 55 species in this family, and they are found in all parts of the world, except for Sub-Saharan Africa, Australia, and Antarctica. The species in this family are found in a wide variety of habitats including forests, grasslands, and on the tundra. In North America, there are two subspecies of deer on the endangered species list. The key deer is a subspecies of the white-tailed deer. It is a small deer found only in the Florida Keys.
Much of the ocean around the mainland is covered by sea ice. Birds and seals mostly live near the edges of the continent. The oceans themselves are a more stable environment for life, both in the water column and on the seabed. There is relatively little diversity in Antarctica compared to much of the rest of the world. Flying birds nest on the milder shores of the Peninsula and the subantarctic islands. Eight species of penguins inhabit Antarctica and its offshore islands. Over 1000 fungi species have been found on and around Antarctica. Larger species are restricted to the subantarctic islands, and the majority of species discovered have been terrestrial. Plants are similarly restricted mostly to the subantarctic islands, and the western edge of the Peninsula.
Facts About Deer. Deer, a beautiful animal, is found inhabiting all the continents of the world, with the exception of Antarctica and Australia. In fact, even Africa has only one native species of deer, known as the Red Deer. It mainly inhabits the Atlas Mountains, located in the northwest of the continent