How Often a Dog Should Be Walked. The question of how often a dog should be walked is a tricky one, since it depends largely on the breed and energy level of the dog. I will try to give you some advice here, so you’ll know how often to walk your dog – or to recommend to your dog walking clients. Register. The question of how often a dog should be walked is a tricky one, since it depends largely on the breed and energy level of the dog.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The general rule is 5 minutes of walking for 4 weeks of age so a 12 week old puppy should be able to walk for 15 minutes. This is a very loose guideline and varies with how much exercise the puppy gets playing at home. If the puppy starts lagging you have gone to far
My lab generally gets walked 2 or 3 times a day for approx 30mins a walk. When we have more time we go out for a couple of hours to the beach or woods. The ideal amount of walking for an adult Lab is about 20 minutes first thing in the morning and last thing at night, and a proper walk of about an hour during the day.
However, depending on the activeness of the dog, this time duration may fluctuate. Most veterinarians recommend that regardless of how long the walk takes, most Labradors should get in at least 2 miles every day. The size of the dog matters as well, as larger dogs that have more strength should walk both longer and faster so that their energy is easier to manage throughout the day. 
After that a Lab needs AT LEAST a 1 hour walk EVERY DAY, preferably longer. You can substitute some of the time with playing fetch, going to the dog park, something outside the house. It doesn't matter if you have a big yard, then need to be mentally challenged for at least an hour a day. I have a mixed breed of dog and would think about half an hour every other day. ----. I have had 3 Labradors, and many other dogs throughout my life. Here's my general rule of thumb: If the Lab is still a puppy (under 1 year old) at least 5 minutes for every month old it is. So a 4 month old dog would need a 20 minute walk every
People often ask ‘how far should I walk my Labrador’ or ‘how long should my walks be’ and that is a difficult question to answer. It depends a lot on what you are doing during those walks and how active your dog is. If he just walks alongside you, then you probably need to walk for a good hour and a half a day. To keep your dog in great condition, he needs the right diet and plenty of exercise. You probably want to know exactly how much exercise your Labrador needs on a daily basis. And we’ll be looking at that in this article. You can head over to my feeding section to get information on diet. Not all experts agree on how long, how far, or how often you need to walk your dog, some will say ‘an hour a day’ others will tell you Labradors need much more than that. What many people don’t realise is that there are a great many different ways to exercise a Labrador apart from walking