1 If the injury doesn't stop bleeding on its own, use a clean cloth to apply pressure. 2  Maintain the pressure for 20 minutes while elevating the wounded area, if possible. 3  If bleeding continues after 20 minutes of pressure or spurts out of the wound, seek medical help. 4  Watch the wound to make sure it is healing. 
Minor scrapes may be uncomfortable, but they usually heal within 3 to 7 days. The larger and deeper the scrape, the longer it will take to heal. A large, deep scrape may take up to 1 to 2 weeks or longer to heal. It is common to have small amounts of fluid drain or ooze from a scrape. This oozing usually clears up gradually and stops within 4 days. Drainage is not a concern as long as there are no signs of infection.
Closing your wound surgically (with stitches, clips or staples) encourages your wound to heal faster. The first phase of wound healing can take around two to three weeks but some people experience delayed wound healing. This can depend on the type of wound you have and how your body responds to healing. A surgical wound is a cut made to your skin during an operation. Wound healing is a complicated process but can be divided into three main phases. 1  Inflammation – this happens straight away and lasts for up to six days, during which time the blood flow to your wound increases.
Problems with the blood circulation system can affect wound healing because the tissues do not get the required supply of oxygen and nutrients. Wound healing is complex, and there can be many causes why it does not happen properly. In spite of all you can do, a cut-even minor-can take a long time to heal. If this is the case, there may be some more severe underlying problem that can lead to dangerous complications. Always consult your doctor for non-healing cuts. Nutrients are important to speed up the healing process. Eating the right diet can have an effect on how long a cut takes to heal. It is recommended to eat vitamin rich, fresh, raw vegetables and fruits.
How long it takes a scar to heal depends on many elements. Some influences include the type and severity of the injury, skin type, nutrition and use of scar treatment products. Time Heals. According to the National Institutes of Health, it takes between two and three years for scars to turn pale and the skin to mature. 
1 Skin along the edges of the wound becomes thicker and then gradually migrates (or stretches) under the scab to the center of the wound, where it meets skin from the other side and forms a scar (about three weeks after the initial injury). 
The wound will heal from inside out. The inner layers of your skin have already sealed the wound with a thin layer of new skin. As this skin matures, it will move towards the outer layer and seal the wound for good. At that point the dead skin that forms the edges of the wound right now, will peal off. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. It depends on the depth of the cut sometimes i get bruised and it heals by the half of day, but if its 3cms cut it takes two days, As a personal experience i recently cut my right index with a sharp glass accidentally, it slit my hand for about 1 and a 1/2 inches (worst).
The wound healing process is not only complex but also fragile, and it is susceptible to interruption or failure leading to the formation of non-healing chronic wounds. Factors that contribute to non-healing chronic wounds are diabetes, venous or arterial disease, infection, and metabolic deficiencies of old age. 
Report Abuse. Depends on your health and diet, and the wound. You need certain nutrients to help the skin repair. I would take some Vitamins A and D and a Zinc containing supplement to help heal the epidermis. The depth of the would will also cause time to vary. 