It is the skin of the fruit we use to make ribena drink. To make ribena drinks, first peel off the skins. Then pour in some water and cook the skins to boil in a pot. The juice extracted can be used to make ribena drink while the pulp left over can be used to make ribena jam. Aperture = F6.3, Shutter Speed = 1/100 sec. But since its fruits can be used to make ribena drink, let’s just call them ribena plants! Aperture = F6.3, Shutter Speed = 1/125 sec. This is the flower of the plant. Very much like the cherry blossom in Japan, but not as beautiful. Aperture = F6.3, Shutter Speed = 1/250 sec. Take a closer look at the fruit.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The ingredients in Ribena are water, sugar, strawberry juice from concentrate, citric acid and extracts of black carrot or black currant. Vitamin C and flavorings are also ingredients. They are usually prepared or added together in specific ways, and in a … specific order, to ensure a good result. Ingredients make up a food or similar combination of items. Recipes tell how to combine and prepare ingredients. an item or food u make into your meal, dessert or snack. What finished product is made out of.
Ribena has sponsored a few theme park attractions. These include Berry Bouncers at Chessington World of Adventures, Rumba Rapids at Thorpe Park and Berry Bish Bash at Alton Towers. The contract ended in 2007 and all Ribena logos were removed from the attractions. Beecham (a company that has been part of GSK since 2000) bought the brand in 1955 and developed many soft drink versions. A series of scandals in the 2000s concerning vitamin C levels, sugar levels, and the amounts of actual fruit in some of the brands, damaged its reputation as a healthy product.
AFTER 55 years of telling porkies, Ribena has finally sent itself to the naughty corner. But the surprise mea culpa may not save the drink's maker-and the world's second-largest pharmaceutical company-from receiving a thorough caning in a New Zealand court next week. For years, manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline has led Australian parents to believe Ribena fruit drink was a healthy choice for kids because of its vitamin C content, said Choice's senior food policy officer, Clare Hughes.
Hi there, Ribena is made from blackcurrant. A type of berry. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackcurrant. The plant in your picture is Roselle (a type of hibiscus). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roselle_%28plant%29. They make Roselle drinks out of this. My mum used to plant this shrub and bol the unopened flowers. But since its fruits can be used to make ribena drink, let’s just call them ribena plants! Aperture = F6.3, Shutter Speed = 1/125 sec. This is the flower of the plant. Very much like the cherry blossom in Japan, but not as beautiful. Aperture = F6.3, Shutter Speed = 1/250 sec. Take a closer look at the fruit.
As the number 1 juice drink brand* in the UK, this well-known household name has provided “Delicious Goodness” to millions of families across the UK for over 70 years. Made from 100% British blackcurrants, it is the biggest-selling blackcurrant brand in the UK and accounts for 90% of the British blackcurrant crop. Our unique relationship with our growers forms a crucial part of our brand heritage and spans four generations on some farms. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ribena (/raɪˈbiːnə/ ry-BEE-nə) is an English origin brand of blackcurrant-based uncarbonated and carbonated soft drink and fruit drink concentrate that until 2013 was produced by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). Beecham (a company that has been part of GSK since 2000) bought the brand in 1955 and developed many soft drink versions. A series of scandals in the 2000s concerning vitamin C levels, sugar levels, and the amounts of actual fruit in some of the brands, damaged its reputation as a healthy product.
On 9 September 2013, both Lucozade and Ribena were acquired from GlaxoSmithKline by the Japanese conglomerate Suntory for £1.35 billion. Lucozade (alongside Ribena) is produced at the Royal Forest Factory in Coleford, Gloucestershire, in the Forest of Dean, England. 