Until the early 20th century, Greeks were distributed between the Greek peninsula, the western coast of Asia Minor, the Black Sea coast, Cappadocia in central Anatolia, Egypt, the Balkans, Cyprus, and Constantinople. 
The ancient Greeks lived in Greece. The normal house was a courtyard with rooms around it. Most Greeks lived near the Eastern Mediterranean sea and in southern Europe. Some citys they lived in are Athens, Sparta, and Crete. They inspired many cultures from their beliefs.
The ancient Greeks lived in Greece. The normal house was a courtyard with rooms around it. Most Greeks lived near the Eastern Mediterranean sea and in southern Europe. Some ci … tys they lived in are Athens, Sparta, and Crete. They inspired many cultures from their beliefs. Answer by Nevwik. Confidence votes 13.0K. Greek peoples, cousins of the Italian peoples, moved into eastern Europe in the early second millennium BCE and spread progressively around the Mediterranean, Adriatic, Aegean and Black Seas. They formed city-states-cities with defensive walls, with farming country attached.
Ancient Greece was a civilization belonging to a period of Greek history that lasted from the Archaic period of the 8th to 6th centuries BC to the end of antiquity (c. 600 AD). Included in ancient Greece is the period of Classical Greece, which flourished during the 5th to 4th centuries BC.
The earliest Greek civilizations thrived nearly 4,000 years ago. The Ancient Greeks lived in Greece and the countries that we now call Bulgaria and Turkey. The Ancient Greece empire spread over Europe as far as France in the East. The Greek Empire was most powerful between 2000 BC and 146 BC. 
The earliest Greek civilizations thrived nearly 4,000 years ago. The Ancient Greeks lived in Greece and the countries that we now call Bulgaria and Turkey. The Ancient Greece empire spread over Europe as far as France in the East. 
Ancient Greece had a warm, dry climate, as Greece does today. People lived by farming, fishing, and trade. Some were soldiers. Others were scholars, scientists or artists. Most Greeks lived in villages or in small cities. The Greeks called themselves Hellenes, and their land was Hellas. The name Greece comes from the Romans. The name 'Hellenes' came from a legendary hero named Hellen (a man, and not the same as Helen of Troy). Some Greek philosophers did not mind shocking people or being laughed at.
The Ancient Greeks lived in mainland Greece and the Greek islands, but also in what is now Turkey, and in colonies scattered around the Mediterranean sea coast. The Greeks called themselves Hellenes, and their land was Hellas. The name Greece comes from the Romans. The name 'Hellenes' came from a legendary hero named Hellen (a man, and not the same as Helen of Troy). Some Greek philosophers did not mind shocking people or being laughed at.
In ancient times the Greeks lived in city states. Each state had its own laws, government and money but they shared the same language and religion. The two most important city states were Athens and Sparta. We know much about Athens because it produced many writers and artists, whose work has survived to this day. 
Ancient Greece is called 'the birthplace of Western civilisation'. About 2500 years ago, the Greeks created a way of life that other people admired and copied. The Romans copied Greek art and Greek gods, for example. The Greeks called themselves Hellenes, and their land was Hellas. The name Greece comes from the Romans. The name 'Hellenes' came from a legendary hero named Hellen (a man, and not the same as Helen of Troy). Some Greek philosophers did not mind shocking people or being laughed at.