The Hyundai Sonata (Korean: 현대 쏘나타) is a mid-size car produced by the South Korean manufacturer Hyundai since 1985. The first generation Sonata was introduced in 1985, which was a facelifted Stellar with an engine upgrade, and was withdrawn from the market in two years due to poor customer reactions. As part of the seventh generation Sonata, Hyundai plans to release a plug-in hybrid variant scheduled for market launch in the second half of 2015. Technical details of the Sonata PHEV have been announced at the 2015 North American International Auto Show.
The Sonata is also available with Hyundai’s subscription-based Blue Link telematics system, which can use a built-in cellular connection to provide point-of-interest searches from Google and emergency assistance. You can also start and lock or unlock your car using Hyundai’s Blue Link smartphone app. The Sonata has a large trunk for an affordable midsize car, and reviewers write that it has a spacious back seat and a very quiet cabin. They add that the 2015 Sonata also has a logically arranged center stack and two easy-to-use touch-screen infotainment options.
Automotive journalists agree that the redesigned 2015 Hyundai Sonata exudes class and elegance and has more upscale cabin materials than many cars in its class. The Sonata has a large trunk for an affordable midsize car, and reviewers write that it has a spacious back seat and a very quiet cabin. They add that the 2015 Sonata also has a logically arranged center stack and two easy-to-use touch-screen infotainment options.
The Sonata is a comfortable and likable midsize sedan that proves Hyundai can build cars that are not just easy on the pocketbook, but easy to live with as well. Whether serving family car or commuter car duty, the Hyundai Sonata is a nice place to be thanks to its spacious cabin, comfortable seating for four or five and simple controls. In reviews, we've found that the Sonata provides acceleration ranging from solid to spirited, depending on the engine you choose
The Y2 Sonata was part of Hyundai's expansion in North America after the success of the Excel. It was introduced in South Korea on June 1, 1988. It was then introduced in Canada in September 1988 as a 1989 model, on November 14, 1988 in the United States as a 1989 model, and in March 1989 in Australia. As part of the seventh generation Sonata, Hyundai plans to release a plug-in hybrid variant scheduled for market launch in the second half of 2015. Technical details of the Sonata PHEV have been announced at the 2015 North American International Auto Show.
In its home market, the new Sonata is 1.4 inches longer and 1.2 inches wider than the outgoing car, and rides on a 0.4-inch longer wheelbase. Its new body boasts torsional and bending stiffness increases of 41 and 35 percent, according to Hyundai, and 51 percent of its steel is of the advanced high-strength variety. A few weeks ago, Hyundai teased us with a rendering and some sparse details about its all-new 2015 Sonata. Then we provided a quick look at an un-camouflaged model as it sat in a Korean production facility.
The 2015 Hyundai Sonata ranks 5 out of 18 Affordable Midsize Cars. This ranking is based on our analysis of published reviews and test drives of the Hyundai Sonata, as well as reliability and safety data. The redesigned 2015 Hyundai Sonata offers an enjoyable, quiet ride and a quality interior that critics say ranks near the top of the class. With the best combination of positive reviews and long-term ownership costs in its class, the Hyundai Sonata is our 2015 Best Midsize Car for the Money. The 2015 Sonata comes standard with a 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine, front-wheel drive and a six-speed automatic transmission. Sport 2.0T models have a turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine. Eco models come with a turbocharged 1.6-liter four-cylinder engine and a seven-speed automated manual
Hyundai commenced development of the YF Sonata in 2005, with a development cost of ₩450 billion (US$372 million). In the Australian, New Zealand, Singaporean, and Colombian markets, the YF is retailed under the name Hyundai i45, following the alphanumeric i-series nomenclature established by Hyundai in these markets. As part of the seventh generation Sonata, Hyundai plans to release a plug-in hybrid variant scheduled for market launch in the second half of 2015. Technical details of the Sonata PHEV have been announced at the 2015 North American International Auto Show.
That's what the 2014 Hyundai Sonata midsize sedan has us wondering. It was only a few years ago that Hyundai models came across as Korean-flavored interpretations of more established cars, but now every family sedan seems to be taking cues from Korea's finest. What's more, the 2014 Sonata boasts numerous changes designed to keep it competitive with newer rivals.