Printable Version. Although slavery was highly profitable, it had a negative impact on the southern economy. It impeded the development of industry and cities and contributed to high debts, soil exhaustion, and a lack of technological innovation. 
Virginia on Slavery. Virginia was divided over the issue of slavery. The people who lived in the western counties of the state were against slavery and sided with the North. The people in the eastern counties of the state depended on slavery and sided with the other southern states.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Northern was the economy based on manufacturing, southern was the economy based on agriculture, and western is emerging economy. Alaska is the most northern state. Hawaii is the most southern state. Since Alaska's Aleutian Islands lie across the 180th Meridian they lie in both the Eastern and Western He … mispheres.
Southern vs Northern States before the Civil War. Prior to the Civil War there were several significant differences between Northern and Southern states in terms of demographics, occupational opportunities, income–potential, economic classes, production choices, development, and sociopolitical philosophies. 1 White-collar and skilled workers in the Northern states established a new city-based middle-class, whereas, the vast majority of military officers were located in the Southern states and there was little closure of the economic and social gap between the property-holding elite and slave/farm laborers.
Northern was based on manufacturing. Southern was based on agriclture. Western was based on Emerging economy. Alaska is the most northern state. Hawaii is the most southern state. Since Alaska's Aleutian Islands lie across the 180th Meridian they lie in both the Eastern and Western He … mispheres.
Maryland is a southern state. do your research-during the civil war Maryland was united with the south to abolish slavery. It had in-fact freed a vast majority of their slaves … . This is significant since Maryland had one of the largest slave population. Alaska is the most northern state. Hawaii is the most southern state. Since Alaska's Aleutian Islands lie across the 180th Meridian they lie in both the Eastern and Western He … mispheres.
In the centuries since, the history of the Southern United States has recorded a large number of important events, including the American Revolution, the American Civil War, the ending of slavery, and the American Civil Rights Movement. European history in the region began in the very earliest days of the exploration and colonization of North America. Spain, France, and England eventually explored and claimed parts of what is now the Southern United States, and the cultural influences of each can still be seen in the region today.
Northern was the economy based on manufacturing, southern was the economy based on agriculture, and western is emerging economy. Edit. Share to: Alaska is the most northern state. Hawaii is the most southern state. Since Alaska's Aleutian Islands lie across the 180th Meridian they lie in both the Eastern and Western He … mispheres.