The value and the importance of equality and inclusion 2. Providing inclusive support 3. Access information, advice and support about equality and inclusion 4. Questions. CIS Assessment Induction Workbook – Four Page 2 of 16 Standard 4 Equality and inclusion 1. Each of the public duties requires employers to:  produce a (race, disability and gender) equality scheme  carry out impact assessments on their functions, policies and practices  carry out equalities monitoring and take action to redress any imbalance  publish the results of any work undertaken 2.
Home » Social Inequality and Exclusion. In every society some people have a greater share of valued resources-money, property, education, health and power than others. Social inequality reflects innate differences between individuals for example their varying abilities and efforts. Someone may be endowed with exceptional intelligence or talent or may have worked very hard to achieve their wealth and status.
Social exclusion. Exclusion consists of dynamic, multi-dimensional processes driven by unequal power relationships interacting across four main dimensions-economic, political, social and cultural-and at different levels including individual, household, group, community, country and global levels. 
One model to conceptualize social exclusion and inclusion is that they are on a continuum on a vertical plane below and above the 'social horizon'. Social exclusion (or marginalization) is social disadvantage and relegation to the fringe of society. It is a term used widely in Europe, and was first used in France. It is used across disciplines including education, sociology, psychology, politics and economics
This article is concerned with social and political equality. In its prescriptive usage, ‘equality’ is a loaded and ‘highly contested’ concept. On account of its normally positive connotation, it has a rhetorical power rendering it suitable as a political slogan (Westen 1990). The presumption in favor of equality can be justified by the principle of equal respect together with the requirement of universal and reciprocal justification; that requirement is linked to the morality of equal respect granting each individual equal consideration in every justification and distribution.
Equality is not always about treating everyone the same – it is about treating people in such a way that the outcome for each person can be the same. This means putting things in place to support people to achieve similar outcomes. 
‘Equality’ is a contested concept: “People who praise it or disparage it disagree about what they are praising or disparaging” (Dworkin 2000, p. 2). Our first task is therefore to provide a clear definition of equality in the face of widespread misconceptions about its meaning as a political idea. The presumption in favor of equality can be justified by the principle of equal respect together with the requirement of universal and reciprocal justification; that requirement is linked to the morality of equal respect granting each individual equal consideration in every justification and distribution.
You have a duty to make sure you understand what might be discrimination and to raise any issues or concerns with your supervisor / manager on behalf of the individuals you support. 1.3 Understand what is meant by equality and inclusion, and how they reduce discrimination Inclusion is a human right for every individual. Each of the public duties requires employers to:  produce a (race, disability and gender) equality scheme  carry out impact assessments on their functions, policies and practices  carry out equalities monitoring and take action to redress any imbalance  publish the results of any work undertaken 2.
In a very abstract setting, the principle of inclusion–exclusion can be expressed as the calculation of the inverse of a certain matrix. This inverse has a special structure, making the principle an extremely valuable technique in combinatorics and related areas of mathematics. As Gian-Carlo Rota put it: 