Prussia was located in what is now the area covered by Eastern Germany and Western Poland on the Baltic Sea coast. The north central part of Europe present day north Germany and Poland.   Prussia was located in what is now the area covered by Eastern Germany and Western Poland on … the Baltic Sea coast. + 30 others found this useful. Janette Thorsby
PRUSSIA Maps. Prussia/Pomerania on-line map-Multimap.com mapping web site. Maps of PRUSSIAN growth: 1440 to 1795 and 1807 to 1866. Notice the Pomerania areas marked in yellow outline.
Best Answer: Prussia was a historical region and former kingdom of north-central Europe including present-day northern Germany and Poland. Its ancient inhabitants, of Baltic stock, were conquered by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century. 
Prussia is a country that was dissolved after World War II, so it is no longer on the maps. However, much of Eastern Europe was at one time or another part of Prussia and its … many incarnations. If you are wondering about Prussia directly before it was dissolved, it would be between Germany and Poland on modern maps, and a bit on the coast of the Baltic sea where modern day Kaliningrad Oblast is now.
The north central part of Europe present day north Germany and Poland.   Prussia was located in what is now the area covered by Eastern Germany and Western Poland on … the Baltic Sea coast. However, much of Eastern Europe was at one time or another part of Prussia and its … many incarnations. If you are wondering about Prussia directly before it was dissolved, it would be between Germany and Poland on modern maps, and a bit on the coast of the Baltic sea where modern day Kaliningrad Oblast is now.
1 After Germany s defeat in World War II, Prussia was abolished as a state, and its territory was divided among East Germany, West Germany, the Soviet Union, and Poland. Prussia/Pomerania on-line map-Multimap.com mapping web site. Maps of PRUSSIAN growth: 1440 to 1795 and 1807 to 1866. Notice the Pomerania areas marked in yellow outline.
Today some of you have asked about Prussia several times. Here you have a map where you will be able to learn its location in the past. Prussia was one of the most powerful German states and it had a very important role in the unification of Germany in the 19th century. We´ll study this in Unit 4.
In November 1918, the monarchies were abolished and the nobility lost its political power during the German Revolution of 1918–19. The Kingdom of Prussia was thus abolished in favour of a republic—the Free State of Prussia, a state of Germany from 1918 until 1933. The Second Peace of Thorn (1466) split Prussia into the western Royal Prussia, a province of Poland, and the eastern part, from 1525 called the Duchy of Prussia, a fief of the Crown of Poland up to 1657.
Prussia (German: Preussen (preußen·help)) (Info: Polish) prusy was a historic state originating out of The duchy Of prussia and The margraviate Of, brandenburg and centered on the region Of. prussia The Second Peace of Thorn (1466) split Prussia into the western Royal Prussia, a province of Poland, and the eastern part, from 1525 called the Duchy of Prussia, a fief of the Crown of Poland up to 1657.