The term sandstorm is used most often in the context of desert sandstorms, especially in the Sahara Desert, or places where sand is a more prevalent soil type than dirt or rock, when, in addition to fine particles obscuring visibility, a considerable amount of larger sand particles are blown closer to the surface. In desert areas, dust and sand storms are most commonly caused by either thunderstorm outflows, or by strong pressure gradients which cause an increase in wind velocity over a wide area.
The folloing NASA Aqua satellite image shows a widespread sandstorm over Afghanistan and Pakistan on August 24, 2010: Sandstorms are notorious for getting sand into equipment, houses, and just about every nook and cranny of everything. The widespread abundance of loose sand in deserts makes them the most common locations for sandstorms to form. In desert regions at certain times of the year, sandstorms become more frequent because the strong heating of the air over the desert causes the lower atmosphere to become unstable.
The term sandstorm is used most often in the context of desert sandstorms, especially in the Sahara Desert, or places where sand is a more prevalent soil type than dirt or rock, when, in addition to fine particles obscuring visibility, a considerable amount of larger sand particles are blown closer to the surface. A sandstorm refers to a high amount of wind occurring in sandy areas, usually in deserts, where the wind speed is able to lift the top layer of sand from the ground, and push it in every imaginable direction.
Sandstorm by Maddie Strong winds blowing over loose soil or sand is what causes sandstorms. Sandstorms can also be called dust storms. They are caused by convection currents. Sandstorms are able to move entire sand dunes and sometimes able to move entire roads. There are also similar sandstorms in Mars. A lot of the particles in a dust storm or sandstorm are between 0.08mm and 1mm which also means 0.0032 and 0.04 inches in size.
Sandstorm by Pasha. Sandstorms are windstorms that blows hot air, dust, and grit. They are caused by heavy winds blowing over loose sand. This wind is sometimes caused by convection currents. Clouds in a dark brownish colour, usually means a sandstorm is coming. Sandstorms mostly occur in hot deserts such as the Sahara and Gobi Deserts. 
Sandstorm by Maddie. Strong winds blowing over loose soil or sand is what causes sandstorms. Sandstorms can also be called dust storms. They are caused by convection currents. Sandstorms are able to move entire sand dunes and sometimes able to move entire roads. There are also similar sandstorms in Mars. A lot of the particles in a dust storm or sandstorm are between 0.08mm and 1mm which also means 0.0032 and 0.04 inches in size.
The sand involved in the sandstorm can reach heights of approximately 10-50 feet (3.05-15.24m). Usually, the height of a sandstorm corresponds to wind strength. Dust particles associated with some sandstorms have been found at 5000 feet (1524 m), though these are more rare. A sandstorm refers to a high amount of wind occurring in sandy areas, usually in deserts, where the wind speed is able to lift the top layer of sand from the ground, and push it in every imaginable direction.
A dust storm or sandstorm is a meteorological phenomenon common in arid and semi-arid regions. They can be seen as solid walls of sand that are up to 5,000ft high. In Kuwait, the month of April is known as 'sandstorm month'. Sandstorms that come from Northern Africa and drift across Europe are called 'Sahara Sand Storms'. Sand storms can cause hacking coughs, and the sand and dust have also been known to be capable of carrying 'infectious diseases'.
Sandstorms -- also called duststorms -- are caused by strong winds blowing over loose soil or sand, and picking up so much of that material that visibility is greatly reduced. The widespread abundance of loose sand in deserts makes them the most common locations for sandstorms to form. In desert regions at certain times of the year, sandstorms become more frequent because the strong heating of the air over the desert causes the lower atmosphere to become unstable. This instability mixes strong winds in the middle troposphere downward to the surface, producing stronger winds at the surface
Sandstorm Facts For Kids. A sandstorm is caused when there is lots and lots of wind. The wind whips up heaps of sand as if my magic with it and carries it away with it for miles and miles. They can be quite something to see. The clouds that carry the dust can be huge, and miles long. 1 That is one serious sandstorm. 2  During the 1960s there were eight sandstorms that caused some serious damage; 13 more in the 1970s; 14 in the 80s and more than 20 in the 1990s. 3  Australia was having problems with sandstorms.