Causes of a Sebaceous Cyst. Sebaceous cysts form out of your sebaceous gland—which produces the oil called sebum that coats your hair and skin. Cysts can develop if the gland or its duct, the passage where oil is able to leave, become damaged or blocked. Small cysts are typically not painful. Large cysts can range from uncomfortable to considerably painful. Large cysts on the face and neck may cause pressure and pain. Areas on the body where cysts are usually found include: 1  skin on the scalp. 2  face (most common site for cyst removal). 3  neck. 4  back.
The scalp, ears, back, face, and upper arm, are common sites for sebaceous cysts, though they may occur anywhere on the body except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. In males a common place for them to develop is the scrotum and chest. However, the above types of cyst contain keratin, not sebum, and neither originates from sebaceous glands (epidermoid cysts originate in the epidermis and pilar cysts originate from hair follicles). Therefore technically speaking they are not sebaceous cysts. True sebaceous cysts (i.e. cysts which originate from sebaceous glands and which contain sebum) are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex
A sebaceous cyst is a small sac containing an accumulation of secretions produced by the sebaceous glands that can occur in dogs. Sebaceous cysts are also known as epidermoid cysts, epidermal inclusion cysts, epidermal cysts, and wens. The sebaceous glands produce an oily substance called sebum, which lubricates the skin. The ducts of the sebaceous glands empty into hair follicles.
The primary symptom of a sebaceous cyst is a small lump under the skin. The lump usually is not painful. In some cases, however, cysts can get inflamed and become tender to the touch. There may be redness and/or increased temperature of the skin on the area of the cyst. In most cases, sebaceous cysts can be ignored as they usually are not dangerous. If a small cyst becomes inflamed, a doctor can inject it with a steroid drug to reduce swelling. A doctor may drain a cyst that is large, tender or inflamed.
A. Many people often call any small, painless lump under the skin  sebaceous cysts .. But those are most often epidermoid cysts.. Sebaceous cysts are much less common and affect the sebaceous glands, the oil glands in the skin. Epidermoid cysts can be made up of a protein called keratin and fat. They usually appear on the face, neck, or upper body, especially the chest and shoulders. 
A sebaceous cyst is a type of cyst that forms in the epidermis, the outermost layer of the skin. A sebaceous cyst is also sometimes called an epidermal cyst. It forms when a sebaceous gland, an oil-producing gland in the skin, becomes blocked. This creates a sac that fills with a fatty yellow substance that can resemble cottage cheese. Sebaceous cysts can be present at birth or caused by skin trauma, swollen hair follicles, and high levels of testosterone. The primary symptom of a sebaceous cyst is a painless nodule or pale lump in the skin. Sebaceous cysts are very common. They are not cancerous and are generally not a serious condition
Sebaceous cysts are common noncancerous cysts of the skin. Cysts are abnormalities in the body that may contain liquid or semi-liquid material. Small cysts are typically not painful. Large cysts can range from uncomfortable to considerably painful. Large cysts on the face and neck may cause pressure and pain. Areas on the body where cysts are usually found include: 1  skin on the scalp. 2  face (most common site for cyst removal). 3  neck. 4  back.