adynamic ileus that caused by inhibition of bowel motility; see ileus. dynamic ileus (hyperdynamic ileus) spastic ileus. mechanical ileus that caused by a mechanical cause, such as hernia, adhesions, or volvulus; see ileus. meconium ileus ileus in the newborn due to intestinal obstruction by thick meconium. paralytic ileus adynamic ileus. spastic ileus that due to persistent contracture of a bowel segment. ileus. failure of appropriate forward movement of bowel contents. It may be secondary to either mechanical obstruction of the bowel (mechanical ileus) or a disturbance in neural stimulation (adynamic ileus) . Ileus is a surgical emergency that may or may not require surgical intervention; the cause needs to be established promptly
Ileus: Obstruction of the intestine due to its being paralyzed. The paralysis does not need to be complete to cause ileus, but the intestine must be so inactive that food cannot pass through it, which leads to blockage of the intestine. Ileus commonly follows some types of surgery. 
Paralytic ileus: Obstruction of the intestine due to paralysis of the intestinal muscles. The paralysis does not need to be complete to cause ileus, but the intestinal muscles must be so inactive that it prevents the passage of food and leads to a functional blockage of the intestine. 
Ileus sometimes occurs as a complication of surgery on other parts of the body, including joint replacement or chest surgery. Ileus can also be caused by kidney diseases, especially when potassium levels are decreased. Heart disease and certain chemotherapy drugs, such as vinblastine (Velban, Velsar) and vincristine (Oncovin, Vincasar PES, Vincrex), also can cause ileus. See also intestinal obstruction for patient care. adynamic ileus that caused by inhibition of bowel motility; see ileus. dynamic ileus (hyperdynamic ileus) spastic ileus. mechanical ileus that caused by a mechanical cause, such as hernia, adhesions, or volvulus
an obstruction of the intestines, such as an adynamic ileus caused by immobility of the bowel or a mechanical ileus in which the intestine is blocked by mechanical means. See also paralytic ileus. See also intestinal obstruction for patient care. adynamic ileus that caused by inhibition of bowel motility; see ileus. dynamic ileus (hyperdynamic ileus) spastic ileus. mechanical ileus that caused by a mechanical cause, such as hernia, adhesions, or volvulus
Ileus is a blockage of the intestines caused by a lack of peristalsis. Peristalsis is the pumping action of the intestines that helps move food through the digestive system. Ileus is used to describe both full and partial blockages. Solids (food), liquids, and gases are not able to move properly through the body when ileus occurs. Bowel movement can stop due to a mechanical blockage as well. Mechanical means there is something physically lodged in the intestine that is causing the blockage
This process can be interrupted or halted by the presence of a bowel obstruction, a blockage that prevents the passage of intestinal contents, such as feces and fluid. Paralytic ileus is the occurrence of intestinal blockage in the absence of an actual physical obstruction. This type of blockage is caused by a malfunction in the nerves and muscles in the intestine that impairs digestive movement. 