Public libraries are distinct from research libraries, school libraries, and other special libraries in that their mandate is to serve the general public's information needs (rather than the needs of a particular school, institution, or research population). The first public library in Australia was the Melbourne Public Library (now the State Library of Victoria), which opened in 1856, just a few years after their introduction into Britain.
Melvil Dewey’s love of efficiency is clear in the Dewey Decimal System, which is used in libraries worldwide today. Photo credit: Elizabeth Howell. Bottom line: December 10, 1851 is the birthday of Melvil Dewey, who invented the Dewey Decimal classification system used today in libraries around the world. Dewey’s invention – created when he was only in his early 20s – revolutionized library cataloging. The numbering system categorized books in relation to each other. Before, books in libraries had been numbered according to their physical location.
Melvil Dewey. American librarian Melvil Dewey (1851-1931) invented his famous decimal classification system for books in 1876; it became the standard in libraries around the world. If it weren't for Melvil Dewey, finding the books you want in the library might be as frustrating as looking for a needle in a haystack. The Dewey Decimal Classification System is the most widely used classification system in the world. Libraries in more than 135 countries use the DDC to organize and provide access to their collections. The DDC has been translated into over thirty languages. Libraries of every type apply Dewey numbers.
That was the goal of Melvil Dewey, inventor of the Dewey Decimal classification system, used today in libraries around the world. Dewey’s invention – created when he was only in his early 20s – revolutionized library cataloging. The numbering system categorized books in relation to each other. Before, books in libraries had been numbered according to their physical location.
A public library is a library that is accessible by the general public and is generally funded from public sources, such as taxes. It is operated by librarians and library paraprofessionals, who are also civil servants. There are five fundamental characteristics shared by public libraries. The first public library in Australia was the Melbourne Public Library (now the State Library of Victoria), which opened in 1856, just a few years after their introduction into Britain.
Dewey decimal is an example of a library system. It was first published by Melvil Dewey in 1876. The Dewey Decimal System first identifies subject matter of a book or other ma … terial (example: stereo record)--this is called a Class. It contains classes from 000 to 900
Dewey invented a system of grouping books of similar subjects together, classified by numbers. His invention,called the Dewey Decimal System, brought much-needed order to libraries. Melvil Dewey, the youngest of five children, was born on December 10, 1851, in a small town in northern New York. The Dewey Decimal Classification System is the most widely used classification system in the world. Libraries in more than 135 countries use the DDC to organize and provide access to their collections. The DDC has been translated into over thirty languages. Libraries of every type apply Dewey numbers.
Dewey invented the Dewey Decimal Classification ® (DDC) system when he was 21 and working as a student assistant in the library of Amherst College. His work created a revolution in library science and set in motion a new era of librarianship. Melvil Dewey well deserves the title of Father of Modern Librarianship.. 
Save. The Dewey Decimal System (DDS) is a classification system used to organize and catalog books and other materials in libraries. There are other such systems, like the Library of Congress Classification system. 
Three trends led to our present public library system. 1 - Social Libraries. The first trend is the so-called social library, invented by Benjamin Franklin. Franklin had a significant private library of his own--he had over 4,000 books at the time of his death in 1790. In 1731, he initiated a subscription library as a way of sharing books among members of a literary society.