1. user interface - (computer science) a program that controls a display for the user (usually on a computer monitor) and that allows the user to interact with the system. interface. computer science, computing-the branch of engineering science that studies (with the aid of computers) computable processes and structures. 
5. The Web Interface Definition Language (WIDL) is an application of the eXtensible Markup Language (XML); its definition consists of the various XML elements defined in this section. This document provides the specification for the Web Interface Definition Language (WIDL), a metalanguage that implements a service-based architecture over the document-based resources of the World Wide Web.
Generally, the goal of user interface design is to produce a user interface which makes it easy (self explanatory), efficient, and enjoyable (user friendly) to operate a machine in the way which produces the desired result. 1 The term user interface is often used in the context of (personal) computer systems and electronic devices. 2  Where a network of equipment or computers are interlinked through an MES (Manufacturing Execution System)-or Host to display information.
2.1 Default web interface. To set a web interface add-on as the default web UI, go to and select that add-on for the Default value. Then go to the hostname (or IP address) of that HTPC+Port number. Note: Some platforms use port 80, which is the assumed port if no port is given in the address. 1 Turning on the web interface. The webserver is disabled by default and has to be manually enabled by the user. This can be done in Settings → Services → Webserver → Allow control of Kodi via HTTP.
Introduction. If you connected your HP product to a computer on a network, you can access the Embedded Web Server (EWS) that resides in the product. The Embedded Web Server is a Web-based user interface that provides some options not available on the product control panel. Following are some of the options available through the EWS: Webscan, a feature that lets you scan photos and documents from the product to your computer through a Web browser
The user interface or human–machine interface is the part of the machine that handles the human–machine interaction. Membrane switches, rubber keypads and touchscreens are examples of the physical part of the Human Machine Interface which we can see and touch. 1 The term user interface is often used in the context of (personal) computer systems and electronic devices. 2  Where a network of equipment or computers are interlinked through an MES (Manufacturing Execution System)-or Host to display information.
When the Web Interface tries to access a file on the server, this is done via the Web Interface service, running on your server. This means that the paths that are specified in the document properties in CommitCRM will probably not be comprehensible to the Web Interface Service running on your server. CommitCRM Web Interface communicates with users/browsers through a port. CommitCRM's default configuration uses Port 4961. If you want to change the default port number, to a port number other than the default (4961) follow these instructions: 1  Modify the port number under the token: 'ServerPort'.
Definition of:Web interface (1) The interaction between a user and software running on a Web server. The user interface is the Web browser and the Web page it downloaded and rendered. See Web application and Web server. 
web interface is the actual part of the browser where you view the web pages on the internet. yes of cause interface is use in java at the place of multiple inheritance .o as like multiple inheritance u can extends interface class to other. and another think is inter … face contain abstract method i.e method with no defination so u can use it without any error.
The user interface, in the industrial design field of human–machine interaction, is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur. 1 The term user interface is often used in the context of (personal) computer systems and electronic devices. 2  Where a network of equipment or computers are interlinked through an MES (Manufacturing Execution System)-or Host to display information.