The Bandar-log, or Monkey People, are characters from Disney's The Jungle Book. They roam the ruins of an ancient city, and are ruled by King Louie. While Baloo and Bagheera rescue Mowgli, King Louie and his monkeys work to try to get Mowgli back. During the chase, a stone pillar is knocked out of place and the building it supports begins to collapse. Louie holds it up, Baloo tickles him and the monkeys come to help.
House of Mouse. The Bandar-log appear in the House of Mouse episode  King Larry Swings In  with King Louie's twin brother, King Larry, in a song featuring King Larry singing about how he wants to be like Mickey. While Baloo and Bagheera rescue Mowgli, King Louie and his monkeys work to try to get Mowgli back. During the chase, a stone pillar is knocked out of place and the building it supports begins to collapse. Louie holds it up, Baloo tickles him and the monkeys come to help.
King Louie is a fictional character in Disney 's 1967 animated musical adaptation of The Jungle Book. He is voiced by Louis Prima in the film. In this company milieu King Louie eventually came into being, given life through the voice and personality of popular performer Louis Prima. Personality was also given to Louie by Milt Kahl, Frank Thomas, and John Lounsbery, three of Disney's Nine Old Men who animated the character.
In the book, Mowgli is abducted by a band of nameless and leaderless Bandar-log (monkeys), but the rest of the scene plays out very differently from Disney's version. Bill Peet 's original story for the film did not feature King Louie, but did have a bigger Bandar without a tail, who was perhaps meant to be their king. In this company milieu King Louie eventually came into being, given life through the voice and personality of popular performer Louis Prima. Personality was also given to Louie by Milt Kahl, Frank Thomas, and John Lounsbery, three of Disney's Nine Old Men who animated the character.
Q.T., an orangutan who looks very similar to King Louie, is one of the main characters in Dumbo's Circus. Louie's very identical twin brother Larry appeared in an episode of House of Mouse. Christopher Walken will play King Louie in the 2016 Disney live-action film The Jungle Book. In this company milieu King Louie eventually came into being, given life through the voice and personality of popular performer Louis Prima. Personality was also given to Louie by Milt Kahl, Frank Thomas, and John Lounsbery, three of Disney's Nine Old Men who animated the character.
Bandar-log (Hindi: बन्दर-लोग) is a term used in Rudyard Kipling 's The Jungle Book to describe the monkeys of the Seeonee jungle. In Hindi, Bandar means monkey (possibly the gray langur) and log means people - Therefore, Bandar-log means monkey people.. The term has also since come to refer to any body of irresponsible chatterers.. The Bandar-log cheer for Mowgli's next victory and King Louie takes care of the rest by summoning Kaa again. As Mowgli and Kitty leave the place and Boone stays to gather some loot since the treasure only brings death, the monkeys continue screeching, chittering, and cheering.
Trivia. 1  King Louie is an original character from Disney as orangutans are not native to India (only the islands of Borneo and Sumatra in Indonesia), and King Louie never existed in Rudyard Kipling 's original novel. 2  King Louie was likely named after his late voice actor, jazz singer Louis Prima. King Louie is a rowdy orangutan who was crowned King of the Apes. Unlike most characters in the film, Louie was created solely by the Walt Disney Company, and there was no ape king in the original novel by Rudyaed Kipling, on which the film was based, as mentioned above.
Famed Sicilian-American and New Orleans native Louis Prima portrayed King Louie in the film. Louis Prima considered playing King Louie as one of the highlights of his career and felt he had become immortal thanks to Walt Disney and the entire studio. In this company milieu King Louie eventually came into being, given life through the voice and personality of popular performer Louis Prima. Personality was also given to Louie by Milt Kahl, Frank Thomas, and John Lounsbery, three of Disney's Nine Old Men who animated the character.
King Louie first appears in Disney's 1967 adaption of The Jungle Book. He somehow learns that a Man-Cub is in the jungle on his way to the Man Village and wishes to stay. Louie sends his monkey minions to capture the boy. They do so with ease allowing Louie to attempt to live his dream. King Louie is a rowdy orangutan who was crowned King of the Apes. Unlike most characters in the film, Louie was created solely by the Walt Disney Company, and there was no ape king in the original novel by Rudyaed Kipling, on which the film was based, as mentioned above.