[ 2 syll. rie, ri-e ] The baby girl name Rie is pronounced as R IY-eh- †. Rie is used predominantly in Dutch and its origin is Hebrew. Rie is a variation of the name Mary (English). Rie is uncommon as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names. In 2012, among the group of girl names directly related to Rie, Maria was the most popular. 
Rie has 1 variant: Rea. Rie is a rare given name for women but a somewhat popular last name for both adults and children (#150436 out of 150436, Top 100%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Rie for girls. Rie has yet to be listed in the list so far. Rie is pronounced similarly to Rae ▼ , Ray ▼ , Raye, Ree, Rei, Rhae, Rhea ▼ , Rhia, Rue, Rui and Rye. Other suggested similar baby names are Riet and Rise. These names tend to be more commonly used than Rie.
Rie /rie/ [1 syll.] as a name for girls. Rie's root is Danish. Rie is a version of Ria (Danish): form of Maria. Re is a popular surname. Rie is pronounced similarly to Rae ▼ , Ray ▼ , Raye, Ree, Rei, Rhae, Rhea ▼ , Rhia, Rue, Rui and Rye. Other suggested similar baby names are Riet and Rise. These names tend to be more commonly used than Rie.
Comments and insights on the name Rie: | Edit. Rie is a common Japanese name. It's usually mis-pronounced as a name that rhymes with 'Pie' or 'Rye', but it's actually pronounced like the Greek goddess of earth, 'Rhea'--with emphasis on the 'Rii' sound and ending with a soft 'eh' at the end.
Personal experiences with the name Rie: | Edit. I have an aunt that goes by Rie, but it's short for her real name, Hendricka. It can also be a nickname for Henrietta. It's usually mis-pronounced as a name that rhymes with 'Pie' or 'Rye', but it's actually pronounced like the Greek goddess of earth, 'Rhea'--with emphasis on the 'Rii' sound and ending with a soft 'eh' at the end.
Rie can be written using different kanji characters and can mean: 1  理恵, logic, blessing 2  . 利恵, value, blessing. 3  梨絵, pear, picture. 4  理江, logic, inlet. 5  理絵, logic, picture. 6  里枝, village, branch. 
1 The most common Kanji used in the name Rie is 理恵. 2  The name meaning can vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) is chosen by the parents. 3  Rie is a Japanese girl name. 1 The meaning of Rie is true blessing . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Rie is 理恵.
Rie-Meaning of Rie. 1  The meaning of Rie is true blessing . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Rie is 理恵. 3  The name meaning can vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) is chosen by the parents. 4  Rie is a Japanese girl name. 1 The meaning of Rie is true blessing . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Rie is 理恵.