| Filed Under: Language Leave a Comment. The physicians of ancient Greece considered hysteria to be an exclusively female problem caused by a disorder within the woman’s distinctive internal organs. Hystera is the Greek word for womb and survives today in the medical procedure hysterectomy. Men suffer the antisocial symptoms of hysteria less frequently than women, but when they do, they are called sociopaths. That’s why frenzied women are referred to as “hysterical” but not equally frenetic men.
I am not sure about the orchidectomy. I would imagine the orchid has something to do with the appearance of male anatomy. However, here's some history on the word Hysterectomy: Hysterectomy is the surgical removal of the uterus (womb). The word Hysterectomy (termed in 1879) comes from the root word hyster referring to the womb and ectomy meaning removal. The reason the root word hyster refers to the womb is derivative of the word hysteria based on the sexist assumption that the womb itself caused uncontrollable, emotional behavior. 
It was an ancient Greek belief that a wandering uterus needed to be confined and controlled caused women's health problems. Historical Background. The term Hysteria is traced back to the late fifth-early fourth centuries BC. A large part of our information about the physical side of women's lives in the classical age is derived from a collection of writings known as the Hippocratic Corpus.
The term also occurs in the phrase  mass hysteria  to describe mass public near-panic reactions. Hysteria was often associated with events like the Salem witch trials, or slave revolt conspiracies, where it is better understood through the related sociological term of moral panic. In the early 1890s Freud published a series of articles on hysteria which popularized Charcot's earlier work and began the development of his own views of hysteria. By the 1920s Freud's theory was influential in the UK and the US.
Hysteria is an obsolete medical term that is still used colloquially to refer to a state of extreme fear or emotion and the resultant irrational behavior. The term was originally employed to describe women who acted irrationally due to a supposed disturbance of the uterus. Dissociative hysteria may be characterized by amnesia. Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, considered hysteria as a way that the unconscious mind's tried to protect a person from some stress. Hysteria was originally thought to occur when women acted irrationally due to a
Research Report. The term hysteria comes from the Greek word hysterika, meaning Uterus. In ancient Greece it was believed that a wandering and discontented Uterus was blamed for that dreaded female ailment of excessive emotion, hysteria. The disease's symptoms were believed to be dictated by where in the body the offending organ roamed. The term Hysteria is traced back to the late fifth-early fourth centuries BC. A large part of our information about the physical side of women's lives in the classical age is derived from a collection of writings known as the Hippocratic Corpus.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Not to be confused with Hysteria. Female hysteria was a once-common medical diagnosis (distinct from male hysteria), made exclusively in women, which is today no longer recognized by medical authorities as a medical disorder. Hysteria of both genders was widely discussed in the medical literature of the nineteenth century.
Hysteria, in its colloquial use, describes unmanageable emotional excesses. Generally, modern medical professionals have given up the use of hysteria as a diagnostic category, replacing it with more precisely defined categories such as somatization disorder. In the early 1890s Freud published a series of articles on hysteria which popularized Charcot's earlier work and began the development of his own views of hysteria. By the 1920s Freud's theory was influential in the UK and the US.
By the mid to late 19th century, hysteria (or sometimes female hysteria) came to refer to what is today generally considered to be sexual dysfunction. Typical treatment was massage of the patient's genitalia by the physician and, later, by vibrators or water sprays to cause orgasm. In the early 1890s Freud published a series of articles on hysteria which popularized Charcot's earlier work and began the development of his own views of hysteria. By the 1920s Freud's theory was influential in the UK and the US.