How long does it take to charge an electric vehicle? Charging times are greatly variable and depend on many factors, including the charging method, vehicle battery size, maximum power rating, and amperage. Generally speaking, Level 1 charging through a 120 Volt AC outlet takes around 10-20 hours.
Charging time depends on both the type of charge used and the vehicle. For completely empty batteries using a common 120-volt outlet (Level 1), an owner can expect a full charge in 8-12 hours. With a 240-volt outlet and a Level 2 charging station, an owner can expect to fully charge a battery in 4-6 hours.
It depends on the type of batteries in the car and it depends on the type of outlet you're using to charge the thing up. Let's take a few real-world examples: - The Nissan LEAF uses lithium-ion batteries, just like your laptop and your cell phone, but it uses a lot more of them. It can charge overnight (8 hours) at a 220/240-volt Nissan charging dock that's installed in your garage. It can also charge at a 110/120-volt outlet, the kind you plug your laptop and cell phone into, but it'll take far, far longer. - The sexy Tesla Roadster uses lithium-ion batteries, too, but the 240-volt Tesla High Power Wall Connector, as they call it, can charge that baby in a mere 3.5 hours.
Keep in mind that most of the time, the battery will not be empty when you plug in, thus reducing charging time. To recharge a completely empty car battery from an ordinary 120-volt socket, the Chevy Volt plug-in hybrid would need 10 hours and the Nissan Leaf EV would need 20 hours.
[*] With an average range of 84 miles, the Nissan LEAF ® takes you 2½ times that distance on a single charge. [*] And with advanced technology that adjusts constantly to reflect the changes in your battery charge levels—you’ll always know when it’s time to plug-in.
To figure out how long it will take you to fully charge a given battery, simply divide the battery's size by the outlet's output. For instance, a 16 kWh battery will take 10 hours to fully charge from a standard outlet (16 kWh/1.6 kW).