Titanium s a lustrous, white metal when pure. Titanium minerals are quite common. The metal has a low density, good strength, is easily fabricated, and has excellent corrosion resistance.
Elements and Periodic Table History. The first titanium mineral, a black sand called menachanite, was discovered in 1791 in Cornwall by the Reverend William Gregor. He analysed it and deduced it was made up of the oxides of iron and an unknown metal, and reported it as such to the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. 
A period is a horizontal row in the periodic table. Although groups generally have more significant periodic trends, there are regions where horizontal trends are more significant than vertical group trends, such as the f-block, where the lanthanides and actinides form two substantial horizontal series of elements. The rows of the table are called periods; the columns are called groups. Six groups (columns) have names as well as numbers: for example, group 17 elements are the halogens; and group 18, the noble gases.
Titanium is the first element in the fourth column of the periodic table. It is classified as a transition metal. Titanium atoms have 22 electrons and 22 protons. Titanium is not found as a pure element in nature, but is found in compounds as part of minerals in the Earth's crust. It is the ninth most abundant element in the Earth's crust. The most important minerals for mining titanium are rutile and ilmenite
Titanium Facts. Titanium (Ti) is one of the transition metals and has an atomic number of twenty-two. It has a shiny silver color and resists corroding well. Interesting Titanium Facts: Titanium was discovered in 1791 by William Gregor, but was named by Martin Heinrich Klaproth. 
Titanium is a chemical element with symbol Ti and atomic number 22. It is a lustrous transition metal with a silver color, low density and high strength. It is highly resistant to corrosion in sea water, aqua regia and chlorine. Titanium was discovered in Cornwall, Great Britain, by William Gregor in 1791 and named by Martin Heinrich Klaproth for the Titans of Greek mythology.
Titanium (atomic number 22, symbol Ti) is a transition metal and element from the Periodic Table that was discovered in 1791 by the British mineralogist and clergyman William Gregor who studied Cornish minerals. Properties. 
Titanium: the essentials. Titanium s a lustrous, white metal when pure. Titanium minerals are quite common. The metal has a low density, good strength, is easily fabricated, and has excellent corrosion resistance. The metal burns in air and is the only element that burns in nitrogen. It is marvellous in fireworks. Titanium is resistant to dilute sulphuric and hydrochloric acid, most organic acids, damp chlorine gas, and chloride solutions. Titanium metal is considered to be physiologically inert. Titanium is present in meteorites and in the sun. Some lunar rocks contain high concentrations of the dioxide, TiO 2. Titanium oxide bands are prominent in the spectra of M-type stars
The periodic table is a tabular arrangement of the chemical elements, ordered by their atomic number (number of protons in the nucleus), electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties. The table also shows four rectangular blocks: s-, p-d- and f-block. The rows of the table are called periods; the columns are called groups. Six groups (columns) have names as well as numbers: for example, group 17 elements are the halogens; and group 18, the noble gases.