The Federal Republic of Nigeria, commonly referred to as Nigeria /naɪˈdʒɪəriə/ , is a federal constitutional republic in West Africa, bordering Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. Its coast in the south lies on the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean. Nigeria is often referred to as the Giant of Africa, owing to its large population and economy. With approximately 174 million inhabitants, Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa and the seventh most populous country in the world.
The Official languages of Nigeria are: English. Hausa. Igbo. Yoruba. Most Nigerians speak more then one language. Futhermore, there are a total of 521 languages spoken in Nigeria. 510 are living languages, two are second languages, and 9 languages are extinct. 1 French is the official language of 29 countries and is a working language for NATO, the 2  …. Italian Linguistics History Descended from Latin used by commoners, Italian is a Romance language spoken mainly in Europe.
1. Hausa is often associated with Islamic culture in Nigeria and West Africa. It is one of the most spoken Nigerian languages. 18.5 million native speakers are found in Sokoto, Kaduna, Katsina, Kano, Bauchi, Jigawa, Zamfara, Kebbi, and Gombe states. Hausa is also the second language of 15 million more people in Nigeria. Although English is the official language in the country, Nigeria’s large population is responsible for its linguistic diversity which is like a microcosm of Africa as a whole.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. English is the official language but the main regional languages are Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba Edo, Efik, Fulani, Idoma, Ijaw, and Kanuri. Here is a complete list off all 528 languages spoken in Nigeria, including some that have no known native speakers any more: 1. 
English is not a native language of Nigeria, it is the official language of Nigeria. Native languages of Nigeria are like Hausa/fulani, Yoruba. OK,English is not our native language in Nigeria but an official language.And I do not think there is any country in Africa that has English as it's native language. The native languages we have in Nigeria include:Yoruba,Ibo,Hausa,Ijaws,Urhobo etc
anonymous6:English is not a native language of Nigeria, it is the official language of Nigeria. Native languages of Nigeria are like Hausa/fulani, Yoruba. Igbo, edo and etc. OK,English is not our native language in Nigeria but an official language.And I do not think there is any country in Africa that has English as it's native language. The native languages we have in Nigeria include:Yoruba,Ibo,Hausa,Ijaws,Urhobo
Though English is the country’s official language, Hausa (with about 21 percent of the population as L2 speakers), Igbo (with about 16 percent) and Yoruba (21 percent) are major languages in Nigeria. 
The other major languages are Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba, Ibibio, Edo, Fulfulde, and Kanuri. Nigeria's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three major African languages families: Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo. Sign in English, outside the University of Lagos. There are 521 languages that have been spoken in Nigeria (nine of which are now extinct). The official language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.