Making the world better, one answer at a time. Thei average age of hiring is 15. I applied at a Coldstone where I live (Oregon). You also might want to drop off a resume (try and make it a little comical, they like that). The key to getting a job there is to keep on checking back on your application (preferably every other week or so). The reason I know this is because I'm 15 and I work at Coldstone.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. 14 is their youngest age for job positions. Even though they will take you at age 14, the state law may be different and you might not be able to work there. Cold Stone has been closing a lot of stores in recent years. Their troubl … es have been documented in the Wall Street Journal and on CNBC. Cold Stone's franchise owners have been complaining for years that they cannot make a profit due to kickbacks.
Thei average age of hiring is 15. I applied at a Coldstone where I live (Oregon). You also might want to drop off a resume (try and make it a little comical, they like that). … The key to getting a job there is to keep on checking back on your application (preferably every other week or so). Cold Stone has been closing a lot of stores in recent years. Their troubl … es have been documented in the Wall Street Journal and on CNBC. Cold Stone's franchise owners have been complaining for years that they cannot make a profit due to kickbacks.
How old do you have to be to work at Cold Stone Creamery? Most positions require applicants to be 18 years-old, but some positions ask that you be 16 years-old. Many franchised locations have differing positions, like cashier and helper. To find out what age is required at your local store, call, or email. Cold Stone Creamery has been serving ice cream, smoothies, shakes, and cakes for over 25 years. Known for quality ingredients and amazing combinations, this frozen dessert shop’s most recognizable feature is its frozen granite stone used to mix each customer’s idea of perfection.
Report Abuse. it depends on which country and state you are in. in the US, in most states you have to be 16 to work. some states allow you to get a work permit to begin working at 15. trust2400 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0
Best Answer: 16..you can work at 15 with a permit from your folks, but most places won't hire you till you're 16, due to insurance problems. 
How to Apply at Cold Stone Creamery. Hiring and employment policies are set by their individual store owners based on their local state law; generally the minimum age of employment is 16 year old. 