Instructions. Turn the soil over in your planned planting area with a hoe or tiller to a depth of 12 inches and break the dirt up finely. Remove any large rocks and other debris while hoeing. Dig a trench about 4 inches wide and 6 to 8 inches deep. If you're going to plant more than one row, space them apart by about 24 to 36 inches. Cut your potatoes into cubes, about 1 to 2 inches on each side, leaving a sprout on each cube. Nonsprouted sections should have two or three eyes on each. Place the cubes into the bottom of the trench, separating each cube from the other by about 6 to 8 inches. Place the sprouted or eye side of the cubes facing up. Cover the potatoes with a layer of compost and then replace the dirt on top of the plantings. 
Buy your seed potatoes from a reputable seed seller. While you can sprout potatoes that are from the grocery store, the grocery store may have diseases that will kill the plant. It is best to grow seed potatoes that have been treated to prevent these diseases. The next step in sprouting or chitting potatoes is to place the potatoes in a bright location. A sunny window or under a fluorescent lamp are excellent choices for this. In order to keep the sprouting seed potatoes from rolling around, some people place the potatoes in an open egg carton
1 If planting whole potatoes, be sure they contain at least two buds or sprouts and plant them the same way as you would sections. 2  When preparing seed potatoes for planting, it's a good idea to let them dry out for a day or two, a practice that prevents premature rotting of the potato flesh. Tip. 1  Potatoes with eyes, buds or sprouts can also be planted whole. 2  This method will more than likely result in a smaller crop, as each potato will produce just a single plant from the strongest sprout.
Till the compost and fertilizer into the top 6 inches of the bed. Cut large, sprouted seed potatoes into 1- to 2-inch pieces, leaving at least one sprout-and up to three-on each seed piece. Set the seed pieces on a tray with the cut side up, and leave them overnight so the cut sides scab over, which helps prevent rot. Small seed pieces can be left whole. Space the rows 2 to 3 feet apart. Plant each seed piece so the sprout is on top and the cut side, if applicable, on the bottom. Water the bed after planting until the soil is moist to a 6-inch depth. Water once weekly to maintain this moisture level, or twice weekly during extended dry periods.
Overview. Sometimes, even with the best intentions, seed potatoes begin to sprout because you haven't been able to get them in the ground. This can be due to weather conditions or simply because you haven't readied the garden space in time. Seed potatoes go through three stages: young seed, middle aged and old. 
1. Cut large, sprouted potatoes into chunks with two or three eyes each, using a sharp knife, being careful to not break the long sprouts. Place the potato chunks on a tray or cookie sheet, and set them in a cool, dark location overnight so the cut ends can dry out. Small potatoes can be planted whole. Water the potatoes thoroughly. Continue watering regularly when the soil is dry to the touch. Add a 4-inch layer of mulch around the plants, pulling it back at least 4 inches from the sprouting potato vines. Mulch keeps the soil cool while maintaining a consistent moisture level.
4. Place the seed potato sections sprout side up in the trench, spacing them about 10 to 12 inches apart. Cover them so that just the tips of the sprouts are visible, and firm the soil around them lightly. Tip. 1  Potatoes with eyes, buds or sprouts can also be planted whole. 2  This method will more than likely result in a smaller crop, as each potato will produce just a single plant from the strongest sprout.
3. Cut the potatoes into sections being sure that each piece contains at least one or two sprouts. Gauge the length of the sprouts visually and prepare a trench in the soil roughly 6 to 8 inches wide and as deep as the longest sprout. Tip. 1  Potatoes with eyes, buds or sprouts can also be planted whole. 2  This method will more than likely result in a smaller crop, as each potato will produce just a single plant from the str
If you try chitting potatoes, or sprouting seed potatoes, before you plant them, you can harvest your potatoes up to three weeks earlier. Sprouting potatoes before planting can also help you if you have trouble getting your potatoes to reach maturity in your area. While you can sprout potatoes that are from the grocery store, the grocery store may have diseases that will kill the plant. It is best to grow seed potatoes that have been treated to prevent these diseases. The next step in sprouting or chitting potatoes is to place the potatoes in a bright location.
Lay the potatoes in the trench, 24 inches apart. Place the potatoes with the sprouts extending at an angle so that the tip of the sprout is above the soil's surface. Carefully add soil under the sprout to support its entire length. Water the potatoes thoroughly. Continue watering regularly when the soil is dry to the touch. Add a 4-inch layer of mulch around the plants, pulling it back at least 4 inches from the sprouting potato vines. Mulch keeps the soil cool while maintaining a consistent moisture level.