On 23rd October in 2014, 3D Realms released 3D Realms Anthology, which included Commander Keen: Goodbye Galaxy and Commander Keen: Invasion of the Vorticons in the collection.
Commander Keen is a series of platform games developed by id Software. The protagonist of these games is an eight-year-old boy named Billy Blaze (his official name is William Joseph Blazkowicz). He is a genius who has built a spaceship called Bean-with-Bacon Megarocket from old soup cans.
In the game, players control Commander Keen: the alter-ego of an eight year-old genius by the name of Billy Blaze. When Billy learns that the Earth is in danger, he dons his brother's football helmet and his homemade interstellar spaceship to become Commander Keen.
Commander Keen (real name: Billy Blaze) is a character from a series of eponymous platform games by id Software. An incarnation of the character can be found in the super-secret Doom II map, Level 32: Grosse, as an easter egg.
Community Hub. Commander Keen. Commander Keen: Invasion of the Vorticons: Episode 1: Marooned on Mars (Dec. 14th 1990) Episode 2: The Earth Explodes (1991) Episode 3: Keen Must Die! (1991) Commander Keen's very first adventure, and the debut of id's groundbreaking side-scrolling technology. In the game you play the role of Commander Keen: the alter-ego of an eight year-old genius by the name of Billy Blaze.
When Billy learns that the Earth is in danger, he dons his brother's football helmet and his homemade interstellar spaceship to become Commander Keen -- Defender of the Earth! Commander Keen in Goodbye Galaxy!: 1  Episode 4: Secret of the Oracle (1991).
Although developed by id, most of the Commander Keen games were published by Apogee Software, an already established DOS shareware game publisher. Tom Hall is Commander Keen' s designer and the creator of its universe.
Commander Keen is an episodic video game developed by id Software in the early 1990s. The series focuses on the adventures of Billy Blaze, an 8-year-old boy who travels through space and assumes the secret identity of Commander Keen.