Working from the outermost layer, the epidermis has no blood supply. The Dermis contains 2 main layers (plexi) of blood vessels, which can be referred to as the superficial de … rmal plexus and deep dermal plexus. More detail: The dermis can be split up into two layers, the papillary dermis and reticular dermis. 
The epidermis contains no blood vessels, and cells in the deepest layers are nourished almost exclusively by diffused oxygen from the surrounding air and to a far lesser degree by blood capillaries extending to the upper layers of the dermis. The dermis is the layer of skin beneath the epidermis that consists of epithelial tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. The dermis is tightly connected to the epidermis by a basement membrane. It also harbors many nerve endings that provide the sense of touch and heat.
The epidermis contains no blood vessels, and is nourished by diffusion from the dermis. The main type of cells which make up the epidermis are keratinocytes, melanocytes, Langerhans cells and Merkels cells. The epidermis helps the skin to regulate body temperature. The dermis is the layer of skin beneath the epidermis that consists of epithelial tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. The dermis is tightly connected to the epidermis by a basement membrane. It also harbors many nerve endings that provide the sense of touch and heat.
Epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin and very different compared to the innermost layer called the dermis. The epidermis is a tough layer of skin as it is the one which is continuously exposed to environmental trauma. The epidermis has no blood vessels and is composed of many layers stacked one above the other. It is made up of keratinocytes, melanocytes and other cells. The melanocytes present in this layer give skin the color that we see.
It contains no blood vessels or nerves. Blood nourishes this layer by diffusion. The middle layer of the skin, the layer that is asked about in this question is called the 'dermis' and conatins blood vessels, nerves and other structures. The lower layer of the skin is called the 'sub-cutis' and contains fat. The layer of the skin tht contains blood vessels and nerves closest to the surface of the skin is the __ layer.
The epidermis: a thin outer portion, that is the keratinised stratified squamous epithelium of skin. The epidermis is important for the protective function of skin. The basal layers of this epithelium are folded to form dermal papillae. Thin skin contains four types of cellular layers, and thick skin contains five. It contains nerves, the blood supply, fibroblasts, etc, as well as sweat glands, which open out onto the surface of the skin, and in some regions, hair. The apical layers of the dermis are folded, to form dermal papillae, which are particularly prominent in thick skin.
The epidermis is the relatively thin, tough, outer layer of the skin. Most of the cells in the epidermis are keratinocytes. They originate from cells in the deepest layer of the epidermis called the basal layer. Epidermis. The epidermis is the relatively thin, tough, outer layer of the skin. Most of the cells in the epidermis are keratinocytes. They originate from cells in the deepest layer of the epidermis called the basal layer. New keratinocytes slowly migrate up toward the surface of the epidermis.
Dermis. The dermis, the skin's next layer, is a thick layer of fibrous and elastic tissue (made mostly of collagen, elastin, and fibrillin) that gives the skin its flexibility and strength. The dermis contains nerve endings, sweat glands and oil (sebaceous) glands, hair follicles, and blood vessels. Epidermis. The epidermis is the relatively thin, tough, outer layer of the skin. Most of the cells in the epidermis are keratinocytes. They originate from cells in the deepest layer of the epidermis called the basal layer. New keratinocytes slowly migrate up toward the surface of the epidermis.
The dermis: a thicker inner portion. This is the connective tissue layer of skin. It is important for sensation, protection and thermoregulation. It contains nerves, the blood supply, fibroblasts, etc, as well as sweat glands, which open out onto the surface of the skin, and in some regions, hair. The apical layers of the dermis are folded, to form dermal papillae, which are particularly prominent in thick skin. The hypodermis
Summary: The epidermis is the tough, outer layer of the skin that has to protect skin from external agents whereas the dermis is the innermost layer that protects the skin from the temperature variations, acts as insulation for the body and gives sensations of touch, pain and pressure. The epidermis has no blood vessels and is composed of many layers stacked one above the other. It is made up of keratinocytes, melanocytes and other cells. The melanocytes present in this layer give skin the color that we see.