Well not exactly, it's more like serotonin is involved in depression. Serotonin is responsible for depression in the same way that food is responsible for hunger. If you have more food, the hunger will go away, but it didn't cause it in the first place! Serotonin is produced in the brain on an ongoing basis and in response to pleasure-giving experiences, in a normally healthy system. But if that system becomes less than healthy, if it is depressed for example, serotonin levels can drop.
We have provided a forum for you to ask your questions about The Serotonin Formula Weight Loss Program, The Serotonin Formula System or serotonin supplementation. Please feel free to ask Dr. Posner any questions you may have by using the contact form on the right side of this page. It is possible to continue with more sessions after the initial 12-weeks. At the end of the 12 weeks, each person is individually evaluated to analyze the success of the first 12 weeks and whether it makes “good medical sense” to extend the program to achieve their weight loss goals.
A2: The SPWLP is a unique, medically supervised program that brings in the “best” of all approaches to weight loss. Serotonin Formula offers individualized weight loss programs to fit every weight loss need. Whether you have 10 pounds or 150 pounds to lose we offer effective, safe and responsible weight loss. It is possible to continue with more sessions after the initial 12-weeks. At the end of the 12 weeks, each person is individually evaluated to analyze the success of the first 12 weeks and whether it makes “good medical sense” to extend the program to achieve their weight loss goals.
Serotonin is a natural brain chemical that has many effects in the body. Serotonin deficiency has been implicated as a major cause of carbohydrate cravings, obesity, depression, anxiety, premenstrual syndrome, mood disorders secondary to menopause, migraine headaches and fibromyalgia. Direct, natural serotonin supplementation has been shown to decrease appetite as well as carbohydrate cravings. The SPWLP is the only weight loss program that utilizes the first and only direct serotonin supplement. This natural supplement has been patented and subjected to a number of clinical studies.
Biosynthesis. Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine is synthesized from L-tryptophan. The quantity of tryptophan ingested daily is about 0.5 to 1g; the recommended daily allowance is about 200 mg, of which only a small part is converted into serotonin. 
The Serotonin Session was filmed in a grand house by the River Thames in Hammersmith, London. The band played 4 songs taken from their 3rd album Serotonin which is due for release on July 5th. 
The most popular kind of antidepressant, the serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is said to act by increasing the action of serotonin in the brain. Many people have read articles in popular science magazines explaining that a deficiency of serotonin can cause depression, suicide, and aggression. In learned helplessness, the level of serotonin is high, and an excess of serotonin helps to create the state of learned helplessness. Serotonin activates glycolysis, forming lactic acid. Excess lactic acid tends to decrease efficient energy production by interfering with mitochondrial respiration.
Serotonin is a natural brain chemical that has many effects in the body. Serotonin deficiency has been implicated as a major cause of carbohydrate cravings, obesity, depression, anxiety, premenstrual syndrome, mood disorders secondary to menopause, migraine headaches and fibromyalgia. It is possible to continue with more sessions after the initial 12-weeks. At the end of the 12 weeks, each person is individually evaluated to analyze the success of the first 12 weeks and whether it makes “good medical sense” to extend the program to achieve their weight loss goals.
How serotonin levels may or may not be a factor in depression. 10:39 – Antidepressant adaptation: what happens to your brain and your body when you take (or stop taking!) an antidepressant. 15:29 – What the studies REALLY say about antidepressant medications and the profound power of placebo. In this Instant Classic, licensed psychiatrist Dr. Kelly Brogan states a compelling case for why Depression is NOT a Serotonin Deficiency. Discover what she calls the “flawed logic” in our current understanding of how antidepressants work.
The problem with you, she explained, is that you have a chemical imbalance. It's biological, just like diabetes, but it's in your brain. This chemical in your brain called serotonin is too, too low. There's not enough of it, and that's what's causing the chemical imbalance. His take is that while low serotonin probably doesn't cause depression, some abnormality in the serotonin system clearly plays a role. But most researchers have moved on, he says, and are looking at more fundamental issues like identifying the genes that might put people at risk for developing depression.