If the carpet is glued down (perhaps in a basement) then it becomes “attached” to the property and must be depreciated over 27.5 years. Beyond that distinction depreciating carpeting is the same as depreciating a new appliance (see the more detailed appliance depreciation article above). If the idea of paying several thousand dollars for new flooring without the ability to write off the cost in a short time frame is unappealing then tacked down carpet (with its shorter 5 year depreciation schedule) should be strongly considered.
We are only allowed to charge them the different between the depreciated amount and the useful life of the carpets. From what I've read it seems that 5 years is the IRS useful life for carpets and they tend to depreciate $100/yr. 
How to depreciate carpets and other flooring. Carpeting is depreciated over either five years or 27.5 years depending on how it is installed. Most other types of flooring are depreciated using the 27.5 year schedule only. If the idea of paying several thousand dollars for new flooring without the ability to write off the cost in a short time frame is unappealing then tacked down carpet (with its shorter 5 year depreciation schedule) should be strongly considered.
TL is incorrect. You have to figure this depreciation based on the schedule that you are using on your tax form for depreciating the carpet. Ask your accountant how many years he is taking off the new carpet on your taxes. It can be from 5-10 years (7 is just the average). Take the carpet's cost, divide it by the number of years you are depreciating it on your taxes, then multiply by 2. Carpet price / # of yrs depreciated x 2 = wear & tear. That equals the amount of normal wear and tear you would have already had from any normal tenant who had lived there for 2 years.
The time period you have to depreciate a carpet in a rental depends on whether it is classified as personal property or part of the building structure. If the carpet is tacked down, it is classified as personal property and is depreciated over five years. But if the carpet in a residential rental property is glued down, it is considered to be part of the building structure and must be depreciated over a whopping 27.5 years. Among these are the cost of improvements and repairs to the space you rent out. Repairs are currently deductible--that is, the entire cost can be deducted in a single year. On the other hand, improvements must be depreciated--that is, deducted a portion at a time over several years.
How to Calculate Depreciation. Here's the bad news. For residential real estate, carpet is depreciated over five years, but put in new flooring (wood, tile or linoleum), and it will take 27.5 years to completely depreciate the cost. That's because new floors are expected to last the life of the property. Oh, it gets worse
Replacement carpet is a tax deductible expense or a depreciating improvement. The cash you generate from renting an investment property is taxable as income. In addition to your operating expenses, you can deduct from your rental income any expenses related to the property's upkeep. Generally, replacing a worn carpet qualifies as a deductible expense. 
* * New carpeting purchased in 2010 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation. Note that to qualify for bonus depreciation the carpeting must be tacked down, not glued down (not permanently attached). The same 50% bonus depreciation applies to other types of flooring as long as it’s not permanently installed (see above). If the idea of paying several thousand dollars for new flooring without the ability to write off the cost in a short time frame is unappealing then tacked down carpet (with its shorter 5 year depreciation schedule) should be strongly considered.