The price for CoolSculpting procedures varies, depending on your areas of concern, and the number of sessions needed, and your ultimate goals. That’s why it’s important to create a customized treatment plan, in person, with your physician that’s tailored to your body, your goals, and your budget.
How much does Coolsculpting cost? Typical Coolsculpting prices vary between $700 and $2,000 for the first session and between $400 and $1,000 for repeat work on the same body parts. The price depends on part of the body, the specialist, and the geographical location.
CoolSculpting has the ability to treat almost all the same areas, only costing you about $600-$1,200 per area. Most patients can completely transform their bodies with a $3,000 – $4,000 budget, depending on what areas you need to treat.
Coolsculpting Costs. The average cost of a coolsculpting procedure is about $1600. If you are not excessively overweight, and just want to get rid of some problem areas, THIS solution might be better for you (and save you $$$). This usually entails two treatment sessions on the problem area.
1 According to Coolsculpting.com, the price for coolsculpting varies according to a few factors. ( 2 See below for a detailed list of these.) Specific prices are determined by the patient’s area of concern, the number of treatments needed and the ultimate look that the patient want to achieve.
1 A certain review from Realself.com, for example, states that the average coolsculpting cost is around$1,525. 2  Specifically, the patient’s stomach fat was targeted in the procedure and it cost over $2,200. 3  The said price is for a coolsculpting done in Indianapolis.
The average cost of a coolsculpting procedure is about $1600. If you are not excessively overweight, and just want to get rid of some problem areas, THIS solution might be better for you (and save you $$$).
1 The said price is for a coolsculpting done in Indianapolis. 2  Other states have different price ranges but will not be too far off the average. 3  In addition, an article on USNews.com reported that it usually takes about an hour for each round of treatment. 4  Each treatment costs $700.