Breast Anatomy Larger Version. Over time, cancer cells can invade nearby healthy breast tissue and make their way into the underarm lymph nodes, small organs that filter out foreign substances in the body. If cancer cells get into the lymph nodes, they then have a pathway into other parts of the body. Benign tumors are not considered cancerous: their cells are close to normal in appearance, they grow slowly, and they do not invade nearby tissues or spread to other parts of the body. Malignant tumors are cancerous. Left unchecked, malignant cells eventually can spread beyond the original tumor to other parts of the body. The term “breast cancer” refers to a malignant tumor that has developed from cells in the breast
1 Malignant mesothelioma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lining of the chest or abdomen. 2  Being exposed to asbestos can affect the risk of malignant mesothelioma. 3  Signs and symptoms of malignant mesothelioma include shortness of breath and pain under the rib cage. 1 PET scan (positron emission tomography scan) : A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. 2  A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. 3  The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used
Breast cancer is a malignant tumor that starts in the cells of the breast. A malignant tumor is a group of cancer cells that can grow into (invade) surrounding tissues or spread (metastasize) to distant areas of the body. The disease occurs almost entirely in women, but men can get it, too. This information refers only to breast cancer in women.
Melanoma is dangerous because it can spread beyond what you can see, moving deep into your skin where it can gain access to your lymphatic vessels. This allows cancer cells to travel to distant locations in your body. Cancer cells can also travel to different parts of your body by way of your blood vessels. In this example, melanoma cells migrate to a lymph node. From the lymph node, the melanoma cells can then travel to other parts of your body. 
Breast cancer is a malignant tumor that starts in the cells of the breast. A malignant tumor is a group of cancer cells that can grow into (invade) surrounding tissues or spread (metastasize) to distant areas of the body. If the cancer cells have spread to lymph nodes, there is a higher chance that the cells could have also gotten into the bloodstream and spread (metastasized) to other sites in the body. The more lymph nodes with breast cancer cells, the more likely it is that the cancer may be found in other organs as well.
Cancer, also known as a malignant tumor or malignant neoplasm, is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Not all tumors are cancerous; benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body. 
One answer is that cancerous cells can often spread from the original site of the tumor to other parts of the body via the blood stream and lymph system. So a tumor growing in breast tissue or the skin on your face may actually cause a tumor to develop in your brain or lungs if left unchecked. 