The Black Death began in Europe in 1347 and carried off an estimated 30 percent or more of the population of Europe. For centuries the epidemic continued to strike every 10 years or so, its last major outbreak being the Great Plague of London from 1665 to 1666. The disease is spread by rats and transmitted to people by fleas or, in some cases, directly by breathing. A bubonic plague smear, prepared from a lymph removed from an adenopathic lymph node, or bubo, of a plague patient, demonstrates the presence of the Yersinia pestis bacteria that causes the plague.
When people think of Europe and the Dark Ages, they think of the Black Death. The black death is also known as the bubonic plague. The first significant outbreak in Europe took place in 1347 and slowed down in 1350. This plague was spread by fleas that had Yersinia pestis bacterium. These fleas would use black rats as transportation. 
It had come from infected rats but it was given to humans by they fleas on the infected rat it sucked up the blood and passed it on to a healthy human who became ill from the plague this type of plague was called the bubonic plague. The plague was transmitted by infected fleas carried by the very common Black Rat. The flea would bite the infected rat, and the deadly bacteria would grow in its system. When the flea bit a human, the flea's saliva and the bacteria would enter the bloodstream.
The Black Death is a specific outbreak of the bubonic plague. Between 1347 and 1352, it killed nearly a third of Europe's population, with the death toll going to three quarte … rs of the people in some areas. At the time, it was called the Great Pestilence. The plague was transmitted by infected fleas carried by the very common Black Rat. The flea would bite the infected rat, and the deadly bacteria would grow in its system. When the flea bit a human, the flea's saliva and the bacteria would enter the bloodstream.
A+E Networks. The Black Death arrived in Europe by sea in October 1347 when 12 Genoese trading ships docked at the Sicilian port of Messina after a long journey through the Black Sea. (Early in the 1340s, the disease had struck China, India, Persia, Syria and Egypt.) However, they were scarcely equipped for the horrible reality of the Black Death.
slide 1 of 3. Bubonic Plague. The Black Death-also known as the bubonic plague-was a disease that devastated Medieval Europe like no other. Between 1346 and 1352 it killed 45 million people, wiping out a third of Europe's population. 
Confidence votes 94.7K. The Bubonic Plague originated in China. It was spread by the fleas carried by rats going aboard ships and they were transported to Italy, Greece and France, when the rats left the ships entering cities and gave us the Bubonic Plague. The Bubonic Plague spread from China and East Asia to Europe through the Silk Road and arrived in the Ukraine. It also spread from fleas upon rats aboard merchant ships, and i … s believed to have spread from Sicily.
The first wave started in Europe in late 1347. It spread throughout Europe and the British Island and Scandinavia rapidly. For years after the plague would come in waves throughout europe and then die out with no reason why. It is believed that from one third to one half of the WORLD'S population died from the plague.
The first recorded appearance of the plague in Europe was at Messina, Sicily in October of 1347. It arrived on trading ships that very likely came from the Black Sea, past Constantinople and through the Mediterranean. 
The Black Death in England was a bubonic plague pandemic, which reached England in 1348, and killed perhaps half the population, dying down in 1349. 