How you can tell whether you have a bacterial infection or a viral infection. White blood cells serve the sole job of killing infections (not a bad gig if you can get it). A normal white blood cell count is in the range of 4,000 to 11,000 cells per liter of blood. If you have an elevated white blood cell count (anything above 11,000), it's a good bet you have an infection. The next step is to determine what type of infection you have: bacterial or viral (no guessing allowed).
An elevated count of neutrophils is an indication of bacterial  infection. Neutrophils are the most abundant type of white blood  cells in mammals. White blood cell count is likely to drastically increase, or decrease, if a bacterial infection is present. White blood cells are normally fewer then red or platelets ho … wever, WBC primarily fight over infection, sicknes, etc. so they will be affected more so than RBC or platelets.
The blood has several types of white blood cells including neutrophils, bands, eosinophils, basophils, monocytes and lymphocytes. Each fights infection in a different way. Neutrophils, for example, are one of the body's main defenses against bacteria. Neutrophils kill bacteria by ingesting them. Another type of white blood cell is called bands. Bands are immature neutrophils. When a bacterial infection is present, an increase of both neutrophils and bands are seen. The eosinophil type of white blood cell kills parasites and has a role in allergic reactions.
White blood cell: One of the cells the body makes to help fight infections. There are several types of white blood cells (leukocytes). The two most common types are the lymphocytes and neutrophils (also called polymorphonuclear leukocytes, PMNs, or polys). The white blood cell count is done by counting the number of white blood cells in a sample of blood. A normal WBC is in the range of 4,000 to 11,000 cells per microliter. A low WBC is called leukopenia. A high WBC is termed leukocytosis.
Typically no: Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a more localized infection of the vagina and typically does not cause more systemic symptoms like fever chills or an elevation in your white blood cell count. You should see your doctor though if you continue to feel not well. 
White Blood Cells. White blood cells (WBCs), or leukocytes, are a part of the immune system and help our bodies fight infection. They circulate in the blood so that they can be transported to an area where an infection has developed. In a normal adult body there are 4,000 to 10,000 (average 7,000) WBCs per microliter of blood. 
The white blood cell differential will usually tell you whether you have a bacterial infection or a viral infection. This is how the white blood cell differential works: there are different types of white blood cells in your body. If you have an elevated white blood cell count (anything above 11,000), it's a good bet you have an infection. The next step is to determine what type of infection you have: bacterial or viral (no guessing allowed).
Neutrophils are by far the most common form of white blood cell that you have in your body (pus is simply dead neutrophils). Neutrophils are infection fighters that increase during bacterial infections (neutrophils are also known as granulocytes (grans), polys, PMNs, or segs). If you have an elevated white blood cell count (anything above 11,000), it's a good bet you have an infection. The next step is to determine what type of infection you have: bacterial or viral (no guessing allowed).
Effects. During an infection, your body produces a greater number of white blood cells. This is called leukocytosis. Depending on the type of infection, one of the specific white blood cell types may be elevated more than others. For example, during bacterial infections, neutrophils are elevated. Significance. Another effect of certain infections is to lower the white blood cell count. A decrease in the level of white blood cells is called leucopenia. According to MedlinePlus, infections with certain viruses, such as parvovirus, can suppress the production of these cells in the bone marrow.