Diatomaceous Earth is a soft powder formed from the fossilized remains of diatoms (a type of hard shelled algae). It is unique in a couple of ways: 1  It has a very high silica content (which is used to build hair, skin and nails). Diatomaceous earth’s unique structure makes it a great natural way to kill insects and pests (including intestinal parasites), gently cleanse the digestive system, and improve hair, skin, nails, and teeth.
2. Because diatomaceous earth is a strong abrasive, it is often used as a toothpaste and facial exfoliator. The process of exfoliation is important in skin care as it helps to remove dead skin cells that may give the appearance of tired, worn-out skin. Promotes Skin Health. Because diatomaceous earth is a strong abrasive, it is often used as a toothpaste and facial exfoliator. The process of exfoliation is important in skin care as it helps to remove dead skin cells that may give the appearance of tired, worn-out skin.
Food grade diatomaceous earth (DE) is a gentle abrasive that's also highly absorbent. DE is almost entirely made of silica, an important component of human ligaments, cartilage, and musculature. This unique resume makes DE one of the cheapest and most versatile health products on the market. Food Grade Diatomaceous Earth. Food grade diatomaceous earth (DE) is a fantastic way to promote a cleaner and healthier household. It truly is a miracle mineral but there are some things you should be aware of before you use it. Here is our guide to buying, using, and consuming DE.
Diatomaceous earth is made from the fossilized remains of tiny, aquatic organisms called diatoms. Their skeletons are made of a natural substance called silica. Over a long period of time, diatoms accumulated in the sediment of rivers, streams, lakes, and oceans. Today, silica deposits are mined from these areas. 
1 The good news is that Diatomaceous Earth is non-toxic to humans and animals; it is even used in some foods food (food-grade quality, not the DE used for pool filtration systems) and some health supplements. 2  DE is also used for a variety of beauty and health care products. 
Diatomaceous Earth has many uses in industrial and in the home and garden. But it is important to know that there are two types of D.E. Food Grade and Non-Food grade. NEVER use Non-Food Grade D.E. as a supplement. It can extremely harmful to your body. Only use Non-Food Grade for spills, garden, pool filters, etc. Diatomaceous earth may not be the most popular choice as the product to use on a cleanse but it is growing in popularity at a tremendous rate. Unlike other cleansing products, diatomaceous earth is safe and has been subject to numerous studies.
A sample of food-grade diatomaceous earth. Diatomaceous earth /ˌdaɪ.ətəˌmeɪʃəs ˈɜrθ/ , also known as D.E. , diatomite, or kieselgur / kieselguhr, is a naturally occurring, soft, siliceous sedimentary rock that is easily crumbled into a fine white to off-white powder. The typical chemical composition of oven-dried diatomaceous earth is 80 to 90% silica, with 2 to 4% alumina (attributed mostly to clay minerals) and 0.5 to 2% iron oxide. Diatomaceous earth consists of fossilized remains of diatoms, a type of hard-shelled algae.
Good question! Food grade diatomaceous earth (DE) is a fine powder made from diatoms, a type of fossilized phytoplankton. It looks like Rice Chex under a microscope, only in cylindrical form. The “dangerous” part of DE is the amount of crystalline silica that is in it. Filter grade is 65% crystalline silica while food grade is less than 1/10 of 1%! The world health org. has said that diatomaceous earth is safe to breathe as long as the crystalline content is under 2%.