Early Corn. Most varieties of early season corn take 67 to 72 days to harvest, with the typical maturity time listed on the seed packet. One variety, called Earlivee, can be ready to pick as soon as 58 days after planting
Corn seed germinates in 10 to 14 days at 75°F, but the rate of germination may reach only 75 percent. Start corn indoors 2 to 3 weeks before the last frost in spring for transplanting 2 to 3 weeks after the last frost. If your season is long enough, plant successive crops every two to three weeks. Corn is a tender, warm-season annual that is best planted after the soil temperature reaches 60°F, usually 2 or 3 weeks after the last frost in spring. Corn requires 60 to 100 frost-free days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat during the growing season.
You might be wondering, “how long does it take for corn to grow?” There are many different varieties of corn and a couple of different methods for corn planting, so you can plant 60-day, 70-day or 90-day corn. When most people think about how to grow corn, they are thinking in terms of their own private stash of corn. Otherwise, your crop will be sparse. If you are thinking about how to grow corn from seed, there are only a few rules to follow. First, make sure you make your rows 24-30 inches apart from each other. Plant the corn one to two inches deep in the soil about nine to twelve inches apart from each other in the row.
Soil temperature is one of the best predictors of how long it will take corn to break the ground's surface. Soil temperature is usually 5 to 10 degrees cooler than air temperature, and soil temperature increases slower than air temperature in spring. Gardeners usually plant corn (Zea mays) 10 days to two weeks after the last spring frost, when the soil temperature begins to warm. If corn is planted when the soil temperature is 60 F, then corn sprouts typically break the soil surface in 10 days to two weeks. If you planted sweet corn and two weeks passed without sight of the first green shoot, then several factors may have caused the delay
Answers. Best Answer: It depends on which variety you plant. Early corn takes about 60 days from seed to harvest. Some heirloom corn takes close to 120 days. These are usually non-hybrid, old fashioned corn varieties. There are a lot that ripen between 60 and 120 days. You have to decide what is important to you. Lots of smaller ears or less ears but they are larger.
Fresh sweet corn can be worth the wait. Gardeners usually plant corn (Zea mays) 10 days to two weeks after the last spring frost, when the soil temperature begins to warm. If corn is planted when the soil temperature is 60 F, then corn sprouts typically break the soil surface in 10 days to two weeks. If you planted sweet corn and two weeks passed without sight of the first green shoot, then several factors may have caused the delay