The measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine is recommended for all children. It protects against three potentially serious illnesses. It is a two-part vaccination, and in most states, you must prove your children have gotten it before they can enter school. Rubella is also known as German measles. It can cause a mild rash on the face, swelling of glands behind the ears, and in some cases, swelling of the small joints and low-grade fever. Most children recover quickly with no lasting effects. But if a pregnant woman gets rubella, it can be devastating.
Common side effects of the MMR vaccine. About a week to 11 days after the MMR injection, some children get a very mild form of measles. This includes a rash, high temperature, loss of appetite and a general feeling of being unwell for about two or three days. There's less chance of side effects after the second dose of MMR than the first
MMR vaccine side effects. The MMR vaccine is very safe and most side effects are mild and short-lived. Because the MMR vaccine combines three separate vaccines in one injection, each vaccine can cause different side effects that can happen at different times. There's less chance of side effects after the second dose of MMR than the first. About a week to 11 days after the MMR injection, some children get a very mild form of measles. This includes a rash, high temperature, loss of appetite and a general feeling of being unwell for about two or three days.
Rubella is also known as German measles. In children, rubella infection causes a mild rash on the face, swelling of glands behind the ears and in some cases swelling of the small joints and a low-grade fever. Most children recover quickly from rubella with no lasting effects.
| Possible side-effects of MMR vaccine | Pre-immunisation checklist | In your language | Download document. The National Immunisation Program provides free measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine to children at 12 months and 18 months of age. Measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccines. The MMR vaccine also comes in combination with chickenpox (MMRV) for 18 month old children and contains small amounts of each of the viruses at a reduced strength and a small amount of the antibiotic neomycin.
Side effects to watch out for. Babies and young children have a number of vaccinations before they reach school age. Sometimes these cause side effects. The most common side effects are in the area where the injection was given, such as swelling, redness or a small hard lump. After six to ten days, the measles vaccine may cause a fever, a measles-like rash, and loss of appetite. Three to four weeks after the injection, the mumps vaccine may cause mumps-like symptoms in some children (fever and swollen glands).
As there are three separate vaccines within a single injection, different side effects can occur at different times. The side effects of the MMR vaccine are usually mild. It's important to remember they're milder than the potential complications of measles, mumps and rubella. 
After the MMR vaccination. MMR is made up of three different vaccines (measles, mumps and rubella) and these can each cause reactions at different times after the injection. After six to ten days, the measles vaccine may cause a fever, a measles-like rash, and loss of appetite. Three to four weeks after the injection, the mumps vaccine may cause mumps-like symptoms in some children (fever and swollen glands).
Measles. Measles is a highly contagious illness that was once almost universal in children. Its main symptoms are a rash, fever, runny nose, cough, and eye irritation. Possible complications of measles include ear infections, diarrhea, pneumonia, seizures, encephalitis, brain damage, and death.