There is no doubt that an ancestor of modern Greek was spoken in Greece more than 2500 years ago-but it wouldn't be accurate to say that today's Greeks speak the language of Homer. Greek has a documented history dating back 3500 years. Homer wrote both the Iliad and the Odyssey around 800 BC. The language has evolved somewhat in form, but look at English-compare Chaucer or Shakespeare to the English that is spoken today.
It is spoken by 7.3 million people in Albania, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Greece, Turkey, and by immigrant communities world-wide. Albanian was finally proven to be an Indo-European language only in 1854. 
Read the following answers with caution. Everyone wants their language to be the oldest, but the truth is, that written language doesn't go back very far in Human history, and without artifacts of writing, we can't tell what was going on with language, or how it evolved. It is possible that either Chinese or Greek were the first, but Greek has the first written texts, from what archaeology studies have unveiled. Tamil is the oldest language now in use that is spoken by more than 65,000,000 people. please don't compare Tamil with sanskrit ..Tamil is classical language ..
ANSWER: The oldest language in Europe still talked today is Welsh. Plus they have the oldest flag in the world The Red Dragon of Wales (second oldest is Denmark's). Some s … ay the Romans brought the Red Dragon there. The answer shown above contains the phrase still talked today. It is possible that either Chinese or Greek were the first, but Greek has the first written texts, from what archaeology studies have unveiled. Tamil is the oldest language now in use that is spoken by more than 65,000,000 people. please don't compare Tamil with sanskrit ..Tamil is classical language ..
The history of the Welsh language. Welsh (Cymraeg) is the oldest language in Britain dating back possibly 4,000 years. The majority of European languages, including Welsh, evolved from a language now called Indo-European, which developed into nine different language groups, one of which was Celtic. In turn, Celtic developed its own family of languages.
But, Kalevi Wiik argues, Finno-Ugrian languages may originally have been spoken by the whole of northern Europe. via Metafilter : 'Kalevi Wiik makes the argument that most of Europe may have spoken a proto Finno-Ugric language before the appearance of Indo-European speakers in the region. It's still controversial a few years after the paper was published (and likely always will be).'
No. Greek is the oldest practiced language in Western Europe. Some people forget that Greece is considered a part of Western Europe. This is due to the history of Greece, whic … h made Greece heavily tied to the true geographical definition of Western Europe. The Greek language has been around since about 1400 BCE. Disregarding Greece, Latin would be the oldest surviving language of Western Europe. Latin is still official in one country, Vatican City, and many people across the world still learn Latin. In addition, Latin is still used in naming items (from animals to elements). The Latin language was established around 500 BCE
Actually the oldest language still spoke in Europe is Basque. While you can hardly find written proof of this, the language is not descended from any of the indo-european invaders which clearly shows that it was spoken in Europe before any modern day language arrived. It is possible that either Chinese or Greek were the first, but Greek has the first written texts, from what archaeology studies have unveiled. Tamil is the oldest language now in use that is spoken by more than 65,000,000 people. please don't compare Tamil with sanskrit ..Tamil is classical language ..
The Indo-European languages are a family of related languages that today are widely spoken in the Americas, Europe, and also Western and Southern Asia. 