Find out where people with the family name Haitian lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. 
Report Abuse. Media portrays Haiti as a country with mainly blackpeople for media will show what they want to show. First of all, the term Haitian is not a race classification, it is a nationality. Therefore, there are Haitians of African descent, European descent, East Asian descent, East Indian descent, etc.
Haiti Citizenship. HAITI CITIZENSHIP: Citizenship laws are based upon the Constitution of Haiti. 1  BY BIRTH: Birth within the Republic of Haiti does not automatically confer citizenship. 2  BY DESCENT: Child, at least one of whose parents is a native-born citizen of Haiti, regardless of the child’s country of birth. 1 Child born abroad must be registered at the nearest Haitian consulate or embassy for the citizenship to be recognized. 2  BY NATURALIZATION: Haitian citizenship may be acquired upon fulfillment of the following condition: Person has resided within Haiti for a continuous period of five years.
The regulations governing Haitian nationality shall be determined by law. ARTICLE 11: Any person born of a Haitian father or Haitian mother who are themselves native-born Haitians and have never renounced their nationality possesses Haitian nationality at the time of birth. ARTICLE 12: Haitian nationality may be adquired by naturalization.
In addition to CARICOM, Haiti is a member of the Latin Union, the Organization of American States, and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States; it is also seeking associate membership status in the African Union. Haiti also includes various offshore islands. The island of Tortuga (Île île de La) tortue is located off the coast of Northern. Haiti the arrondissement Of La gonave gonâve is located on the island of the, same name In the golfe De. l
Exception: Child, born abroad to Haitian parents, who acquires the citizenship of the country ofbirth. This dual citizenship is allowed until the child reaches the age of majority (18). Uponreaching 18, one of the nationalities must be renounced. 1 Child born abroad must be registered at the nearest Haitian consulate or embassy for the citizenship to be recognized. 2  BY NATURALIZATION: Haitian citizenship may be acquired upon fulfillment of the following condition: Person has resided within Haiti for a continuous period of five years.
Immigrants from Haiti represent a small but growing share of the total foreign-born population in the United States, tripling in number between 1990 and 2012. Haitian migration to the United States was very small several decades ago, with the population estimated at approximately 5,000 in 1960. The Haitian diaspora in the United States is comprised of approximately 954,000 individuals who were either born in Haiti or report Haitian ancestry, according to tabulation of data from the Census Bureau’s pooled 2008-12 ACS.
Haiti's proximity to the United States, and its status as a free black republic in the years before the American Civil War, have contributed to this relationship. Many influential early American settlers and black freemen, including Jean Baptiste Point du Sable and W. E. B. Du Bois, were of Haitian origin. Haiti also includes various offshore islands. The island of Tortuga (Île île de La) tortue is located off the coast of Northern. Haiti the arrondissement Of La gonave gonâve is located on the island of the, same name In the golfe De. l
There is only one way to be of Haitian nationality. In Article 11, it states that the individual must be native-born, from parents, one of whom must be native born and never renounced their nationality, at the time of birth. The 1987 Haitian constitution, from its articles 10 through 15, is explicit on who should be considered a Haitian national at the time of birth and how Haitian citizenship can be obtained by a foreign national. Being explicit does not mean being perfect; however, the constitution is the supreme law of the land.