DRUG DESCRIPTION. LIDODERM (lidocaine patch 5%) is comprised of an adhesive material containing 5% lidocaine, which is applied to a non-woven polyester felt backing and covered with a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film release liner. The release liner is removed prior to application to the skin. 
LIDODERM is a topical patch that is used to treat localized after-shingles pain. Because it's a patch, this means there's little absorption into the bloodstream. If you would like to treat your after-shingles pain at the site of your pain, ask your doctor or nurse about LIDODERM, a no-pill option. LIDODERM is not a narcotic and is not addictive.
Lidocaine viscous topical solution is also used to treat sore mouth or throat and also reduce gagging during the taking of X-ray pictures and dental impressions. Lidocaine skin patch is used to relieve pain caused by shingles (postherpetic neuralgia). Lidocaine belongs to the family of medicines called local anesthetics. This medicine prevents pain by blocking the signals at the nerve endings in the skin. This medicine does not cause unconsciousness as general anesthetics do when used for surgery. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
No, Lidocaine is a local anesthetic. It also is classified as an  Antiarrhythmic drug and an Amide Local Anesthetic. It basically  causes loss of feeling in a specific area … of the body. no it isn't a narcotic its jus makes ya feel good It is a Federally controlled substance in the USA. It falls under Schedule IV, meaning it has ability for abuse and addicti … on, but not a narcotic. It is not a benzodiazapine, such as Valium and Xanax and all the others like them.
Lidocaine, sold under the brand names Akten, Glydo, and Lidoderm, relieves pain when applied to the skin via cream, gel, or patch. Lidocaine can also be given through the veins before surgical procedures to numb the surrounding area where medication is being administered and to help with irregular heartbeat. Common Side Effects of Lidocaine. 1  High blood pressure. 2  Swelling or swelling or redness of the skin at the site of injection if receiving lidocaine via injection into the veins. 3  Constipation, nausea, and/or vomiting. 4  Confusion, dizziness, headache, funny feeling or tingling in the toes, fingers, or hands.
Lidocaine, also known as xylocaine and lignocaine, is a medication used to numb tissue in a specific area and to treat ventricular tachycardia. It can also be used for nerve blocks. Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are rare when lidocaine is used as a local anesthetic and is administered correctly. Most ADRs associated with lidocaine for anesthesia relate to administration technique (resulting in systemic exposure) or pharmacological effects of anesthesia, and allergic reactions only rarely occur.
A: Lidocaine is an anesthetic or numbing agent when used topically or injected in the spinal column, and it is an antiarrhythmic (helps with irregular heart beats) when given intravenously. When it is used topically on the skin, it works by inhibiting the nerve impulses that pass along pain signals to the brain. Lidocaine is not related to narcotic medications. The prescribing information on lidocaine lists the following as the most common side effects of the topical medications: nausea and numbness. Common Side Effects of Lidocaine. 1  High blood pressure. 2  Swelling or swelling or redness of the skin at the site of injection if receiving lidocaine via injection into the veins. 3  Constipation, nausea, and/or vomiting. 4  Confusion, dizziness, headache, funny feeling or tingling in the toes, fingers, or hands.
ANSWER:  Lidocaine is a topical anethestetic (numbs tissue) and viscous means it's a thick liquid form, about the same as honey. One use is specific throat pain, but must be … used carefully because it can numb the gag reflex, and can result in choking or aspirating fluid into the lungs. no it isn't a narcotic its jus makes ya feel good It is a Federally controlled substance in the USA. It falls under Schedule IV, meaning it has ability for abuse and addicti … on, but not a narcotic. It is not a benzodiazapine, such as Valium and Xanax and all the others like them.
Natural and synthetic narcotics are used in medicine to control pain.; A soothing, numbing agent (not marijuana!!!!) Per the DEA website, a narcotic is a medication, derived from the poppy plant (or a synthetic substance closely related to opium), and used to treat pain. no it isn't a narcotic its jus makes ya feel good It is a Federally controlled substance in the USA. It falls under Schedule IV, meaning it has ability for abuse and addicti … on, but not a narcotic. It is not a benzodiazapine, such as Valium and Xanax and all the others like them.
Indication. LIDODERM ® (lidocaine patch 5%) is used to relieve the pain of post-herpetic neuralgia, also referred to as after-shingles pain. Apply only to intact skin with no blisters. Because it's a patch, this means there's little absorption into the bloodstream. If you would like to treat your after-shingles pain at the site of your pain, ask your doctor or nurse about LIDODERM, a no-pill option. LIDODERM is not a narcotic and is not addictive.