Types of chlorine used in disinfection. Public water systems use chlorine in the gaseous form, which is considered too dangerous and expensive for home use. Private systems use liquid chlorine (sodium hypochlorite) or dry chlorine (calcium hypochlorite).
The most common use of chlorine in water treatment is to disinfect water. As a disinfectant, it has drawbacks, but it also has advantages. Other methods of disinfection such as ultraviolet and ozonation are effective disinfectants but they do not provide a residual to prevent pathogen regrowth as chlorination does.
“Pure chlorine” is seldom used for water treatment. The three most common chlorine-containing substances used in water treatment are chlorine gas, sodium hypochlorite, and calcium hypochlorite.
Chlorination of water is a common way municipal water and wastewater treatment plants purify water, and thermal mass flow meters are ideal to measure chlorine gas. Chlorine gas is primarily used as a disinfectant for treating water supplies around the world. The main applications are treatment of drinking water and industrial and municipal wastewater treatment before discharge. Other usages include disinfectant and algaecide in food processing systems, and water cooling systems.
The type of chloramine discussed on this page that is used to treat drinking water (monochloramine) is not the same type that can form and harm the indoor air quality around swimming pools (dichloramine or trichloramine) . Chlorine was first used as a drinking water disinfectant in Europe in the late 1800s. It was first used in the U.S. in 1908 in Jersey City, New Jersey. Chloramine has been used as a drinking water disinfectant in the U.S. in places like Cleveland, Ohio, Springfield, Illinois, and Lansing, Michigan since 1929.
The choice of the chlorine type to be used often depends on cost, on the available storage options and on the pH conditions required. Chlorination affects pH and pH affects results—a fact that is commonly overlooked in residential water treatment.