Alcoholic Fermentation and Lactic Acid are the two main types of  fermentation. These two are aerobic with Oxygen and anaerobic without Oxygen.    Aerobic metabolism of lactate is proceeded in the presence of O2.   Aerobic metabolism of lactate … is incapacitated in the absence of  O2, and the resulting anaerobic metabolism of lactate yields Lactic  Acid which provides Muscle Burn.
5.6 Fermentation Fermentation is of different types and takes place under anaerobic conditions mostly in saprophytic microorganisms like certain bacteria and fungi. However, it may also take place in higher organisms under certain conditions.
It involves adding yeasts to the cooled malt. These yeasts are fed by the amino acids in the brew and produce alcohol from the sugar that is present. These natural reactions also produce carbon dioxide. There are three different types of fermentation and each results in a different type of beer. 
The two most common types of fermentation are (1) alcoholic fermentation and (2) lactic acid fermentation. (1) Alcoholic fermentation: the type of fermentation in which ethyl alcohol is the main end product .This is very common in yeast (unicellular fungus) and also seen in some bacteria. Fermentation is of different types and takes place under anaerobic conditions mostly in saprophytic microorganisms like certain bacteria and fungi. However, it may also take place in higher organisms under certain conditions.
the two main types of fermentation are alcoholic fermentation and lactic acid fermentation. These two are aerobic with Oxygen and anaerobic without Oxygen.    Aerobic metabolism of lactate is proceeded in the presence of O2.   Aerobic metabolism of lactate … is incapacitated in the absence of  O2, and the resulting anaerobic metabolism of lactate yields Lactic  Acid which provides Muscle Burn.
In fermentation the reduced NADH produced in glycolysis is converted back to oxidized NAD + . There are two types of fermentation. Both types of fermentation regenerate oxidized NAD + , which is necessary for glycolysis and consequently the continued production of ATP by that pathway. The net energy gain in fermentation is 2 ATP molecules/glucose molecule. 
Yeast use sugar during fermentation (anaerobic respiration) to convert monosaccharides into carbon dioxide and ethanol. Yeast cells were tested for their effectiveness in utilizing a variety of sugars for fermentation. 
Best Answer: There are two types of fermentation ususally studied in Biology: Alcoholic Fermentation and Lactic Acid Fermentation. Both types have the same reactants: Pyruvic acid and NADH, both of which are products of glycolysis. In alcoholic fermentation, the major products are alcohol and carbon dioxide. In lactic acid fermentation, the major product is lactic acid. For both types of fermentation, there is a side product: NAD+ which is recycled back to glycolysis so that small amounts of ATP can continue to be produced in the absence of oxygen. Source(s):
the two main types of fermentation are alcoholic fermentation and lactic acid fermentation. The two main types of fermentation are: 1.) Alcoholic fermentation 2.) Lactic a … cid fermentation. + 70 others found this useful. Lactic Acid fermentation where pyruvate is converted to lactate but there is no release of carbon dioxide. Alcohol Fermentation which is the conversion of pyruvate to carbon … dioxide (CO2) and ethyl alcohol.
There are two types of fermentation: Alcoholic Fermentation and Lactic Acid Fermentation. Both types have the same reactants: Pyruvic acid and NADH, both of which are product … s of glycolysis. In alcoholic fermentation, the major products are alcohol and carbon dioxide. In lactic acid fermentation, the major product is lactic acid. Lactic Acid fermentation where pyruvate is converted to lactate but there is no release of carbon dioxide. Alcohol Fermentation which is the conversion of pyruvate to carbon … dioxide (CO2) and ethyl alcohol.