Eligard is the trade name for leuprolide. Lupron and lupron depot and viadur are other names for leuprolide. In some cases, health care professionals may use the trade name eligard or other names lupron or lupron depot or viadur when referring to the generic drug name leuprolide. rug type: Leuprolide is a hormone therapy. It is classified as an LHRH agonist.. For more detail, see How this drug works section below)
In a comparative trial of LUPRON INJECTION (leuprolide acetate) versus DES, in 5% or more of the patients receiving either drug, the following adverse reactions were reported to have a possible or probable relationship to drug as ascribed by the treating physician. Tell your doctor promptly if regular periods continue after 2 months of treatment with leuprolide. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects.
HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS. • LUPRON DEPOT (leuprolide acetate for depot suspension) 7.5 mg for 1-month, 22.5 mg for 3-month, 30 mg for 4-month, and 45 mg for 6-month administration are prescribed for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer. If you or a loved one has been prescribed LUPRON DEPOT, 1  LUPRON DEPOT ®
Leuprorelin (leuprolide acetate) is a gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogue used to treat a wide range of sex hormone-related disorders including advanced prostatic cancer, endometriosis and precocious puberty. 
1 A two-week kit containing a 2.8 ml multi-dose vial of Leuprolide acetate (5 mg/ml) and 14 disposable syringes for daily subcutaneous injection. 2  This kit is commonly used in “ lupron down regulation ” or “luteal phase lupron” IVF protocols. 
Leuprolide Acetate (Lupron) is related to a naturally occurring hormone called gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH). Leuprolide Acetate has also been used to treat endometriosis, uterine fibroids, early puberty, and as part of the process to stimulate multiple eggs for assisted reproductive technologies. The strength of Leuprolide Acetate is 1mg/0.2ml. Leuprolide Acetate Injection (Lupron) Instructions
MEN Prostate Cancer. • LUPRON DEPOT (leuprolide acetate for depot suspension) 7.5 mg for 1-month, 22.5 mg for 3-month, 30 mg for 4-month, and 45 mg for 6-month administration are prescribed for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer. If you or a loved one has been prescribed LUPRON DEPOT, 1  LUPRON DEPOT ®
Last reviewed on RxList 6/12/2015. Lupron Injection (leuprolide acetate) is a synthetic gonadotropin-releasing hormone used in men to treat symptoms of prostate cancer, and in women to treat symptoms of endometriosis (overgrowth of uterine lining outside of the uterus) or uterine fibroids. Tell your doctor promptly if regular periods continue after 2 months of treatment with leuprolide. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects.