1 to hold a learner's permit for at least 12 months. 2  If you're over the age of 25, you'll need to hold your permit for only 6 months. and. 3  to complete at least 75 hours of supervised driving (including 15 at night). 4  From 28 July 2014 you'll also need to pass the Hazard Perception Test. There are 10 forms to record your day driving...and 2 forms for night driving. If you have evidence you've held an interstate learner's permit your Qualified Supervising Driver may include that previous driving experience in your log book. If you lose it, grab another from a Service SA customer service centre for $5.
Before you can get your P1 licence you'll need: 1  to hold a learner's permit for at least 12 months. 2  to complete at least 75 hours of supervised driving (including 15 at night). 3  From 28 July 2014 you'll also need to pass the Hazard Perception Test. There are 10 forms to record your day driving...and 2 forms for night driving. If you have evidence you've held an interstate learner's permit your Qualified Supervising Driver may include that previous driving experience in your log book. If you lose it, grab another from a Service SA customer service centre for $5.
Laws regarding learner's permits in Australia differ between states. However, all states require a number of hours supervised driving to be undertaken and for the permit to be held for a set period. The age to get a Learner Permit is 16 in all states and territories except the ACT where it is 15 and 9 months. When on your learners permit you have to log 75–120 hours depending on the state you are in, and must obtain at least 10 night hours. You can be supervised or taught in your log book hours by any person/persons holding a full license. They must sign the log book for allocated hours. 
On passing the theory test and payment of the learner's permit fee, you can obtain a learner's permit that will allow you to drive for two years under 'learner's permit conditions'. Learner's permit conditions. Learner's permits are issued subject to conditions. The Theory Test. To obtain a learner's permit, you must provide full evidence of identity and pass the theory test. A fee is payable for each attempt. If you allow your learner's permit to expire for more than 12 months you will be required to sit the theory test again before the permit can be re-issued.
If you hold a learner's permit for a motor cycle learner's permit and you are under 25 years of age and do not hold a P2 or full licence for another class of vehicle must not ride between midnight and 5AM unless a qualified supervising driver is present or you meet the exemption criteria. The Theory Test. To obtain a learner's permit, you must provide full evidence of identity and pass the theory test. A fee is payable for each attempt. If you allow your learner's permit to expire for more than 12 months you will be required to sit the theory test again before the permit can be re-issued.
Requirements. Minimum age for applicants is 15 years and 9 months. If under 16, you must provide a completed Verification of Identity and/or School Attendance, Form (DL-300) to an MVA official during the learner's permit application process. 
Before you are eligible to take a practical driving test you must have held your learner licence for at least one year and have completed and recorded 100 hours of supervised on-road driving experience (for drivers under 25years) in your learner logbook. 
Before you can get your P1 licence you'll need: 1  to hold a learner's permit for at least 12 months. 2  If you're over the age of 25, you'll need to hold your permit for only 6 months. and. There are 10 forms to record your day driving...and 2 forms for night driving. If you have evidence you've held an interstate learner's permit your Qualified Supervising Driver may include that previous driving experience in your log book. If you lose it, grab another from a Service SA customer service centre for $5.
In the state of Virginia you apply for your drivers license at the same time that you apply for your learners permit. If you are under the age of 18 your parent or guardian must sign your application. To get your Virginia drivers license, you must be at least 16 years and 3 months old and have: 1  Had a learners permit for at least 6 months. 2  Passed the DMV road test. If you are homeschooled, the first step in getting your Virginia learners permit is to complete an online drivers education course such as the one we offer. In order to apply for your learners permit, you must be at least 15 years and 6 months old. If you are under the age of 19 you must present: