Our fees are generally form-based. For example, if your tax return includes Form 1040, Schedule A, and Oregon Form 40, we would charge a fixed price for each these forms. For the 2015 filing season our fee for Form 1040 is $195, Schedule A is $56 and Oregon 40 is $45 for a total preparation fee of $296. Below is a table which outlines some of the most common tax return situations and our fees for preparing forms associated with these returns.
1 No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms. Additional costs: 1 
1 Deluxe online services. 2  If you’re in a more typical tax situation, you may itemize deductions and you may have interest and dividend income. 3  Online deluxe services range from $10 to $40 for federal returns, plus $15 to $40 for state returns. I used to pay about Sixty Dollars for Turbo Tax. With Tax Act the most you pay is $17.95 including with a State Return. Further,with Tax Act you can file a complicated federal return for free. One year I completed my taxes with Tax Act, Turbo Tax, and Tax Cut.
1 A part-time tax-preparer who operates out of a home may charge around $100 for a relatively simple return. 2  A professional CPA operating out of an office might charge $200-$400 for a relatively straightforward return, depending on the complexity of the return, the local cost of living, and the size of the office. Additional costs: 1  No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms.
1 Software, such as Intuit's TurboTax, typically costs between $20-$90, depending on the complexity of your returns and whether you need to complete a state return. 2  During the past two years, retail discounts during February and March have been common. 3  An online version, Web TurboTax, is also available. Additional costs: 1  No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms.
I just ran across a bit of interesting information on the cost of tax preparation from the National Society of Accountants. According to their biennial survey, the average tax prep fee for an itemized Form 1040 with Schedule A plus a state tax return is $229. For a Form 1040 and state return without itemized deductions, the average price drops to $129. Update: Be sure to check out this recent post from GetRichSlowly with tons of additional data on tax preparation costs for 2012.
1 If you’re in a more typical tax situation, you may itemize deductions and you may have interest and dividend income. 2  Online deluxe services range from $10 to $40 for federal returns, plus $15 to $40 for state returns. 3  Premium online services. I used to pay about Sixty Dollars for Turbo Tax. With Tax Act the most you pay is $17.95 including with a State Return. Further,with Tax Act you can file a complicated federal return for free. One year I completed my taxes with Tax Act, Turbo Tax, and Tax Cut.
1 If your income is less than $50,000, you may qualify for Free File, a partnership between the IRS and the Free File Alliance, which should let you e-file your taxes for free. Additional costs: 1  No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms.
1 The average additional fee charged if you don't provide your information at least two weeks before a filing deadline is about $93. 2  The average additional fee for expediting a tax return is $88. 3  And the average fee for filing for an extension is $42. In its annual survey of Tax Return Preparation Fee Averages, the National Society of Accountants reports the following average fees its members charged to prepare 2014 tax returns: 1  1040 with state return with no itemized deductions: $159. 2  1040 with Schedule A (itemized deductions) and state return: $273.
The average fee at the national tax service firms H&R Block and Liberty Tax Service is $147 per return and $191 per return, respectively, according the firms' annual reports (information for Jackson Hewitt wasn't available, but it should be in that range). In its annual survey of Tax Return Preparation Fee Averages, the National Society of Accountants reports the following average fees its members charged to prepare 2014 tax returns: 1  1040 with state return with no itemized deductions: $159. 2  1040 with Schedule A (itemized deductions) and state return: $273.