From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Earp, California is an unincorporated communitiesite in San Bernardino County in the Sonoran Desert close to the California / Arizona state line at the Colorado River in Parker Valley. The town, originally named Drennan in 1910, was renamed Earp in 1929. The post office is more than 220 miles (350 km) from the county seat in San Bernardino, California is further than any other in the county. The entire region on the California side falls under area code 760. Unofficial alternate names of the area are listed as Drenna and Drennan.
Wyatt Earp died on January 13, 1929 at the age of 80 and is buried in Coloma, California. A short time later, the small desert town of Drenan, located within a few miles of Vidal, was renamed Earp. The truth is, they lived there just a little over two years. What is not well known is the time that the family spent in the San Bernardino Valley. After a series of misfortunes in Missouri, Nick and Virginia Earp decided to head back to California in 1877 with their two youngest children, Warren and Adelia.
For amusement only there is a tiny cemetery showing the fake grave of Wyatt Earp. The post office is more than 220 miles (350 km) from the county seat in San Bernardino, California is further than any other in the county. The entire region on the California side falls under area code 760. Unofficial alternate names of the area are listed as Drenna and Drennan.
Some time prior to 1880, Nicholas and Virginia Earp moved back to California, settling in San Bernardino County. The 1880 United States Census shows the Nicholas Earp household included Warren and Morgan and his wife Louisa (Lou). Nicholas was recorded as a farmer. Nicholas Earp was born in Lincoln County, North Carolina, to Walter Earp (b. 1787, Montgomery County, Maryland – d. January 30, 1853) and Martha Ann Early (b. August 28, 1790, Avery County, North Carolina – d. September 24, 1881).
COMMENTS: On state route 62 2 miles west of Parker. REMAINS: Current residences. Named for Wyatt Earp, Earp was a signal station, trading post, and ferry stop on the Colorado River. Earp lived here for a period of time and was there when the town was started. A post office was opened in 1920 and its closing date is unknown. Today there are a few current residences. 
On a recent trip to Earp, California, DesertUSA staff was accompanied by Ken Cilch, author of the book, Wyatt Earp: The Missing Years.. With Ken's help we found one of Wyatt's old mining claims, some rusty old nails and some interesting rocks. When Josie died at the age of 75, she was buried there beside him. Earp's enduring legacies include his role in shaping the West as a frontiersman, a lawman, a gambler and a prospector. A post office near his Mojave Desert mining claims along the Colorado River on Route 62 bears his name -- Earp, California 92242.
Wyatt Berry Stapp Earp was born in Monmouth, Illinois on March 19, 1848. In 1864 he moved with his parents to Colton, California near San Bernardino, where he was employed as a teamster and railroad worker. When Josie died at the age of 75, she was buried there beside him. Earp's enduring legacies include his role in shaping the West as a frontiersman, a lawman, a gambler and a prospector. A post office near his Mojave Desert mining claims along the Colorado River on Route 62 bears his name -- Earp, California 92242.
On May 12, 1864, the Earp family joined a wagon train heading to California. Nicolas Earp joined with three other families from Pella, the Rousseaus, the Hamiltons, and the Curtises, and on May 12, 1864, they began a wagon trip to California. They took their children Wyatt, Jim, Morgan, Warren, and Adelia. Nicholas Earp was born in Lincoln County, North Carolina, to Walter Earp (b. 1787, Montgomery County, Maryland – d. January 30, 1853) and Martha Ann Early (b. August 28, 1790, Avery County, North Carolina – d. September 24, 1881).
In the fall of 1868, Nick Earp, frustrated that none of the boys were home to help out on the farm, left California and headed back east. By then Jim had gone to the mining towns of Montana, taking young Morgan with him. Nick headed east by wagon and caught a train at the Union Pacific railhead in Wyoming. The truth is, they lived there just a little over two years. What is not well known is the time that the family spent in the San Bernardino Valley. After a series of misfortunes in Missouri, Nick and Virginia Earp decided to head back to California in 1877 with their two youngest children, Warren and Adelia.