Derivatives of ZOC include high purity and stabilised oxides and reactive salts such as zirconium basic sulphate, [“ZBS”] and zircon basic carbonate [“ZBC”]. ZBS and ZBC are themselves used as intermediates for downstream aqueous zirconium chemicals as well as directly in certain applications. The principal precursor or building block for zirconium chemicals is zirconium oxychloride, known as ZOC. ZOC is produced from zircon sand by a variety of processes, generally involving caustic fusion, dissolution in hydrochloric acid and separation.
It is a lustrous, grey-white, strong transition metal that resembles hafnium and, to a lesser extent, titanium. Zirconium is mainly used as a refractory and opacifier, although it is used in small amounts as an alloying agent for its strong resistance to corrosion. Zirconium is a chemical element with symbol Zr and atomic number 40. The name of zirconium is taken from the name of the mineral zircon, the most important source of zirconium. The word zircon comes from the Persian word zargun زرگون, meaning gold-colored.
A few other zirconium compounds have niche applications as chemical agents. Ammonium and potassium zirconium carbonates are used in paper coatings used for the production of high-quality prints. Other zirconium compounds find use as crosslinkers in polymers or in inks to promote adhesion to metals and plastics. Stabilized zirconia is frequently used as a refractory ceramic material, in the form of lab crucibles, metal furnaces, thermal barrier coatings, and as a surface coating for foundry molds. It is useful for joining ceramic and metal surfaces, as it has similar thermal expansion properties to steel.
Zirconium is located below titanium, which it resembles, in the periodic table. Below zirconium is hafnium, a chemical twin of zirconium. An important use of zirconium is in nuclear power plants. Its most important compound is zircon, which has a number of industrial applications. Zircon can also be obtained in gemstone quality. A gemstone is a mineral that can be cut and polished and used in jewelry or art. The two most common compounds made are zircon (zirconium silicate) and zirconia (zirconium oxide). Naturally occurring zircon is in demand as a gemstone. It is polished, cut, and used for jewelry and art.
Zirconium dioxide (ZrO 2), sometimes known as zirconia (not to be confused with zircon), is a white crystalline oxide of zirconium. Its most naturally occurring form, with a monoclinic crystalline structure, is the mineral baddeleyite. 
Zirconium Chemicals. There is a wide range of zirconium chemicals, used either for their intrinsic properties in diverse applications, or as intermediates for manufacture of other derivatives of zirconium. The principal precursor or building block for zirconium chemicals is zirconium oxychloride, known as ZOC. ZOC is produced from zircon sand by a variety of processes, generally involving caustic fusion, dissolution in hydrochloric acid and separation.
Zirconium is an element that, increasingly is used together with rare earths, either separately or in higher value, coprecipitated, mixed oxide forms. Zirconium exhibits chemical behavior similar to rare earths, and consequently zirconium chemicals and oxides are produced using processes similar to rare earth processes. 
Today this element is widely used, as zircon, as Zirconium oxide and as the metal itself. Zirconium is to be found in ceramics, foundry equipment, glass, chemicals, and metal alloys. Zircon sand is used for heat-resistant linings for furnaces, for giant ladles for molten metal, and to make foundry moulds. Mixed with vanadium or praseodymium zircon makes blue and yellow pigments for glazing pottery and tiles. With niobium, zirconium is superconductive at low temperatures and is used to make superconducting magnets. Zirconium metal is protected by a thin oxide layer making it exceptionally resistant to corrosion by acids, alkalis and seawater. For this reason it is extensively used by the chemical industry. Zirconium(IV) oxide is used in ultra-strong ceramic