Smooth Muscle cells. The types of muscle cells are very interesting because there are many similarities, but there are also many differences. Smooth muscle is the most unique because it has very little in common with the other types. It is weaker and less organized. Furthermore, cardiac muscle cells also have intercalated disks, or desmosomes, that allow the cells to stick together. Skeletal muscle cells and cardiac cells have striations (or divisions) but that is where the similarities end. When you think of muscles, the image that comes to mind is most likely a skeletal muscle.
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. 
Within muscle tissue are three distinct groups of tissues: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Each of these tissue groups is made of specialized cells that give the tissue its unique properties. Skeletal muscle is the most common and widely distributed muscle tissue in the body, making up around 40% of the body’s total mass. It forms all of the skeletal muscles, such as the biceps brachii and gluteus maximus, and is found in the eyes, throat, diaphragm, and anus.... Click to read more below. Muscle tissue, one of the four major tissue types, plays the vital role of providing movement and heat generation to the organs of the body.
Stem cells are unspecialized. Unlike a red blood cell, which carries oxygen through the blood stream, or a muscle cell that works with other cells to produce movement, a stem cell does not have any specialized physiological properties. Stem cells can divide and produce identical copies of themselves over and over again. Specialized cells such as blood and muscle do not normally replicate themselves, which means that when they are seriously damaged by disease or injury, they cannot replace themselves. Stem cells can also divide and produce more specialized cell types. This process is called differentiation. Stem cells from different tissues, and from different stages of development, vary in the number and types of cells that they can produce
A muscle cell is a special kind of cell that makes up an organism's muscle tissues. The muscles allow independent movement and regulate biological functions such as digestion and heartbeat. An organism's muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells. Multi-unit smooth muscle cells operate independently and single-unit, or visceral, smooth muscle cells operate together as a unit. Muscle mass can be gained artificially from injections of performance-enhancing drugs and hormones.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary.
The structure of skeletal muscle cells also makes them unique among muscle tissues. Skeletal muscle cells develop from the fusion of many smaller cells during fetal development, resulting in long, straight muscle fibers that contain many nuclei. It forms all of the skeletal muscles, such as the biceps brachii and gluteus maximus, and is found in the eyes, throat, diaphragm, and anus.... Click to read more below. Muscle tissue, one of the four major tissue types, plays the vital role of providing movement and heat generation to the organs of the body.