Comments. Submit. Juniper berries have been in use since the time of the Greeks. They have had many uses from medicinal to culinary for hundreds of years. If you have access to this interesting spice, you can use juniper berries in a number of different ways, from seasoning food to being used as a diuretic. However, fresh juniper berries can be dangerous to ingest for those with kidney problems or those who are pregnant.
Eating more juniper berries may help improve digestion and prevent disease. You probably know the piney flavor of juniper berries from their use in flavoring gin, but you may not know that they have a wide variety of medicinal benefits. In addition to improving overall digestion, eating juniper berries may relieve symptoms of bloating and water retention. According to the University of Michigan, juniper is a diuretic, meaning it increases urine output.
Juniper berries recipes. The spicy, aromatic, dark berries of the juniper tree can be used fresh or dried, crushed or whole, to flavour casseroles, marinades and stuffings and complement pork, rabbit, venison, beef and duck. They can also be used in sweet dishes such as fruitcake. Juniper berries also provide the main flavouring for gin
Juniper is a short to medium-height tree that grows wild in some parts of Europe, North America, and Asia. There are many varieties of juniper, but Juniperus communis is the most common in North America. People use the juniper berry to make medicine. Medicinal preparations include the extract of juniper berry, as well as the essential oil of juniper berry.
The essential oil of juniper is inhaled to treat bronchitis and numb pain. In foods, the juniper berry is often used as a condiment and a flavoring ingredient in gin and bitter preparations. The extract and essential oil are used as a flavoring ingredient in foods and beverages. People use the juniper berry to make medicine. Medicinal preparations include the extract of juniper berry, as well as the essential oil of juniper berry.
Meats. Juniper berries can be crushed fresh and used in marinades for a variety of meats, from wild game like venison and rabbit to beef and pork. Goulash can also be flavored with juniper berries. Dried juniper berries can be crushed and used in meat marinades, but they are not as flavorful as fresh juniper berries. If you have access to this interesting spice, you can use juniper berries in a number of different ways, from seasoning food to being used as a diuretic. However, fresh juniper berries can be dangerous to ingest for those with kidney problems or those who are pregnant.
With their warming, stimulating, and disinfecting actions, juniper berries have many medicinal uses. Juniper berries have an antiseptic effect and are often used in cases of chronic and repeated urinary tract infection. They are used in between flare-ups in those with frequent infections but not for acute cases of bladder infection. Juniper stimulates urinary passages, causing the kidneys to move fluids faster. 
Juniper berry was first intended as a medication since juniper berries are a diuretic and were also thought to be an appetite stimulant and a remedy for rheumatism and arthritis. Native Americans are reported to have used the juniper berry as an appetite suppressant in times of hunger. Besides Norwegian and Swedish dishes, juniper berries are also sometimes used in German, Austrian, Czech, Polish and Hungarian cuisine, often with roasts (such as German sauerbraten). Northern Italian cuisine, especially that of the South Tyrol, also incorporates juniper berries.
Juniper Berry Essential Oil. The branches and berries of the Juniper, a coniferous tree, have been used for medicinal and spiritual purposes since ancient times. The Old Testament includes several references to the juniper tree including Psalms 120:4. 
Juniper berries, here still attached to a branch, are actually modified conifer cones. A juniper berry is the female seed cone produced by the various species of junipers. It is not a true berry but a cone with unusually fleshy and merged scales, which give it a berry-like appearance. Besides Norwegian and Swedish dishes, juniper berries are also sometimes used in German, Austrian, Czech, Polish and Hungarian cuisine, often with roasts (such as German sauerbraten). Northern Italian cuisine, especially that of the South Tyrol, also incorporates juniper berries.