Albacore tuna is sold commonly as canned tuna and may be called white tuna. There are advisories about consuming too much tuna because of high mercury levels in the fish. Albacore are sometimes caught by trollers, who tow a series of jigs, or lures, slowly behind a vessel. 
Albacore tuna is generally larger, older fish that has accumulated more mercury from its environment. Light canned tuna contains smaller species of tuna such as skipjack, yellowfin and tongol which are lower in mercury. 
Most canned white tuna is albacore. Its mercury levels are almost three times higher than the smaller skipjack, used in most canned light tuna. These recommendations are based on EPA guidance and estimates of mercury in the most popular canned tunas: 1  Canned white, or albacore (0.32 parts per million of mercury). 
A tuna is a saltwater finfish that belongs to the tribe Thunnini, a sub-grouping of the mackerel family (Scombridae) – which together with the tunas, also includes the bonitos, mackerels, and Spanish mackerels. Tuna can be a good source of omega-3 fatty acids. It can contain 300 milligrams (0.011 oz) per serving. However, the level of omega-3 oils found in canned tuna is highly variable, since some common manufacturing methods destroy much of the omega-3 oils in the fish.
(Draining some of the oil off will also help.). Your other canned tuna choice involves the type of fish; white albacore and chunk light are the most common. White albacore is a larger fish and, when canned, has a meaty texture with a mild flavor. Chunk light tuna is a smaller species of tuna; when canned, it has a softer, flakier texture and can have a stronger flavor. The calories are about the same for the two (white tuna has about four more calories per ounce), and each has about 20 grams of protein per three-ounce serving. Because it’s a larger fish, albacore is higher in heart-healthy omega-3 fats but it’s also higher in mercury, which can be toxic in large quantities. 
Confidence votes 20. Solid white tuna as stated on can is Albacore only and is regulated by the FDA.... Chunk Light Tuna on the can means it can be any kind of tuna but not Albacore. Such as Big Eye, Yellowfin, Blackfin, Bluefin or any other species of the darker fleshed tuna. That's why canned solid white tuna costs more in the market. I think you only got it half right.
So this type of tuna—canned light tuna—is the type that's best for you to buy if you want to eat tuna relatively often (for example, about one meal per week). Yet, in the case of tuna, it is difficult for me to stick with this principle 100% due to the types of fresh (and frozen) tuna most widely available in the marketplace and their relative risk of mercury toxicity.
It is delicious and is a source for nutrients such as protein, vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. There are over 48 different species of tuna, but we tend to only find a handful are caught and sold as canned tuna. The most common types of tuna fish include: 1  Yellow Fin Tuna. 2  Albacore Tuna. 3  Skipjack Tuna.
Light Tuna can be a mix of a variety of smaller tuna species, most often skipjack, but may also include yellowfin, tongol, or big-eye. The best uses for solid or chunk light tuna are in tuna salads, pasta dishes, and casseroles, where the slightly stronger flavor shines through. White Tuna, including solid white albacore and chunk white, refers only to the albacore tuna variety. Albacore tuna is a larger fish with a lighter colored flesh, a firmer texture, and a milder flavor than the solid or chunk light fish varieties.