GO VERTICAL SUMMARY GO VERTICAL is GTD's rock climbing & rappelling adventure. GTD has put together an adrenaline pumping vertically thrilling event that will amaze your heart and revive your soul! Our climbing destination this year is to Cornelia, GA.
1. (mountaineering) a descent of a vertical cliff or wall made by using a doubled rope that is fixed to a higher point and wrapped around the body. Familiarity information: RAPPEL used as a noun is very rare. 
rappel - (mountaineering) a descent of a vertical cliff or wall made by using a doubled rope that is fixed to a higher point and wrapped around the body. abseil. mountain climbing, mountaineering-the activity of climbing a mountain. rap·pel. n. A descent from a height, such as a cliff or wall, in which one slides down an anchored rope and applies friction to control one's speed, either by means of a specialized device or by passing the rope under one thigh and over the opposite shoulder. intr.v. rap·pelled, rap·pel·ling, rap·pels
The dulfersitz can be used for vertical rappels as well as steep rock, snow or ice. Traditional mountaineering is about the mitigation of inherent risk by training, great gear and knowledge which can be gained from the experiences of others. Loop the rappel rope through a SERENE anchor so that it can be recovered from below. Tie a large knot in the two even ends so that you won't rappel off the end of the rope. Get into the dulfersitz rappel position well back from the edge so you won't fall off.
Welcome to Training Center. Vertical Reality is not just a climbing gym, it's a vertical extravaganza! Rock climbing, rappelling, riding a high line, ascending a rope, rope ladders, rope bridges, recreational classes, and rope rescue and confined space training-we have it all! Being located at Gilboa Stone Quarry in Northwestern Ohio, the recreational opportunities are endless.
A pit cave, shaft cave or vertical cave —or often simply called a pit (in the US) or pot (in the UK)—is a type of natural cave which contains one or more significant vertical shafts rather than being predominantly a conventional horizontal cave passage. Exploration into pit caves (vertical caving , also called pit caving) requires the use of equipment such as nylon kernmantle rope or cable ladders.
We have various courses from Basic-Intermediate, Tactical Operations, Container Climbing (TTP), Rappel Master, and Industrial rope courses. We can train and accommodate everything from your SWAT team to include your K9 teams. We have courses available throughout the year scheduled at venues across the United States. 
Abseiling (/ˈaebseɪl/ ˈæbseɪl /or/ ; ˈɑːpzaɪl From german, abseilen meaning to rope), down also called, rappelling is the controlled descent of a vertical, drop such as a rock, face using a. Rope climbers use this technique when a cliff or slope is too steep/and or dangerous to descend without. protection A time-lapse panorama of a rock climber abseiling off a climb. Abseiling (/ˈaebseɪl/ ˈæbseɪl /or/ ; ˈɑːpzaɪl From german, abseilen meaning to rope), down also called, rappelling is the controlled descent of a vertical, drop such as a rock, face using a. rope