Employee absenteeism is costing South African companies between R12 billion and R20 billion a year. This is the finding of a white paper compiled by Bytes Systems Integration and US-headquartered Kronos, the world’s leading provider of time and attendance systems. Figures indicate that 36% of payroll is linked to employee absence; and that World Cup-related absenteeism cost the South African economy as much as R750 million. “The Chamber of Commerce has stated that it believes absenteeism is costing the economy R12 billion,” adds Gilmour
Absenteeism Management. Absenteeism costs the SA economy around R12 -16 billion per annum. There is a clear link between: employee health → productivity → absenteeism. Measuring and recording absenteeism data means nothing… UNLESS you understand, monitor and actively intervene
South Africa accounts for 24 percent of Africa's gross domestic product (PPP), and it is ranked as an upper-middle-income economy by the World Bank – one of only four such countries in Africa (alongside Botswana, Gabon and Mauritius). The economy of South Africa is the second-largest in Africa, behind Nigeria.
In July 1996, the US and South Africa signed an investment fund protocol for a $120 million OPIC fund to make equity investments in South and Southern Africa. OPIC is establishing an additional fund – the Sub-Saharan Africa Infrastructure Fund, capitalised at $350 million – to investment in infrastructure projects. The economy of South Africa is the second-largest in Africa, behind Nigeria.
The tourism sector is directly and indirectly responsible (WTTC 2011) for 8.8 percent of the world’s jobs (258 million); 9.1 percent of the world’s GDP (US$6 trillion); 5.8 percent of the world’s exports (US$1.1 trillion); and 4.5 percent of the world’s investment (US$652 billion). 
4. The cost of presenteeism Presenteeism is an ongoing problem for the Australian economy. The impact of presenteeism far outweighs the cost of absenteeism. The economic cost of presenteeism The overall cost of presenteeism to the Australian economy in 2009/10 was $34.1 billion (Figure 1). This equates to a decrease in gross domestic product (GDP) of 2.7% compared to the ‘no presenteeism’ scenario. This landmark report and study revealed that in 2005/6 the cost of presenteeism to the economy was estimated at $25.7 billion, nearly four times the cost of absenteeism.Four years on, Medibank has revisited this research to assess the current state of presenteeism.
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Full-time workers in the U.S. who are overweight or obese and have other chronic health conditions miss an estimated 450 million additional days of work each year compared with healthy workers -- resulting in an estimated cost of more than $153 billion in lost productivity annually. 
Despite a direct absenteeism cost of more than $16 billion last year, less than half of Canadian organizations tracked the number of days or the reasons for absences. Ottawa, September 23, 2013 – The average Canadian worker was absent the equivalent of almost two full work weeks in 2011. 