Under Maryland law, you can't stop paying support until your child at least reaches the age of 18. If he turns 18 after the date of his high school graduation, your support obligation ends. If he turns 18 during his senior year, you're still obligated to pay until he turns 19 or graduates, whichever occurs first.
If you are making child support payments in Texas, the law generally requires you to do so until your child turns 18, which is the age that marks adulthood in the state, or when he graduates from high school -- whichever comes later.
Child Reaches the Age of Majority. Legal guidelines in all states allow child support to end when the child reaches the age of majority. The age of majority refers to the legal age established under state law when an individual is no longer a minor and can make certain legal decisions on their own behalf. In most states, child support ends when a child turns 18 or graduates from high school, whichever occurs first. In other states, the age may be 21.
Back to Top 2. When does court-ordered child custody end? Court-ordered child custody usually ends when: the child turns 18 years of age, the child gets married or joins the military; the court ends the support or custody; or the child dies before the age of 18; whichever occurs first.
Your child will not be considered an adult any earlier than the age of 18. If they are not in high school, once your child turns 18 your duty to pay child support can end. If your child is still in high school after turning 18, you must continue to pay child support until your child graduates from high school.
Here are some factors that may affect whether you can stop paying child support when your kid turns 18: The terms of your support order. Your court order may explicitly allow you to stop paying once your child turns 18, or reaches some other significant life event. How many children are subject to the support order. If your order covers only one child, automatic termination upon graduating high school or turning 18 may be allowed by your state's laws.
Some states allow child support to continue even after the age of majority when the support is used to pay for a child's education, such as to attend colleges, universities and post-secondary institutions.