Behavioral health technicians can find a job without a bachelor's degree if they have four years of experience working in the mental health field. Candidates with an associate's degree in a field related to behavioral health, such as psychology or substance abuse counseling, needs only two years experience.
When psychiatrists, psychologists and other mental health professionals need help with patients who are mentally ill or have behavioral disorders, they turn to behavioral health technicians. These mental health assistants may work full-time or part-time; their shifts can span evenings, nights, weekends and holidays.
Duties. A behavioral health technician is expected to understand and implement individual treatment plans, record patient behavior and provide a safe, supportive environment for the patients. Technicians may provide and record patient medications and assisting in daily activities.
Behavioral health technicians or psychiatric technicians help doctors and nurses by carrying out treatment plans for people with behavioral problems. These professionals usually hold either a certificate or an associate's degree in mental health technology or psychiatric technology.
The minimum educational requirement needed in order to become a certified Behavioral Health Technician is a high school diploma or the equivalent of that and at least four years of behavioral health work experience.
Job Description. A behavioral health technician helps doctors and nurses with the treatment of patients who have various behavioral problems, such as substance abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder, mental instability and physical and emotional abuse.
Over a third of the 69,840 behavioral health technicians earned averages of $34,170 per year, or $16.43 per hour, by working in psychiatric and substance abuse hospitals, their largest employers. The highest salaries came from specialty hospitals that did not include psychiatry and substance abuse.
A behavioral health technician is expected to understand and implement individual treatment plans, record patient behavior and provide a safe, supportive environment for the patients.
A Behavioral Health Technician is one that assists the counselors or therapeutic team by giving clinical support services to clients or patients who are suffering from substance abuse or mental irregularities and are housed in residential facilities, inpatient departments, or community-based programs.