1 The mineral of which quartz is made is called silica, with the above composition SiO2. 2  I hope I was able to give some hints as to what quartz is and how it can be further divided into two subgroups based on its visible or invisible crystal structure (macro ... and 3  ... micro... ). So if you have looked for a simple straightforward answer, here it is: Quartz is made of Silicon Si and oxygen O. But not everything is so simple... Follow on... I would like to make a digression here, but at the end we will have, I hope, better knowledge about what quartz is.
Silestone is a compound made of natural quartz, which makes it extraordinarily hard and resilient. This is the one and only countertop made of quartz with bacteriostatic protection, giving it hygienic properties that are not to be found anywhere else on the market. It is an excellent surface for kitchen countertops, bathrooms, floors and wall cladding using the minimum number of joints. Man-Made Quartz. Zodiaq is 93% pure crystal quartz, which gives Zodiaq a radiance without the imperfections common in natural stone. It is incredibly durable and resists both heat and scratches.
A quartz clock is a clock that uses an electronic oscillator that is regulated by a quartz crystal to keep time. This crystal oscillator creates a signal with very precise frequency, so that quartz clocks are at least an order of magnitude more accurate than mechanical clocks. 
1 The mineral of which quartz is made is called silica, with the above composition SiO2. 2  I hope I was able to give some hints as to what quartz is and how it can be further divided into two subgroups based on its visible or invisible crystal structure (macro ... and ... So if you have looked for a simple straightforward answer, here it is: Quartz is made of Silicon Si and oxygen O. But not everything is so simple... Follow on... I would like to make a digression here, but at the end we will have, I hope, better knowledge about what quartz is.
Today we look at quartz countertops, otherwise known as engineered stone countertops. Material: Quartz. How It's Made: Quartz countertops are man-made engineered stone countertops formed by combining 90% ground quartz (a natural hard mineral) with 8-10% resins, polymers, and pigments. This forms a very hard granite-like surface. Quartz is the second most abundant material in the earth's crust (which is good), but the acrylic resins used in quartz countertops are petroleum by-products, and they often contain alumina trihydrate fillers made from bauxite ore, which is mined primarily under toxic conditions in developing countries.
In terms of marketing, quartz counter companies are smart to capitalize on this word because of those implications. And it is true. But not completely. In simple terms, quartz counters are 90% made up of stone-like materials and 10% of binders that are either plastic-like (polymeric) or cement-based. Of those stone-like materials, quartz is only one of many substances. According to Breton (more on them later) materials, other materials include:
Although some quartz countertops are actually made of quarried slabs of the natural stone, the new engineered material is actually created through a manufacturing process that mixes approximately 95 percent ground natural quartz with 5 percent polymer resins. 
Posted by Staff Writer in Quartz. Quartz countertops are made by man, but are not synthetic since they are chiefly particles of natural quartz aggregate held together and colored with seven percent or less of other substances. Quartz is one of the most common minerals in the earth’s surface. Hundreds of quartz mines are scattered over every continent on earth. Most imported quartz comes from Brazil, but the richest quartz mines in the USA are in Arkansas in the Ouachita Mountains “quartz belt” extending into Oklahoma.
Quartz is a chemical compound consisting of one part silicon and two parts oxygen. It is silicon dioxide (SiO 2). It is the most abundant mineral found at Earth's surface and its unique properties make it one of the most useful natural substances. 