A gluten-free flour made from cooked, dried and ground potatoes. Potato starch is used as a thickener. Potato starch flour is not quite the same as potato flour. Potato flour is ground from the entire dried potato and is heavier and denser than potato starch flour.
It is made from the dried starch component of peeled potatoes. It has no potato flavor so works well in most recipes, sweet or savory. As part of the starch component of a gluten free flour blend, potato starch lends a light, fluffy texture to baked goods. It is also a great thickener in gravies, sauces, and even in custards and puddings, which typically use cornstarch. Knowing the difference between potato STARCH and potato FLOUR is essential when baking gluten-free. For example, substituting potato flour for potato starch in a recipe will take you from light fluffy homemade treats to sad little gluten-free hockey pucks. Nobody wants to eat a hockey puck! Of course, with all the alternative flours we use in our gluten-free baking, it can get confusing
Potato starch is starch extracted from potatoes. The cells of the root tubers of the potato plant contain starch grains (leucoplasts). To extract the starch, the potatoes are crushed; the starch grains are released from the destroyed cells. The starch is then washed out and dried to powder.
It is occasionally sold as starch flour or potato flour instead, but usually all names refer to the same starch. Again, with the lack of gluten, such flour could be used as a substitute for wheat flour in a variety of recipes, greatly enhancing the number of gluten free products that a cook can make. Potato starch is made through an extensive process of washing, sometimes cooking, and then separating the starch present in potato cell walls so that it can be made into powdered or liquid form. In cooking, this starch is often considered a substitute thickener for cornstarch or white flour.
A top selling gluten-free flour made of 100% pure potato starch. Not to be confused with Potato Flour, Potato Starch Flour is the root starch of the potato, whereas Potato Flour uses the entire potato. It's a great thickener for soups and gravies. Potato Starch Flour is commonly used for gluten-free baking, hence the term flour, as it is a fine grain white flour. 
Starches & Applications. Potato starch. Potato starch – also known as potato flour – is extracted from potatoes. The cells of the root tubers of the potato plant contain starch granules (leucoplasts). To extract the starch, the potatoes are crushed and the starch grains are released from the cells. 
Potato starch is the starch the comes from potatoes that has been dried. It can be used as a thickener and also in gluten free baked goods. Potato starch can be used in gravy, sauces, and soup as a thickener. In some things it does change the texture, so I am carefully what I use it in. I do love it for gluten free sausage gravy though. Potato starch is also used in gluten free baking
Also Known As: Potato starch flour, potato starch, perunajauho (Finnish), potatismjoel (Potatismjöl), swedish (Potetmel), norwegian (Kartoffelmel), danish kartoeflusterkja kartöflusterkja (Or). Kartoeflumjoel: Kartöflumjöl icelandic examples potato starch flour is a key-ingredient In wheat free scandinavian Cakes, Such As Blotekake. norwegian wet cake Potato starch flour / potato starch is gluten-free (unlike some brands of potato flour, which may contain wheat). A corn-free kosher ingredient, it is also typically used by Jewish cooks in place of flour and cornstarch during Passover.