Scandinavian Meaning: The name Kaira is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Kaira is: Abbreviation of Katherine. Pure. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters. 
Irish Meaning: The name Keira is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Keira is: Feminine of the Irish Gaelic Kieran. Dusky; dark-haired. American Meaning: The name Keira is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Keira is: Feminine of the Irish Gaelic Kieran. Dusky; dark-haired.
Kaira is used predominantly in the English language. Its origin is Italian, Old Greek, and Old Persian. Kaira is a variation (English) of the name Cara (English, German, and Italian). Kaira is also a variation of the name Katherine (English). Kaira is also a variation of the name Kyra (English and German). Kaira is an irregularly used baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000. In 2012, among the family of girl names directly linked to Kaira, Katherine was the most popular
The girl's name Kira is pronounced /ˈkɪərə/ KEER-ə. It might be a female form of the name Kiran, pronounced /ˈkɪərən/ KEER-ən. Kiran is of Hindi and Sanskrit origin, meaning beam of light. Besides Sanskrit, there might be other etymologies from Egyptian, where the word Ki-Ra means like Ra , or Persian. In Russian Kira (ки́ра) is the feminine form of the male name Kir, meaning mistress, ruler, but can translate to leader of the people, one the people look to or beloved. Kira could also have arrived into Russian from the Persian-Greek name Kyra
Kaira is an uncommonly occurring first name for females. Kaira is also an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of the girl name Kaira and corresponding names. Kaira /kai-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin and Greek derivation, and Kaira means beloved; friend; lord. Kaira is a version of Cara (Latin, Irish, Gaelic). Kaira is also a variation of Kara (Latin). Kaira is also used as a variation of Kyra (Greek). Kreatif forms: Kaika, Kayra
Here are pictures of people with the name Kaira. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Kaira is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kai-ra. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2319 in baby name popularity for girls with 79 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
The name Keira is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Keira is: Feminine of the Irish Gaelic Kieran. The name Keira is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Keira is: Feminine of the Irish Gaelic Kieran. Dusky; dark-haired.