Greetings Sorors & Friends! On behalf of the dedicated members of the Orange County Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., it is truly my pleasure to welcome you to our website. 
1 Thank you for your interest in becoming a Delta! 2  All chapters of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated host a meeting, commonly known as the RUSH, where you receive information about the sorority and how to become a member. 3  The RUSH activity is hosted at the discretion of the local chapter. 1 All chapters of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated host a meeting, commonly known as the RUSH, where you receive information about the sorority and how to become a member. 2
Thank you for your interest in Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. We are an organization of over 940 chapters of college-educated women who are committed to public service, with a focus on sustaining the growth and development of the African American community. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. is an equal opportunity organization. We are interested in women who understand the founding principles of the organization and are willing to uphold and support those principles and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.'s high moral values.
As a dream of the Detroit Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., this college-preparatory high school, located in the heart of Detroit, is the first high school in the nation to be launched and supported by a National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Greek Letter Organization. This site is the property and responsibility of the Detroit Alumnae Chapter | Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. | 24760 W. 7 Mile Road | Detroit, MI 48219 | cyberchapter@detroitdeltas.org.
All chapters of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. host a meeting, commonly known as a Rush Activity, where interested women receive information about the sorority and how to become a member. The Rush Activity is hosted at the discretion of the local chapter. All persons interested in becoming a member of Delta Sigma Theta must attend the official Rush Activity. Any individual who does not attend the Rush Activity is ineligible to be considered for membership at that time.
Welcome to the website of the Dallas Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated. Established in 1924 by National Founder Frederica Chase Dodd, Dallas Alumnae celebrates 91 years of public service to the Dallas community in 2015! October Breast Cancer Awareness Month November 7, 2015. 
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Thank you for your interest in Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. We are an organization of over 940 chapters of college-educated women who are committed to public service, with a focus on sustaining the growth and development of the African American community. The Rush Activity is hosted at the discretion of the local chapter. All persons interested in becoming a member of Delta Sigma Theta must attend the official Rush Activity. Any individual who does not attend the Rush Activity is ineligible to be considered for membership at that time.
Four years later the name of the chapter was changed to the Salisbury Alumnae Chapter. The names of all of the chapters were changed by a decree issued at the 24th National Convention of Delta Sigma Theta in Detroit, Michigan. Hence, the change in the local chapter's name. In 1947 Beta Kappa Chapter of the Delta Sigma Theta Society received its charter as a mixed group, consisting of the undergraduates of Livingstone College and the graduate members in the Salisbury-Rowan Community.
Report Abuse. I do not know when Jacksonville is having a RUSH, however most alumnae chapters do not have a line every year. In MD the the alumnae chapters have lines every 4, 5, or 6 years. I would visit the calender section of the chapter's website to see when they are having a public activity. 