A bronchodilator is a substance that dilates the bronchi and bronchioles, decreasing resistance in the respiratory airway and increasing airflow to the lungs. Bronchodilators may be endogenous (originating naturally within the body), or they may be medications administered for the treatment of breathing difficulties. Some examples of anticholinergics are tiotropium (Spiriva) and ipratropium bromide. Tiotropium is a long-acting, 24 hour, anticholinergic bronchodilator used in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Only available as an inhalant, ipratropium bromide is used in the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Because of the high prevalence and costs of incontinence, and the increase in prevalence that will occur as the population ages, there is a growing market for drugs aimed at treating the condition. Pharmaceutical companies have developed several new incontinence medications. Until further research in primary care settings is performed, there is little evidence to guide family physicians in the choice of anticholinergic medications for urge incontinence. Cost is not an important factor; prices for all of these agents are similar (Table 4) .
An anticholinergic agent is a substance that blocks the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the central and the peripheral nervous system. Anticholinergics inhibit parasympathetic nerve impulses by selectively blocking the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine to its receptor in nerve cells. Physostigmine is one of only a few drugs that can be used as an antidote for anticholinergic poisoning. Nicotine also counteracts anticholinergics by activating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.
When prescribing medications for urge incontinence, physicians must decide which agent to use. One option is oxybutynin, a nonselective anticholinergic agent available in short-and long-acting oral forms (Ditropan) and as a transdermal patch (Oxytrol). Until further research in primary care settings is performed, there is little evidence to guide family physicians in the choice of anticholinergic medications for urge incontinence. Cost is not an important factor; prices for all of these agents are similar (Table 4) .
Why It Is Used. Inhaled anticholinergics are usually used for severe asthma attacks. They are sometimes used in the home, but they are not used as daily maintenance treatment for persistent asthma. And they are always used with another medicine. Anticholinergics may be used: 1  Along with short-acting beta2-agonists to treat severe asthma attacks or status asthmaticus, a long-lasting and severe asthma attack that does not respond to standard treatment. 2  As an added medicine used after short-acting beta2-agonists during an asthma attack
The goal of pharmacological therapy is to prevent motion sickness, or relieve the symptoms of motion sickness, such as nausea. Anticholinergic Agents. Scopolamine, an anticholinergic, is used for the prevention of motion sickness and for acute treatment. Scopolamine’s effectiveness is likely due to its central anticholinergic properties. Common adverse effects can include dry mouth/nose/throat, drowsiness, loss of visual accommodation, and sensitivity to bright light. 
Background. Anticholinergic syndrome (ACS) is produced by the inhibition of cholinergic neurotransmission at muscarinic receptor sites. It commonly follows the ingestion of a wide variety of prescription and over-the-counter medications. Patients presenting with anticholinergic toxicity should be transported to the nearest emergency facility with advanced life support (ALS) capabilities. Avoid administering ipecac syrup and activated charcoal unless prolonged transport time is anticipated.
Electrical therapy is indicated in patients with severe refractory urge incontinence who do not respond to behavior therapy and medications. Treatment is administered through a generator device that is inserted into the subcutaneous tissue of the lower back or buttocks. Until further research in primary care settings is performed, there is little evidence to guide family physicians in the choice of anticholinergic medications for urge incontinence. Cost is not an important factor; prices for all of these agents are similar (Table 4) .
8 Physicians should keep in mind that successful use of Kegel exercises is dependent on a patient’s motivation and ability to cooperate with the exercise routine. Treatment for urge incontinence generally should include behavior therapy. Until further research in primary care settings is performed, there is little evidence to guide family physicians in the choice of anticholinergic medications for urge incontinence. Cost is not an important factor; prices for all of these agents are similar (Table 4) .