Eight weeks old is when training should start. These days reputable breeders are starting their puppy imprinting at 3 weeks until the dog goes to their new homes. Obedience training can be started immediately. You do not have to wait until the dog is mature in order to train them.
Therefore, the ideal age to commence dog training is from 6-12 weeks. Considering the above-mentioned parameters, it is important that you adopt a puppy not before 6 weeks and not after 12 weeks. If you adopt a puppy after 12 weeks, you are losing the critical socialization period.
Socialization should begin as soon as you get your puppy and often this means at 7 weeks of age. Puppies naturally accept new people, other species and introduction to new situations during the socialization period which occurs between 7 and 14 to 16
When to Begin. You can begin both happenstance training and obedience training with your dog at around six weeks-of age. To be sure, the period that extends from the sixth week to the twelfth week of your dog's life is prime time for incidental training.
Formal obedience training – puppy training in a class situation – can start anywhere from 9 to 12 weeks of age. Most schools like to see the pup receive a series of 2 vaccinations given before starting in a class – for the pup’s protection, as well as the protection of all other pups in the class.
TRAINING of your puppy – the stuff you teach them at home – should start the DAY you bring your puppy home! This does not mean training needs to be intensive right away. Training at this stage should be done in many little lessons, in short spans of time (5-10 minutes per session).
Young puppies have short attention spans but you can expect them to begin to learn simple obedience commands such as “sit,” “down,” and “stay,” as young as 7 to 8 weeks of age. Formal dog training has traditionally been delayed until 6 months of age. Actually, this juvenile stage is a very poor time to start.
By Cesar Millan. People often ask me at what age they should start puppy training. The answer is immediately! Here are some quick tips on the steps to training and maintaining an obedient and balanced dog from the start.
People often receive conflicting advice on what they should be doing with a young Labrador puppy, when to start training a puppy and what can be accomplished. Many authoritative working dog trainers and authors of books recommend not starting training until 6 months of age.