Legumes consist of seeds that are covered by a pod or shell. This classification of foods, which includes beans, lentils, peanuts and peas, is high in both soluble and insoluble fiber. Black beans, kidney beans and navy beans are especially high in soluble fiber. Each contains at least 2 grams per 1/2-cup serving. All types of fruit have a high water and fiber content and multiple vitamins and minerals. Certain varieties have more soluble fiber than insoluble, such as apricots, grapefruit, mangoes and oranges. A small orange has 1.8 grams of soluble and 1.1 grams of insoluble fiber. Citrus fruits like oranges and grapefruits also contain high amounts of vitamin C. This water-soluble, antioxidant vitamin aids in tissue repair and also helps heal wounds
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  I
A bowl of oatmeal made from 3/4 cup of dry oats contains 3 g of soluble fiber. A serving of cooked oat bran cereal (3/4 cup) has 2.2 g, and 1 cup of oat flakes has around 1.5 g. 3. Brussels sprouts: Vegetables are good sources of soluble fiber, with Brussels sprouts topping the list with 2 g per 1/2 cup. The flesh of sweet potatoes is next with 1.8 g followed by asparagus with 1.7 g. The best dietary sources of soluble fiber that dietitians can tell clients about include the following4: 1. Beans: Beans are soluble fiber superstars. One cup of black beans has 4.8 g of soluble fiber, while Navy beans have 4.4 g and light-red kidney beans have 4 g. All beans are good choices, though. 2.
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. Dietary fibers can act by changing the nature of the contents of the gastrointestinal tract and by changing how other nutrients and chemicals are absorbed. Some types of soluble fiber absorb water to become a gelatinous, viscous substance which is fermented by bacteria in the digestive tract.
Good sources of dietary fiber include legumes, nuts, whole grains, bran products, fruit, and nonstarchy vegetables. Legumes, whole grains, and nuts are generally more concentrated sources of fiber than fruit and vegetables. All plant-based foods contain mixtures of soluble and insoluble fiber (10) . Oat products and legumes are rich sources of soluble and viscous fiber. Wheat bran and whole grains are rich sources of insoluble and nonviscous fiber. The total fiber content of some fiber-rich foods is presented in Table 1
Viscous, or soluble, fiber is made up of polysaccharide compounds found in the walls of plant cells. These compounds include beta-glucans, mucilage, pectins, gums and psyllium. In the digestive system, these viscous fibers absorb water and swell to form a thick, jelly-like mass. Viscous fiber is found exclusively in plant-based foods -- animal-based foods like meat or dairy products do not contain either type of fiber.
Examples of soluble fiber include oats, fruits and vegetables, beans, barley and psyllium. Insoluble fiber adds bulk to the stool and contributes to bowel regularity. Examples are whole-wheat flour, wheat bran and some vegetables. Virtually all plant foods contain soluble and insoluble fiber. 2. 
While oatmeal is typically considered one of the best ways for you to increase your viscous fiber intake, oat bran and several types of beans contain more per serving. A 3/4-cup serving of cooked oat bran provides 2.2 grams of viscous fiber, while a comparable serving of oatmeal has just 1.4 grams. Viscous fiber is found exclusively in plant-based foods -- animal-based foods like meat or dairy products do not contain either type of fiber.
Fiber is commonly classified as soluble, which dissolves in water, or insoluble, which doesn't dissolve. 1  Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Ins