Anatomy The mediastinal lymph nodes are located in the region of the thoracic cavity between the lungs known as the mediastinum. There are two major groups of mediastinal lymph nodes: the anterior and posterior nodes. The mediastinal nodes are a group of lymph nodes located in the thoracic cavity of the body. These nodes play an important role in the filtration of lymph before it is returned to circulatory system.
The mediastinum is a region of soft tissue located between the pleural cavities (the lungs). It is divided into a superior and inferior portion; the inferior portion is furthe … r subdivided into a anterior, middle and posterior portion. The mediastinum (the space between the lungs) is located in the thoracic body cavity. The thoracic cavity is part of the ventral body cavity. 8 people found this useful. Edit.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Metla Sushmitha. Confidence votes 195. the area present between two lungs in chest cavity is called mediastenum.this is the place where heart is present.The mediastinum lies between the right and left pleurae pleuræ in and near the median sagittal plane of the. chest 
The mediastinum is artificially divided into the anterior, middle and posterior sections. The mediastinum contains all of the chest organs except the lungs. Organs located in the mediastinum include the heart, the aorta, the thymus gland, the chest portion of the trachea, the esophagus, lymph nodes and important nerves. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum.
The mediastinum is the middle section of the chest cavity. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum.
Mediastinum. The middle section of the chest cavity and is located between the lungs. This cavity contains connective tissue and organs, including the heart and its veins and arteries, the esophagus, trachea, bronchi, the thymus gland, and lymph nodes.
The mediastinum comprises those organs which lie in the centre of the chest between the lungs. The cavity also contains two openings one at the top, the superior thoracic aperture also called the thoracic inlet, and a lower inferior thoracic aperture which is much larger than the inlet. Thoracic cavity seen from left. Lungs, among others removed. The thoracic cavity (or chest cavity) is the chamber of the human body (and other animal bodies) that is protected by the thoracic wall (rib cage and associated skin, muscle, and fascia).
Location of heart in the Mediastinum. Heart is located in a space in the centre of the chest cavity called mediastinum in particular theMiddle mediastinum. It is the space between the 2 lungs and the heart is wedged between them. [ 3 ]. The mediastinum is divided into. 1  Superior mediastinum. Heart is located safely inside the chest cavity which looks like a cage bound by the ribs and breast bone (sternum). The chest cavity is also called as thoracic cavity and it lies between neck and abdomen. Heart lies slightly to the left in the chest cavity. [ 2 ].