Underground, water enriched in dissolved components will gradually precipitate to form mineral cements. Cementation is what hardens sediments into sedimentary rocks. Common mineral cements include silica (quartz), calcite, limonite, hematite, and clay minerals. Biological activity in the oceans causes calcite (calcium carbonate) to precipitate through processes involving excretion and precipitation. As minerals break down, compounds can separate into their ion and cation components as they dissolve in water. Water from atmospheric precipitation has very low concentrations of dissolve material, but it can become highly enriched in dissolved compounds as it flows across the surface or underground.
Sedimentary rocks also grow where minerals form from water through chemical precipitation. Sedimentary rocks may also be composed of the skeletons of preexisting organisms (fossils). Such rocks are common in Indiana and make major mineable economic deposits. 
Non-Clastic, or chemical, sedimentary rock is formed from dissolved minerals. These rocks are made of chemical sediments that have been dissolved from minerals. Solid minerals … precipitate out of the solution in water. These minerals layer, and the water above them causes the pressure which forms the rock. The most common meaning of precipitation is rain, snow, or sleet. It can also mean the product of certain chemical reactions, such as a solid is formed in a solution.    … When diffusion or a chemical reaction results in the creation of a  solid, this is known as precipitation.
Chemical Sedimentary Rocks. Chemical sedimentary rocks form by precipitation of minerals from water. Precipitation is when dissolved materials come out of water. For example: Take a glass of water and pour some salt (halite) into it. The salt will dissolve into the water. Another way to precipitate minerals out of water is to change the temperature (or the acidity) of the water rather than evaporate the water. This is how rocks such as limestones form. Limestones commonly form in oceans, which do not evaporate away. For example, when cold sea water heats up, it can no longer hold as much calcium carbonate (calcite, the mineral that limestones are made out of) in solution
Precipitation from a solution occurs when the chemicals that will form a mineral are in solution (of water, usually). When the water begins to evaporate the concentration of the chemicals increases, until there isn't enough water to hold them all in solution. I know that the tree basic ways that minerals form are solidification of a melt; precipitation from solution; and solid-state diffusion. What I want to know are what they are cuz the names are all that I know. Any websities that will tell me this are appreciated as well as information you give.
Evaporites are minerals that form readily by precipitation during the evaporation or desiccation of a solution and that have solubilities equal to or higher than that of gypsum. The term does not describe a specific group of minerals based on composition or structure, but rather on their behavior in soils and sediments. 
The minerals precipitate out of solution in the reverse order of their solubilities, such that the order of precipitation from sea water is. 1  Calcite (CaCO 3) and dolomite (CaMg(CO 3) 2). 2  Gypsum (CaSO 4 -2H 2 O) and anhydrite (CaSO 4). 3  Halite (i.e. common salt, NaCl). The abundance of rocks formed by seawater precipitation is in the same order as the precipitation given above. Thus, limestone (calcite) and dolomite are more common than gypsum, which is more common than halite, which is more common than potassium and magnesium salts.
Just as mineral components can dissolve in the weathering and erosion process, they can precipitate when environmental conditions are right. As minerals break down, compounds can separate into their ion and cation components as they dissolve in water. Water from atmospheric precipitation has very low concentrations of dissolve material, but it can become highly enriched in dissolved compounds as it flows across the surface or underground.
Non-Clastic, or chemical, sedimentary rock is formed from dissolved minerals. These rocks are made of chemical sediments that have been dissolved from minerals. Solid minerals … precipitate out of the solution in water. These minerals layer, and the water above them causes the pressure which forms the rock.