A personality disorder is a type of mental disorder in which you have a rigid and unhealthy pattern of thinking, functioning and behaving. A person with a personality disorder has trouble perceiving and relating to situations and to people. 
In psychology, the Big Five personality traits are five broad domains or dimensions of personality that are used to describe human personality, otherwise described as the five-factor model (FFM). The five factors are openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. A summary of the factors of the Big Five and their constituent traits, such that they form the acronym OCEAN: 1  Openness to experience : (inventive/curious vs. consistent/cautious). 2  Appreciation for art, emotion, adventure, unusual ideas, curiosity, and variety of experience.
Personality refers to individual differences in characteristic patterns of thinking, feeling and behaving. The study of personality focuses on two broad areas: One is understanding individual differences in particular personality characteristics, such as sociability or irritability. The other is understanding how the various parts of a person come together as a whole. Adapted from the Encyclopedia of Psychology. Research suggests that genetics, abuse and other factors contribute to the development of obsessive-compulsive, narcissistic or other personality disorders.
noun. the configuration of personality traits and actions which includes a person's individual acclimation to life, inclusive of primary traits, interests, motivations, morals, self-concept, skills, and emotional trends. 
Each of the Big Five personality traits contains two separate, but correlated, aspects reflecting a level of personality below the broad domains but above the many facet scales that are also part of the Big Five. A summary of the factors of the Big Five and their constituent traits, such that they form the acronym OCEAN: 1  Openness to experience : (inventive/curious vs. consistent/cautious). 2  Appreciation for art, emotion, adventure, unusual ideas, curiosity, and variety of experience.
Most trait theory models attempt to accurately describe aspects of personality. The focus of this lesson is on the Big Five personality traits. In psychology, the 'Big Five' is a term used to describe the five broad traits of human personality. In current practice, it is sometimes used interchangeably with the term ' five-factor model .'. Each of the traits, or factors, identified as the Big Five are independent of each other and account for the infinite number of unique aspects that comprise human personality. Understanding each of the Big Five factors will help you better grasp the concept of personality traits. The Big Five personality traits are:
The Big Five model is able to account for different traits in personality without overlapping. Empirical research has shown that the Big Five personality traits show consistency in interviews, self-descriptions and observations. A summary of the factors of the Big Five and their constituent traits, such that they form the acronym OCEAN: 1  Openness to experience : (inventive/curious vs. consistent/cautious). 2  Appreciation for art, emotion, adventure, unusual ideas, curiosity, and variety of experience.
If you’ve taken a college psychology course or have any interest in personality, you’ve more than likely come across the term “Big Five” personality dimensions or personality traits. These have been gathered through the result of decades’ worth of psychological research into personality. Of course, there is much more to personality than someone’s scores on just these five dimensions. The Abridged Big 5 Circumplex (AB5C) is a circular model of personality where psychologists examine traits or “facets” that are essentially blends of any two of the Big 5
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In psychology, trait theory (also called dispositional theory) is an approach to the study of human personality. Trait theorists are primarily interested in the measurement of traits, which can be defined as habitual patterns of behavior, thought, and emotion. Neuroticism. Refers to an individual's tendency to become upset or emotional (Hans Eysenck) Neuroticism is the major factor of personality pathology (Eysenck & Eysenck, 1969). Neuroticism has been linked to serotonin transporter (5-HTT) binding sites in the thalamus: as well as activity in the insular cortex.