Normally, a few RBCs are present in urine sediment. Inflammation, injury, or disease in the kidneys or elsewhere in the urinary tract, for example, in the bladder or urethra, can cause RBCs to leak out of the blood vessels into the urine.
Urine Sediment. In case of a number of different urinary tract, or metabolic problems or conditions, different particles that don't typically appear in the urine, may appear in the urine. This may occur for a number of reasons.
1 Bladder stones: Sediment in urine can be caused due to the presence of bladder stones. 2  As men get older there may overgrowth of the prostate which leads to compression of the urethra, affecting the flow of urine. 3  This causes increased amounts of urine in the bladder, leading to formation
Cloudy urine may be a sign of a urinary tract infection, sediment from a distended bladder, blood in urine, an enterovesicular fistula, gonorrhea, Schistosomiasis, or vaginal discharge.
UTI or Urinary Tract Infection may cause people to have more sediment in urine than in healthy individuals. UTI associated urine sediments may include particles of leukocyte, proteins, bacteria and WBC (White Blood Cell).
1 Diabetes: Sediment in urine can be a result of diabetes which is due to increased levels of blood sugar. 2  Such increased levels of blood sugar cause the glucose to pass through to the urine causing sediment in urine. 3  The breakdown of fats leads to the formation of ketones.
1 Sediment in urine can also be caused due to the passage of kidney stones into the bladder via the ureters. 2  Inflammation of the bladder and the pelvic region due to radiation therapy, the use of bladder catheters and certain contraceptive devices can also result in the formation of bladder stones.
When bacteria get into your bladder or kidneys and cause you to have symptoms, you have a urinary tract infection (UTI). It is important to know the difference between an infection and bacteriuria (having bacteria in the urine but no symptoms).
Another possible cause of sediments to appear in urine are possible kidney problems such as kidney stones. In fact a symptom of having cloudy urine is often suggestive of a possible kidney stone that may soon need to be removed.
Treatment. 1  Sediments in urine are analyzed for the presence of various underlying conditions and for the abnormalities. 2  Antibiotics are used to treat urinary tract infections. 3  Surgery or other methods may be employed to remove the bladder stones.