In captivity, hybrids between the following species pairs: P. anubis and P. cynocephalus; P. anubis and P. papio; P. anubis and P. hamadryas; P. anubis and P. ursinus; P. cynocephalus and P. hamadryas; P. papio and P. hamadryas; and P. hamadryas and P. ursinus. Members of the genus Papio all share certain general patterns of behavior which are recounted here. These animals are motile, ranging several kilometers in any one day to find food (Melnick and Pearle, 1987). Social groups always return to one of a limited set of sleeping sites (cliffs or trees) at night to bed down.
Diversity. Papio can be divided into five species, as outlined by Groves (2001). Papio hamadryas (hamadryas baboons), P. anubis (anubis baboons), P. cynocephalus (yellow baboons), P. ursinus (chacma baboons), and P. papio (Guinea baboons). Some authorities continue to recognize only a single species, Papio hamadryas, which is composed of five subspecies corresponding to the species mentioned above. Members of the genus Papio all share certain general patterns of behavior which are recounted here. These animals are motile, ranging several kilometers in any one day to find food (Melnick and Pearle, 1987). Social groups always return to one of a limited set of sleeping sites (cliffs or trees) at night to bed down.
Olive baboons are omnivorous and find food on the ground, in trees and underground. Their diet consists out of grass, leaves, fruit, seeds, grains, tubers, invertebrates and even mammals, up to the size of small antelopes. Both males and females hunt. Olive baboons also have dark grey to black faces, ears as well as ischial callosities (the thick piece of skin on their bums). They also have long, pointed muzzles, and appear quite dog-like, especially because of their quadrupedal posture and movement. Olives have very, very long tails, between 41 and 58 cm long!
Olive baboons are also found in Ethiopia. In the Bole Valley, olive baboons range from the valley bottom, found at an altitude of 1700 m (5577 ft) to the plateau which rises over the valley floor to an altitude of 2300 m (7546 ft) (Dunbar & Dunbar 1974). Complex hunting involves more than one baboon, a pursuit of prey lasting longer than 10 minutes and ranging greater distances from the group during the chase, between 300 and 4000 m (.186 and 2.49 mi). Both male and female olive baboons hunt (Strum 1981).
Papio anubis is the most broadly distributed baboon species, ranging through most of central sub-Saharan Africa. Isolated populations occur within the Saharan region. This species is part of a complex of closely related African baboon species. We have an account of the whole genus under Papio. The maximum lifespan of a captive hamadryas baboon is measured at 37.5 years. A captive chacma baboon is reported to have lived 45 years in captivity. Although the lifespan of P. anubis has not been reported, it is likely to be similar to these two species, although somewhat shorter than these in the wild.
Olive baboons (Papio anubis) are called so because of the greenish-grey coat that covers their bodies. Males have manes forming from the top of their heads through to their shoulders, the hair gradually shortening towards the back. Olive baboons also have dark grey to black faces, ears as well as ischial callosities (the thick piece of skin on their bums). They also have long, pointed muzzles, and appear quite dog-like, especially because of their quadrupedal posture and movement. Olives have very, very long tails, between 41 and 58 cm long!
Papio anubis doguera, Papio anubis furax, Papio anubis heuglini, Papio anubis neumanni, Papio anubis tessellatus, Papio anubis tibestianus, Papio hamadryas anubis. 
The olive baboon (Papio anubis), also called the Anubis baboon, is a member of the family Cercopithecidae (Old World monkeys). The species is the most widely ranging of all baboons: It is found in 25 countries throughout Africa, extending from Mali eastward to Ethiopia and Tanzania. In P. anubis, females mate with a variety of males over a period of 15 to 20 days. Such multiple matings are not necessary to ensure fertilization, and may function to confuse the actual paternity of the female’s offspring.
Hybridization between Papio hamadryas and P. anubis occurs along the Awash river valley in Ethiopia. The area of hybridization appears to be stable, without noticeable introgression of P. hamadryas phenotypes into anubis baboon populations or of P. anubis phenotypes into hamadryas baboon populations. The maximum lifespan of a captive hamadryas baboon is measured at 37.5 years. A captive chacma baboon is reported to have lived 45 years in captivity. Although the lifespan of P. anubis has not been reported, it is likely to be similar to these two species, although somewhat shorter than these in the wild.
Learn more about this article. Olive baboons (Papio anubis) are called so because of the greenish-grey coat that covers their bodies. Males have manes forming from the top of their heads through to their shoulders, the hair gradually shortening towards the back. In P. anubis, females mate with a variety of males over a period of 15 to 20 days. Such multiple matings are not necessary to ensure fertilization, and may function to confuse the actual paternity of the female’s offspring.