Rudra is a Rigvedic deity, associated with wind or storm, and the hunt. The name has been translated as the roarer. The theonym Shiva originates as an epithet of Rudra, the adjective shiva being used euphemistically of the god who in the Rigveda also carries the epithet ghora.
The word rudraksha is derived from Rudra (Shiva —the Hindu god of all living creatures) and aksha (eyes). One Hindu legend says that once Lord Shiva opened His eyes after a long period yogic meditation, and because of extreme fulfillment He shed a tear. The term is used both for the berries themselves and as a term for the type of mālā made from them. In this sense, a rudraksha is a rosary, used for repetitive prayer (japa), a common aid to worship in Hinduism. Rudrakshas also used for the treatment of various diseases in traditional Indian medicine.
The word  rudraksha  (Sanskrit: rudrākşa = rudra and akşa eye), or eye of Rudra, is used as a name both for the berry of the Rudraksha tree, and a name for a string of the prayer beads made from those seeds. Rudra requesting Brahma to calm down. Rudra is used both as a name of Shiva and collectively (the Rudras ) as the name for the Maruts. Gavin Flood characterizes the Maruts as storm gods, associated with the atmosphere.
Rudra (/ˈrʊdrə/ ; Sanskrit: रुद्र) is a Rigvedic deity, associated with wind or storm, and the hunt. The name has been translated as the roarer. In the Rigveda, Rudra has been praised as the mightiest of the mighty. The Shri Rudram hymn from the Yajurveda is dedicated to Rudra, and is important in the Saivism sect. Rudra requesting Brahma to calm down. Rudra is used both as a name of Shiva and collectively (the Rudras ) as the name for the Maruts. Gavin Flood characterizes the Maruts as storm gods, associated with the atmosphere.
The Hindu god Shiva shares several features with the Rudra: the theonym Shiva originated as an epithet of Rudra, the adjective shiva (kind) being used euphemistically of Rudra, who also carries the epithet Aghora, Abhayankar (extremely calm [ sic ] non terrifying). Rudra requesting Brahma to calm down. Rudra is used both as a name of Shiva and collectively (the Rudras ) as the name for the Maruts. Gavin Flood characterizes the Maruts as storm gods, associated with the atmosphere.
An extensive study of the problem of evil in Hindu mythology, in which Rudra-Shiva is discussed from a variety of perspectives, such as the paradox of the evil god, god as a corrupter of demons and man, god as a heretic, and Shiva’s conquest of death. Kramrisch, Stella. 
Rudra Pooja is an ancient practice followed in India since time immemorial. ‘Rudra’ means ‘Shiva-the Benevolent', ' the Destroyer of Evil'. 'Pooja' means that which is born out of fullness. Through this Pooja one can aim for inner peace and fulfillment. In this Pooja, Lord Shiva is worshipped in his Rudra form. 
Prayer beads made of rudraksha seeds. Rudraksha beads are the material from which mālās () are made. The term is used both for the berries themselves and as a term for the type of mālā made from them. In this sense, a rudraksha is a rosary, used for repetitive prayer (japa), a common aid to worship in Hinduism. Rudrakshas also used for the treatment of various diseases in traditional Indian medicine.
Noun. 1. Rudra-father of the Hindu storm gods Marut; controller of nature; sometimes identified with Siva. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 