We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more. 
Full Definition of REGAL. 1. : of, relating to, or suitable for a king. 2. : of notable excellence or magnificence: splendid. — re·gal·i·ty \ri-ˈga-lə-tē\ noun. — re·gal·ly \ˈrē-gə-lē\ adverb. See regal defined for English-language learners. Definition of REGAL for Kids. : relating to or suitable for a king or queen: royal.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of regale from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
The [Washington] Post's proprietor through those turbulent [Watergate] days, Katharine Graham, held a double place in Washington’s hierarchy: at once regal Georgetown hostess and scrappy newshound, ready to hold the establishment to account. From Middle English regal, from Old French regal (“ regal, royal ”), from Latin regalis (“ royal, kingly ”), from Latin rex (“ king ”); also regere (“ to rule ”). Doublet of royal (“ belonging to a monarch ”).
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
1 A napkin, which lay in front of the diners as they reclined, might serve as a knapsack to take home the little gifts of food or wine with which a host would regale his friends as they departed. Synonyms. 1  The guest speaker was Graham Walton, the father of the only girl sextuplets in the world, who proved an entertaining speaker, regaling the audience with anecdotes about life as the only male in a family of seven women.
Definition of REGALE. transitive verb. 1. : to entertain sumptuously: feast with delicacies. 2. intransitive verb. : to feast oneself: feed. 