A nurse's license could expire because the nurse moved to another compact state. Using e-Notify is also the only way you will receive notification of discipline of a nurse's license from any state; not just Missouri. All nurses can enroll themselves in e-Notify as an individual. A nurse who is already licensed in another state or territory may apply for a Missouri license by endorsement. Licenses are granted by each state, so a nurse must apply for and receive a license in every state in which the nurse practices unless that state is a member of the nurse licensure compact. You can find out more about the nurse licensure compact at http://www.ncsbn.org
Find Nursing Programs in Missouri: St. Louis, the second-largest city in Missouri, is one of the 20 largest metropolitan areas in the United States. If you want to become a nurse, attending school and starting your career in this area may give you greater access to a variety of schools and employers. You can consider all of the school near you to find a program that's right for your needs. Select the nursing programs in St. Louis from those listed on our site and request more information to begin. Looking at nursing salaries in St. Louis can help you plan out your career.
The Generic BSN, BSN-Completion, Masters Nurse Educator, and DNP programs at Missouri State University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, One Dupont Circle, NW, Suite 530, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 887-6791. The BSN program has full approval of the Missouri State Board of Nursing. 
Enrolling your nurses is easy. First, you need his/her license number, license type and the state(s) that issued the license. This information is used to locate the nurse directly from Nursys. Then, you add other information to their profile, including nursing specialty, email and address. using e-Notify. 1  I am a nurse employer or a nurse and would like to automatically receive publicly available license and discipline status updates of my licensees or my license(s) from the boards of nursing. 2  Nurse must be from an e-Notify participating board
The Kansas Board of Nursing licenses practical nurses and registered nurses. Although Kansas is not a member of the nurse license compact, LPNs and RNs may be licensed by examination or endorsement. The state currently has 60,269 RNs and 10, 757 LPNs, according to data from the National Nursing Database. The Kansas Board has put together a list of questions for students to ask when they first consider enrolling in nursing programs (http://www.ksbn.org/education/Information%20to%20Consider%20When%20Selecting%20a%20Nursing%20Program.pdf).
Outlook for Nursing in Missouri. Upon completion of your LPN or RN education, you can get your nursing license. You must take either the NCLEX-PN or the NCLEX-RN. With a passing score on this test, you can apply for a professional nursing license through the Missouri Board of Nursing. With high levels of anticipated job growth, Missouri may be the perfect place to start your career as a nurse. Through 2022, O*Net predicts a 16 percent increase in LPN jobs throughout the state. Nursing Education in Missouri. The courses you take as a nursing student depend on which type of degree you want to earn. As an LPN student, you may take low-level nursing courses that prepare you to take directions from registered nurses.
A. You must contact the state board of nursing where you want a license and request an application for licensure. Contact information for boards of nursing can be found at http://www.ncsbn.org/ . A nurse who is already licensed in another state or territory may apply for a Missouri license by endorsement. Licenses are granted by each state, so a nurse must apply for and receive a license in every state in which the nurse practices unless that state is a member of the nurse licensure compact. You can find out more about the nurse licensure compact at http://www.ncsbn.org
LPN Education Requirements. The foundation for a practical nursing license is completion of a board approved nursing program. Practical nursing programs in Kansas include at least 30 credit hours of core nursing coursework, plus seven hours of support coursework (human growth and development and anatomy and physiology). The Kansas Board has put together a list of questions for students to ask when they first consider enrolling in nursing programs (http://www.ksbn.org/education/Information%20to%20Consider%20When%20Selecting%20a%20Nursing%20Program.pdf).