Laying the Eggs. The female robin lays one small blue egg each day to a total of three to five eggs. She feeds on earthworms in the morning in order to ensure that her body has the energy to handle the physical demands of laying an egg. Until all eggs are laid, she may limit the time she spends sitting on the nest. The mother robin must keep the eggs at a healthy temperature to ensure that the embryos develop normally. A robin's body temperature is approximately 104 degrees and is kept steady by the insulating property of feathers. For the eggs to receive body heat more directly, the mother robin develops a brood patch.
Preparing the Nest. Before she can lay her eggs, the female robin, with help from her mate, builds a nest from twigs, mud and dried grass. A finished nest is circular and deep enough to safely cradle the eggs and, later, the nestlings. Nest-building takes the robins two to six days. The mother robin must keep the eggs at a healthy temperature to ensure that the embryos develop normally. A robin's body temperature is approximately 104 degrees and is kept steady by the insulating property of feathers. For the eggs to receive body heat more directly, the mother robin develops a brood patch.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. The American Robin will see their eggs hatch in about fourteen  days, after a mating season that lasts from April until July.
Fledging occurs 14-16 days after hatching. The nest is a mud cup lined with soft grass and reinforced with grass and twigs. The nest is usually placed in a tree, on a ledge, or on a windowsill. http://www.bird-friends.com/BirdPage.php... So they will hatch 12-14 days after the mother began incubating the eggs, and the babies will be fledging (leaving the nest) about 14-16 days after that. Remember, though, that when they first leave the nest, they will not yet be flying, so you need to be careful of any pets or children that may be in the area
A. Most robins die their first year. But the lifespan goes up dramatically for the ones that survive that critical time, because they've learned so many important life skills. Of those that survive their first year, most wild robins live to be about 5 or 6. As of February, 2001, the longest-living banded wild robin ever recorded had survived 13 years and 11 months, according to the Bird Banding Laboratory at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center. 
Breeding season lasts from April to July for the American Robin,  and its eggs hatch in about fourteen days. European Robins begin  their mating season in March, and their e … ggs hatch in roughly the  same time frame. The American Robin will see their eggs hatch in about fourteen  days, after a mating season that lasts from April until July.
That's pretty smart! It means all the babies hatch close to the same time. Mother robins may start incubating their eggs during the evening after the second egg is laid, or after all the eggs are laid. They sit on the eggs for 12 to 14 days. The female usually does all the incubating. Even in good weather, she rarely leaves her eggs for more than 5 to 10 minutes at a time. 
A: Robins incubate their eggs for 12 to 14 days. Once hatched, the nestlings remain in the nest for another 14 to 16 days before fledging. A: Yes, this is normal when the female is completing the clutch of eggs. Female songbirds typically lay one egg each morning for four to five days until the clutch is complete. 
It means all the babies hatch close to the same time. Mother robins may start incubating their eggs during the evening after the second egg is laid, or after all the eggs are laid. They sit on the eggs for 12 to 14 days. The female usually does all the incubating. Even in good weather, she rarely leaves her eggs for more than 5 to 10 minutes at a time. Robins usually lay four eggs and then stop. Like most birds, they lay one egg a day until their clutch is complete. If you remove one egg each day, some kinds of birds will keep laying for a long time, as if they can stop laying only when the clutch of eggs feels right underneath them.
Hatching. After 12 to 16 days, the eggs are ready to hatch, usually one each day in the order they were laid. Like most birds, the chicks use an egg tooth---a sharp hook at the end of the beak---to poke a hole in the shell. The mother robin must keep the eggs at a healthy temperature to ensure that the embryos develop normally. A robin's body temperature is approximately 104 degrees and is kept steady by the insulating property of feathers. For the eggs to receive body heat more directly, the mother robin develops a brood patch.