Lyme disease is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks of the Ixodes genus. Usually, the tick must be attached for 36 to 48 hours before the bacteria can spread. Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer.
Studies conducted by the Baker Institute indicate that the incubation period in dogs is longer than previously believed. Lameness in dogs can occur, on average, two to five months after tick exposure. Clinical signs of Lyme disease in dogs may vary based on a dog’s age, breed and genetic differences. 
Canuck. 6 years ago. Incubation period for Lyme disease: usually 7-10 days after tick bite; up to 4 weeks after tick bite BUT all of us would probably say if antibiotics aren't started within four days (or less) then risk for chronic Lyme is super high... Symptoms are sometimes quicker than a week but that's what the data says. quartermoon
Guest. Hi. Lyme disease is rare and I think that only 50% of ticks are infected. Incubation period for lyme is usually a week, or 10 days after tick bite, and up to 4 week after the bite. The incubation period from infection to onset of erythema migrans is 3 days, one or two weeks, or even 30 days. Lyme is most common during the spring and summer, when ticks are most active and people are frequently going in the nature. Treatment includes antibiotics, for a few weeks. 
1 - Reaction at site of tick bite can last days, even weeks. 2  Lyme rash occurs at the site of the tick bite in 80% of people with early Lyme disease. 3  Incubation period from tick bite to rash is 3-30 days (usually 3-10 days). If the rash is Lyme, it will get bigger over days or weeks and will not fade over the next few days. Only 2% of tick bites result in Lyme disease. A Lyme rash occurs at the site of the tick bite in 80% of people who have early Lyme disease. The incubation period from a tick bite to the development of a rash is 3-30 days (usually 3-10 days). The Lyme rash is red and round or oval and is called erythema migrans. It may have the distinctive bull’s-eye appearance
A clinical case of Lyme disease occurs when a person is infected by a tick bite. Symptoms follow after an incubation period that may last between two days and 3 1/2 months. However, on some occasions, the bacteria do not cause disease straight away. If the rash does occur, it is termed Erythema migrans or EM rash. It may manifest in a chronic form and be known as Erythema chronicum migrans or ECM rash. The list of symptoms known to be associated with Lyme disease is long and diverse. The symptom pattern varies from person to person
While latent or latency period may be synonymous, a distinction is sometimes made between incubation period, the period between infection and clinical onset of the disease, and latent period, the time from infection to infectiousness. Which is shorter depends on the disease. 
Not all patients with Lyme disease have all symptoms, and many of the symptoms are not specific to Lyme disease, but can occur with other diseases, as well. The incubation period from infection to the onset of symptoms is usually one to two weeks, but can be much shorter (days), or much longer (months to years). Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer.