Triglycerides store unused calories and provide your body with energy, and cholesterol is used to build cells and certain hormones. Because triglycerides and cholesterol can't dissolve in blood, they circulate throughout your body with the help of proteins that transport the lipids (lipoproteins). 1  Next. When you eat, your body converts any calories it doesn't need to use right away into triglycerides. The triglycerides are stored in your fat cells. Later, hormones release triglycerides for energy between meals.
Triglycerides store fat and are used by the body to create energy and serve as building blocks for cells. Triglycerides are the main storage form of fat in the body, and they are very important for the overall functioning of the body. They are used: 1  To create energy. 2  A
Most fats in food are made up primarily of triglycerides. In order to use the energy stored in fat, the body breaks down triglycerides into fatty acids, which individual cells burn for energy. Like cholesterol, some fat is normally found in the blood; it travels through the bloodstream to get from its food sources and body stores to the cells that use it. When fat from foods is digested in the body, the fatty acids are released and then packaged into triglycerides in the intestines. The chylomicrons pick up these triglycerides, along with dietary cholesterol, and transport them through the blood to the muscle cells and fat cells.
Triglycerides are a type of fat (lipid) found in your blood. When you eat, your body converts any calories it doesn't need to use right away into triglycerides. The triglycerides are stored in your fat cells. Later, hormones release triglycerides for energy between meals.
Triglycerides are the most common form of fat in the body and the most common that we digest. They are the main ingredient in vegetable oils and animal fats. The triglyceride molecule is a form of the chemical glycerol (tri=three molecules of fatty acid + glyceride=glycerol) that contains three fatty acids. 1 The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 2  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 3  Elevated triglyceride levels may be a risk factor for atherosclerosis. 4  Highly elevated triglyceride levels may also cause fatty liver disease and pancreatitis.
A triglyceride (TG, triacylglycerol, TAG, or triacylglyceride) is an ester derived from glycerol and three fatty acids. As a blood lipid, it helps enable the bidirectional transference of adipose fat and blood glucose from the liver. 
Triglycerides are a type of fat found in your blood. Your body uses them for energy. You need some triglycerides for good health. But high triglycerides might raise your risk of heart disease and may be a sign of metabolic syndrome. 
In some ways, the molecules called triglycerides are the easiest to understand. Simply put, triglycerides are fat in the blood, and a high triglyceride level can increase the risk of heart disease. Just what your triglyceride levels mean and how much lowering triglycerides reduces heart disease risk is less clear. 1 Triglycerides are the end product of digesting and breaking down these bulky fats. 2  Any extra food we eat that's not used for activity right away-carbohydrates, fat, or protein-is also chemically converted into triglycerides. 3  Triglycerides are then bundled together into globules. 4  These are transported through the blood.
When there is an excess of triglycerides in the body, they can be stored in the liver or in fat cells to supply the body with energy when it is required. This is a natural process that allows the body to go for longer periods of time without eating, as it has a stored energy source. Triglycerides are a type of fat that plays a major role as an energy source when they are metabolized in the human body. They are very rich in energy, containing double the energy of either carbohydrates or proteins that can also be used to supply energy to the body.