Become a Licensed Practical Nurse. You can complete your LPN training in as little as 7 months to 1 year for a hospital certificate, or you can obtain a LPN degree in two years from a community college or trade school. You will also need to pass the N-CLEX-PN certificate examination to become nationally certified
If you'd like to get your foot in the door in the healthcare field, becoming a licensed practical nurse, or LPN, is an excellent first step. A large percentage of registered nurses start out as LPNs, and many healthcare administrators begin their careers as licensed practical nurses as well. Apply for Your License. Upon passing the NCLEX-PN exam, you will apply for your license with your local state board of nursing. The path to becoming an LPN is simple and straightforward.
Education. If you enroll in a full-time licensed practical nurse (LPN) training program, you may be prepared and qualified to take your licensing exam in as little as 9-12 months. These programs are available from many community colleges, vocational schools, and universities, and they may range from 43-78 credit hours
Becoming a licensed practical nurse or a licensed vocational nurse is one way to enter the surging health care field without attending years of school. Students frequently complete their education and begin working within two years. The first step to becoming an LPN/LVN is to decide which type of credential to undertake. A diploma or certificate is often the fastest route into the workforce, but credits from these programs cannot be used toward further education.
Licensing and/or Certification. LPNs are licensed by the state in which they practice. To obtain an LPN license, the state may require background checks and proof of education. Every state administers the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCLEX-PN) exam, which candidates have to pass to obtain their license. 
1 Enroll in and Complete a Vocational Training Program or LPN School – The only way to become an LPN is by becoming licensed as one in your state. 2  You cannot do that without passing the licensing exam that is administered by the local board of nursing. 1 That way, these subjects will not be completely foreign to you when you enroll in a program to become a licensed practical nurse. 2 
Credentials for LPN/LVNs. In addition to state licensure, LPN/LVNs can also gain certification through a number of private organizations. The requirements are set forth by the certifying organization, but applicants typically must be licensed practical nurses who have completed an approved training program. The first step to becoming an LPN/LVN is to decide which type of credential to undertake. A diploma or certificate is often the fastest route into the workforce, but credits from these programs cannot be used toward further education.
Clinical. LPN Certification. Licensed Practical Nurses perform a variety of tasks under the supervision of a registered nurse. They administer medicine and injections, and take vital signs. Starting your career as an LPN is a great way to become a registered nurse.
Enroll in an LPN Program. Enroll in an LPN program to prepare yourself for the NCLEX-PN, or National Council Licensure Examination for Practical Nurses. LPNs in all states must become licensed by passing this exam, which is conducted by state nursing boards. The right LPN program will prepare you to successfully pass this crucial exam. The typical LPN program involves about a year of study and training. Apply for Your License. Upon passing the NCLEX-PN exam, you will apply for your license with your local state board of nursing. The path to becoming an LPN is simple and straightforward.