Smerconish Genealogy. Many things can go wrong when a record collection is indexed. If you're having diffculty finding Smerconish ancestors in a particular database at one site, try finding it on another and compare the results. There are no clear, concise answers to why or how one of your Smerconish ancestors took on the surname. It may have been based on their occupation or a distinguising physical trait. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
Smerconish at RootsWeb databases. Smerconish in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Smerconish genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Smerconish surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Smerconish in Ancestry Message Board
From January 2009 to April 15, 2013, Smerconish's two daily nationally syndicated radio programs had been heard on 70 stations in the United States, including WOR News Talk Radio 710 in New York City and KFWB News Talk 980 in Los Angeles. 
Michael Smerconish. ichael Smerconish is the Philadelphia market's premier talk radio host and is heard daily on Infinity Broadcasting's Big Talker 1210 AM -- WPHT. His morning drive-time show is a lightning rod of controversy and spirited discussion.
Mini Bio (1). Michael Smerconish was born on March 15, 1962 in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, USA. He is an actor and writer, known for Scarborough Country (2003), Hardball with Chris Matthews (1997) and The Barrel of a Gun (2010). 
Michael Smerconish keeps a hand in law and remains of counsel to the Beasley Law Firm in Philadelphia. Facts about Michael Smerconish: * Smerconish is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Lehigh University with majors in government and journalism and a 1987 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Law School. He is an active member in the Pennsylvania Bar. ichael Smerconish is the Philadelphia market's premier talk radio host and is heard daily on Infinity Broadcasting's Big Talker 1210 AM -- WPHT. His morning drive-time show is a lightning rod of controversy and spirited discussion.
If you host the Smerconish blog or web page, please link to this surname-focused resource. Here's the HTML code for a basic link. Simply cut/paste this code on to your page. Powered by Miva Script (3.9700) from Miva Merchant. There are no clear, concise answers to why or how one of your Smerconish ancestors took on the surname. It may have been based on their occupation or a distinguising physical trait. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
He broadcasts The Michael Smerconish Program weekdays at 9:00 a.m. ET on SiriusXM 's POTUS Channel (124) , and hosts the CNN program Smerconish at 9:00 a.m. ET on Saturdays. He is a Sunday newspaper columnist for The Philadelphia Inquirer. Smerconish has authored six books: five non-fiction works and one novel. He is also of counsel to the Philadelphia law firm of Kline & Specter.
Welcome to the Smerconish Family page at Surname Finder, a service of Genealogy Today. Our editors have compiled this checklist of genealogical resources, combining links to commercial databases along with user-contributed information and web sites for the Smerconish surname. There are no clear, concise answers to why or how one of your Smerconish ancestors took on the surname. It may have been based on their occupation or a distinguising physical trait. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
SiriusXM and CNN Host. Michael A. Smerconish is the host of The Michael Smerconish Program on SiriusXM Channel 124, the host of CNN’s “Smerconish” on Saturday mornings, newspaper columnist and author. Smerconish has often been recognized for his radio work. On August 20, 2009, Smerconish became the first radio host to interview President Barack Obama live from the White House. The thirty-minute interview was conducted in the Diplomatic Reception Room and televised live on MSNBC, CNN and Fox News. Smerconish has interviewed President Obama on seven different occasions.