Mosquitoes can spread a number of diseases to people, but two viruses that some mosquito species in New York State can transmit are eastern equine encephalitis (EEE, triple E) and West Nile virus (WNV). EEE is spread only from infected mosquitoes. 
Much more serious though, are the roles of many species of mosquitoes as vectors of diseases. In passing from host to host, some transmit extremely harmful infections such as malaria, yellow fever, west Nile virus, dengue fever, filariasis, and other arboviruses, rendering it the deadliest animal family in the world. 
St. Louis Encephalitis (SLE). St. Louis Encephalitis (SLE) is transmitted from birds to man and other mammals by infected mosquitoes (mainly some Culex species). SLE is found throughout the United States, but most often along the Gulf of Mexico, especially Florida. Major SLE epidemics occurred in Florida in 1959, 1961, 1962, 1977, and 1990. 
Although Culiseta melanura do not bite humans, some mosquitoes will cross bite; i.e., bite an infected bird and then bite a human or animal (horse, emu, and other exotic birds), thereby spreading the disease. These mosquitoes are also known as bridge vectors. The disease is spread when an infected mosquito bites a person with yellow fever and then transmits it by biting another person. There is no specific treatment for yellow fever, other than to relieve the symptoms. Once a person has had yellow fever, they are immune to further infection.
Chikungunya is a viral disease spread to people by the bite of infected mosquitoes. The most common symptoms of chikungunya virus infection are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash. 
1 West Nile Virus (WNV). 2  West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 3  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota. 4  Most people infected with West Nile virus show no symptoms or flu-like symptoms, but some (primarily elderly) have more severe illness. While mosquito-transmitted disease is not as common in Minnesota as it is in tropical climates, there are several diseases of potential concern to Minnesota residents. Minnesota residents who travel to other countries can return with tropical diseases such as malaria or dengue. 1  West Nile Virus (WNV). 2  West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 3  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota
Diseases Transmitted by Mosquitoes. Some mosquitoes are vectors for diseases. This means they can transmit diseases from one human or animal to another. Typically, the diseases are caused by viruses or tiny parasites. For example, a mosquito that bites an infected human or animal can pick up a virus along with the blood meal. The mosquito and virus do not harm one another but the virus reproduces inside the mosquito. 
1 West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 2  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota. 3  Most people infected with West Nile virus show no symptoms or flu-like symptoms, but some (primarily elderly) have more severe illness. While mosquito-transmitted disease is not as common in Minnesota as it is in tropical climates, there are several diseases of potential concern to Minnesota residents. Minnesota residents who travel to other countries can return with tropical diseases such as malaria or dengue. 1  West Nile Virus (WNV). 2  West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 3  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota
Mosquito-borne diseases are diseases that can be spread through the bite of mosquitoes. These diseases may be caused by a virus, also known as arboviruses, or can be caused by parasites. Several of the mosquito species found in Florida are capable of transmitting diseases to humans, horses, and other animals. Symptoms of these illnesses can range from mild to very severe. Mosquito-borne diseases found in Florida include West Nile virus disease, Eastern equine encephalitis, and St. Louis encephalitis. Many other mosquito-borne diseases are found in different parts of the world, and can be brought back to Florida if infected people or animals are bitten by mosquitoes while in Florida.