Habitat. Flamingos of all species prefer shallow waters in which they can easily feed off of algae, small insects, mollusks, crustaceans and small fish. The greater flamingo is known to reside in mudflats and shallow lagoons. Other habitats include mangrove swamps, tidal flats and sand-rich islands. Flamingos are large birds that inhabit many different tropical and subtropical areas of the world. In the United States, the birds are rare, casual visitors to the coastal regions of the southeastern states.
The flamingo is a large colourful bird found both in South America and Africa. The flamingo is also found in the warmer areas of southern Europe and western Asia. The flamingo stays in flocks of up to around 200 birds and feeds on fish in stiller rivers and lakes. There are six different species of flamingo found around the world. The different flamingo species are the greater flamingo which is the most widespread species of flamingo found in Africa, Southern Europe and Southern Asia.
Flamingos live in a habitat of low level water such as lagoons or mudflats or lakes. They like to wade around in the water searching for food. They are very social and sometimes live in large groups of as many as 10,000 birds. There are actually 6 different species of flamingos. They are the Greater Flamingo (Africa, Europe, Asia), Lesser Flamingo (Africa, India), Chilean Flamingo (South America), James's Flamingo (South America), Andean Flamingo (South America) and the American Flamingo (Caribbean).
The Chilean flamingo is a large species of flamingo that is found in South America. The James's flamingo is a small and delicate species of flamingo that is found in the Andes mountains in Peru, Chile, Bolivia and Argentina. There are six different species of flamingo found around the world. The different flamingo species are the greater flamingo which is the most widespread species of flamingo found in Africa, Southern Europe and Southern Asia.
Different species of Flamingos live throughout the world. The American Flamingo is the only one that lives in the wild in North America. It lives on many Caribbean islands such as the Bahamas, Cuba, and Hispaniola. It also lives in northern South America, the Galapagos Islands, and parts of Mexico. There are actually 6 different species of flamingos. They are the Greater Flamingo (Africa, Europe, Asia), Lesser Flamingo (Africa, India), Chilean Flamingo (South America), James's Flamingo (South America), Andean Flamingo (South America) and the American Flamingo (Caribbean).
Flamingo Habitat and Distribution. The habitat for Flamingos is very diverse and they live in more places than many people realize. They tend to like it where the temperatures are warm, but they seem to do well in colder climates too. As long as they have room to roam and plenty off food they are content in any environment. Many people are surprised to learn that Flamingos live in the mountain areas as they always thought they were strictly flat land animals. They tend to enjoy regions where there is plenty of water or mud for them.
The Andean and the James’s Flamingo have a more restricted natural habitat found solely in South America. The Andean Flamingo is found in Peru, Chile, Bolivia and Argentina. The American, or Caribbean Flamingo, is also found in the United States and the islands surround the Caribbean. Habitat Features. The flamingo needs a habitat that has shallow enough waters so that they can feed. The proper sanctuary for the flamingo has been recreated in zoos all around the world, proving acceptable for many species. Many species of flamingo thrive in captivity. The flamingo feeds standing up so the waters cannot be too high
1 The Flamingo Habitat is home to more than 300 birds, including the Chilean flamingos, pheasants and swan. 2  There are occasionally African penguins featured in the habitat, though they are not always out in the Flamingo Garden. 
The American flamingo is a large species of flamingo that is found in the Caribbean islands and the Galapagos islands. Flamingos use their large, oddly shaped beaks to filter shrimp out of the water. The flamingo uses it's strangely shaped upside-down beak to separate mud and food in the water. There are six different species of flamingo found around the world. The different flamingo species are the greater flamingo which is the most widespread species of flamingo found in Africa, Southern Europe and Southern Asia.