The second main difference is in the structure of the cell itself. Animal cells are smaller than plant cells and have a membrane around them that is flexible and allows molecules, gases and nutrients to pass into the cell. This is one of the most important questions in biology since the cell is the smallest unit of life in either a plant or an animal and without it no living thing would survive. No matter what organism the cell comes from it has the same basic functions.
Plant cells are eukaryotic cells or cells with membrane bound nucleus. Generally, plant cells are larger than animal cells and are mostly similar in size and are rectangular or cube shaped. Plant cells are similar to animal cells in being eukaryotic and they have similar cell org anelles. Cell wall: The cell wall is a rigid layer that surrounds the plant cells. It is made up of cellulose. Cell wall is a characteristic feature to cells of plants. Plant cell walls are primarily
Both eukaryotic cells, including plant cells and animal cells, and prokaryotic cells, e.g. bacteria, are enclosed by a cell membrane. A cell membrane (see the simple diagram on the right) is a thin structure that is also known as the plasma membrane. The main functions of the cell membrane are: 
Although, the overall function of the cell is the same, there are some important differences between animal and plant cells. The first difference is that plant cells have an organelle called chloroplast. This is one of the most important questions in biology since the cell is the smallest unit of life in either a plant or an animal and without it no living thing would survive. No matter what organism the cell comes from it has the same basic functions.
Its main function is storage. Vacuoles are found in the cytoplasm of most plant cells. They are membrane bound organelles, they perform functions of secretion, excretion and storage. Tonoplast: A vacuole that is surrounded by a membrane is called tonoplast. Cell wall: The cell wall is a rigid layer that surrounds the plant cells. It is made up of cellulose. Cell wall is a characteristic feature to cells of plants. Plant cell walls are primarily
Cells come in many different shapes and have different functions. Plant and animal cells are different, too. The main difference between plant and animal cells is that plant cells have a cell wall on the outer layer, whereas animal cells only have a cell membrane. The cell wall is a protective layer outside the cell membrane that also provides support for the cell's structure. It is kind of like the outside bricks of a castle, only, as you will learn as you read on, there are holes throughout this castle. Those holes do make the cell vulnerable, but they are important to the function of the cell. A redwood tree and a dandelion both have cell walls on the outside of all of their cells.
All living things are made up of cells. The structures of different types of cells are related to their functions. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant and algal cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole
Quick look: A vacuole is a membrane-enclosed fluid filled sac found in the cells of plants including fungi. Vacuoles can be large organelles occupying between 30% and 90% of a cell by volume. Vacuoles appear to have three main functions, they: 1  contribute to the rigidity of the plant using water to develop hydrostatic pressure. 2  store nutrient and non-nutrient chemicals. 3  break down complex molecules.
Plant cells do, however, have a number of other specialized structures, including a rigid cell wall, central vacuole, plasmodesmata, and chloroplasts. Although plants (and their typical cells) are non-motile, some species produce gametes that do exhibit flagella and are, therefore, able to move about. Plasmodesmata-Plasmodesmata are small tubes that connect plant cells to each other, providing living bridges between cells. Plasma Membrane-All living cells have a plasma membrane that encloses their contents. In prokaryotes and plants, the membrane is the inner layer of protection surrounded by a rigid cell wall.
It is easier to explain what these parts are by using diagrams like the ones below. Animal cells and plant cells both contain: cell membrane, cytoplasm, nucleus. Plant cells also contain these parts, not found in animal cells: chloroplasts, vacuole, cell wall. The table summarises the functions of these parts. 