Aleph is also the first letter in the Arabic alphabet, but it is pronounced Alif. With this letter we write many names, such as אלוהים Elohim, which is precisely the Hebrew word for Gods and Goddesses. The Hebrew word for God is ‘El,’ written with א Aleph and ל Lamed. The word Elohim is a plural word that means Gods and Goddesses. The word אלף Aleph is written א Aleph, ל Lamed, and ף Peh. (ף or פ Peh in Latin letters is associated with the letters P and F. This is why we can write Aleph with an F or a PH at the end because the letter Peh of the Hebrew alphabet can be either).
In Modern Hebrew the frequency of the usage of alef, out of all the letters, is 4.94%. Aleph is sometimes used as a mater lectionis to denote a vowel, usually /a/ . Such use is more common in words of Aramaic and Arabic origin, in foreign names and some other borrowed words. In gematria, aleph represents the number 1, and when used at the beginning of Hebrew years, it means 1000 (e.g. א'תשנד in numbers would be the date 1754). Aleph, along with Ayin, Resh, and Heth, cannot receive a dagesh.
Traditionally first; sacrificial ox; and one thousand.. As the first of all the holy Letters, and symbol of God's Oneness and Omnipotence, aleph is a three-in-one presentation. Its upper right segment consists of a yod, the first letter in the Name of the Divine. A second yod in the aleph's lower left segment signifies the Creator resident withis His creation. 
The name aleph is derived from the West Semitic word for  ox , and the shape of the letter derives from a Proto-Sinaitic glyph that may have been based on a Egyptian hieroglyph. which depicts an ox's head. In gematria, aleph represents the number 1, and when used at the beginning of Hebrew years, it means 1000 (e.g. א'תשנד in numbers would be the date 1754). Aleph, along with Ayin, Resh, and Heth, cannot receive a dagesh.
Aleph also begins the three words that make up God's mystical name in Exodus, I Am who I Am (in Hebrew, Ehyeh Asher Ehyeh אהיה אשר אהיה), and aleph is an important part of mystical amulets and formulas. In gematria, aleph represents the number 1, and when used at the beginning of Hebrew years, it means 1000 (e.g. א'תשנד in numbers would be the date 1754). Aleph, along with Ayin, Resh, and Heth, cannot receive a dagesh.
Aleph came into the spotlight when chosen by Israel-born Natalie Portman for her son. Alef is a more common spelling. In the Kabbalah, Aleph/ Alef relates to the origin of the universe. The letter Aleph is also the subject of a midrash, a Jewish folktale, which praises its humility in not demanding to start the Bible. (In Hebrew, the Bible begins with the second letter of the alphabet, Bet .) As a reward, Aleph is allowed to start the Ten Commandments.
The meaning of the word can be seen in the meanings of the letters that form the word. The aleph bet is what modern hebrew calls the alphabet (22 letters that YHWH used to speak the universe into existance) but Biblically Aleph Tav are the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet. Oat = sign it is saying something. The word for oat in Hebrew is an aleph and tav with a-between them. When we have two sylable words that describe the accent falls on the first sylable. Quesent letter = silent letter= come to a stop Silent in the sense you have to have a vowel with it to sound it out.
[ 2 syll. a-lep(h) , al-e- ph ] The baby boy name Aleph is pronounced as AA-Leh-F †. Aleph is mainly used in Hebrew and it is also of Hebrew origin. The name Aleph means first letter of the alphabet. The Hebrew name Alef is a variant form of Aleph. Aleph is not often used as a baby boy name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Comments and insights on the name Aleph: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Aleph: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Aleph: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Aleph: | Edit. Aleph is the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet. 