1 double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 2  birdie-The golf term birdie is a diminutive of bird, first-rate thing, as it is one stroke under par for a hole. 1 par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 2  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 3
In golf, an albatross is something that most golfers will never have the fortune to make. This scoring term, which represents three strokes under par on a single hole, is extremely difficult to achieve. 
1 Also known as an albatross. 2  par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 3  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 4  birdie-The golf term birdie is a diminutive of bird, first-rate thing, as it is one stroke under par for a hole. 1 par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 2  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 3
Birdie. Birdie, meaning a score of one stroke under Par, comes from the early 20th century American slang term bird, meaning anything excellent. The September 1911 edition of Maclean Magazine described a golf shot as - 'bird straight down the course, about two hundred and fifteen yards.'. Although the first noted use of the word par in golf was in Britain and predates the bogey, today's rating system does not and the par standard was not further developed until later. It was the Ladies Golf Association, who, from 1893, began to develop a national handicapping system for women.
In golf, par is the pre-determined number of strokes that a scratch (or 0 handicap) golfer should require to complete a hole, a round (the sum of the pars of the played holes), or a tournament (the sum of the pars of each round). A golfer's score is compared with the par score. If a course has a par of 72 and a golfer takes 75 strokes to complete the course, the reported score is +3, or three-over-par, taking three shots more than par to complete the course. If a golfer takes 70 strokes, their reported score is –2, or two-under-par.
par. 1  double eagle-Three strokes under par on a single golf hole. 2  par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 3  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 4  birdie-The golf term birdie is a diminutive of bird, first-rate thing, as it is one stroke under par for a hole. 1 par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 2  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 3
A par is a certain ammount of strokes you hit the ball with in golf. If you hit under the ammount of par it is reffered to as an under par. Which is different depending on the … difficulty. 8 people found this useful. What is a three under par in a par 5? double eagle, that's correct for the USA but here in the UK 3 under is classed as an Albatross Scoring terms summarised +1 = Bogey (then this goes up-ie.
A par is a certain ammount of strokes you hit the ball with in golf. If you hit under the ammount of par it is reffered to as an under par. Which is different depending on the … difficulty. 
If you take five strokes to play a par-4 hole, then you are 1-over par for that hole; if you take three strokes on a par-4, you are 1-under par on that hole. Same applies to 18-hole scores: If the golf course's par is 72, and you shoot 85, you are 13-over par; if you shoot 68, you are 4-under par. See also: For 18 holes of golf, the par is the total number of strokes an expert golfer is expected to require to complete the course. Most full-size golf courses range from pars of 69 to 74, with par-70, par-71 and par-72 courses most common.
1 double eagle-Three strokes under par on a single golf hole. 2  Also known as an albatross. 3  par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 4  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 5  birdie-The golf term birdie is a diminutive of bird, first-rate thing, as it is one stroke under par for a hole. 1 par-Latin, literally equal, equality.. 2  double bogey-Two strokes over par on a golf hole. 3