The median home value in Hillsborough County is $163,000. Hillsborough County home values have gone up 5.3% over the past year and Zillow predicts they will rise 1.9% within the next year. The median rent price in Hillsborough County is $1,372, which is higher than the Tampa Metro median of $1,325. Read more. Mortgage delinquency is the first step in the foreclosure process. This is when a homeowner fails to make a mortgage payment. 
I have sold new homes anywhere from $75 to $250 per sq. ft. Location and builder is a big factor in pricing. Of course, South Tampa dictates the higher pricing. Southeastern Hillsborough county and Hernando county are in the lower per sq. ft. range. There are some lots available thruout the Tampa area. BEST ANSWER. Becky Slocum, Agent, Tampa, FL. It really depends on the finishes you can build for $90-$175 per square foot on average but can certainly go much higher. And you'll need to also take into consideration the cost of the lot, impact fees ect. Hope this helps
Here is why these factors are important: 1) Size: The size of a home matters when you think about cost per square foot. A 2,500 sq ft home will cost less per square foot than a 4,500 sq ft home. That may seem counter intuitive, but think about it this way. Both homes have one high cost kitchen. In the larger home, this high cost is spread over more square feet than the smaller home. 
After the layers of old roof are removed, it will now be time to start installing a new roof. Asphalt is the most commonly used roofing material, and this is also the cheapest fora homeowner. A Tampa, Florida homeowner can expect to pay around $120.00 an d $140.00 per square foot for an asphalt roof. There are many other choices in materials for a roof, and the cost can range from $300.00 a square foot to over $1000.00 per square foot. There are other options that can help you to save money that you may be interested in exploring. You can choose to place a new roof over the existing one. 
Jennifer, That would be really tough to answer accurately. Price per square foot varies from one part of the county to another. You wouldn't expect to pay the same price per square foot in South Tampa as you would for Northdale or Carrollwood.
average price per square foot in Hillsborough and pasco county for recent single family homes soild. Asked by Jennifer, 33637 • Mon Apr 13, 2009. --. This question is about this property: http://www.trulia.com/property/1075870311-16207-Ashley-Park-. That would be really tough to answer accurately. Price per square foot varies from one part of the county to another. You wouldn't expect to pay the same price per square foot in South Tampa as you would for Northdale or Carrollwood
Hillsborough County buyers and investors often use “price per square foot” convenient way to compare value and price trends. Price per square foot does not tell the entire story. Price per square foot masks a great deal of variation in the characteristics of single family homes. The physical characteristics, such as the age, condition, location, floor plan, view, and upgrades are major factors in determining value. Contact Team Bohannon at 813-377-4455 to learn more about valuing single family home properties in the Hillsborough County area. * All data is from the Tampa Florida Multiple Listing Service (MLS) , the definitive source of residential real estate data in the Tampa Bay metro market updated by Tampa Realtors.
If you have a home that measures 2,000 square feet and you choose to use the neighborhood average of $125 per square foot, the home price is $250,000. If you were to decide to compare to a home with a price per square foot of $127, then the subject home price becomes $254,000. 