Verb Phrase Examples. A verb phrase can be the predicate of the clause or sentence. A verb phrase can also be a phrase that functions as an adverb or adjective and contains a verb and its complements, objects, or modifiers.
A verb phrase consists of a main verb and one or more helping verbs linked together. Look at the following examples and try to identify the verb phrase. Notice how the verb phrase helps express the different time each action is taking place. You should see that the word 'might' is what makes the difference. 'Might' is called a helping verb, or auxiliary verb. Helping verbs aid the main verb in expressing time or action. The main verb in this case is 'be.' When helping verbs appear in sentences instead of a simple verb, this is a
(is waiting) A verb phrase can be the predicate of the clause or sentence. A verb phrase can also be a phrase that contains a verb and its complements, objects, or modifiers. Following are further explanations and examples. Here are some verb phrase examples where the verb phrase is the predicate of a sentence. In this case, the verb phrase consists of the main verb plus any auxiliary, or helping, verbs. •She was walking to the mall. •Ted might eat the cake. •You must go right now. •Words were spoken. •The teacher is writing a report. 
Realize that an adverb is not part of the verb phrase. Since a verb phrase might use up to four words, a short adverb —such as also, never, or not —might try to sneak in between the parts. When you find an adverb snuggled in a verb phrase, it is still an adverb, not part of the verb. Read these examples: For her birthday, Selena would also like a radar detector. Would like = verb; also = adverb. To avoid another speeding ticket, Selena will never again take her eyes off the road to fiddle with the radio.
In linguistics, a verb phrase or VP is a syntactic unit composed of at least one verb and its dependents— objects, complements and other modifiers—but not always including the subject. Thus in the sentence A fat man put the jewels quickly in the box, the words put the jewels quickly in the box is a verb phrase; it consists of the verb put and its dependents, but not the subject a fat man. A verb phrase is similar to what is considered a predicate in more traditional grammars. Verb phrases generally are divided among two types: finite, of which the head of the phrase is a finite verb; and nonfinite, where the head is a nonfinite verb, such as an infinitive, participle or gerund
Phrase Is the Predicate of the Sentence. Following are some verb phrase examples where the verb phrase is the predicate of a sentence. In this case, the verb phrase consists of the main verb plus any auxiliary, or helping, verbs. 1  She was walking quickly to the mall. A verb phrase can be the predicate of the clause or sentence. A verb phrase can also be a phrase that functions as an adverb or adjective and contains a verb and its complements, objects, or modifiers.
Definition: Verb Phrase. In simple words, a verb of more than one word is called a verb phrase. It is a phrase consisting of a verb, its auxiliaries (helping verbs), its complements, and other modifiers. Auxiliary verbs always come before the main verb. A verb phrase is a syntactic unit that corresponds to the predicate. Verb phrase examples-. Come from, come in, eat out, go on, keep on, look out, pick up, move on, stand up, write down. These are verb phrase examples. But before looking at verb phrase examples, let us understand what is a verb phrase. A verb phrase is a combination of a verb and a particle.
Before we learn English verb phrases, click here to review English grammar phrases. A verb phrase is a combination of a main verb and one or more auxiliary verbs (also known as helping verbs) . This group of words acts like a verb. 
A verb phrase is the portion of a sentence that contains both the verb and either a direct or indirect object (the verb’s dependents). We’re going to take a look at what verb phrases are, and then view some verb phrase examples. A verb phrase can be the predicate of the clause or sentence. A verb phrase can also be a phrase that functions as an adverb or adjective and contains a verb and its complements, objects, or modifiers.