But the longer asparagus sits in the fridge, the more the ends are going to dry out, resulting in more to trim off and less to eat. Let me show you the best way to extend the life of your asparagus and keep it from drying out. Pin it. Start with fresh asparagus from the market. 1 Stand the asparagus up in a glass or jar with about an inch or two of water, making sure all the ends are sitting in the water. 2  We've found that a 2-cup measuring cup is a great container. 3  Loosely cover the asparagus with a plastic bag and store in the refrigerator for up to a week.
Cooked asparagus will last the longest if you store it in a container with as little air as possible. A plastic or glass food storage container with a tight-fitting lid is best. 3. Keep the asparagus refrigerated for five to seven days, maximum. Storing the asparagus upright allows it to soak up the water from the container, keeping the stalks fresh and firm. If you're using a storage bag, rubber band the top of the bag around the asparagus so you can store it upright on the refrigerator door without spilling water. 6. Cover with a plastic bag.
Asparagus will keep for a week or more in the refrigerator if you store it properly. Asparagus stalks are similar to flower stems: they need to be kept upright and moist to stay fresh. Learn how to store either fresh or cooked asparagus to help it last as long as possible. Storing the asparagus upright allows it to soak up the water from the container, keeping the stalks fresh and firm. If you're using a storage bag, rubber band the top of the bag around the asparagus so you can store it upright on the refrigerator door without spilling water. 6. Cover with a plastic bag.
It is the tips of asparagus they will begin to go bad first, which is also the most desirable part of the asparagus. The best way to tell if your asparagus is going bad is to look at the tips, they will begin to turn a very dark green (almost black) and when you touch them they will just mush between your fingers. 1 To find out how to steam asparagus, check our post on how to steam vegetables. 2  If it's your first time with this vegetable, don't be alarmed when your pee has a unique distinct odor after consuming. 3  It will disappear by the next day.
Answer by Rms62. Confidence votes 26. Asparagus should stay good for 3 to 5 days, but a lot of how long it keeps depends upon how old it is when you get it. In a plastic bag with a little water to keep damp place in crisper drawer of refrigerator and it will stay fresh 10 to 14 days. We have been doing this for 21 years. 
However, there is a super simple way to make your fresh asparagus last as long as two weeks in the refrigerator and it takes about two minutes to do. Read on to find out how: Don’t wash your asparagus first. (Some people say to wash it in 1:10 water/vinegar solution to kill any bacteria. 
How To Store. Uncooked asparagus will stay fresh for three to four days in the refrigerator. The secret is to keep the vegetable cool and damp. Store spears upright in a container with the stems wading in an inch of water, then cover loosely with a plastic bag. You can peel stalks up to a day before cooking and store them wrapped in damp paper towels in the vegetable bin of the refrigerator. Conventional asparagus wisdom says snapping the spear breaks away the tough, fibrous end.
Store the asparagus upright in the container. Storing the asparagus upright allows it to soak up the water from the container, keeping the stalks fresh and firm. If you're using a storage bag, rubber band the top of the bag around the asparagus so you can store it upright on the refrigerator door without spilling water. 6. Cover with a plastic bag. Use a loose plastic bag (the type used for produce at the grocery store) and drape it over the asparagus tips and jar. This will keep the asparagus tasting fresh; without the bag, the stalks will take on the flavor of whatever else you're keeping in your refrigerato
1 Quickly cook or blanch the stalks and either refrigerate or freeze them in freezer safe containers. 2  To find out how to steam asparagus, check our post on how to steam vegetables. 3  If it's your first time with this vegetable, don't be alarmed when your pee has a unique distinct odor after consuming. 1 To find out how to steam asparagus, check our post on how to steam vegetables. 2  If it's your first time with this vegetable, don't be alarmed when your pee has a unique distinct odor after consuming. 3  It will disappear by the next day.