The following causes of Haemoglobin in urine are ones for which we do not have any prevalence information. 1  Infection. 2  Kidney stones. 3  Menstrual blood. 4  Tumours. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Haemoglobin in urine: The following list of conditions have ' Haemoglobin in urine ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
A urine dipstick test for hemoglobin can also be positive in the presence of myoglobin. If the urine dipstick test is positive and myoglobin is suspected to be the cause, it should be followed up with more specific testing for myoglobin. 
1 Sickle cell anemia — a hereditary defect of hemoglobin in red blood cells — can be the cause of blood in urine, both visible and microscopic hematuria. 2  So can Alport syndrome, which affects the filtering membranes in the glomeruli of the kidneys. 3  Kidney injury. In hematuria, your kidneys — or other parts of your urinary tract — allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: Urinary tract infections. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder.
Urine hemoglobin: The presence of free hemoglobin in the urine, an abnormal finding, that may make the urine look dark. Hemoglobin in the urine is termed hemoglobinuria. Hemoglobin is the protein in the red blood cells which carries oxygen from the lungs to the tissues of the body and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues to the lungs. The iron contained in hemoglobin gives red blood cells their characteristic color. Normally, there is no hemoglobin in the urine. Hemoglobinuria is a sign of a number of conditions including: 1  acute nephritis (acute glomerulonephritis), 2  burns, 3  kidney cancer, 4  malaria, 5  paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (dark urine in the morning that lightens up during the day), 6  the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS),
The condition is often associated with hemolytic anemia, in which red blood cells (RBCs) are destroyed, thereby increasing levels of free plasma hemoglobin. Excess hemoglobin is filtered by the kidneys, which excrete it into the urine, giving urine a purple color. In medicine, hemoglobinuria or haemoglobinuria is a condition in which the oxygen transport protein hemoglobin is found in abnormally high concentrations in the urine.
On urine test results, urine hemoglobin=trace-intact, urine microscopic = indicated, wbc/hpf=0-3, rbc/hpf=0-3. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Normal: The WBC and rbc are referring to the number of white blood cells and red blood cells seen in a range of microscopic fields of sampled by the lab technician. In urine analysis, hemoglobin --- trace, red blood cells --- occasional, becteria --- few, calcium oxalate cryst --- +2. 3. Get help from a doctor now ›. Crystalluria: Concerning the crystals and the blood, this can be due to poor water intake and a predisposition to develop crystals and kidney stones.
Hemoglobin is the red pigmented, oxygen-carrying protein found in red blood cells. When hemoglobin is present in the urine, it is termed hemoglobinuria. Certain conditions and diseases can result in red blood cell destruction within the bloodstream. As the level of free hemoglobin rises, it becomes detectable in the urine. Laboratory analysis is used to confirm the presence of hemoglobinuria. The bacteria usually ascend from the genital area through the urinary tract to the kidneys. Sometimes the infection develops from a different infection somewhere else in the body. Kidney infections can cause bleeding within the kidney, resulting in red blood cells and hemoglobin in the urine. Symptoms usually include flank pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting