Forensic botany is thus defined as the use of plants and plant parts -- including as pollen, seeds, leaves, flowers, fruits and wood -- in the investigation of criminal cases, legal questions, disputes, or, in non-criminal cases, to ascertain cause of death or former location. Dendrochronology is the study of tree rings for forensic purposes. A related science is the study of wood rings in connection with soil contamination. An example is the presence of arsenic. Dendochronology can provide much information with regard to the cultural sciences, as well.
Forensic botany, and the use of plants as evidence in a criminal trial, has come a long way since then and evidence has been known to determine whether death was a result of homicide, suicide or misadventure (17) . Sources. 1  http://www.thecompleteuniversityguide.co.uk/courses/options/botany/. Whether you call it botany, plant science or plant biology, it is one of the world's oldest natural sciences. That means that most colleges and universities will have a botany or plant science degree in their Natural Science or Biology department.
Forensic biology is the application of biology to law enforcement. It includes the subdisciplines of forensic anthropology, forensic botany, forensic entomology, forensic odontology and various DNA or protein based techniques. Forensic biology has been used to prove a suspect was at a crime scene, identify illegal products from endangered species, solve crimes by matching crime scene evidence to suspects, investigate airplane bird strikes, and investigate bird collisions with wind turbines.
Forensic botany encompasses not just the study of plants as a whole, but reproduction, including pollen and seedlings, geographical loci, cell structure and make-up, growth, metabolism, development, root structures, diseases, chemical properties, and evolutionary interrelationships among taxonomic assemblages. 
A relatively new discipline, forensic botany incorporates several subdisciplines: palynology (the study of pollens), dendrochronology (the study of tree rings), limnology (the study of aquatic environments), systematics (the classification of plants), ecology (the study of ecosystems), and molecular biology. Botanical evidence can also be used to identify clandestine graves. When soil is disturbed, certain plants quickly invade the fresh surface. Other species follow in succession until the area recovers. However, the composition and distribution of the new assemblage is never exactly the same as the original community.
Botany, also called plant science (s) or plant biology, is the science of plant life and a branch of biology. A botanist or plant scientist is a scientist who specializes in this field of study. 
Forensic Botany. Forensics is the scientific analysis of physical and organic pieces of evidence that have been collected by law enforcement or crime scene technicians to help the criminal justice system solve crimes. Opportunities may be better for those with more education and training. Experts in forensic botany use all sorts of biological and forensic techniques to identify flora involved in a crime scene in some way.
Forensic Botany: A Practical Guide is an accessible introduction to the way in which botanical evidence is identified, collected and analysed in criminal cases. Increasingly this form of evidence is becoming more important in forensic investigation and yet there are few trained botanists able to assist in such cases. 
Pollen. Individual particles of pollen are essentially invisible to the human eye. Varieties of pollen -- whether single or in combination -- can be seen through use of a microscope, and may characterize a specific region where a crime has been committed. Dendrochronology is the study of tree rings for forensic purposes. A related science is the study of wood rings in connection with soil contamination. An example is the presence of arsenic. Dendochronology can provide much information with regard to the cultural sciences, as well.
Whodunit. Forensic botany can be used to link suspects to crimes. Palynologists study pollen, spores and other microorganisms. These scientists can determine the type of pollen present at a crime scene and compare it to what is later discovered on objects or people. If investigators suspect that a victim has been buried in a secret grave, forensic botany can be used to locate the site. When a hole is dug in the earth, plant matter is disturbed. After burial, vegetation soon begins to take root.