1 Keep your baseball glove in a cool, dry place when it is not in use. 2  Do not leave your glove where the heat could affect the leather (the trunk of your car). 3  If your glove gets wet, dry it with a towel and let it air-dry. 4  Do not put it in the oven or near a heater as it may dry out the leather. We recommend checking with the manufacturer of your glove to see what they recommend. 1  Keep your baseball glove in a cool, dry place when it is not in use. 2  If your glove gets wet, dry it with a towel and let it air-dry. 3  Do not over oil your baseball glove! 4  Keep the laces tight.
Instructions. Use saddle soap to clean your glove. Put some saddle soap on a clean, dry rag. Rub the soap into the leather in small circular motions. Don't miss an inch -- clean between the fingers. You are working the dirt and grime out of the leather and bringing it to the surface. As you do this the soap will work into a lather. 
1 Brush the dirt and dust off your glove with a light brush. 2  Use a damp cloth or sponge to apply a small amount of glove leather cleaner; Lexol leather cleaner is good. 3  Wipe the entire glove with it. 4  Remove the cleaner from the glove with a damp cloth or sponge, and allow to air dry. A little tender loving care between uses or at least once a season, and you'll have a glove that lasts you many seasons. Here's what to do: 1  Brush the dirt and dust off your glove with a light brush. 2  Use a damp cloth or sponge to apply a small amount of glove leather cleaner; Lexol leather cleaner is good.
Warnings. 1  If your son or daughter got a new glove, do not break it in for them. 2  Be cautious when breaking in new, expensive baseball or softball gloves. 3  Letting others use your baseball or softball glove can result in a break in that is formed to that person's hand. Apply a glove conditioning oil to the glove. Spray the entire surface of the glove. You may want to apply a little extra to the laces to make sure the thinner material there is adequately protected. Let the glove sit for several minutes and soak up the conditioner, then wipe the glove with a towel until dry.
Quick and easy steps to break in your ball glove. Step 1-Conditioning the leather. You will want to start with a dime size amount of glove oil or cream for your glove. We suggest using an applicator sponge to work the oil into every area of the glove, which includes the palm, fingers, laces, and back side. This will allow the oil to further condition the leather and let the glove continue to form. Step 3-Breaking in the glove. Once you remove the ball and bands, you will now have a good foundation for a pocket, you just need to do a little work to break it in.
Applying a small amount of conditioning oil will soften, enrich, and preserve your leather glove. 1  You can use some shaving cream with lanolin in it as an cheap alternative to conditioning oil. 2  Do not use too much oil or cream on your glove. 3  Applying too much can cause the leather to deteriorate. Apply a glove conditioning oil to the glove. Spray the entire surface of the glove. You may want to apply a little extra to the laces to make sure the thinner material there is adequately protected. Let the glove sit for several minutes and soak up the conditioner, then wipe the glove with a towel until dry.
Close the glove around the ball tightly and wrap it with the string again. Store it for a day or two in a dry, dark corner. Choose an out of the way place that is away from pets and small children. You don't want anything to disturb the process of forming the pocket of the glove. Apply a glove conditioning oil to the glove. Spray the entire surface of the glove. You may want to apply a little extra to the laces to make sure the thinner material there is adequately protected. Let the glove sit for several minutes and soak up the conditioner, then wipe the glove with a towel until dry.
Apply a safe leather conditioner to the glove after it has dried to soften it. Protect the inside of your glove. Sweat and dirt from your hands can take a toll on the inside of your glove. Protect it by wearing a light glove, such as your batting glove, inside of your baseball glove. A little tender loving care between uses or at least once a season, and you'll have a glove that lasts you many seasons. Here's what to do: 1  Brush the dirt and dust off your glove with a light brush. 2  Use a damp cloth or sponge to apply a small amount of glove leather cleaner; Lexol leather cleaner is good. 3  Wipe the entire glove with it. 4  Remove the cleaner from the glove with a damp cloth or sponge, and allow to air dry