Travel classes. Finnair offers Business Class and Economy Class on its longhaul international flights, and a single-class service on shorter domestic flights.
The company was established on November 1, 1923. The first flight was in March 1924. Their motto is: Designed for you (Finnish: Sinulle suunniteltu). Almost 4470 people worked for Finnair in 2014. 
Finnair (Finnish: Finnair Oyj, Swedish: Finnair Abp) is the flag carrier and largest airline of Finland, with its headquarters in Vantaa and its main hub at Helsinki-Vantaa Airport. Finnair is the fifth oldest airline in the world with uninterrupted existence. With no fatal or hull-loss accidents since 1963, Finnair is consistently on the list of safest airlines in the world (#3 in 2014).
Seat Privacy. Business class cabin with 2-2-1 seating. Flat bed and quite comfortable. I am 6ft 2ins tall and unlike some beds where you can stretch out over the end of the seat this is a confined cabin but that limitation is made up for by comfortable seat and bed settings. 
Finnair passengers must check in one hour before departure or 45 minutes before domestic flights. Travelers can check in at a desk or a self-service kiosk. Online and mobile services are available up to 36 hours before departure. Finnair Plus members may request automatic cell phone check-in. Finnair is a member of the Oneworld alliance and also participates in code sharing with several other airlines. Oneworld affiliates include American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Qantas, Japan Airlines, Iberia and Air Berlin.
Finnair offers flights between Europe, Asia and 70 cities around the globe. Its top destinations are Helsinki, Paris, London, New York, Seoul, Singapore, Nagoya, Osaka, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Bangkok. Finnair is a member of the Oneworld alliance and also participates in code sharing with several other airlines. Oneworld affiliates include American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Qantas, Japan Airlines, Iberia and Air Berlin.
► Airline reviews › Finnair › Fleet & Seats. Finnair Rating: 4 out of 10 Reviewed by Airreview from 54 flights with 123 photos. Finnair is to improve business class, removing the angled lie-flat seats on board the A330 and A340s and replacing them with fully flat beds. 
Available legroom depends on the type of jet and the cabin configuration. Finnair passengers can purchase additional legroom. Fees for this upgrade range from $22 to $82 depending on the flight. Finnair is a member of the Oneworld alliance and also participates in code sharing with several other airlines. Oneworld affiliates include American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Qantas, Japan Airlines, Iberia and Air Berlin.