The cost of drugs, syringes and needles is approximately 22 cents per castrated piglet. The cost of analgesia is small on a per pig basis but for a moderate sized pig operation the cost associated with extra labour and drug costs represents thousands of dollars. Trial 1 1300 7-day old piglets will be castrated with no analgesia, or with ketoprofen given 30 minutes before castration. Mortality rate and average daily weight gain to weaning (approx 21 days) will be determined.
The extra labour demand for analgesia by the pig farmer (treatment D) varied between 0.13 and 0.38 minutes per piglet (table 4.13). For farms with 400 sows a difference of 0.25 minutes per piglet results in a difference of 20 hours per year. With a tariff of €25/hour the extra costs are € 500/year. In this respect, this study is a first exploration. In order to determine the maximum length of time that piglets can safely remain in a mixture of 70% CO 2 + 30% O 2, 5 piglets were placed in CO 2 /O 2 mixture for 3 minutes, and 3 piglets for 2 minutes. The effects of this were monitored as described in section 3.2.
In a paper delivered to the University of Guelph Swine Research Day entitled 'The effect of pain relief at castration and farrowing on piglet performance by S. Taylor, R. Friendship and G. Cassar, the subject of castration of piglets without the use of anaesthesia or analgesia was examined. Piglets were castrated 30 minutes after receiving the injection, and observations were made 10 minutes after castration for signs of discomfort. Piglets were weighed at 21 days of age, and mortality was recorded. In the sow study, sows were randomly assigned to a control group or a treatment group.
Pain Control. A thorough review of the anaesthetic and analgesic options currently available to the pig industry by Robert Friendship (University of Guelph) and George Charbonneau (Southwest Veterinary Services, Stratford Ontario), presented at the 2013 London Swine Conference. High doses (e.g. 100mg per kg) reduce fever in pigs. 6 No label withdrawal for cattle but because of the association with Reye’s syndrome in children, the Canadian global Food Animal Residue Avoidance Database (CgFARAD) policy recommends at least a 24-hour withdrawal.
The objectives of the study were: 1.To evaluate whether analgesia at piglet castration will result in better welfare or less pain, and whether these treatments will provide any positive benefits to the producer in the form of improved weight gain or reduced mortality. 2. Trial 1 1300 7-day old piglets will be castrated with no analgesia, or with ketoprofen given 30 minutes before castration. Mortality rate and average daily weight gain to weaning (approx 21 days) will be determined.
The cost of analgesia was $0.22 per piglet and it did increase the time to castrate. The farrowing trial showed no differences between stillbirth rate, weaning weights or pre-weaning mortality between treated and control animals. The cost of Ketoprofen was 13.05/sow/dose. These preliminary data indicate no economic benefit from providing analgesia to sows at farrowing or to piglets at castration. Further analysis or further studies might show benefits to using analgesia where a small sow is delivering large piglets. Piglets were castrated 30 minutes after receiving the injection, and observations were made 10 minutes after castration for signs of discomfort. Piglets were weighed at 21 days of age, and mortality was recorded. In the sow study, sows were randomly assigned to a control group or a treatment group.
Over 100 million pigs are marketing in the USA each year. With half of these animals being males, we understand that over 50 million male pigs are sent to market. In the USA virtually all males are physically castrated at a young age (predominantly) with no anesthesia or analgesia (pain relief). The market weights of pigs are 260-300 lb today. Onset of puberty varies with genetic line, but most males pigs enter puberty in the 220 to 240 lb range (now about 5 months of age). The Science of the Pain of Castration. The first scientific paper on the pain of castration was published in 1988. In this work, McGlone and Hellman castrated piglets (3 days old) or nursery-age pigs (7 weeks old) with and without local or general anesthesia.
This work to date suggests that the routine use of ketoprofen to piglets at castration or to sows at parturition did not result in improved performance and was therefore not cost beneficial.In general the decision to use analgesia will most likely be based on ethical concerns and not on financial concerns. 