It is a high-volume lab that provides STAT and routine testing for Mayo Clinic Hospital, Saint Marys Campus and Mayo Clinic Hospital, Methodist Campus, Mayo Clinic outpatients, Mayo Medical Laboratories, and Clinical Trial clients. They provide services to the inpatients of Mayo Clinic Hospital, Saint Marys Campus and Mayo Clinic Hospital, Methodist Campus, outpatients from Mayo's primary and specialty care practices, pediatrics patients, nursing home patients, and Mayo employees.
The urinalysis is used as a screening and/or diagnostic tool because it can help detect substances or cellular material in the urine associated with different metabolic and kidney disorders. It is ordered widely and routinely to detect any abnormalities that require follow up. Often, substances such as protein or glucose will begin to appear in the urine before people are aware that they may have a problem. It is used to detect urinary tract infections (UTIs) and other disorders of the urinary tract. In those with acute or chronic conditions, such as kidney disease, the urinalysis may be ordered at intervals as a rapid method to help monitor organ function, status, and response to treatment. ^ Back to top
A: LabCorp performs initial drug screening using immunoassay. An immunoassay is a test that uses antibodies to detect the presence of drugs and other substances in urine. The initial screening process does not measure the specific amount of drug present in urine samples. It provides either a positive or negative result, indicating the presence or absence of detectable drug
The Division of Clinical Core Laboratory Services is a diverse group of 10 laboratories dedicated primarily to the support of the Mayo Clinic practice in Minnesota. Its activities include specimen collection, processing, analysis and reporting for approximately 8.9 million procedures annually. They provide services to the inpatients of Mayo Clinic Hospital, Saint Marys Campus and Mayo Clinic Hospital, Methodist Campus, outpatients from Mayo's primary and specialty care practices, pediatrics patients, nursing home patients, and Mayo employees.
Overview. Today, laboratory testing is performed in many different settings – from the large reference lab that performs complex kinds of tests to your own home, where you might do a pregnancy test or monitor your blood glucose levels. Many of us, however, may wonder where our tests actually are performed. 
DESCRIPTION: This Urine Drug Test (10‐Panel) will determine the presence or absence of 10 types of drugs or their metabolites in your urine. This test is a laboratory-based test, and includes a screen and a confirmation if necessary. The levels listed below indicate the cut off level for a negative or positive result. Test results are reported as negative or positive. If your drug metabolite level is higher than the cutoff level, your test will indicate a positive result. Below are the test cutoff levels for the 10 drug metabolites and the approximate time they can be detected in your urine.
Central Clinical Laboratory. The Central Clinical Laboratory (CCL) is a highly automated, high-volume core laboratory which provides testing for Mayo Clinic Hospital, Methodist Campus and Mayo Clinic Hospital, Saint Marys Campus, Mayo Clinic outpatients, Mayo Medical Laboratories, and Clinical Trials clients. They provide services to the inpatients of Mayo Clinic Hospital, Saint Marys Campus and Mayo Clinic Hospital, Methodist Campus, outpatients from Mayo's primary and specialty care practices, pediatrics patients, nursing home patients, and Mayo employees.
Urinalysis. Core Laboratory Supplies offers a full line of urinalysis testing products including urine reagent strips, urinalysis analyzers and products for microscopic urine examination. Our urinalysis reagent products are CLIA waived and can be used in any size lab. 