Join others on the Fleming genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Fleming surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list. If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Use these genealogy databases to fill in the blanks of your Fleming heritage. Fleming in Ancestry.com Records. Start your family tree and learn the story of your family in the world's largest online collection of genealogy records and family trees. Look for additional generations to add to your family history.
The name means specifically a man from Flanders and was found as le Flamanc, one William Le Flamanc being so recorded in the Yorkshire Assize Rolls in 1219 A.D.. The name is also job descriptive, and Le Flamanc probably referred as much to skills as a Flemish weaver as the place of origin. This is an ancient name in Ireland, known to date back to the 12th Century and shortly after the invasion of Henry 11th in 1171.
Suggested Readings for the name Fleming. 1  Hamilton, Mullins, Fleming, and Related Lines (of Kentucky, West Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee) by Verle Hamilton Parrish. 2  Let the Deed Show: A Pictorial and Historical Record of the Fleming, Edwards and Woods Families Dating from 1700's to 1980 by James R. Fleming. Fleming Settlers in Australia in the 19th Century. 1  William Fleming, English convict from Southampton, who was transported aboard the Andromeda on November 13, 1832, settling in New South Wales, Australia. 2  Ann Fleming arrived in Adelaide, Australia aboard the ship Eden in 1838.
Fleming History. Meaning ‘native of Flanders’. Several people of this name are found in the 12th century. A family of this name posessed large territories in the Upper Ward of Lanarkshire, where their residence was Boghall Castle near Biggar. 
Fleming. Fleming is a surname in English-speaking countries. It usually points to an ancestral origin in and emigration from Flanders. There were extensive ties between Flanders and the British Isles during the Middle Ages, with numerous Flemings arriving as merchants or weavers. An alternative spelling of the surname is Flemming. The Irish Gaelic name is Pleimeann. German variants include Flaming, Flahming, and Flehmig; Dutch variants Vlaming and Vlaaderen. The Flemings of Louhisaari were a Swedish noble family whose forebears had migrated to Swedish-ruled Finland.
English: ethnic name for someone from Flanders. In the Middle Ages there was considerable commercial intercourse between England and the Netherlands, particularly in the wool trade, and many Flemish weavers and dyers settled in England. The word reflects a Norman French form of Old French flamenc, from the stem flam- + the Germanic suffix-ing. The surname is also common in south and east Scotland and in Ireland, where it is sometimes found in the Gaelicized form Pleimeann.Pléimeann: german variant Of, flemming cognate with. 1
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Le Flamanc, which was dated 1219, The Yorkshire Assizes, during the reign of King Henry 111, 'The Frenchman', 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax. Probably the most famous namebearer listed in the national Biography is alexander Fleming (1824 - 1875) a medicar writer whose Physiological and Medicinal Properties of Aconitum Napellus (1845) led to the introduction of Fleming's tincture.
Fleming surname history. By Jason Simmons June 21, 2009 at 12:02:53. FLEMING: This name derives mainly from persons of Flanders origin who settled throughout Britain and thus Scottish ancestry should not be claimed unless there is a familiy tradition of such descent.
Fleming /flem-ing/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Fleming is man from Flanders. Flanders is now Belgium. Author Ian Fleming. Kreatif forms: Falming, Feming, Fulming. Fleming has 3 variants: Flemming, Flemmyng and Flemyng. Fleming is a rare first name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#317 out of 150436, Top 1%).
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of John Fleming, which was dated March 1st 1435, a christening witness at Slane, Co. Meath, during the reign of King Henry V1, Founder of Eton College, 1422 - 1461. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. This is an ancient name in Ireland, known to date back to the 12th Century and shortly after the invasion of Henry 11th in 1171.