Cowell Name Meaning. English: habitational name from places in Lancashire and Gloucestershire called Cowhill, from Old English cu ‘cow’ + hyll ‘hill’.possibly also an Americanized form of Polish, Jewish, and Sorbian Kowal. You can find out when most of the Cowell families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
However, in some instances, Cowell may be of Old Gaelic origin, as the Anglicized form of Mac Cathmhaoil, composed of the Gaelic prefix Mac, son of, and a personal name from cathmhaol, battle chief. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Cionaidh Ua Cathmhaoil, which was dated 967, in Ancient Gaelic Record, during the reign of Brian Boru, High King of Ireland, 940 - 1014.
Cowell-Meaning of Cowell. Tweet. Cowell is an English name of Old English origin. The first name is derived from the surname, which is itself from the name of various English towns, such as Cowhill in South Gloucestershire, or Cow Hill in Preston, Lancashire. The place names are themselves of the Old English elements 'cu' and 'hyll'; therefore their meaning is 'cow hill' in reference to a hill where cows are kept and raised. Cowell's language of origin is Celtic.
It is derived from mac meaning 'son' ; cathmhaol 'battle chief'. The surname Cowell can be Anglicized from Mac Cathmhaoil. The latter is an Old Gaelic name of the elements 'mac' and cathmhaol, and it therefore means 'son of the battle chief'. The place names are themselves of the Old English elements 'cu' and 'hyll'; therefore their meaning is 'cow hill' in reference to a hill where cows are kept and raised. Cowell's language of origin is Celtic.
Cowell. This website has details of both Cowell and Hornby surnames, this is because I have recently discovered that my great great great grandfather James Cowell used the surname Hornby as well as the surname Cowell. Spelling variations include: Coull, Coul, Cowill, Cowell, Cull, Cowles, Cowl, Cowle. According to research, the origin of the name Cowell is Scottish. The Cowell Coat of Arms contains a silver shield with a red lion, and three red spur rowels in chief. The Crest is a hand holding a book. The family motto is Cole Deum, this means Worship God
What does my surname mean?. If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of years ago.
Origin of the name [edit]. Cowell is a surname of English origin. It is a habitational name from several places in the counties of Lancashire and Gloucestershire called Cowhill, composed the Old English cu (cow) + hyll (hill). In some instances the surname Cowell may also be an Americanized form of the Polish, Jewish and Sorbian name Kowal. It could also be an anglicisation of a Scots Gaelic surname or from the Irish name McCawell
Cowell is a baby boy name of irregular use. It is ranked outside of the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Cowell include Kel, Kele, Kell, Kelle, Cael, Cail, Caile, Cal, Cale, Calle, Cayl, Cayle, Cayll, Clai, Clay, Claye, Cli, Cloi, Cloy, and Cloye. The place names are themselves of the Old English elements 'cu' and 'hyll'; therefore their meaning is 'cow hill' in reference to a hill where cows are kept and raised. Cowell's language of origin is Celtic.
Cowell /ˈkaʊəl/ is a surname with multiple origins. It is a habitational name from several places in the counties of Lancashire and Gloucestershire called Cowhill, composed the Old English cu (cow) + hyll (hill). In some instances the surname Cowell may also be an Americanized form of the Polish, Jewish and Sorbian name Kowal.