Totalitarianism is a system in which the state controls everything, including the political, economic matters. Moreover, it even controls the beliefs and values of the society and also interferes in the private life of individuals. In Communism, one cannot come across such controls.
It is filthy, it is gross, it is alienating … because it causes war, hypocrisy and competition.” What is most curious in this quote is the apparent innocence with which a famous socialist dictator uses the term hypocrisy, as if the socialist alternative to capitalism were anything but hypocrisy.
The definition of hypocrisy given by the Merriam-Webster online dictionary is, “a feigning to be what one is not or to believe what one does not; especially: the false assumption of an appearance of virtue or religion.” It is worth pointing out that anti-capitalism is latter-day religion with many attending sects.
This theory is known famously as “Marx’s theory of history” (Shaw, 1978). It is considered by Marxist thinkers that communism is the ultimate end for politics and each country will go through a number of stages in order to reach it.
Some people may link communism to totalitarianism but the fact is that they two are different in every aspect. Totalitarianism is a term that means total control. But in communism there is no total control. While the society is all-powerful in communism, it is the state that is powerful in Totalitarianism. In Totalitarianism, the state controls everything and there is no value for an individual’s thoughts or opinions. On the other hand, Communism is a political ideology that believes in a stateless or class less society.
The “Communist Manifesto”, despite the title, was not a programme for government: it was a programme for gaining power, or rather for watching knowledgeably as power fell into one's hands. That is, it was a commentary on the defects and dynamics of capitalism. Nowhere in the “Manifesto”, or anywhere else in his writings, did Marx take the trouble to describe how the communism he predicted and advocated would actually work.