I left out ground turkey to thaw in the fridge a wk ago, but I'm going to use it tonight. I took it out of the freezer and put it in the fridge to thaw out cuz I planned on using it a week ago, but never did. It is still in the fridge. I am planning on using it tonight. A week in the fridge for ground turkey is about 5 days too many! Don't even smell it (that can be deceiving!). Just pitch it. Turkey, especially ground turkey, is highly perishable. Don't use it!!
1 Allow 1 pound of turkey per person. 2  Buy your turkey only 1 to 2 days before you plan to cook it. 3  Keep it stored in the refrigerator until you're ready to cook it. 4  Place it on a tray or in a pan to catch any juices that may leak. Frozen Turkeys. 1  Allow 1 pound of turkey per person. 2  Keep frozen until you're ready to thaw it. 3  Turkeys can be kept frozen in the freezer indefinitely; however, cook within 1 year for best quality.
You can cook from frozen in a pressure cooker and it only adds about 5 minutes per half kilo of meat to the cooking time. Also, cooking a turkey to 82C (180F) is far too high a temperature, you'll just dry the meat to the point of inedibility. It will thaw about an inch of meat about every 10 minutes. The trick is that you want the littlest water possible, but enough to wash over the majority of the bag. It will thaw your meat very quickly without having to microwave it or trying to cook a frozen piece of meat.
On the other hand, if you’re planning to thaw the turkey in cold water (see here for details on how to do this), the USDA advises that you cook it immediately. The same goes for a turkey that you’re planning to defrost in the microwave. That’s because with either of those methods, the turkey could at least temporarily warm up to a temperature higher than 40°F. At that point, harmful bacteria can begin to multiply rapidly and prompt cooking is required to destroy it. Question: I’m defrosting a turkey for Thanksgiving dinner. Once it is completely thawed, how long can I safely keep the thawed turkey in the fridge before cooking it?
Answer: If you thawed the chicken in the refrigerator, you don't have to cook it right away. Poultry that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional one to two days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Ground meat goes south quickly and ground chicken and turkey go even faster. A week is a long time for meat to be in the fridge. To see if it is still good, all you have to do is open the package. If it is bad, it will smell horrible, there won't be any question about it. A week in the fridge for ground turkey is about 5 days too many! Don't even smell it (that can be deceiving!). Just pitch it. Turkey, especially ground turkey, is highly perishable. Don't use it!!
If you’re defrosting the turkey in the fridge, you can safely keep it refrigerated for an additional one or two days after it’s fully thawed, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Question: I’m defrosting a turkey for Thanksgiving dinner. Once it is completely thawed, how long can I safely keep the thawed turkey in the fridge before cooking it?
A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for 1 or 2 days before cooking. Foods thawed in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking but there may be some loss of quality. Cold Water Thawing Times. 1  4 to 12 pounds — 2 to 6 hours. 2  12 to 16 pounds — 6 to 8 hours. 3  16 to 20 pounds — 8 to 10 hours. There are two methods to thaw a frozen turkey: Refrigerator Thawing. 1  Plan ahead: allow approximately 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds in a refrigerator set at 40 °F or below. 2  Place the turkey in a container to prevent the juices from dripping on other foods.