Ascending tracts conduct impulses up the spinal cord to the brain; descending tracts conduct impulses down the cord from the brain. The four major ascending tracts are the lateral spinothalamic, the ventral spinothalamic, the fasciculi gracilis and cuneatus, and the spinocerebellar. any one of the ascending (sensory) and descending (motor) pathways for sensory or motor nerve impulses that is found in the white matter of the spinal cord.
spinal tract, any one of the ascending (sensory) and descending (motor) pathways for sensory or motor nerve impulses that is found in the white matter of the spinal cord. Twenty-one different tracts lie within the dorsal, ventral, and lateral funiculi of the white substance.
Abstract. The white matter of the spinal cord is made up of the long ascending and descending spinal pathways to and from the brain and the spinal cord, and the spinal propriospinal pathways. Ascending pathways in the dorsal funiculus are the gracile and cuneate fasciculi, and the postsynaptic dorsal column pathway. Axons of the sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia enter the spinal cord white matter and ascend ipsilaterally in the dorsal column to terminate on the gracile and cuneate nuclei. These constitute the direct dorsal column pathways (the gracile and cuneate fasciculi).
Damage to the anterior and lateral spinothalamic tracts will cause a loss of pain and temperature sensation. In contrast to DCML lesions, this sensory loss will be contralateral (the spinothalamic tracts decussate within the spinal cord). Accompanying these types of lesions is Injury to the descending motor tracts. This will cause muscle weakness or paralysis, and usually masks the loss of muscle co-ordination.
The spinal cord is the most important structure between the body and the brain. The spinal cord extends from the foramen magnum where it is continuous with the medulla to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebrae. It is a vital link between the brain and the body, and from the body to the brain. The spinal cord is 40 to 50 cm long and 1 cm to 1.5 cm in diameter. Two consecutive rows of nerve roots emerge on each of its sides. These nerve roots join distally to form 31 pairs of spinal nerves. 
However, the spinocerebellar pathways are unlikely to be damaged in isolation. Accompanying these types of lesions is Injury to the descending motor tracts. This will cause muscle weakness or paralysis, and usually masks the loss of muscle co-ordination.
The spinocerebellar tract is a set of axonal fibers originating in the spinal cord and terminating in the ipsilateral cerebellum. This tract conveys information to the cerebellum about limb and joint position (proprioception). 
The ventral spinocerebellar tract is located immediately ventral to the dorsal spinocerebellar tract in the lateral funiculus. It arises mainly from neurons in the contralateral side of the lower thoracic, lumbar and more caudal segments of the spinal cord. Axons of the sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia enter the spinal cord white matter and ascend ipsilaterally in the dorsal column to terminate on the gracile and cuneate nuclei. These constitute the direct dorsal column pathways (the gracile and cuneate fasciculi).