Aspiring workers often ask questions like, “What qualifications do I need to earn hiring consideration at Starbucks?”, “What age does Starbucks hire?”, and “Does Starbucks hire 16 year olds?” Fortunately for young job hopefuls, the specialty coffee retailer sets the minimum employment age at sixteen years old. It looks like you must be at least 16 to work at Starbucks in Florida. Lili, Starbucks will not hire you at 13. Check the child labor laws for your state to see what kinds of jobs you are eligible to work.
RE: How do I apply for a job at HMV? I am a 15 year old girl, nearly 16 and want to apply for a job at HMV. Currently on the website, there are no vacancies in the West End of London for Weekend Sales Assistant (which is the position I want to apply for). There is a HMV store in my area, which I as thinking of inquiring at in person. Being so...
Reply. It looks like you must be at least 16 to work at Starbucks in Florida. Lili, Starbucks will not hire you at 13. Check the child labor laws for your state to see what kinds of jobs you are eligible to work.
What Jobs Hire at 15. In the US, teenagers are willing to work from relatively younger ages of 13 to 15 years. Obviously, jobs that hire at 15 are not very high paying and they're peanuts when observed from an adult's perspective. However, for teenagers who're 15 years old, even a small amount of money is a great financial boost to their limited weekly or monthly allowances. At 15 years of age, however, there are not many options to work, as government has placed stringent rules on child labor. Nonetheless, there are various jobs that hire teenagers who're aged 15 years. List of Jobs That Hire 15 Year Olds.
I know someone who just got a job in HMV, they were 17 but HMV did say that you could be 16, if you tell your supervisor that you are going to be on the tills, then it is alright for you to sell 18+ products. ^So it would be HMV=16+ and Virgin=16+. AK48. 
What job hires 15 year olds in the state of Mississippi? If you are 15 years of age and looking for a job, you need to look  for side jobs from family and/or friends of family members. Most  places of business will only hire you i … f you are 16 years of age,  mainly because there are so many labor laws for minors. 1 person found this useful.
Jobs for 14, 15 and 16 year old at Chick-fil-A. 14 year old teens are allowed to work in the outlet, limited on times of days, hours per day and week. 
The minimum age is 21 although under age 25 drivers will be subject to a surcharge payable on collection (see below). If you choose our Young Driver's Package with Alamo or National then up to 3 drivers age 21-24 can drive the car with no additional charges on collection. If you are age 21-24 then you can save money on the young drivers surcharge. Doing this, you can have up to 3 drivers age 21-24 plus additional drivers age 25 and over (up to a total of 4 drivers maximum). There will then be no additional surcharges for the young drivers on collection of the car.