DTaP is approved for children under age 7. Tdap, which has a reduced dose of the diphtheria and pertussis vaccines, is approved for adolescents starting at age 11 and adults ages 19 to 64. It is often called a booster dose because it boosts the immunity that wanes from vaccines given at ages 4 to 6. But since immunity to pertussis also wears off during childhood, a weaker form of the pertussis vaccine has been added to the booster to make the vaccine Tdap. The current recommendation is that one dose of the Tdap vaccine be substituted for one dose of the Td vaccine between the ages of 11 and 64.
In the Netherlands, pertussis is known as kinkhoest and DKTP refers to a combination vaccine against diphtheria, pertussis/kinkhoest, tetanus, and polio. The usual course of childhood immunization in the USA is five doses between 2 months and 15 years. DTaP (also DTPa and TDaP) is a combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis, in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. This is in contrast to whole-cell, inactivated DTP (aka DTwP).
The DTaP vaccine is for children (usually infants) under 7 to inoculate them against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whooping cough). Tdap is the booster shot given at age 11 and then throughout life after roughly every 10 years to ensure continued immunity through adolescence and adulthood. Children should receive 5 doses of DTaP: one at 2 months, one at 4 months, one at 6 months, one between 15 and 18 months, and one between 4 and 6 years. As immunity fades over time, adults are advised to get a booster every 10 years.
The DTaP vaccine is a vaccination given against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whooping cough). This vaccine is part of the scheduled vaccines for children up to the age of seven. The Td (tetanus-diphtheria) and Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis) are vaccines for similar protection given to adolescents and adults. DTaP is a combination immunizing agent containing diphtheria toxoid (the childrens dose), tetanus toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine. The vaccine, in a series of five doses, is administered by intramuscular (IM) injection to protect children from diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis infections.
DTaP is vaccine given to prevent infection with the bacteria that cause diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis infections. The vaccine is approved for use in children up to the age of seven. DTaP stands for diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine. A similar vaccine (known as Tdap) is available for adolescents and adults.
In this article. DTaP is a vaccine that helps children younger than age 7 develop immunity to three deadly diseases caused by bacteria: diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough (pertussis). Tdap is a booster immunization given at age 11 that offers continued protection from those diseases for adolescents and adults. But since immunity to pertussis also wears off during childhood, a weaker form of the pertussis vaccine has been added to the booster to make the vaccine Tdap. The current recommendation is that one dose of the Tdap vaccine be substituted for one dose of the Td vaccine between the ages of 11 and 64.
DTaP/IPV/Hib is a 5-in-1 vaccine that is given to babies to develop immunity to five potentially deadly diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough (pertussis), polio and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). DTaP/IPV (4-in-1) is a pre-school booster immunisation given to toddlers. At about 12 – 13 months, a combined Hib and meningitis C vaccine is given. DTaP/IPV, which has a reduced dose of the diphtheria, pertussis and polio vaccines, is given to children at about three years. Td/IPV is given to adolescents between the ages of 13 and 18.
A vaccine called Tdap is similar to DTaP. A single dose of Tdap is recommended for people 11 through 64 years of age. Another vaccine, called Td, protects against tetanus and diphtheria, but not pertussis. It is recommended every 10 years. There are separate Vaccine Information Statements for these vaccines. 
The Tdap vaccine is currently recommended by the CDC and covers tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (CDC Vaccines, 2013). In the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France, the abbreviation DTP refers to a combination vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and poliomyelitis. DTaP (also DTPa and TDaP) is a combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis, in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. This is in contrast to whole-cell, inactivated DTP (aka DTwP).