1 Possums have semi-prehensile tails. 2  Possums cannot actually hang by their tails, but the tail is useful for helping them balance, curling around thin branches or even telephone cables as the possum moves brtween trees, poles and houses. 3  Possums have an opposable first toe on each hind foot which assists in climbing. The predators of true possums, which live in Australia, are eagles, hawks, owls and quolls. Foxes, which have been introduced to Australia, are also predators of possums. Po … ssums should not be confused with opossums, which live in North America, and are not related to possums. + 27 others found this useful.
Overview of Physical and Behavioral Adaptations: Adaptations are any behavioral or physical characteristics of an animal that help it to survive in its environment. These characteristics fall into three main categories: body parts, body coverings, and behaviors. Any or all of these types of adaptations play a critical role in the survival of an animal. 
Behavior. The Virginia opossum has many behavioral adaptations it uses to survive. When threatened, it will exhibit behaviors like running, growling, belching, urinating and even defecating. Sometimes it will play 'possum. and roll over, become stiff, drool, and its breathing will become slow and shallow. 
Adaptations-When opossums are attacked, they will play possum, pretending that they are dead; they remain still, do not blink, and their tongue hangs out. This act often makes the attacker lose interest in the opossum. Interesting Facts 1  : The opossum's tail grabs and holds. During winter-Opossums do not hibernate, but will look for shelter in really bad the winter weather. Anatomy-The opossum is the size of a cat, about 2, 1/2 feet long, including its foot-long, hairless tail. It has a clawless, opposable thumb on each hind foot. The young are about the size of a bee when they are born.
Behavioural adaptations of a possum include: Structural adaptations of a possum include: 1  They nest in hollows in trees, enabling them to stay clear of predators. 2  When habitat is cleared, they adapt quickly and easily, moving into the roof space in houses, or any other available space such as dog kennels or fireplaces. The predators of true possums, which live in Australia, are eagles, hawks, owls and quolls. Foxes, which have been introduced to Australia, are also predators of possums. Po … ssums should not be confused with opossums, which live in North America, and are not related to possums. + 27 others found this useful.
Behavioural adaptations of a ringtail possum include: 1  They nest in hollows in trees, enabling them to stay clear of predators. 2  When habitat is cleared, they adapt quickly and easily, moving into the roof space in houses, or any other available space such as dog kennels or fireplaces. 1
All organisms have adaptations that help them survive and thrive. Some adaptations are structural. Structural adaptations are physical features of an organism, like the bill on a bird or the fur on a bear. Other adaptations are behavioral. Behavioral adaptations are the things organisms do to survive. For example, bird calls and migration are behavioral adaptations
Here are two special Adaptions that the possums have: 1. Possums have very long tails which are almost as long as their body and they use their tails to grip onto branches so that if they fall they will hang off the branch. 2. Some special types of possums are immune to snake venom. 