Weighted Average Method Overview. The weighted average method is used to assign the average cost of production to a product. Weighted average costing is commonly used in situations where: 1  Inventory items are so intermingled that it is impossible to assign a specific cost to an individual unit. 2  The accounting system is not sufficiently sophisticated to track FIFO or LIFO inventory layers.
The main difference between weighted average cost accounting, LIFO, and FIFO methods of accounting is the difference in which each method calculates inventory and cost of goods sold. The weighted average cost method uses the average of the costs of the goods to assign costs. In other words, weighted average uses the formula: Total cost of items in inventory available for sale divided by total number of units available for sale. In contrast, FIFO (first in, first out) accounting means that the costs assigned to goods are the costs for the first goods bought. 
Instead, the weighted average method of costing inventory assigns an average cost to each piece of inventory when it is sold. When unit of inventory is sold, the weighted average method of costing inventory takes the average cost of all inventories currently available. This average price is then assigned to the item sold. Since inventory prices fluctuate, the weighted average cost will also change. Think about it this way.
When using the weighted average method, divide the cost of goods available for sale by the number of units available for sale, which yields the weighted-average cost per unit. In this calculation, the cost of goods available for sale is the sum of beginning inventory and net purchases. You then use this weighted-average figure to assign a cost to both ending inventory and the cost of goods sold. The net result of using weighted average costing is that the recorded amount of inventory on hand represents a value somewhere between the oldest and newest units purchased into stock. Weighted average costing is commonly used in situations where: 1  Inventory items are so intermingled that it is impossible to assign a specific cost to an individual unit. 2  The accounting system is not sufficiently sophisticated to track FIFO or LIFO inventory layers.
The weighted average method is an inventory costing method that assigns average costs to each piece of inventory when it is sold during the year. Retailers and other businesses that keep and sell inventory must keep track of the cost of inventory on hand as well as the cost of inventory that was sold. When unit of inventory is sold, the weighted average method of costing inventory takes the average cost of all inventories currently available. This average price is then assigned to the item sold. Since inventory prices fluctuate, the weighted average cost will also change. Think about it this way.
Average costing method in periodic inventory system: When average costing method is used in a periodic inventory system, the cost of goods sold and the cost of ending inventory is computed using weighted average unit cost. Weighted average unit cost is computed using the following formula : Average costing method in perpetual inventory system: When average costing method is used in a perpetual inventory system, an average unit cost figure is computed each time a purchase is made. This average unit cost figure is then used to assign cost to each unit sold until a new
Average Cost (AVCO) Method. Average cost method (AVCO) calculates the cost of ending inventory and cost of goods sold for a period on the basis of weighted average cost per unit of inventory. Weighted average cost per unit is calculated using the following formula: It is then multiplied with number of units sold and number of units in ending inventory to arrive at cost of goods sold and value of ending inventory respectively. In perpetual inventory system, we have to calculate the weighted average cost per unit before each sale transaction.
Like FIFO and LIFO methods, AVCO is also applied differently in periodic inventory system and perpetual inventory system. In periodic inventory system, weighted average cost per unit is calculated for the entire class of inventory. It is then multiplied with number of units sold and number of units in ending inventory to arrive at cost of goods sold and value of ending inventory respectively. In perpetual inventory system, we have to calculate the weighted average cost per unit before each sale transaction.
Under the 'Average Cost Method', it is assumed that the cost of inventory is based on the average cost of the goods available for sale during the period. Weighted Average Cost is a method of calculating Ending Inventory cost. It is also known as WAVCOs. It takes Cost of Goods Available for Sale and divides it by the number of units available for sale (number of goods from Beginning Inventory + Purchases /production). This gives a Weighted Average Cost per Unit. A physical count is then performed on the ending inventory to determine the number of goods left