SOBERLINK is also convenient for the user to carry. The device is very similar in size and appearance as the PBT device that officers give a user on the side of the road. Or you could say it’s the size of a typical smart phone. – A SCRAM tether will cost the user approximately $15.00 per day. – Testing through JAMS will cost approximately $4.00 per test. – SOBERLINK is just under $10.00. Requesting the use of the SOBERLINK device will appease the court’s testing conditions and offer the user more convenience than the tether or PBT testing.
The SOBERLINK combines breath alcohol testing technology with a cellular phone that sends breath alcohol test results directly to a cloud-based website for a probation department to review. – A SCRAM tether will cost the user approximately $15.00 per day. – Testing through JAMS will cost approximately $4.00 per test. – SOBERLINK is just under $10.00. Requesting the use of the SOBERLINK device will appease the court’s testing conditions and offer the user more convenience than the tether or PBT testing.
The real-time photo and breath alcohol results are wirelessly transmitted on Verizon’s Private Network to SOBERLINK’s monitoring website. Real-time alerts can be set up for contacts to be notified when signs of a relapse occur, such as a missed or positive test. No phone lines or base station required -. Utilizes Cell to transmit all data collected. SL2 Features: 1  Handheld, discreet, user-friendly. 2  High-resolution camera for user verification. 3  DOT grade fuel cell. 4  GPS location.
Devices like SOBERLINK or an IN-HOM monitoring device are portable alcohol monitoring devices. They are commonly court-ordered as an alternative to the ignition interlock; this is frequently done for offenders who don’t drive or don’t own vehicles. Interlock Device. The point of an ignition interlock device is to prevent your vehicle from starting if you have alcohol on your breath. The device is a computer that is connected to your vehicle’s ignition with a breath test machine attached to it.
Improve outcomes with mobile monitoring. Studies show that consistent alcohol monitoring dramatically improves recovery success rates. Whereas most alcohol testing methods can be inconvenient and inaccurate, SOBERLINK ’s mobile monitoring is a practical and reliable solution. The ability to remotely monitor an individual’s breath alcohol concentration (BrAC) from anywhere and in real-time sets a new standard in treatment. My prediction is that SOBERLINK will soon replace all other forms of alcohol monitoring.” - Dr. Gregory Skipper, Director of Professionals Health Services, Promises Treatment Centers “SOBERLINK has been one of our core tools at O’Connor Professional Group.
What We Do. SOBERLINK develops leading edge technology to streamline the remote alcohol monitoring process, creating a reliable and automated tool for the monitoring party, as well as a discreet and non-invasive device for the end-user. What Our Technology Does. The SOBERLINK device is patented under U.S. Patent Number 8,381,573 and uses a professional grade Dart fuel cell sensor to obtain a breath alcohol content (BrAC) reading from the user’s breath. About Our Cellular Performance. After a rigorous testing process, SOBERLINK was approved as an authorized Verizon Partner. SOBERLINK uses the Verizon Wireless network to ensure the wireless capability of the SOBERLINK device is not compromised by network coverage.
The USPTO has given the SOBERLINK trademark serial number of 85127408. The current federal status of this trademark filing is REGISTERED. The correspondent listed for SOBERLINK is John Tehranian of One LLP, 4000 MacArthur Blvd., W.Tower, Ste. 1100, Newport Beach CA 92660. The SOBERLINK trademark is filed in the category of Medical Instrument Products. LegalForce Network can help you incorporate a business around your SOBERLINK trademark in less than 5 minutes. Trademarkia makes the process easy and convenient, so start now! Trademarkia.com is a free search engine of publicly available government records.
Soberlink. Today’s active life styles require portable solutions. Soberlink SL2 is an innovative, handheld, cellular testing device for secure portable alcohol monitoring. This one-piece device transmits breath test results and client violations in real-time, making it more efficient and effective than other devices in the market. Soberlink takes a picture of the participant during the breath test to verify identity. The BAC result, real-time photo and GPS location is instantly transmitted from the device to the secure web portal for supervision to review
The SOBERLINK device is patented under U.S. Patent Number 8,381,573 and uses a professional grade Dart fuel cell sensor to obtain a blood alcohol content (BrAC) reading from the user’s breath. The device has an embedded high resolution camera for user verification and a GPS antenna to acquire current location. No phone lines or base station required -. Utilizes Cell to transmit all data collected. SL2 Features: 1  Handheld, discreet, user-friendly. 2  High-resolution camera for user verification. 3  DOT grade fuel cell. 4  GPS location.