Leukopenia (also known as leukocytopenia or leucopenia, from Greek λευκός white and πενία deficiency) is a decrease in the number of white blood cells (leukocytes) found in the blood, which places individuals at increased risk of infection. HIV and AIDS are also a threat to white cells. Other causes of low white blood cell count include systemic lupus erythematosus, Hodgkin's lymphoma, some types of cancer, typhoid, malaria, tuberculosis, dengue, rickettsial infections, enlargement of the spleen, folate deficiencies, psittacosis, sepsis and Lyme disease.
White blood cells, or WBC, are produced in the bone marrow and are the disease-fighting cells of the body. According to MedLinePlus, a low WBC count, also called leukopenia or neutropenia, is when the concentration of white blood cells in the body are less than 4,500 cells per microliter of blood. 
When someone's white blood cell count is low, his immune system isn't as strong as usual and he's at increased risk of infection, a condition known as neutropenia. The lower his white blood cell count is -- and the longer it stays low -- the higher the risk that he'll get sick or contract some type of infection. (Normal white blood cell counts range from 4,500 to 11,000 WBCs per cubic millimeter of blood. For more information, see understanding low white blood cell counts. Medications called growth factors can be used preventively before chemotherapy to boost white blood cell count, and they can also be used to increase production of white blood cells when levels drop too low. They contain cytokines, a type of protein, that stimulate the bone marrow to produce more white blood cells.
When your white blood cell count is lower than what's considered normal, you suffer from a condition known as leucopenia, which weakens your body's ability to fight infection. According to a SteadyHealth.com article, the normal level for white blood cells is between 4,300 and 10,000 per cubic millimeter of blood. Sometimes when managing a patient's low blood cell count due to cancer treatments, doctors order an injection treatment or one given intravenously (IV). Treatments such as these involve particular proteins that can enable the blood marrow to produce more white blood cells, as well as red blood cells or platelets.
LOW WHITE BLOOD CELL COUNT (low WBC). Leukopenia-A decrease in the total number of white blood cells, which may lead to low white blood cell count. Neutropenia-A decrease in the number of neutrophils, which may lead to low white blood count. Granulocytopenia-Some people use this term in place of Neutropenia. Low Blood Counts. Includes: Low red blood cell count, Low white blood cell count, Low platelet count, Infection-prevention guidelines for immunosuppressed patients. Other words you may hear: 1  Myelosuppression-a decrease in the production of blood cells, which may lead to low blood count.
1 Leukopenia-a decrease in the total number of white blood cells (WBC), which may lead to low white blood cell count. 2  Neutropenia-a decrease in the number of neutrophils, one type of white blood cell, which may lead to low white blood cell count. Low Blood Counts. Includes: Low red blood cell count, Low white blood cell count, Low platelet count, Infection-prevention guidelines for immunosuppressed patients. Other words you may hear: 1  Myelosuppression-a decrease in the production of blood cells, which may lead to low blood count.
When checking your blood cell count, your doctor is looking at the numbers and types of: 1  White blood cells. 2  These cells help your body fight infection. 3  A low white blood cell count (leukopenia) leaves your body more open to infection. 4  And if an infection does develop, your body may be unable to fight it off. Your doctor may monitor your blood cell counts carefully during your cancer treatment. There's a good reason you're having your blood drawn so often — low blood cell counts put you at risk of serious complications.
Neutropenia, a subtype of leukopenia, refers to a decrease in the number of circulating neutrophil granulocytes, the most abundant white blood cells. The terms leukopenia and neutropenia may occasionally be used interchangeably, as the neutrophil count is the most important indicator of infection risk. HIV and AIDS are also a threat to white cells. Other causes of low white blood cell count include systemic lupus erythematosus, Hodgkin's lymphoma, some types of cancer, typhoid, malaria, tuberculosis, dengue, rickettsial infections, enlargement of the spleen, folate deficiencies, psittacosis, sepsis and Lyme disease.
A low white blood cell (WBC) count is a decreased number of white blood cells (leukocytes) in the blood. A low WBC count is referred to medically as leukopenia. A low WBC count is often linked to problems with the bone marrow and the inability to make enough white blood cells. Autoimmune diseases that attack your white blood cells can also lead to a low WBC count. Several different prescribed drugs, including chemotherapy, are known to decrease WBC production or destroy WBCs.