Yours freezingly, Ice sculpture on the 2 nd floor, Maughan Library First World War and in both the Boer Wars. Dear Ice,Sir Ian was You’re right, the temperature in the Maughan can be variable, but this is something that we are aware of and are looking into solutions for. Franklin-Wilkins Library A new ‘Silent Study’ room has opened on Level 1. Following user request, laptops can be used in this room. Six new Wireless Access Points have been installed at FWB, with more scheduled to follow. New Hunt’s House Eight new Wireless Access Points have been installed.
The surname Maughan is recorded in a number of spellings including Machan, Maughan, Maun, Mawne, Meighan, Meighen, Meegen, Meugens, Mineen, Mohan, Mahan, Moan and probably oth … ers. However spelt, it can be Scottish, English, Irish, Welsh, or even Dutch-German. If Scottish it is of medieval origin, and a locational name from Machan, an old parish in the county of Lanarkshire. If Irish, it is a form of the Old Gaelic O' Mochain. This is from moch meaning early or timely. If Welsh it is a locational name from places called St. Maughan or Machen, in the former county of Monmouthshire
Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
[ 2 syll. mau -(g) han, ma-ugh-an ] The baby girl name Maughan is pronounced as M AO GAHN †. Maughan is derived from Celtic origins. Maughan is a variant of the name Morgan (English and Welsh). Maughan is also a variant of the name Morgana (English). Maughan is infrequently used as a baby name for girls. It is listed outside of the top 1000 names. In 2012, among the group of girl names directly linked to Maughan, Morgan was the most regularly used.
Maugham's father, Robert Ormond Maugham, was a lawyer who handled the legal affairs of the British embassy in Paris. Since French law declared that all children born on French soil could be conscripted for military service, his father arranged for Maugham to be born at the embassy, technically on British soil. In June 1917, Maugham was asked by Sir William Wiseman, an officer of the British Secret Intelligence Service (later named MI6), to undertake a special mission in Russia. It was part of an attempt to keep the Provisional Government in power and Russia in the war by countering German pacifist propaganda.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
depends.......most say on-ya like on as in on the table and ya as in well...ya i guess. you can pronounce it differently i assume   YES MY NAME IS ANYA AND IT BOTHE … RS ME DEEPLY WHEN PEOPLE SAY MY NAME WRONG. However spelt, it can be Scottish, English, Irish, Welsh, or even Dutch-German. If Scottish it is of medieval origin, and a locational name from Machan, an old parish in the county of Lanarkshire. If Irish, it is a form of the Old Gaelic O' Mochain. This is from moch meaning early or timely.
Baby names that sound like Meonenim include Meonenime, Macan, Maegan (English), Magan (English), Magen (English), Maiken (Scandinavian, Frisian, and German), Maison, Makin, Makine, Mannon, Mason, Maughan, Maxeen, Maxime, Maxine (English and German), Maxyn, Maxyne, Maygan, Mayghan (English), and Mayson. [ syll. meo-ne-nim, me-onen-im ] The baby girl name Meonenim is pronounced MW-N EH NAHM †. Meonenim is of Hebrew origin. Meonenim is of the meaning 'a soothsayer; one who foretells events'. Forms of Meonenim include the names Meonenima, Meonenime, and Meonenimia. Meonenim is not widely used as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names