1 Heavy alcohol consumption is a common cause of peripheral neuropathy. 2  Damage to the nerves associated with long-term alcohol abuse may not be reversible when a person stops drinking alcohol, however, doing so may provide some symptom relief and prevent further damage.
...The meds in Atripla have a low rate of peripheral neuropathy associated with them so my confidence that the neuropathy will reverse if switched around is not high but it can happen.
All Neuropathy is damage to the nerves. Peripheral neuropathy is when the nerve damage in the peripheral nerves and not the central nervous sysstem. Neuropathy is caused by the breakdown of the myelin sheath around
Effective prognosis and treatment of peripheral neuropathy relies heavily on the cause of the nerve damage. For example, a peripheral neuropathy caused by a vitamin deficiency can be treated -- even reversed -- with vitamin therapy and an improved diet. Likewise, nerve damage brought on by alcohol abuse can often be stopped and improved by avoiding alcohol.
Peripheral nerves send sensory information back to the brain and spinal cord, such as a message that the feet are cold. Peripheral nerves also carry signals from the brain and spinal cord to the muscles to generate movement. Damage to the peripheral nervous system interferes with these vital connections.
Peripheral neuropathy affects the nerves in your toes, feet, legs, hands, and arms. Peripheral neuropathy may also cause muscle weakness and loss of reflexes, especially at the ankle, leading to changes in the way a person walks. Foot deformities, such as hammertoes and the collapse of the midfoot, may occur.
I have what is called Peripheral Neuropathy.....but I do fall under the typical causes of Peripheral Neuropathy. What I have is Idiopathic Neuropathy, (In some cases, however, even with extensive evaluation, the cause of a person's Peripheral Neuropathy remains unknown-this is called Idiopathic Neuropathy).
Neuropathy is a condition of the nerves that causes numbness, tingling, pain or pins and needles sensations in the hands, feet, arms or legs. It occurs differently for differe … nt people, but is always caused by nerve damage of some sort. All Neuropathy is caused by damage to the nerves.
Reversing Alcoholic Peripheral Neuropathy is Possible. Peripheral neuropathy caused by long-term alcohol abuse is a horrible form of suffering for those who must endure it. The pain, numbness, and weakness in the affected areas can be debilitating and severely lower a person’s quality of life.