View north to Washington State, from Rocky Butte, Oregon. Mount St. Helens, the Columbia River, Government Island (running through center of image), and the Interstate 205 Bridge are all in this view looking north from Rocky Butte. Columbia River and Government Island complex, looking upstream, as seen from Rocky Butte. View of the Columbia River, with Government Island (left on river) and McGuire Island (center of river). McGuire Island is part of the Government Island complex. Image taken June 15, 2005.
The downstream tip of Government Island (downstream of the Interstate 205 Bridge) is Lemon Island, and two smaller islands are on the north side of Lemon Island. The larger (0.8-miles in length) is referred to as Tri-Club Island, and the smaller is unnamed. Columbia River and Government Island complex, looking upstream, as seen from Rocky Butte. View of the Columbia River, with Government Island (left on river) and McGuire Island (center of river). McGuire Island is part of the Government Island complex. Image taken June 15, 2005.
Vancouver Island is separated from mainland British Columbia by the Strait of Georgia and Queen Charlotte Strait, and from Washington by the Juan De Fuca Strait. Vancouver Island, located in British Columbia, Canada, is the largest Pacific island east of New Zealand. While the city of Vancouver stands on the North American mainland, Victoria, the capital city of British Columbia, is located on the island. Along with most of the southern Gulf Islands, plus various minor islands offshore from its southern end, the southern part of Vancouver Island is the only part of British Columbia (and of Western Canada) that lies south of the 49th Parallel.
Three miles downstream lies Hayden Island and just upstream is Lady Island. Government Island lies between the Portland International Airport on the Oregon shore and Vancouver, Washington, on the northern shore. The Interstate 205 bridge crosses Government Island and connects the two shores. Columbia River and Government Island complex, looking upstream, as seen from Rocky Butte. View of the Columbia River, with Government Island (left on river) and McGuire Island (center of river). McGuire Island is part of the Government Island complex. Image taken June 15, 2005.
Government Island, a historic 18th and 19th century quarry site provided Aquia sandstone for the construction of the U.S. Capitol and the White House and other historic buildings in Washington, D.C. Today this 17-acre park is a historic scenic nature preserve and archaeological site. Located in the middle of Stafford I-95 exit 140, Visit the quarry where the U.S. Government's most famous buildings were born.
Most of the island is owned by the Port of Portland. The Port acquired the entire island (as well as adjacent Lemon Island and McGuire Island) in 1969 in order to expand nearby Portland International Airport. (Although there is a city controlled locked gate in the 205 fence.) Government Island is known for its great blue heron colony and the Government Island State Recreation Area (primitive camping, beaches).
Map of Government Island. Government Island is a 1,760-acre (7 km 2) island in the Columbia River north of Portland, in Multnomah County, in the U.S. state of Oregon. Though Interstate 205 passes over it on the Glenn L. Jackson Memorial Bridge, access to the island is only by boat. (Although there is a city controlled locked gate in the 205 fence.) Government Island is known for its great blue heron colony and the Government Island State Recreation Area (primitive camping, beaches).
Downstream side of the Interstate-205 Bridge as seen from Marine Drive, Oregon. Government Island is to the left and the Oregon banks of the Columbia River are to the right. Mount Hood, Oregon, is in the background. Columbia River and Government Island complex, looking upstream, as seen from Rocky Butte. View of the Columbia River, with Government Island (left on river) and McGuire Island (center of river). McGuire Island is part of the Government Island complex. Image taken June 15, 2005.