Because the number of patients with MPS IVA is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Vimizim was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 24 July 2009. This disease is caused by the lack of an enzyme called N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase, which is needed to break down substances in the body called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). If the enzyme is not present, or only present in very small quantities, GAGs cannot be broken down and they build up in bones and organs.
It is used to treat patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA, also known as Morquio A syndrome). This disease is caused by the lack of an enzyme called N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase, which is needed to break down substances in the body called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). If the enzyme is not present, or only present in very small quantities, GAGs cannot be broken down and they build up in bones and organs.
VIMIZIM is an enzyme replacement treatment for Morquio A syndrome, which affects an estimated 3,000 patients in the developed world. The disease occurs as a result of a deficiency of activity in an enzyme involved in glycosaminoglycan (GAG) metabolism. Until now, patients with Morquio A syndrome didn't have a drug treatment option. This approval provides the community with a therapy and with hope.. Shipments of VIMIZIM to the distribution channels will commence immediately, and BioMarin will begin promotion of VIMIZIM in the U.S. immediately.
A replay of the call will be archived on the site for one week following the call. About VIMIZIM ™. VIMIZIM (elosulfase alfa) is a treatment for patients with Morquio A syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA). VIMIZIM is the first enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) designed to target the underlying cause of Morquio A Syndrome-a deficiency in the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6 sulfatase (GALNS). Until now, patients with Morquio A syndrome didn't have a drug treatment option. This approval provides the community with a therapy and with hope.. Shipments of VIMIZIM to the distribution channels will commence immediately, and BioMarin will begin promotion of VIMIZIM in the U.S. immediately.
It is used to treat patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA, also known as Morquio A syndrome). This disease is caused by the lack of an enzyme called N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase, which is needed to break down substances in the body called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). If the enzyme is not present, or only present in very small quantities, GAGs cannot be broken down and they build up in bones and organs. The most common side effects with Vimizim (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are infusion-related reactions, including headache, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, fever, chills and abdominal pain (stomach ache). These are usually mild or moderate and more frequent in the first 12 weeks of treatment.
WARNING: Life-threatening allergic reactions have occurred in some patients during VIMIZIM TM (elosulfase alfa) infusions and up to 3 hours after infusion. Patients with acute respiratory illness may be at increased risk and require additional monitoring. Patients with acute febrile or respiratory illness at the time of VIMIZIM infusion may be at higher risk of life-threatening complications from hypersensitivity reactions. Careful consideration should be given to the patient’s clinical status prior to administration of VIMIZIM and consider delaying the VIMIZIM infusion.
Vimizim is an enzyme replacement therapy. Enzyme replacement therapy provides patients with the enzyme they are lacking. The active substance in Vimizim, elosulfase alfa, is a copy of the human enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase. The replacement enzyme helps to break down GAGs and stop them building up in cells, thereby improving the symptoms of MPS IVA. The most common side effects with Vimizim (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are infusion-related reactions, including headache, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, fever, chills and abdominal pain (stomach ache). These are usually mild or moderate and more frequent in the first 12 weeks of treatment.
VIMIZIM® (elosulfase alfa) is a treatment for patients with Morquio A syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA). VIMIZIM is the first approved enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) designed to target the underlying cause of Morquio A Syndrome—a deficiency in the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6 sulfatase (GALNS). VIMIZIM is the first treatment in Australia approved for this condition. VIMIZIM was reviewed under the Orphan Drug program. Dr. Kaustuv Bhattacharya from The Children's Hospital at Westmead, who is currently using VIMIZIM on patients in a research trial said, Morquio syndrome is a rare and difficult condition to have.
VIMIZIM should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. It is not known if VIMIZIM is present in human milk. Exercise caution when administering VIMIZIM to a nursing mother. Patients with acute febrile or respiratory illness at the time of VIMIZIM infusion may be at higher risk of life-threatening complications from hypersensitivity reactions. Careful consideration should be given to the patient’s clinical status prior to administration of VIMIZIM and consider delaying the VIMIZIM infusion.