A total of 23 states, the District of Columbia and Guam now allow for comprehensive public medical marijuana and cannabis programs. Recently approved efforts in 14 states allow use of low THC, high cannabidiol (CBD) products for medical reasons in limited situations or as a legal defense. Those programs are not counted as comprehensive medical marijuana programs but are listed as passed in Table 2.
As of November 2010, fourteen states and the District of Columbia have legalized medical marijuana. Those states are Alaska, Colorado, California, Maine,... Despite 23 states legalizing medical marijuana and two states -- Colorado and Washington -- legalizing its recreational use, the drug is still illegal federally as of 2014. On a federal level, marijuana is still labeled a schedule 1 drug
As of April 2015, 23 states and Washington D.C. have legalized cannabis for medical use as voter or legislative driven initiatives bypassing the normal Food and Drug Administration testing for safety and efficacy. Seven states have pending legislation. The State of Washington adopted a law in November 1998 (Initiative 692), legalizing the use, possession, and cultivation of cannabis for patients with a medical certificate. The vote was 59% yes to 41% no.
The 23 states that allow medical marijuana are Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington. Despite 23 states legalizing medical marijuana and two states -- Colorado and Washington -- legalizing its recreational use, the drug is still illegal federally as of 2014. On a federal level, marijuana is still labeled a schedule 1 drug
Medical Marijuana. These states have medical marijuana laws enacted. Modern research suggests that cannabis is a valuable aid in the treatment of a wide range of clinical applications. These include pain relief, nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement disorders. 
Twenty-three states and the District of Columbia currently have laws legalizing marijuana in some form. Four states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana for recreational use. In Alaska, adults 21 and older can now transport, buy or possess up to an ounce of marijuana and six plants.
Medical marijuana is now legal in 20 states and the District of Columbia. Of those states, Washington and Colorado have legalized marijuana for recreational use. Colorado's first retail marijuana stores opened Jan. 1 for sale to people 21 years and older. Under federal law, marijuana is still an illegal drug. Although many states have laws legalizing marijuana usage, it is still illegal under federal law; but the Justice Department said it will not challenge states' marijuana laws as long as they do not run counter to certain federal enforcement priorities, such as selling pot to minors.
In 1996, California voters passed Proposition 215, making the Golden State the first in the union to allow for the medical use of marijuana. Since then, 22 more states, the District of Columbia and Guam have enacted similar laws. Recently approved efforts in 14 states allow use of low THC, high cannabidiol (CBD) products for medical reasons in limited situations or as a legal defense. Those programs are not counted as comprehensive medical marijuana programs but are listed as passed in Table 2.
As views on cannabis (or marijuana) have liberalized, over half of the states have either approved it for medical use, decriminalized it for recreational use, or completely legalized it and approved it for retail sale. 