Lewis said teixobactin kills so quickly that target bacteria will have less time in which to develop resistance. It took about 30 years for bacteria to develop resistance to a similarly acting antibiotic, the study noted. Researchers said any new drug probably would remain effective at least as long. When tricked into growing in a lab, the microbe makes a compound that kills strains of tuberculosis, MRSA and other... Using soil from a grassy field in Maine and a miniaturized diffusion chamber, scientists have cultivated a microbe that could help tame the spread of antibiotic-resistant superbugs.
Teixobactin is an inhibitor of cell wall synthesis that acts primarily by binding to lipid II, a fatty molecule which is a precursor to peptidoglycan. Lipid II is also targeted by the antibiotic vancomycin. Teixobactin was reported to be potent in vitro against all gram-positive bacteria tested, including Staphylococcus aureus and difficult-to-treat enterococci, with Clostridium difficile and Bacillus anthracis being exceptionally vulnerable. It also killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The researchers isolated 25 different antibiotic compounds, of which teixobactin is the most promising. This method has the potential to be a huge advance, and could lead to more possible antibiotic candidates in the future. Another example of an antibiotic which could make it to approval before teixobactin is platensimycin (http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v441/n7091/abs/nature04784.html). That’s also still preclinical, however, which shows how long it can take for a drug to reach clinical use after its discovery.
A A. Teixobactin, a new antibiotic made from dirt, has been found by Northeastern University researchers to kill super bugs previously resistant to other treatments, according to a study published Wednesday in the journal Nature. teixobactin, super, bug, killer, dirt. 374. Thursday, 08 Jan 2015 08:35 AM.
Teixobactin /ˌteɪks.oʊ.ˈbaek.ˈbæk/ tɪn is a small molecule antibiotic that is active against-gram positive. Bacteria it appears to belong to a new class of, antibiotics and harms bacteria by binding to LIPID ii and LIPID, iii important precursor molecules for forming the cell. wall Teixobactin was reported to be potent in vitro against all gram-positive bacteria tested, including Staphylococcus aureus and difficult-to-treat enterococci, with Clostridium difficile and Bacillus anthracis being exceptionally vulnerable. It also killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Date published: DOI: doi:10.1038/nature14098. Inhibition of cell wall synthesis by teixobactin. Lipid II, precursor of peptidoglycan, is synthesized in the cytoplasm and flipped to the surface of the inner membrane by MurJ or FtsW. 
Teixobactin is the first novel antibiotic with drug potential isolated from bacteria in decades, and appears to represent a new class of antibiotics, raising hopes that the new isolation techniques employed could lead to further antibiotic discoveries. Teixobactin was reported to be potent in vitro against all gram-positive bacteria tested, including Staphylococcus aureus and difficult-to-treat enterococci, with Clostridium difficile and Bacillus anthracis being exceptionally vulnerable. It also killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Its discovery was announced in early 2015 in the journal Nature. Teixobactin was discovered using a new method of culturing bacteria in soil, which allowed researchers to grow a previously unculturable bacteria now named Eleftheria terrae, which produces the antibiotic. Teixobactin was reported to be potent in vitro against all gram-positive bacteria tested, including Staphylococcus aureus and difficult-to-treat enterococci, with Clostridium difficile and Bacillus anthracis being exceptionally vulnerable. It also killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Our biggest hope in fighting antibiotic-resistant “superbugs” may have been right under our noses, or rather, right under our feet this whole time. Teixobactin, a new antibiotic found in soil, has been found to destroy all tuberculosis, MRSA, but most importantly, those strains which have built a resistance. In a new study, now published in the journal Nature, researchers explain how they tricked a microbe commonly found in soil into growing in a laboratory.