There are a number of factors that can cause your gums to recede, including: 1  Periodontal diseases. 2  These are bacterial gum infections that destroy gum tissue and supporting bone that hold your teeth in place. 3  Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. Gum recession is a common dental problem. Most people do not know they have gum recession because it occurs gradually. The first sign of gum recession is usually tooth sensitivity, or you may notice a tooth looks longer than normal. Often a notch can be felt at the top of the tooth, just below the gum line.
Receding Gums. Receding gums (or gingival recession, or gum recession) is called the condition when the gum tissue surrounding the teeth is lost or pulled away, exposing the roots of the teeth. Gum recession is not directly linked with age but generally it is a more common condition in adults over the age of 40. The immediate result of receding gums is the exposure of the root and the loss of attachment between the gums and the tooth. 1  Tooth decay. 2  The root of the tooth is covered by cementum which is a hard material but not as hard as the enamel that covers the crown of
• PANDEMIC (noun). The noun PANDEMIC has 1 sense: 1. an epidemic that is geographically widespread; occurring throughout a region or even throughout the world. Familiarity information: PANDEMIC used as a noun is very rare. 
A. A. Gum recession is the process in which the margin of the gum tissue that surrounds the teeth wears away, or pulls back, exposing more of the tooth, or the tooth 's root. When gum recession occurs, pockets, or gaps, form between the teeth and gum line, making it easy for disease-causing bacteria to build up. Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. Your genes. Some people may be more susceptible to gum disease. In fact, studies show that 30% of the population may be predisposed to gum disease, regardless of how well they care for their teeth. Aggressive tooth brushing.
1 The  Spanish flu , 1918–1919. 2  First identified early in March 1918 in US troops training at Camp Funston, Kansas. 3  By October 1918, it had spread to become a worldwide pandemic on all continents, and eventually infected about one-third of the world's population (or ≈500 million persons). 1 An H3N2 caused about 34,000 deaths in the United States. 2  This virus was first detected in Hong Kong in early 1968, and spread to the United States later that year. 3  This pandemic of 1968 and 1969 killed approximately one million people worldwide.
Like us on Facebook. At this point in the news cycle, it may be prudent to define flu epidemic and its far scarier sibling, flu pandemic. Epidemic means simply that a sudden outbreak of the virus is spreading rapidly and affecting many people at the same time. 
The virus remains deadlier than the one responsible for the pandemic of 1918. H5N1's case-fatality rate (CFR), the ratio of how many people get sick from a disease to how many die of it, has remained steadily high—at about 60%—since it first emerged in 1997. 
There are a number of factors that can cause your gums to recede, including: Periodontal diseases. These are bacterial gum infections that destroy gum tissue and supporting bone that hold your teeth in place. Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. Your genes. Some people may be more susceptible to gum disease. In fact, studies show that 30% of the population may be predisposed to gum disease, regardless of how well they care for their teeth. Aggressive tooth brushing.
Receding gums. Receding gums, where more of the lower part of teeth becomes exposed, can be a sign of gum disease. Left untreated, the supporting tissue and bone structures of the teeth can be damaged, and teeth may be lost. Gum recession is a common dental problem. Most people do not know they have gum recession because it occurs gradually. The first sign of gum recession is usually tooth sensitivity, or you may notice a tooth looks longer than normal. Often a notch can be felt at the top of the tooth, just below the gum line.
A pandemic (from Greek πᾶν pan all and δῆμος demos people) is an epidemic of infectious disease that has spread through human populations across a large region; for instance multiple continents, or even worldwide. 1 An H3N2 caused about 34,000 deaths in the United States. 2  This virus was first detected in Hong Kong in early 1968, and spread to the United States later that year. 3  This pandemic of 1968 and 1969 killed approximately one million people