Do not take zinc gluconate without telling your doctor if you are pregnant or could become pregnant during treatment. It is not known whether zinc gluconate passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. Avoid taking this medication with foods that are high in calcium or phosphorus, which can make it harder for your body to absorb zinc gluconate. Foods high in calcium or phosphorus include milk, cheese, yogurt, ice cream, dried beans or peas, lentils, nuts, peanut butter, beer, cola soft drinks, and hot cocoa.
Zinc Gluconate oral solution is used to treat and prevent zinc deficiency. This medication helps keep a healthy immune system and normal zinc levels. Zinc Gluconate supports DNA synthesis and healing process, as well as helps block the absorption of excess copper in the body. If they do occur, the side effects of Zinc Gluconate are most likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and may require the individual to inform the doctor or visit the nearest hospital immediately. It is pertinent to note that side effects of Zinc Gluconate cannot be anticipated.
A variety of zinc compounds are commonly used, such as zinc carbonate and zinc gluconate (as dietary supplements), zinc chloride (in deodorants), zinc pyrithione (anti-dandruff shampoos), zinc sulfide (in luminescent paints), and zinc methyl or zinc diethyl in the organic laboratory. Zinc, in commerce also spelter, is a chemical element with symbol Zn and atomic number 30. It is the first element of group 12 of the periodic table. In some respects zinc is chemically similar to magnesium: its ion is of similar size and its only common oxidation state is +2.
Zinc is a naturally occurring mineral. Zinc is important for growth and for the development and health of body tissues. Zinc gluconate is used to treat and to prevent zinc deficiency. Zinc gluconate may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. You may not be able to use zinc gluconate if you have certain medical conditions. Avoid taking this medication with foods that are high in calcium or phosphorus, which can make it harder for your body to absorb zinc gluconate.
Zinc gluconate and the common cold [edit]. Zinc gluconate has been used in lozenges for treating the common cold. However, controlled trials with lozenges composed of zinc acetate have found the greatest effect on the duration of colds.
For cancer, 90 milligrams of zinc sulfate has been taken by mouth daily for five days, with a maintenance dose of 180 milligrams daily. Zinc gluconate (two tablets, each containing 10 milligrams of zinc) has also been used daily for 10 days. For chemotherapy side effects, 45 milligrams of zinc sulfate has been taken by mouth three times daily on the first day of radiation therapy, and one month after finishing treatment. 
Zinc gluconate is a popular form for the delivery of zinc as a dietary supplement. Gluconic acid is found naturally, and is industrially manufactured by the fermentation of glucose, typically by Aspergillus niger, but also by other fungi, e.g. Penicillium, or by bacteria, e.g. Acetobacter, Pseudomonas and Gluconobacter. Zinc gluconate has been used in lozenges for treating the common cold. However, controlled trials with lozenges composed of zinc acetate have found the greatest effect on the duration of colds.
Zinc is a metal. It is called an “essential trace element” because very small amounts of zinc are necessary for human health. Zinc is used for treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency and its consequences, including stunted growth and acute diarrhea in children, and slow wound healing. It is also used for boosting the immune system, treating the common cold and recurrent ear infections, and preventing lower respiratory infections. APPLIED TO THE SKIN: 1  For treating the common cold: one zinc gluconate or acetate lozenge, providing 9-24 mg elemental zinc, dissolved in the mouth every two hours while awake when cold symptoms are present. 2  For diarrhea in malnourished or zinc-deficient children: 10-40 mg elemental zinc daily.
Zinc is a naturally occurring mineral. Zinc is important for growth and for the development and health of body tissues. Zinc gluconate is used to treat and to prevent zinc deficiency. Zinc gluconate may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Avoid taking this medication with foods that are high in calcium or phosphorus, which can make it harder for your body to absorb zinc gluconate. Foods high in calcium or phosphorus include milk, cheese, yogurt, ice cream, dried beans or peas, lentils, nuts, peanut butter, beer, cola soft drinks, and hot cocoa.
Zinc Gluconate can cause side effects such as upset stomach and nausea. This is not a complete list of all side effects. Do concur with your doctor and follow his directions completely when you are taking Zinc Gluconate. If they do occur, the side effects of Zinc Gluconate are most likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and may require the individual to inform the doctor or visit the nearest hospital immediately. It is pertinent to note that side effects of Zinc Gluconate cannot be anticipated.