Click on a circle in the chart to view Sarina birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. Click on a place to view Sarina immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Sarina families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.
More About Italian Name: Sarina. Sarina may be derived from name Sara. Sarina may be derived from name Sara. Sarina was the name with much the same Kanji (Chinese derived Japanese Characters) as Erisa, for the same syllables. The last one, na means: Pear tree blossom. 
5 5. The meaning of Sarina is  Tranquil . Its origin is  English variant of the Latin name Serena . Sarina is a form of Serena and is generally pronounced like  sah REE nah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 1,206th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.
Sarina /sa-ri-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced sa-REE-nah. It is of Latin and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Sarina is princess. Variant of Sara. See also Serena and Sirena. Kreatif forms: Sarisa, Syrina. Sarina is a somewhat prominent first name for females (#2411 out of 4276, Top 56%) and also a somewhat prominent last name for all people (#129619 out of 150436, Top 86%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Sarina for girls.
Meaning & History. Latinized form of Habren, the original Welsh name of the River Severn. According to Geoffrey of Monmouth, Sabrina was the name of a princess who was drowned in the Severn. 
The name Sabrina is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sabrina is: Legendary princess. American Meaning: The name Sabrina is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sabrina is: Legendary princess. Italian Meaning: The name Sabrina is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Sabrina is: From the border. Latin Meaning: The name Sabrina is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Sabrina is: From Cyprus, or from the river Severn. In British legend, Sabrina was the illegitimate daughter of the King of Britain and was drowned in the river by her father's ex-wife.
Meaning of Sarina. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Sarina means-Variant of Sarah: Princess.. Other origins for the name Sarina include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Sarina is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Variant of Sarah: Princess.