The Tasmanian devil is NOT just a Loony Tunes cartoon character! It is a most unusual mammal, found only on the island state of Tasmania, a part of Australia. It is also a marsupial, related to koalas and kangaroos. 
The thylacine is the only mammal to have (possibly) become extinct in Tasmania since European settlement. This is in vivid contrast to mainland Australia, which has the worst record of mammalian extinctions of any country on Earth, with nearly 50% of its native mammals becoming extinct in the past 200 years. Diet. The thylacine was a meat-eater. In fact, the world's largest marsupial carnivore since the extinction of Thylacoleo the marsupial 'lion'. Its diet is believed to have consisted largely of wallabies, but included various small animals and birds.
The Tasmanian tiger, more correctly known as the Thylacine, was a carnivorous marsupial, or dasyurid. It fed on native animals such as wallabies, wombats, possums, birds and o … ther prey smaller than itself. The Thylacine sometimes scavenged for food, and was known to feed on the carcasses of rabbits and wallabies. Prior to the arrival of Europeans, the Thylacine's biggest competitor for food was the Tasmanian Devil. Originally, when the Thylacine was found on the mainland as well, it is thought that the dingo's arrival caused its extinction from the continent, as the dingo was bigger and a more vicious hunter and killer.
That animal was the thylacine. It was a marsupial, one of several mammals that raise their young in pouches, and more closely related to kangaroos and koalas than to dogs or cats. Nonetheless, the similarities stuck, and they earned the thylacine several nicknames including “marsupial wolf” and “Tasmanian tiger”. 
Diet: The Tasmanian tiger was the largest marsupial to inhabit the planet. Being the largest carnivorous mammal in its natural habitat, it was the apex predator of this region. Its diet consisted on a range of grazing animals which inhabited this region. In fact, the appearance of the thylacine plays a crucial role in it being names Tasmanian tiger (owing to its stripes) and Tasmanian wolf (owing to its canid like structure). A full-grown individual would measure 5-6 feet in length, and weigh anywhere between 60-70 lb.
The Tasmanian Tiger, or Thylacine as it is correctly called, is believed to be extinct. This is because its major enemy was man, who perceived it as a threat to livestock and … set out on a campaign to decimate its population-a campaign that, unfortunately, succeeded. Prior to the arrival of Europeans, the Thylacine's biggest competitor for food was the Tasmanian Devil. Originally, when the Thylacine was found on the mainland as well, it is thought that the dingo's arrival caused its extinction from the continent, as the dingo was bigger and a more vicious hunter and killer.
Thylacine is the real name for Tasmanian tiger. It was the largest known carnivorous marsupial of modern times. It is believed to have become extinct in the 20th century. Its dwelling is in Australia and New Guinea. On 7 September 1936 the world’s last captive thylacine or Tasmanian tiger died in the Hobart Zoo. The thylacine is the only mammal to have become extinct in Tasmania since European settlement. I have spent a significant part of my life in northern Tasmanian, where many sightings of the tiger have occurred since 1936.
The Tasmanian devil is a mammal. Specifically, it is a marsupial, meaning it is a pouched mammal. It is also a carnivorous marsupial, meaning it is a dasyurid.    If yo … u would like to see a picture of one, click on the related links section indicated below this answer box. Prior to the arrival of Europeans, the Thylacine's biggest competitor for food was the Tasmanian Devil. Originally, when the Thylacine was found on the mainland as well, it is thought that the dingo's arrival caused its extinction from the continent, as the dingo was bigger and a more vicious hunter and killer.