cord blood the blood contained in the umbilical vessels at the time of delivery of the infant. It is rich in stem cells that could be used in place of bone marrow for a transplant; thus, it is sometimes collected and stored for future use. blood taken from the umbilical cord vein or artery of the fetus. Like bone marrow, cord blood is rich in blood stem cells. It can be frozen and stored for later transfusion, for example, in cord blood transplantation.
Collection is fast, simple and painless. The collection of your baby’s cord blood happens the day your baby is born. It won't harm mom or baby and it won't disrupt your birth plan. After delivery it’s standard procedure for your doctor or midwife to clamp and cut the umbilical cord. Nearly half of all pediatric transplants worldwide now involve cord blood. 3a To date, over 30,000 transplants have been performed using these amazing healing cells, but it only takes one happy ending to understand why cord blood is so special. 4. 1  Baby Harlow at 3 months used her own cord blood to treat a tumor.
Definition. Cord blood refers to a sample of blood collected from the umbilical cord when a baby is born. The umbilical cord is the cord connecting the baby to the mother's womb. Cord blood testing can be done to evaluate a newborn's health. Right after the birth of your baby, the umbilical cord is clamped and cut. 
Annual Storage Fee. § An annual storage fee of $150 for cord blood banking, or $300 for cord blood and cord tissue banking, will be charged each year following your baby’s first birthday. ‡‡ Savings on Lifetime Storage based on the Social Security Administration’s average life expectancy equal to 78 years of storage. 
A cord blood bank is a facility which stores umbilical cord blood for future use. Both private and public cord blood banks have developed in response to the potential for cord blood in treating diseases of the blood and immune systems. 
There are usually two fees involved in cord blood banking. The first is the initial fee that covers enrollment, collection, and storage for at least the first year. The second is an annual storage fee. Some facilities vary the initial fee based upon the length of a predetermined period of storage. Banking a baby’s blood and stem cells in a cord blood bank is a type of insurance. Ideally, you would not need to access your baby’s stem cells in order to address a medical concern.
cord blood, blood taken from the umbilical cord vein or artery of the fetus. Like bone marrow, cord blood is rich in blood stem cells. It can be frozen and stored for later transfusion, for example, in cord blood transplantation.
This is why cord blood can be used for transplantation as an alternative to bone marrow. Cord blood is being used increasingly on an experimental basis as a source of stem cells, as an alternative to bone marrow. Most cord blood transplants have been performed in patients with blood and immune system diseases. 
At times, cord blood collection is not able to be completed due to several reasons including: 2. 1  Lack of cord blood due to premature delivery or a multiple gestation pregnancy (more than one baby). 2  Emergency situations. 3  Maternal infections such as herpes, genital warts, placental infection or amniotic fluid infection. There is a rigorous screening process to be able to bank your cord blood in a public bank, however, there is no collection cost. 1,2. When you choose to store your cord blood in a private bank, it is accessible for personal use, either to treat the child who donated the stem cells or a relative.
How Cord Blood Banking Works. For you, cord blood banking is simple. Sign up, get your kit in the mail, bring it to your delivery, and call our courier to pick it up when it’s ready. We’ll take care of the rest. 