Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average Human body can withstand about 50 PSI blast pressure meaning sudden impact. As far as sustained pressure the human body can withstand as much as 400 PSI providing it is gradually increased to this amount. An individual's ability to withstand these temperatures will depend greatly … on other influences such as age, location, overall physical condition, etc.   * 39°C (102.2°F) (Pyrexia) - Severe sweating, flushed and very red. Fast heart rate and breathlessness. There may be exhaustion accompanying this.
Our bodies are surprisingly resilient in many situations, but rapid acceleration is not one of them. While the human body can withstand any constant speed—be it 20 miles per hour or 20 billion miles per hour—we can only change that rate of travel relatively slowly.
1 G is the equivalent to the pressure applied to the human body by the gravitational constant (9.80665 meters per second squared) at sea level. That is to say, just standing around. G-forces higher than this can't be produced by gravity alone; there has to be a mechanical force in effect as well. While the human body can withstand any constant speed—be it 20 miles per hour or 20 billion miles per hour—we can only change that rate of travel relatively slowly.
The average Human body can withstand about 50 PSI blast pressure meaning sudden impact.     As far as sustained pressure the human body can withstand as much as 4 … 00 PSI providing it is gradually increased to this amount. 15 people found this useful. the force depends on the organ, but most people can survive 8 g's for extended periods of time. some fighter pilots can survive up to 15 g's for a thousandth of a second.
The 2 major features of a submarine hull design that helps it withstand sea pressure at extreme depth is the material it's made of, and the design of the hull itself. Spheri … cal or round-shaped objects can withstand more pressure than other designs. the force depends on the organ, but most people can survive 8 g's for extended periods of time. some fighter pilots can survive up to 15 g's for a thousandth of a second.
The human body contains many salts, of which sodium chloride (AKA common table salt) is the major one, making up around 0.4 per cent of the body's weight at a concentration p … retty well equivalent to that in seawater. So a 50kg person would contain around 200g of sodium chloride-around 40 teaspoons. An individual's ability to withstand these temperatures will depend greatly … on other influences such as age, location, overall physical condition, etc.   * 39°C (102.2°F) (Pyrexia) - Severe sweating, flushed and very red. Fast heart rate and breathlessness. There may be exhaustion accompanying this.
The average bite pressure is in the range of 2840 to 4270 psi. . Therefore, while the bite force itself averaged 117 to 265 lbs, the pressure remained constant at about 56 … 00 psi…certainly enough to puncture light weight sheetmetal. the force depends on the organ, but most people can survive 8 g's for extended periods of time. some fighter pilots can survive up to 15 g's for a thousandth of a second.
Nobody, literally no human—anti-g suit or not—can withstand more than 2 or 3 negative Gs before losing consciousness due to all the blood in their body pooling in their head. While the human body can withstand any constant speed—be it 20 miles per hour or 20 billion miles per hour—we can only change that rate of travel relatively slowly.
While John Stapp showed that people can withstand much higher G forces than had long been thought, there is a limit to what anyone can take. Princess Diana tragically proved that. Experts estimate that, in the car accident that killed her, the G forces on her chest were about 70 G's (and 100 G's on her head). Facing a mere -2 or -3 G's, many of us would lose consciousness as too much blood rushed to our heads. Spinning at high speed, NASA's 20-G research centrifuge at California's Ames Research Center can simulate up to 20 times the normal force of gravity we feel at sea level.