Anemia, black, hairy tongue, diarrhea, fever, hives, nausea, skin eruptions, stomach upset or pain, swelling in throat, vomiting Why should this drug not be prescribed? Return to top You should not be using penicillin V if you have had an allergic reaction to penicillin or cephalosporin antibiotics. With a viral bronchitis, you should avoid antibiotics especially zpacks (Zithromax / azithromycin) which are overprescribed for these symptoms, and can lead to side effects and adverse drug reaction such as rash, antibiotic drug resistance and yeast infections.
A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. 
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using azithromycin and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  diarrhea that is watery or bloody; You should not use azithromycin if you are allergic to it or to similar drugs such as erythromycin (E.E.S., EryPed, Ery-Tab, Erythrocin, Pediazole), clarithromycin (Biaxin), telithromycin (Ketek), or troleandomycin (Tao).
The short answer is yes. I was prescribed Azithromycin for a sinus infection. I felt that the medication was not working. So I called Walgreens and spoke with the pharmacist who stated that I can take both Benadryl with the Azithromycin 250mg. The best thing to do is to contact your local Pharmacist and tell him/her everything you are taking. Please remember that both drugs have a drowsiness effect. Therefore, I would only recommend taking one Benadryl with the Azithromycin. If you are in doubt, contact your primary care physician and the pharmacist.
Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic. Azithromycin fights bacteria in the body. Azithromycin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria, such as respiratory infections, skin infections, ear infections, and sexually transmitted diseases. Azithromycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use azithromycin if you are allergic to it or to similar drugs such as erythromycin (E.E.S., EryPed, Ery-Tab, Erythrocin, Pediazole), clarithromycin (Biaxin), telithromycin (Ketek), or troleandomycin (Tao). There are many other medicines that can interact with azithromycin.
I think I may have an aspirin allergy. Reactions to aspirin are common. If you have an aspirin allergy or sensitivity, you may also have a reaction to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen (Aleve, others). Consult your doctor if you have any medication reaction, particularly if it's severe. For a serious reaction, you may need to see a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating this type of reaction (allergist/immunologist). With. James T C Li, M.D., Ph.D. 1  Sulfa allergy.
Azithromycin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria, such as respiratory infections, skin infections, ear infections, and sexually transmitted diseases. Azithromycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use azithromycin if you are allergic to it or to similar drugs such as erythromycin (E.E.S., EryPed, Ery-Tab, Erythrocin, Pediazole), clarithromycin (Biaxin), telithromycin (Ketek), or troleandomycin (Tao).
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using azithromycin ophthalmic and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  drainage or crusting of your eye; 2  severe burning, stinging, itching, or other irritation after using the eye drops; 3  feeling like there is something in your eye; 4  watery eyes, increased light sensitivity;
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using azithromycin and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: You should not use azithromycin if you are allergic to it or to similar drugs such as erythromycin (E.E.S., EryPed, Ery-Tab, Erythrocin, Pediazole), clarithromycin (Biaxin), telithromycin (Ketek), or troleandomycin (Tao). There are many other medicines that can interact with azithromycin.
If hives are widespread, using oral BENADRYL ® products can also help relieve the swelling and itching (and therefore help prevent scratching). TIP: Avoid hot baths or showers and tight clothing during or just after an episode of hives. CALL THE DOCTOR IF: You have a severe reaction with swelling of the throat. Hives are a common allergic reaction caused by the release of histamine and other chemicals into your bloodstream. (Also known as urticaria.). APPEARANCE: Itchy, red or skin-coloured welts that come and go over several days (unlike chicken pox or insect bites). When you press the center, they turn white.