Holby City and Casualty are both set in Holby City Hospital, in the fictional county of Wyvern, in the southwest of England close to the Welsh border. The city exterior is represented by Bristol, though Holby City is filmed at the BBC's Elstree Studios in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire. Holby City has been nominated for over 100 television awards, of which it has won ten: the 2008 British Academy Television Award for Best Continuing Drama, one BEFFTA Award, two Ethnic Multicultural Media Awards, two Music Video and Screen Awards, and four Screen Nation Awards.
Although both shows are set in the same hospital, Casualty is primarily filmed in Cardiff, whilst Holby City is filmed in Hertfordshire at the BBC's Elstree Studios. The indoor shots for the first series of Casualty were filmed at BBC Television Centre in London. The exterior shots of the hospital used in Casualty were formerly filmed at the City of Bristol College; location filming later moved to an industrial estate at 51°27′33″N 2°34′01″W﻿ / ﻿51.459094°N 2.567030°W﻿ / 51.459094; -2.567030, close to the interior set of the hospital.
It is based on the real city of Bristol, where Casualty was formerly filmed, and is notionally located in the fictional county of Wyvern in South West England, not far from the border with Wales. While Casualty has been filmed in Cardiff since 2011, Holby City is filmed in Elstree, Hertfordshire. Both shows are set in the same fictional Holby City Hospital. Holby has an airport called Holby International. The exterior shots of the hospital used in Casualty were formerly filmed at the City of Bristol College; location filming later moved to an industrial estate at 51°27′33″N 2°34′01″W﻿ / ﻿51.459094°N 2.567030°W﻿ / 51.459094; -2.567030, close to the interior set of the hospital.
A 2007 episode filmed in Dubai focussed on Holby registrars Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel) and Joseph Byrne (Luke Roberts) meeting new nurse Faye Morton (Patsy Kensit), and in 2008, Joseph and consultant Linden Cullen (Duncan Pow) travelled to Cape Town when Faye experienced difficulties there. Holby City has been nominated for over 100 television awards, of which it has won ten: the 2008 British Academy Television Award for Best Continuing Drama, one BEFFTA Award, two Ethnic Multicultural Media Awards, two Music Video and Screen Awards, and four Screen Nation Awards.
It is set in the same hospital as Casualty, in the fictional city of Holby, and featured occasional crossovers of characters and plots with both Casualty (which featured dedicated episodes broadcast as Casualty@Holby City) and the show's 2007 police procedural spin-off HolbyBlue. Holby City has been nominated for over 100 television awards, of which it has won ten: the 2008 British Academy Television Award for Best Continuing Drama, one BEFFTA Award, two Ethnic Multicultural Media Awards, two Music Video and Screen Awards, and four Screen Nation Awards.
Filming Location of Holby City is at BBC Elstree Centre/ATV Studios, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire. Same filming locations for EastEnders and The Muppet Show. City of 'Holby' is actually Bristol and BBC makes no effort to disguise the fact, regularly showing the Suspension Bridge, the Harbourside, Clifton Downs.
Also during the early 90s Casualty was shown on Sunday nights on BBC at 7:00pm. The programme is set in the fictional Holby City Hospital and focuses on the staff and patients of the hospital's Accident and Emergency Department. The show has very few ties to its sister programme Holby City, which began as a spin-off from Casualty in 1999, set in the same hospital. Casualty is shown weekly on a Saturday evening, which has been its time slot since the early 1990s. Long running Casualty character Charlie Fairhead appeared in HolbyBlue' s first episode, and a full two part crossover episode with Holby City aired at the beginning of the show's second series. On 6 August 2008, the BBC announced that HolbyBlue has been axed after two series.
The hospital in Holby City, BBC 1's medical drama about the fictional 'Holby General hospital', starring Guy Henry, Paul Bradley and Rosie Marcel, using the filming location for interior scenes at Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire, England. 
Eight further Holby City episodes featuring Sadler as Sandy had already been filmed, and were aired as scheduled posthumously. BBC scriptwriters consulted Sadler's mother, Sonja Sadler, when devising the character's exit storyline. Holby City Holby City bounced on to our screens in 1999 as a close cousin to the established hospital drama Casualty. It is a drama series depicting the frenetic daily lives of the doctors, nurses and patients in the hectic cardiac unit of Holby City General Hospital.