Leavenworth, originally known as Icicle, was renamed after Captain Charles Leavenworth, president of the Okanagon Investment Company (one of the first commercial developers in this area of Washington), and a stockholder in the Great Northern Railway. Find all the visitor information you need to plan your to Leavenworth. Town with a Bavarian Theme. Leavenworth, Washington is a charming Bavarian Village known for delightful specialty shops, numerous choices for cozy accommodations, and an active calendar offering a year-round schedule of festivals, music and live theater. Perhaps the most popular of the events is the Christmas Lighting and Ice Fest
Visitors. Bavaria beckons in beautiful Leavenworth, Washington where festivals, fun and outdoor frolics will have you singing from the mountains tops…or maybe the wine shops, art galleries, sausage gardens, ski lift, biking or hiking trails. Willkommen to your Bavarian getaway! 
Location and History. Leavenworth is located in the Wenatchee River Valley in Chelan County. It sits at an elevation of 1,200 feet, with nearby mountains towering above up to 8,000 feet. Seattle is the nearest major city, 135 miles to the west, and can be reached by car in about 2.5 hours
Leavenworth is home to the Leavenworth Nutcracker Museum, which opened in 1995 and contains more than 5,000 nutcrackers dating from prehistoric to modern. Leavenworth hosts an annual Oktoberfest celebration. Leavenworth's transformation into a theme town was inspired, and assisted, by Solvang, California. Later the Washington town of Winthrop followed Leavenworth's example and adopted a town theme. The town site was across the Wenatchee River from Icicle and was named Leavenworth the same year the rail construction began. Captain Charles Leavenworth, president of the Okanogan Investment Company, purchased the land in the present-day downtown and laid the streets parallel to the new railroad tracks.
Leavenworth offers an array of it's own year-around fun such as rafting, skiing, rock climbing, hiking, snowmobiling and so much more. The town's elevation is about 1,166 feet, with mountains rising 5,000-8,000 feet nearby. Leavenworth offers an abundance of activity and excitement for everyone. Leavenworth is located at the base of the eastern slope of the Cascade Mountains, very near the geographical center of Washington State. Leavenworth is part of Chelan County and has 1.23 square miles of land area and 0.02 square miles of water area
Leavenworth is a beautiful Bavarian village themed city of about 2,400 residents in the central part of Washington State. Leavenworth is located in the Wenatchee River Valley in Chelan County. It sits at an elevation of 1,200 feet, with nearby mountains towering above up to 8,000 feet.
Leavenworth. Located in central Washington, Leavenworth is your Bavarian getaway complete with snow-capped mountains as a backdrop. Travelers will love escaping to a quaint German village right in Washington’s own backyard. A four-season destination, Leavenworth has an endless list of adventures for visitors with all interests. In the summer, visitors can escape the summer heat by taking a wine-tasting tour or wild ride on a river-rafting day trip.
W elcome! Leavenworth is located at the base of the eastern slope of the Cascade Mountains, very near the geographical center of Washington State. Leavenworth is part of Chelan County and has 1.23 square miles of land area and 0.02 square miles of water area.