Visual Studio Team System Profiler is a commercial profiler offered by Microsoft, available as part of the Visual Studio Team System (VSTS) suite and the Development Edition of Visual Studio. Modern versions of the VSTS profiler can be used to profile both 32-bit and 64-bit Windows programs. The profiler reports performance characteristics for methods which are called during a given run of the profiler including the number of calls to the function and the call stack when the function was called.
JBuilder. Visual Studio Team System (VSTS) is an extension of the Microsoft Visual Studio architecture that allows it to encompass development teams, with special roles and tools for software architects, developer specialties and testers. Client-side capabilities between VSTS and Visual Studio come from specialized versions of Visual Studio modules, known as Visual Studio Team Editions. Team roles include developers, architects, testers, and database developers.
VST stands for Virtual Studio Technology. There are three types of VST plug-ins: 1  VST instruments: These plug-ins generate audio and are either virtual synthesizers or samplers. 2  Many VST instruments emulate the appearance and sound of famous hardware synthesizers. VST Plug-ins. VST plug-ins can be used within a digital audio workstation, in programs like Pro Tools and Logic. They’re frequently used to emulate hardware outboard gear such as compressors, expanders, equalizers, and maximizers.
There are three types of VST plug-ins: 1  VST instruments: These plug-ins generate audio and are either virtual synthesizers or samplers. 2  VST effects: Effects process audio instead of generating it. 3  VST MIDI effects: MIDI plug-ins process MIDI messages and send MIDI data to other VST instruments and hardware. VST Plug-ins. VST plug-ins can be used within a digital audio workstation, in programs like Pro Tools and Logic. They’re frequently used to emulate hardware outboard gear such as compressors, expanders, equalizers, and maximizers.
VSTS stands for Microsoft V isual S tudio T eam S ystem. Visual Studio Team System represents extended versions of Visual Studio .NET. It includes a set of collaboration and development tools for software development process. Visual Studio 2005 Professional Edition is part of all Visual Studio team editions. Visual Studio 2005 Team System is a productive, integrated, and extensible suite of lifecycle tools that expands the Visual Studio product line to enable greater communication and collaboration among software development teams.
One of the key goals of Visual Studio 2005 Team System (VSTS), therefore, is to facilitate communication through deep integration of extensible features and functionality that provides tools to support managers, architects, testers, project managers, build and documentation teams, and, of course, developers. 
The VSTS profiler helps to optimize performance of code targeted for the .NET platform or natively compiled Visual C++ code. Modern versions of the VSTS profiler can be used to profile both 32-bit and 64-bit Windows programs. The profiler reports performance characteristics for methods which are called during a given run of the profiler including the number of calls to the function and the call stack when the function was called.
A standalone version of the VSTS profiler can also be installed from the Visual Studio Team System DVD, and is also available for download on the Microsoft website. Modern versions of the VSTS profiler can be used to profile both 32-bit and 64-bit Windows programs. The profiler reports performance characteristics for methods which are called during a given run of the profiler including the number of calls to the function and the call stack when the function was called.
Virtual Studio Technology (VST) is a software interface that integrates software audio synthesizer and effect plugins with audio editors and recording systems. VST and similar technologies use digital signal processing to simulate traditional recording studio hardware in software. Neon was the first available VST Instrument (included with Cubase VST 3.7). It was a 16-voice, 2-oscillator virtual analog synthesizer. The VST interface specification was updated to version 2.4 in 2006. Changes included the ability to process audio with 64 bit precision.
1 VST instruments: These plug-ins generate audio and are either virtual synthesizers or samplers. 2  Many VST instruments emulate the appearance and sound of famous hardware synthesizers. 3  Popular VSP instruments include Massive, FM8, Absynth, Sylenth 1, Reaktor, Gladiator, Vanguard and Omnisphere. VST Plug-ins. VST plug-ins can be used within a digital audio workstation, in programs like Pro Tools and Logic. They’re frequently used to emulate hardware outboard gear such as compressors, expanders, equalizers, and maximizers.