You can find the total number of shares in the shareholders' equity section of a company's balance sheet, which also summarizes the assets and liabilities. The numbers of authorized, issued and outstanding common shares are listed in this section, along with the number of preferred shares. Locate the line titled preferred stock in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. This line will indicate the number of authorized and issued preferred shares, along with the par and paid-in capital amounts.
This lowers the number of outstanding shares and, with everything else being equal, will boost earnings-per-share, which in turn supports the value of the stock. To calculate the number of outstanding shares, you subtract the number of shares bought back and retired by the company from the total of issued shares. These numbers appear in the financial reports on the balance sheet under capital stock.. The outstanding shares are figured into the earnings-per-share number issued by a company each quarter and year, as well as total market capitalization -- the number of outstanding shares multiplied by the share price.
Calculate the number of shares outstanding. This is equal to the number of shares that a company has issued but not reacquired. This number is always less than or equal to the number of shares issued. Shares outstanding may also be found on any exchange where the company's stock is traded, listed as shares out.. The number of shares outstanding = number issued-treasury stock
1 The company may have to increase the number of authorized shares after a stock split. 2  A reverse stock split would decrease the number of issued and outstanding shares. 3  For example, a 1-for-10 reverse stock split would reduce the number by 90 percent. Locate the line titled preferred stock in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. This line will indicate the number of authorized and issued preferred shares, along with the par and paid-in capital amounts.
Step 3. Divide the company's net income by the earnings per share to find the number of outstanding shares. For example, in 2011, XYZ business reported $41,060,000 in net income and basic earnings per share of $8.43. The number of outstanding shares of stock was 41,060,000 divided by $8.43, which is 4,870,670. Although it's much easier to find a company's number of outstanding shares of stock on the financial summary, you can also figure this out by looking at the company's income statement. Not all businesses use the same name for the
In addition to listing outstanding shares, or capital stock, on the company’s balance sheet, publicly traded companies are obligated to report the number of issued and outstanding shares, and generally package this information within the investor relations sections of their websites, or on local stock exchange websites. 
Tip. 1  Stock splits increase the number of issued and outstanding shares on a company's balance sheet. 2  For example, a 2-for-1 stock split would double the number, while a 3-for-2 stock split would increase it by 50 percent. 3  The company may have to increase the number of authorized shares after a stock split. Locate the line titled preferred stock in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. This line will indicate the number of authorized and issued preferred shares, along with the par and paid-in capital amounts.
Find the dividends per share declared by the business. For example, a corporation might declare a $2 dividend on its outstanding common shares, which means there is a dividends per share of $2. This indicates the corporation intends to pay $2 in dividends to the holder of each outstanding share. 
DEFINITION of 'Issued Shares'. The number of authorized shares that is sold to and held by the shareholders of a company, regardless of whether they are insiders, institutional investors or the general public. Also known as issued stock.. Next Up. The amount of issued shares can be all or part of the total amount of authorized shares of a corporation. The total number of issued shares outstanding in a company is most often shown in the annual report.
The number of issued shares is a subset of the total authorized shares. It is that amount which the board of directors and/or shareholders have agreed to allocate. Issued shares are the sum of outstanding shares and treasury shares. Issued shares is a term of law and finance for the quantity of shares of a corporation, which have been allocated (allotted) and are subsequently held by shareholders. The act of creating new issued shares is called issuance, allocation or allotment.