1 Analyze technical feasibility of energy saving measures using knowledge of engineering, energy production, energy use, construction, maintenance, system operation, or process systems. 2  Compare existing energy consumption levels to normative data. Job Description for Energy Auditors: Conduct energy audits of buildings, building systems, or process systems. May also conduct investment grade audits of buildings or systems.
Typically, the minimum educational requirement needed to become an energy policy analyst is a bachelor’s degree in a field such as chemistry, physics, environmental science or engineering. Having a degree in political science or public administration can also be of great value in this career. If you want to become an energy policy analyst, you need to first determine if this career is a good fit for you.
10 most extreme places on Earth. An energy analyst can work in one of several aspects of the energy industry, participating in policy development, efficiency improvement, and business analysis for investors. In one sense, an energy analyst works on policy development topics. This requires understanding existing policy and contrasting it with predicted needs, environmental concerns, and targets the government may have set for performance.
The Energy Analyst will work in the Energy Savers Program providing technical assistance to multifamily building owners. The Energy Analyst will conduct energy audits, perform energy modeling of buildings and assist Energy Savers management to oversee all aspects of energy efficiency retrofit projects. The Energy Analyst reports directly to the Multifamily Program Manager in the Energy Efficient Buildings Group at Elevate Energy. The Analyst will work closely with Elevate Energy’s construction staff, among others. This is an Exempt position
The class of Energy Analyst is a recruiting and development class for persons qualified to perform analytical work on one or more aspects in a broad range of energy areas as a background for advancement in the field of energy. 
The Certified Energy Analyst (CEA) program is a natural outgrowth of the CABEC Statement of Purpose and is officially recognized by the California Energy Commission as establishing a professional standard as well as providing an important link in energy compliance. The primary goal of the Certified Energy Analyst (CEA) program is to maintain and manage a professional credential for those who assist the building industry meet and exceed the energy standards.
Since this career is one that requires a great deal of expertise in the subject of energy policy, a master’s degree or doctoral degree in one of the aforementioned fields is typically what you would need to become an energy policy analyst. If you want to become an energy policy analyst, you need to first determine if this career is a good fit for you.
The Energy Analyst will interface directly with multifamily building owners, contractors, property managers, and lenders to help facilitate all aspects of retrofit projects. The position is based in Chicago but may involve driving to site visits throughout Northern Illinois. The Energy Analyst reports directly to the Multifamily Program Manager in the Energy Efficient Buildings Group at Elevate Energy. The Analyst will work closely with Elevate Energy’s construction staff, among others. This is an Exempt position
For example, an energy analyst might work with a municipality to promote a program to get citizens to reduce individual resource use. Acting as an efficiency consultant, an energy analyst can evaluate use in private homes, facilities, and across a company’s network of properties. The analyst identifies areas where energy use is not efficient and provides suggestions for improvement. In one sense, an energy analyst works on policy development topics. This requires understanding existing policy and contrasting it with predicted needs, environmental concerns, and targets the government may have set for performance.