Most air conditioners have their capacity rated in British thermal units (Btu). A Btu is the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of 1 pound (0.45 kilograms) of water one degree Fahrenheit (0.56 degrees Celsius). One Btu equals 1,055 joules. In heating and cooling terms, one ton equals 12,000 Btu. A typical window air conditioner might be rated at 10,000 Btu. To size an air conditioner accurately for your specific application, you should contact an HVAC contractor. The energy efficiency rating (EER) of an air conditioner is its Btu rating over its wattage. As an example, if a 10,000-Btu air conditioner consumes 1,200 watts, its EER is 8.3 (10,000 Btu/1,200 watts).
Definitions [edit]. A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 avoirdupois pound of liquid water by 1 degree Fahrenheit at a constant pressure of one atmosphere. calorie, several definitions of the BTU exist, because the temperature response of water to heat energy is non-linear. Definitions of the BTU based on different water temperatures can therefore vary by up to 0.5%. A BTU can be approximated as the heat produced by burning a single wooden kitchen match or as the amount of energy it takes to lift a one-pound weight 778 feet (237 m).
BTU is a unit of measurement for energy. One BTU is equal to the amount of energy used to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. In most applications the BTU has been replaced by the joule, but BTU remains a popular measurement of heating and cooling equipment. Air conditioners are a little different. The BTU number on cooling equipment refers to the amount of energy used to remove the heat from the air. Even small heaters or air conditioners have high BTU numbers. Typically, whole house units range from 60,000 to 80,000 and above.
What is a BTU. A BTU, short for British Thermal Unit, is a basic measure of thermal (heat) energy. One BTU is the amount of energy needed to heat one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit, measured at its heaviest point. The air-cooling power of an air conditioning system refers to the amount of thermal energy removed from an area. Hence a 65,000 BTU heater and a 65,000 BTU air conditioner are of roughly the same capacity and size. The higher the BTU output, the more powerful the heating or cooling system.
Click here for top of page. A BTU, short for British Thermal Unit, is a basic measure of thermal (heat) energy. One BTU is the amount of energy needed to heat one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit, measured at its heaviest point. The air-cooling power of an air conditioning system refers to the amount of thermal energy removed from an area. Hence a 65,000 BTU heater and a 65,000 BTU air conditioner are of roughly the same capacity and size. The higher the BTU output, the more powerful the heating or cooling system.
Other units used to quantify heat energy are the British Thermal Unit-Btu (the amount of heat to raise 1 lb of water by 1oF) and the Calorie (the amount of heat to raise 1 gram of water by 1oC (or 1 K)). Calorie is defined as an amount of heat required to change temperature of one gram of liquid water by one degree Celsius (or one degee Kelvin). 1 cal = 4.184 J. Units of energy used may be calorie (cal), Joule (J, SI unit) or Btu.
Btu is the amount of heat energy it takes to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit, at sea level. One Btu equals about one blue-tip kitchen match. One thousand Btus roughly equals: One average candy bar or 4/5 of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. 
BTU meters measure the energy content of liquid or gas flows in  British thermal units (BTU), a basic measure of thermal energy. One  BTU is equal to the amount of energy ne … eded to heat one pound of  water one degree Fahrenheit. 3 people found this useful. A 5000 BTU air conditioner works on 1465 watts. If the BTU, 5000, is multiplied by .293071, the exact amounts are given. However, this does not display the amount of watts uti … lized by the air conditioner. The voltage and amperes would need to be known in order to figure the watts during usage.
The British thermal unit (BTU or Btu) is a traditional unit of work equal to about 1055 joules. It is the amount of work needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit (Physical analogue: one four-inch wooden kitchen match consumed completely generates approximately 1 BTU). In science, the joule, the SI unit of energy, has largely replaced the BTU. Definitions of the BTU based on different water temperatures can therefore vary by up to 0.5%. A BTU can be approximated as the heat produced by burning a single wooden kitchen match or as the amount of energy it takes to lift a one-pound weight 778 feet (237 m).