Some species of stingrays are endangered due to pollution and  overfishing. Some species of stingray that are endangered are the  Ganges Stingray, Giant Freshwater Stingray, … Izu Stingray, and the  Marbled Freshwater Stingray. Answered. In Care of Turtles. 
The giant freshwater stingray (Himantura polylepis, also widely known by the junior synonym H. chaophraya) is a species of stingray in the family Dasyatidae. It is found in large rivers and estuaries in Indochina and Borneo, though historically it may have been more widely distributed in South and Southeast Asia. These forces have resulted in substantial population declines in at least central Thailand and Cambodia. As a result, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has assessed the giant freshwater stingray as Endangered.
Giant freshwater stingrays are listed as endangered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, in part due to Hogan's and Nantarika's work. “These rays are decreasing rapidly since there is no national law to protect them,” Nantarika says. The giant freshwater stingray has the longest spine of any species of ray, up to 15 inches, and carries powerful venom. The animal uses its spine for defense and it can be lethal, but injuries to people are quite rare. Check out this archive video of Zeb Hogan examining another freshwater stingray.
Fish experts believe the giant stingray, such as this one in Cambodia's Mekong River, is the largest freshwater species on Earth. This specimen measured more than 13 feet (4 meters) long. Size relative to a bus: The giant stingray is one of the world's largest freshwater fish, but it's also cloaked in mystery. No one is sure how many giant stingrays are left, which habitats they prefer, or even if they ever venture into the ocean, where their more commonly known relatives dwell.
Scientists are racing to study the giant freshwater stingray, which, like many big fish species in the Mekong River, is now endangered. Photo courtesy of Zeb Hogan, University of Nevada. Giant freshwater stingray barbs can grow to 15 inches long (this one measures 8 inches). 
First off, the recently caught giant freshwater stingray, a species called Himantura polylepis or H. chaophraya, belongs to the Dasyatidae family, which is known for its venomous spines. The number of spines varies by species, but stingrays in this family typically have one, and it grows along with the fish. The giant freshwater stingray caught earlier this month is 14 feet (4.3 meters) long and weighs an estimated 700 to 800 pounds (318 to 363 kilograms).
The giant stingray can grow to be as long as 16.5 feet and weigh as much as 1,200 pounds -- potentially the largest freshwater fish on the planet. If that's not enough to get your attention, it's also arguably the most bizarre-looking one, with its outlandishly wide, pancake-flat body and whiplike tail. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Some species of stingrays are endangered due to pollution and overfishing. Some species of stingray that are endangered are the Ganges Stingray, Giant Freshwater Stingray, Izu Stingray, and the Marbled Freshwater Stingray. The endangered species are the   * Ganges Stingray  * Marbled Whipray  * Mekong Freshwater Stingray  * White-Edge Freshwater Stingray  * Thorny Freshwater Stingray   For more details, please see sites listed below. + 20 others found this useful.
The giant freshwater stingray is not aggressive, but it merits caution as its sting is sheathed in toxic mucus and is capable of piercing bone. Across its range, this species is caught incidentally by artisanal fishers using longlines, and to a lesser extent gillnets and fish traps. These forces have resulted in substantial population declines in at least central Thailand and Cambodia. As a result, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has assessed the giant freshwater stingray as Endangered.