Because of this, there has been a lot of confusion over whether the langostino is actually a relative of the shrimp or the lobster. Langostinos are small, crayfish-sized shellfish that look and taste like a cross between a shrimp and a lobster, though to me, at least, more like a tiny lobster. To add to the confusion is the fact that they are a substitute for shrimp, but rarely for lobster. Langostinos, as they're usually called, is the Spanish name for these small shellfish. In France, where they're also used extensively, they're called langoustine, very similar, but a little harder for an American to pronounce. They are also known as Dublin Bay prawns and Danish lobsters
Definition of LANGOSTINO. : any of several edible crustaceans (as of the genus Pleuroncodes) that are or resemble small lobsters or large shrimp; specifically: langoustine. ADVERTISEMENT.
Their flavor is familiar-but their shape and color are not. Langostinos are starting to show up at Chicago restaurants and markets. September 19, 2012 (CHICAGO) --. Chicago has always been a transportation hub, which means it's relatively easy for restaurateurs to fly in the best seafood from around the world. They are Chilean langostinos, arriving IQF-that's individually quick frozen-so they're easy to separate. The only place you'll find them is at The Fish Guy market, in the Mayfair neighborhood on the Northwest Side.
Langostinos are in the same order, Decapoda, and suborder, Pleocyemata, as American and spiny lobsters but different infraorders. American lobsters are in the Astacidea infraorder, while spiny lobsters are in the Palinura infraorder. Long John Silver’s became the latest restaurant operator to add langostino to its menu when it launched Buttered Lobster Bites as a Lenten promotion. The item’s Feb. 27 debut was a big hit among the quick-service chain’s patrons (see Newsline, p. 8).
Langostino is a Spanish word with different meanings in different areas. In the United States, it is commonly used in the restaurant trade to refer to the meat of the squat lobster, which is neither a true lobster nor a prawn. Squat lobsters are more closely related to porcelain and hermit crabs. Crustaceans labeled as langostino are no more than 3 inches (7.6 cm) long, and weigh no more than 7 ounces (200 g). Langostinos are not langoustes (spiny lobsters) despite a similar name (in Spanish, lobster is called langosta)
Seafood lovers may have heard of langoustines, which resemble a very small lobster, or a giant crawfish-- but the langostino is a completely different species. And it's now available at one Chicago fish market, The Fish Guy. They are Chilean langostinos, arriving IQF-that's individually quick frozen-so they're easy to separate. The only place you'll find them is at The Fish Guy market, in the Mayfair neighborhood on the Northwest Side.
Actually, langostino is Spanish for “little lobster.” Although langostino’s taste and texture are similar to lobster meat, langostino is not the crustacean Americans typically refer to as “lobster” — American, or Maine, lobster and spiny lobster. Long John Silver’s became the latest restaurant operator to add langostino to its menu when it launched Buttered Lobster Bites as a Lenten promotion. The item’s Feb. 27 debut was a big hit among the quick-service chain’s patrons (see Newsline, p. 8).
They come from thousands of miles away, in a different hemisphere. They are Chilean langostinos, arriving IQF-that's individually quick frozen-so they're easy to separate. The only place you'll find them is at The Fish Guy market, in the Mayfair neighborhood on the Northwest Side.
Save. Langostine lobster is known throughout the world. It is not a true lobster or a prawn but rather a different type of crustacean. It is most closely related to the hermit and porcelain crabs. 1  What Are the Different Kinds of Lobsters? 2  How to Cook Langostinos. In the United States, langostino lobster refers to the squat lobster. In Spain, it may refer to some species of prawn. In Cuba, it refers to crayfish, whereas in South America, it refers to red shrimp.