Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) benefit from early intervention – the earlier, the better. It’s important that you do as much as you can for your child, as soon as you can. But if you’re still reeling from a diagnosis, it can be hard to know where and how to start.
Research shows that early intervention treatment services can greatly improve a child’s development. Early intervention services help children from birth to 3 years old (36 months) learn important skills. Services include therapy to help the child talk, walk, and interact with others.
SEATTLE, WASH. (November 29, 2009) – A novel early intervention program for very young children with autism – some as young as 18 months – is effective for improving IQ, language ability, and social interaction, a comprehensive new study has found.
1 Children diagnosed with autism who received very early low-intensity intervention had far fewer symptoms of the disorder after the intervention ended. 2  Note that the study enrolled seven children ages 6 to 15 months who had been diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder.
Action Points. 1  Children diagnosed with autism who received very early low-intensity intervention had far fewer symptoms of the disorder after the intervention ended. 2  Note that the study enrolled seven children ages 6 to 15 months who had been diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder.
Dec. 8, 2010 -- A six-month, group-based early intervention program with a special emphasis on social development can improve some of the core symptoms of autism spectrum disorder in children as young as 2, according to a study in the Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry.
One research-proven intervention for very young children with ASD is the Early Start Denver Model (ESDM), a structured teaching and relationship-based approach in the child's home that uses play as a learning tool.
The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) says that children under the age of 3 years (36 months) who are at risk of having developmental delays may be eligible for services. These services are provided through an early intervention system in your state.
Early intervention refers to doing things as early as possible to work on your child’s autism spectrum disorder (ASD) characteristics. Early intervention for children with ASD is made up of therapies and services.