The most common cause of duodenal ulcer is a stomach infection associated with the Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) bacteria. Other risk factors for duodenal ulcers include overuse of alcohol, tobacco, and medications such as aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In the case of H pylori-related duodenal ulcer, the infection can be treated successfully with antibiotics. For a duodenal ulcer not related to H pylori, antacids or other medications are an effective treatment.
A duodenal ulcer is a type of peptic ulcer that occurs in the duodenum, the beginning of the small intestine. Peptic ulcers are eroded areas in the lining of stomach and duodenum, which result in abdominal pain, possible bleeding, and other gastrointestinal symptoms. In the case of H pylori-related duodenal ulcer, the infection can be treated successfully with antibiotics. For a duodenal ulcer not related to H pylori, antacids or other medications are an effective treatment.
It is believed that, although all of these factors--lifestyle, acid and pepsin, and H. pylori --play a role in ulcer development, H. pylori is considered to be the primary cause in most cases. Factors suspected of playing a role in the development of stomach or duodenal ulcers include: Helicobacter pylori. An ulcer is an open sore, or lesion, usually found on the skin or mucous membrane areas of the body. Click to Enlarge. An ulcer in the lining of the stomach or duodenum, where hydrochloric acid and pepsin are present, is referred to as a peptic ulcer. When the ulcer is in the stomach, it is called a gastric ulcer. When the ulcer is in the duodenum, it is called a duodenal ulcer.
Peptic ulcers are holes or breaks in the protective lining of the duodenum (the upper part of the small intestine) or the stomach -- areas that come into contact with stomach acids and enzymes. Duodenal ulcers are more common than stomach ulcers. Comparatively rare are esophageal ulcers, which form in the esophagus -- or swallowing tube -- and are often a result of exposure to medications, like certain antibiotics or anti-inflammatories, or alcohol abuse. 
The most common cause of duodenal ulcer is infection with H pylori bacteria. Other causes of duodenal ulcer include agents that can cause inflammation of the stomach or duodenal lining, including alcohol, tobacco, or medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Severe illness and radiation therapy have also been associated with duodenal ulcer. Other medications to treat a duodenal ulcer. Medications such as proton pump inhibitors and histamine H2-receptor antagonists, which decrease the amount of acid in the stomach, can also be an effective treatment for duodenal ulcer. Proton pump inhibitors that are effective in the treatment of duodenal ulcer include:
A peptic ulcer is an open sore. They are usually found in the lining of the stomach, esophagus, or upper small intestine. Ulcers that occur in the stomach are called gastric ulcers. Ulcers that occur in the upper area of the small intestine, which is called the duodenum, are called duodenal ulcers.
Peptic ulcer disease refers to painful sores or ulcers in the lining of the stomach or first part of the small intestine, called the duodenum. No single cause has been found for ulcers. However, it is now clear that an ulcer is the end result of an imbalance between digestive fluids in the stomach and duodenum. Most ulcers are caused by an infection with a type of bacteria called Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori).
If your ulcer was caused by H. pylori. Nearly all duodenal ulcers are caused by infection with H. pylori. Therefore, a main part of the treatment is to clear this infection. If this infection is not cleared, the ulcer is likely to return once you stop taking acid-suppressing medication. Food and acid in the duodenum then leak into the abdominal cavity. 2  This usually causes severe pain and is a medical emergency. 3  Gastroscopy (endoscopy) is the test that can confirm a duodenal ulcer. 4  In this test a doctor or nurse looks inside your stomach and the first part of your small intestine (duodenum).
Causes of stomach ulcers. Stomach ulcers are usually caused by Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These can break down the stomach's defence against the acid it produces to digest food, allowing the stomach lining to become damaged and an ulcer to form.