The Endothelium   The Endothelium is a single layer of cells which line the internal wall of blood vessels. It enables the blood to flow smoothly inside the blood … vessels. Nothing, it is only pressure that keeps blood moving in the right direction in arteries. Veins have valves that prevent backflow of blood, but arteries do not.
Arterial walls are made up of three layers: the tunica intima,  tunica media, and tunica externa. The tunica media is the thickest  layer in arteries. Nothing, it is only pressure that keeps blood moving in the right direction in arteries. Veins have valves that prevent backflow of blood, but arteries do not.
For the endothelium of the cornea, see corneal endothelium. Endothelium is a type of epithelium that lines the interior surface of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood or lymph in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall. It is a thin layer of simple squamous cells called endothelial cells. 
The Endothelium   The Endothelium is a single layer of cells which line the internal wall of blood vessels. It enables the blood to flow smoothly inside the blood … vessels. The only time that I can think of that there would be a break in an artery's endothelium is when a bit gets damaged, like with turbulent (disorganised) blood flow over an … atheromatous (fatty) plaque that forms in the intima of the artery wall (there are many layers to an artery wall, the intima is one of them).
A) All carry oxygenated blood to the heart. B) All carry blood away from the heart. C) All contain valves to prevent the backflow of blood. D) Only large arteries are lined with endothelium. B) any condition in which blood vessels are inadequately filled and blood cannot circulate normally. C) shock that results from large-scale loss of blood volume, or after severe vomiting or diarrhea. D) always fatal
Which type of blood vessels contain valves and what is their function? Veins contain valves to prevent blood from flowing backward. This is necessary because the venous vessels are a low-pressure system and the blood must sometimes flow against gravity, particularly in the limbs. 
A) tunica intima. Permitting the exchange of nutrients and gases between the blood and tissue cells is the primary function of ______. A) arterioles B) arteries C) veins D) capillaries. D) capillaries. The arteries that are also called distributing arteries are the ________. In the dynamics of blood flow through capillaries, hydrostatic pressure ________. A) and osmotic pressure are the same B) is the same as capillary blood pressure C) generally forces fluid from the interstitial space into the capillaries D) is complete.
A) Venous valves are formed from the tunica media. B) Up to 35% of total body blood is in venous circulation at any given time. C) Veins have a small lumen in relation to the thickness of the vessel wall. D) Veins are called capacitance vessels or blood reservoirs. D) Veins are called capacitance vessels or blood reservoirs. 22) The form of circulatory shock known as hypovolemic shock is ________. A) the form of shock caused by anaphylaxis. B) any condition in which blood vessels are inadequately filled and blood cannot circulate normally. C) shock that results from large-scale loss of blood volume, or after severe vomiting or diarrhea.
The only time that I can think of that there would be a break in an artery's endothelium is when a bit gets damaged, like with turbulent (disorganised) blood flow over an … atheromatous (fatty) plaque that forms in the intima of the artery wall (there are many layers to an artery wall, the intima is one of them). Nothing, it is only pressure that keeps blood moving in the right direction in arteries. Veins have valves that prevent backflow of blood, but arteries do not.