Country: I have Unibond ready mixed tile on Concrete adhesive and grout but the area i originally thought was concrete had a small area of vinyl tiles. I removed the tiles but this leaves a bitumen problem. The tub says not to tile over vinyl but has no reference to bitumen. A tiler (career tiler) friend said to get rid of the tile on concrete cos he had never heard of, or used it and B&Q stuff is **** and for diy'ers (i didnt take much notice of the B&Q comment cos i know uni bond to be a good brand, i think). He said use rapid set as that would tile over anything and hold but the packet of rapid set i saw in B&Q said not suitable for tiling over bitumen.. Clue me up purlease lads (or lasses) cos me old ma is desperate to get her tiling done before her new kitchen arrives. Thanx in advance.
This is largely due to plasticizer migration from the bitumen resulting in the. deterioration of the integrity of the bitumen and tile adhesive, and a failure of the installation. New generation bitumen systems incorporate a synthetic film on the surface or a surface layer of stone chips. The bituminous systems have to be applied at a minimum thickness of 4mm. Being thermoplastic in nature, the bitumen tends to have a ‘’flow’’ character in warm conditions. This reduces support to the adhesive layer and results in failure of the adhesive and, in some cases, tiles are damaged due to the ‘’soft’’ support.
If it is truly asphalt tile, it would be nine inch squares. Asphalt is too brittle to manufacture in 12. To the best of my knowledge, asphalt tile does not contain asbestos, but (AND A VERY BIG BUT) if the adhesive is black it is probably asphalt cutback which may contain up to 28% asbestos. DO NOT SAND IT!!! If the adhesive is a dark brown, it is probably asphalt emulsion which usually does not contain asbestos. Testing of the tile and adhesive is quite cheap-used to be about $35 for the tile and 20-25 for the adhesive. They only need very small samples to examine.
Once you place this covering on the floor, lay your adhesive down and tile your floor, only do as much as you can lay tile for. For example if you are doing this yourself, start with a 4 by 4 section, put your mastic down, lay your tile, then move on. Report Abuse. you do not need to remove the asphalt, but you may need to put down Hardy backer board. You can get it at Home Depot. I would call a place that sells tile and tell them what you're trying to do, they will tell you what you need to do.
Re: Tile over asphalt tile. Don't know if you can rent one in your area but they do make an infrared tile removal machine. Never used it personally, but have heard great things about them. Another option is dry ice. Freeze and they should chip out a lot easier. 1000 ft may take 20 or so pounds of dry ice to do. If the adhesive is a dark brown, it is probably asphalt emulsion which usually does not contain asbestos. Testing of the tile and adhesive is quite cheap-used to be about $35 for the tile and 20-25 for the adhesive. They only need very small samples to examine.
Re: Tile over asphalt tile. I'm no tile expert, but if it is asphalt tile, it may contain asbestos. Call in the guys with the moon suits! Just a thought, but I'm thinking maybe leave it down if it is well bonded and go over it with Ditra or the like, and set the tile over that. If the adhesive is a dark brown, it is probably asphalt emulsion which usually does not contain asbestos. Testing of the tile and adhesive is quite cheap-used to be about $35 for the tile and 20-25 for the adhesive. They only need very small samples to examine.
If you are positive that it is asphalt I would not suggest adhering tile directly to the asphalt. If removal of asphalt is not an option I would install a subfloor and use thi … nset mortar to adhere the tile. Another option (probably the better option) would be to pour a concrete mix over the asphalt. 
QUESTION: We are planning to install 2 hex glazed tiles on our bathroom floor (small 42 sf). Do we have to remove the existing asphalt tile, or can we just tile over it. The asphalt tiles are very, very stuck to the cement floor. We removed similar asphalt tiles from our kitchen floor before we tiled it with granite squares, and it was a bear to remove. 
supportive999 New Member. Hi, Anybody technical out there and can you help. Bitumen Adhesive: Floor Tiles-is there an adhesive which can be applied over the bitumen or a sealer you can apply before tiling as the bitumen will not come off concrete floor. Began striping old vinyl flooring Tiles to the concrete and found layer of the old black tar like adhesive, still tacky to touch. Have bought Unibond tile on Floor Adhesive-Rapid set+over Asphalt & Vinyl Tiles. This adhesive can be used on concreat and more, also is ready to grout in 3 Hours.