Thermi-RF is a unique treatment that has the potential to lift and smooth sagging skin almost anywhere on your body. There are two modes: One on the skin surface, and one acting below your skin. Thermi-RF is thermistor controlled radio frequency. The simple description is that it offers very localized controlled heating of your skin and subcutaneous tissue. With continuous temperature monitoring, the risk of unplanned injury is minimized.
Thermi Smooth uses an external hand piece that delivers heat to the skin superficially. This heat reaches a target temperature to stimulate the production of new collagen below the surface of the skin and reduce the appearance of wrinkles around the eyes and mouth. Recovery from a Thermi Smooth Procedure. There is no downtime necessary after a Thermi Smooth treatment. Patients can immediately return to all of their normal daily activities. The total treatment time is generally between 20 and 30 minutes, and patients have no discomfort afterward.
Thermi Smooth technology applies the radio frequency energy to the treatment site in order to stimulate the production of new collagen within the skin. Collagen is a protein that is found naturally within the second layer of the skin. Recovery from a Thermi Smooth Procedure. There is no downtime necessary after a Thermi Smooth treatment. Patients can immediately return to all of their normal daily activities. The total treatment time is generally between 20 and 30 minutes, and patients have no discomfort afterward.
Thermi-Gen™ is a non-surgical procedure that uses Radiofrequency (RF) energy to stimulate collagen for tightening and smoothing the skin of the face and neck. This procedure provides tighter, smoother, more youthful looking skin for all skin types (safe for light and dark complexions). Thermi-Gen™ technology is more effective because it has an internal probe that enables the doctor to apply the treating energy BELOW the skin surface – directly to the targeted collagen layer. Another unique feature of Thermi-Gen™ is its continuous temperature monitor located on the internal probe.
Before & After Photos. Thermi RF is a minimally-invasive treatment to both remove excess fat and tighten loose skin. It uses radiofrequency energy to heat fat cells which are eventually drained from the body through urination. No downtime is required after Thermi RF, making it an ideal choice for today’s busy, jam-packed lifestyles. The areas to be treated with Thermi RF are cleansed and a gel is applied to the skin. The cool tip of the handpiece is then placed onto the skin. As the Thermi RF’s radiofrequency energy is sent through the skin, you will feel a soothing, warm, sensation.
Thermi RF delivers its radiofrequency energy via a cannula that is inserted under the patient’s skin. The cannula heats the tissue beneath the skin, melting the fat and preparing it for excretion from the body. The areas to be treated with Thermi RF are cleansed and a gel is applied to the skin. The cool tip of the handpiece is then placed onto the skin. As the Thermi RF’s radiofrequency energy is sent through the skin, you will feel a soothing, warm, sensation.
Non-invasive facial treatment (external probe): The delicate skin of the face can be effectively treated with the non-invasive external probe. After cleansing the face, a gel is applied and the external Thermi-Gen™ probe is passed over the face in a specific pattern. Thermi-Gen™ technology is more effective because it has an internal probe that enables the doctor to apply the treating energy BELOW the skin surface – directly to the targeted collagen layer. Another unique feature of Thermi-Gen™ is its continuous temperature monitor located on the in
Thermi-RF (ThermiSmooth) non-invasive treatment may be used for clearly visible results on any adult. Although outcomes from Thermi-RF are not equivalent to surgery, it is much easier on you, and depending on your situation, the benefit you get from Thermi-RF may be enough. Patients with mild amounts of loose or sagging skin are best suited for this office procedure.
ThermaSculpting – Thermi RF. ThermaSculpting uses ThermiRF technology that achieves both improved contouring and tightening in the same treatment for a more reliable, less painful and safer procedure to treat small areas of fat tissue and lifting for patients that do not want to undergo more invasive procedures. 