(Answer #1). The four spheres show how the four main components of Planet Earth form a complete system. These main components are land, air, water, and life. The lithosphere, also known as Geosphere is made of the earth's core, the mantle, crust, ocean floor,mountains, sand, rocks, alphalt, bricks, etc. The hydrosphere is made of everything water such as oceans, rivers, lakes, rain, snow, and ice caps.
Earth's Four Spheres. Four major parts of Earth work together as a complex system: rocks, water, air, and life. On a global scale, each part can be thought of as a sphere, roughly the same size and shape as the planet. The four parts are called the geosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere. !
The hydrosphere is composed of all of the water on or near the earth. This includes the oceans, rivers, lakes, and even the moisture in the air. Ninety-seven percent of the earth's water is in the oceans. Most of the planet's life is found from three meters below the ground to thirty meters above it and in the top 200 meters of the oceans and seas. The atmosphere is the body of air which surrounds our planet. Most of our atmosphere is located close to the earth's surface where it is most dense.
Atmosphere= it cotains the oxygen we breathe and protects the earth from radiation. Lithosphere= which includes the crust and uppermost mantle. Hydrosphere= is made up of the water elements on the earth. Biosphere= the part of the earth where plants and animals live. 
Everything in Earth's system can be placed into one of four major subsystems: land, water, living things, or air. These four subsystems are called spheres.. Specifically, they are the lithosphere (land), hydrosphere (water), biosphere (living things), and atmosphere (air). Each of these four spheres can be further divided into sub-spheres. Hydrosphere The hydrosphere contains all the solid, liquid, and gaseous water of the planet. **It ranges from 10 to 20 kilometers in thickness. The hydrosphere extends from Earth's surface downward several kilometers into the lithosphere and upward about 12 kilometers into the atmosphere.
Describe the four main spheres of Earth. 1.lithosphere 2.hydrosphere 3.atmosphere 4.biosphere. The four spheres show how the four main components of Planet Earth form a complete system. These main components are land, air, water, and life. The lithosphere, also known as Geosphere is made of the earth's core, the mantle, crust, ocean floor,mountains, sand, rocks, alphalt, bricks, etc. The hydrosphere is made of everything water such as oceans, rivers, lakes, rain, snow, and ice caps.
The Hydrosphere. Knowing that 'hydro' means 'water,' you may have guessed that the hydrosphere is made up of all the water on Earth. This includes all of the rivers, lakes, streams, oceans, groundwater, polar ice caps, glaciers and moisture in the air (like rain and snow). The Geosphere. Since 'geo' means 'ground,' the geosphere describes all of the rocks, minerals and ground that are found on and in Earth. This includes all of the mountains on the surface, as well as all of the liquid rock in the mantle below us and the minerals and metals of the outer and inner cores.
Overview of Four Spheres. From rocks or crabs to wind or rain, there are four geospheres into which all the elements and life present on and around the surface of the Earth can be classified. These geospheres are the lithosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and the atmosphere. The hydrosphere, from the Greek 'hydro' meaning water, classifies all water on or near the surface of the Earth. From oceans to humidity to rainstorms, all water falls into this category.
The hydrosphere is found on the surface of Earth, but also extends down several miles below, as well as several miles up into the atmosphere. Most of Earth's water is salty and in the oceans-about 97%. Two-thirds of the remaining 3% is frozen in glaciers and polar ice caps. The Geosphere. Since 'geo' means 'ground,' the geosphere describes all of the rocks, minerals and ground that are found on and in Earth. This includes all of the mountains on the surface, as well as all of the liquid rock in the mantle below us and the minerals and metals of the outer and inner cores.
The area near the surface of the earth can be divided up into four inter-connected geo-spheres: the lithosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and atmosphere. Scientists can classify life and material on or near the surface of the earth to be in any of these four spheres. The names of the four spheres are derived from the Greek words for stone (litho), air (atmo), water (hydro), and life (bio). Most of the planet's life is found from three meters below the ground to thirty meters above it and in the top 200 meters of the oceans and seas. The atmosphere is the body of air which surrounds our planet. Most of our atmosphere is located close to the earth's surface where it is most dense.