The four largest islands are Majorca, Minorca, Ibiza and Formentera. There are many minor islands and islets in close proximity to the larger islands, including Cabrera, Dragonera and S'Espalmador. The islands have a Mediterranean Climate, and the four major islands are all popular tourist destinations. The official name of the Balearic Islands in Catalan is Illes Balears, while in Spanish they are known as the Islas Baleares. The term Balearic derives from Greek (γυμνησίαι / Gymnesiae and βαλλιαρεῖς / Balliareis). In Latin (Baleares)
East of the Spanish mainland, the four chief Balearic Islands – Ibiza, Formentera, Mallorca and Menorca – maintain a character distinct from the rest of Spain and from each other. 
The Balearic Islands are an archipelago of islands set like jewels in the azure Mediterranean Sea; from South to North there lie the islands of Formentera, Ibiza, Mallorca and Menorca. 
The archipelago forms an autonomous community and a province of Spain, with Palma de Mallorca as the capital. The co-official languages in the Balearic Islands are Catalan and Spanish. The current Statute of Autonomy declares the Balearic Islands as one nationality of Spain. Though currently a part of Spain, throughout history the Balearic Islands have been under the rule of number of different kingdoms and countries. The official name of the Balearic Islands in Catalan is Illes Balears, while in Spanish they are known as the Islas Baleares. The term Balearic derives from Greek (γυμνησίαι / Gymnesiae and βαλλιαρεῖς / Balliareis). In Latin (Baleares)
Balearic Islands Tourist. The Balearic Islands, an autonomous division of Spain and are located between Spain and the North African coast. The Balearic Islands are also one the most popular tourist destination in the whole of Europe. This Balearic Islands are made up of Majorca, Minorca, Ibiza and Formentera. On each of these islands you will find the sun, sea and sand but depending on which island you visit you can also find parties in to the early hours of the morning of a nice quiet evening with very little happening.
A popular Balearic Island holiday destination is Majorca, which is the largest of the islands, combining family-friendly resorts like Alcudia and Palma Nova with party capital Magaluf. Celebrity-spotters head to Camp de Mar and other stylish resorts near the capital, Palma de Mallorca. Currency: The currency used in the Balearic Islands is Euro (€). Local time: The Balearic Islands are 1 hour ahead of GMT/UK time. Fly to: The Balearic Islands have three airports: one each on Ibiza, Majorca and Menorca.
Like the other Balearic Islands of Minorca, Ibiza and Formentera, the island is an extremely popular holiday destination, particularly for tourists from Germany and the United Kingdom. The international airport, Palma de Mallorca Airport, is one of the busiest in Spain; it was used by 23.1 million passengers in 2014. The Balearic Islands, of which Majorca forms part, are one of the autonomous communities of Spain. As a whole, they are currently governed by the conservative Partido Popular, with Jose José Ramon ramón bauza Bauzà. as their president