Deoxygenated blood is blood which doesn't contain oxygen and this deoxygenated blood is usually sent to the lungs to be oxygenated and then this blood is distributed to all parts of the body. maya_123 · 5 years ago. Blood also picks up CO2 to take it to the lungs for exhalation. Deoxygenated blood is carried in the veins to the heart, where it is pumped into the lungs to get more oxygen and release the CO2. Source(s): http://users.rcn.com/jkimball.ma.ultrane...
Generally most veins carry deoxygenated blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood. The correct way to think about it is that Veins carry blood to the heart, whilst arteries carry blood away from the heart. This means in most cases, the blood carried by veins will be deoxygenated, whilst the blood carried by arteries is oxygenated. In this case the pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs, whilst the pulmonary vein carries oxygenated blood from the lungs back to the heart to be pumped to the rest of the body.
Blood Vessels: Arteries: These are large blood vessels that take oxygenated blood away from the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The aorta is the body's largest artery. Veins: These blood vessels take deoxygenated blood from around the body back to the heart and lungs to be oxygenated. Capillaries: These tiny blood vessels are where the exchange of oxygen and nutrients take place. The right atrium is the upper chamber of the right side of the heart. The blood that is returned to the right atrium is deoxygenated (poor in oxygen) and passed into the right ventricle to be pumped through the pulmonary artery to the lungs for re-oxygenation and removal of carbon dioxide.
Deoxygenated blood is then pumped by the right ventricle to the lungs via the pulmonary artery which is divided in two branches, left and right to the left and right lungs respectively. Blood is oxygenated in the lungs and returns to the left atrium through the pulmonary veins. Venous blood is typically colder than arterial blood, and has a lower oxygen content and pH. It also has lower concentrations of glucose and other nutrients, and has higher concentrations of urea and other waste products. Venous blood collected during blood donation. Venous blood is deoxygenated blood which travels from the peripheral vessels, through the venous system into the right atrium of the heart.
This oxygenated blood is pumped to the left hand side of the heart in the pulmonary vein and enters the left atrium. From here it passes through the mitral valve, through the ventricle and taken all around the body by the aorta. Blood contains antibodies, nutrients, oxygen and much more to help the body work. Vertebrate blood is bright red when its haemoglobin is oxygenated and dark red when it is deoxygenated. Some animals, such as crustaceans and mollusks, use hemocyanin to carry oxygen, instead of hemoglobin.
All arteries carry oxygenated blood with the exception of the pulmonary artery from the right side of the heart to the lungs, which does not. Yes. Most arterial blood is oxyg … enated. There are two exceptions to that rule. One is the pulmonary artery which carries deoxygenated blood. Blood in the arteries is oxygenated. Blood in the veins is de-oxygenated. With the exception of the pulmonary arteries which carry de-oxygenated blood, and the pulmonary veins … that carry oxygenated blood.
Blood contains a pigment called hemoglobin that carries oxygen to the tissues in the body. Oxygen is added to hemoglobin in the lungs and carried throughout the body through b … lood vessels called arteries and it is called oxygenated blood. After supplying oxygen, blood is returned to the heart by veins and that blood is called deoxygenated blood. + 80 others found this useful
Simple answer: Veins Complex answer: a series of blood vessels (excluding arteries) carries deoxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Where the blood is then passed throu … gh an oxygenating process with the lungs. Another answer: pressure caused by the beating of the 4 chamber heart. Oxygen is added to hemoglobin in the lungs and carried throughout the body through b … lood vessels called arteries and it is called oxygenated blood.
Blood contains a pigment called hemoglobin that carries oxygen to the tissues in the body. Oxygen is added to hemoglobin in the lungs and carried throughout the body through blood vessels called arteries and it is called oxygenated blood. Blood in the arteries is oxygenated. Blood in the veins is de-oxygenated. With the exception of the pulmonary arteries which carry de-oxygenated blood, and the pulmonary veins … that carry oxygenated blood.