Everybody knows his  what goes up, must come down  universal theory of gravity, but Newton also showed that color is inherent in white light, studied the speed of sound, advanced the heliocentric view of the solar system, and postulated on the origin of the stars.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Essentially, gravity is an attractive force between objects. Most people are familiar with gravity as the reason behind things staying on the Earth's surface, or what goes up, must come down, but gravity actually has a much vaster significance.
1 If m 1 attracts m 2 with a force F, then m 2 attracts m 1 with a force-F. 2  The observation that all forces come in such pairs is Newton's third law of motion. 3  The r 2 in the denominator means that the attraction gets weaker in proportion as the square of the separation.
Albert Einstein, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921, contributed an alternate theory of gravity in the early 1900s. It was part of his famous General Theory of Relativity, and it offered a very different explanation from Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation.
D. The Law of Gravity. Einstein spent a good deal of time over several years, with the help of a number of collaborators, trying to work out a mathematical law that would account for gravity in terms of spacetime curvature, and publishing various speculations and findings along the way.
Gravitons or no gravitons, we know that what goes up must come down. Perhaps someday, we'll know exactly why. But until then, we can be satisfied just knowing that planet Earth won't go hurdling into the sun anytime soon. Gravity is keeping it safely in orbit.
Neither. In the absence of sufficient gravity what goes up can continue to go up forever. This is called Inertia, as detailed in Newton's first law of motion. What goes up must come down is not so much scientific but rather a generalization of any lucky streak..
Gravity is the name associated with the reason for what goes up, must come down, whether it be the baseball hit in the neighborhood sandlot game or the child happily jumping on the backyard mini-trampoline. We all know of the word gravity-it is the thing that causes objects to fall to Earth.