Giraffes are endangered because people hunt them for there skin meat and bones but poachers are hunting to many giraffes so they don't have enough time to repopulate.
Giraffes, found throughout sub-Saharan Africa, are susceptible to poaching and habitat loss. Photograph by Beverly Joubert, National Geographic Creative Giraffe researcher Julian Fennessy recently boarded a helicopter in Ethiopia's Gambella National Park, which borders the turbulent new nation of South Sudan.
Giraffe numbers are dwindling across Africa because of poaching and habitat loss caused by human population growth, according to wildlife experts, and it's happening largely unnoticed.
Giraffes Endangered. It may surprise you to learn that the giraffe is a protected species throughout most of Africa. While for the most part they have decent numbers that don’t pose a threat there are activists that feel without such conservation that wouldn’t be the case.
Ecosystem endangered In the Savanna biome, where the West African Giraffe lives in, most animals are becoming endangered or threatened. The reasoning is that these animals are not generalist. They can not move from biome to biome. Most of the animals will stay in the same place for their whole life.
Giraffes are practically part of the landscape of Africa, standing tree-like in the grasslands. Most giraffe species are of no concern to conservationists, yet a sub-species (or, as some researchers propose a separate species), the Rothschild giraffe, a.k.a. Baringo Giraffe or Ugandan Giraffe, is endangered.
Most species of giraffes are not endangered. However, the West African (Nigerian Giraffe) is classified as endangered. Giraffe is not an endangered.Unlike elephants killed for … tusks and the leopards killed for their hides ,the giraffes can only be killed for their meat and this is very rare.
Two of the nine subspecies of giraffe are currently endangered: the West African Giraffe or Nigerian Giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis peralta), and the Rothschild's Giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis rothschildi).
Most species of giraffes are not endangered. However, the West African (Nigerian Giraffe) is classified as endangered. Giraffe is not an endangered.Unlike elephants killed for … tusks and the leopards killed for their hides ,the giraffes can only be killed for their meat and this is very rare. 63 people found this useful.