Cartilage is a specialized form of connective tissue produced by differentiated fibroblast-like cells called chondrocytes. It is characterized by a prominent extracellular matrix consisting of various proportions of connective tissue fibers embedded in a gel-like matrix. Fibroblast﻿. Fibroblasts are by far the most common native cell type of connective tissue. The fibroblast synthesizes the collagen and ground substance of the extracellular matrix. These cells make a large amount of protein that they secrete to build the connective tissue layer. Some fibroblasts have a contractile function; these are called myofibroblasts
CELLS: The most common connective tissue cells are: 1  Fibroblasts, which secrete collagen and other elements of the extracellular matrix. 2  Adipocytes, which store fat. 3  Mast cells, macrophages, and lymphocytes, cells with immune function which participate in inflammation. The extracellular fibers of connective tissue are traditionally classified into three types: 1  Collagen fibers confer main tensile strength, and are the stuff of scars. 2  Elastic fibers confer elasticity. 3  Reticular fibers (really, a special form of collagen) provide a delicate supporting framework for loose cells.
EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX. The extracellular matrix of connective tissue is composed of ground substance and fibers. In ordinary connective tissue, the ground substanc e consists mainly of water. The principal fiber type is collagen (the most abundant protein in the body), with elastic fibers as a minor element. The extracellular materials which comprise the matrix are produced by fibroblasts. The extracellular fibers of connective tissue are traditionally classified into three types: 1  Collagen fibers confer main tensile strength, and are the stuff of scars. 2  Elastic fibers confer elasticity. 3  Reticular fibers (really, a special form of collagen) provide a delicate supporting framework for loose cells.
Supportive connective tissues include cartilage and bone, more durable connective tissue types due to the semisolid or solid ground substance that accumulates in the matrix. Since the matrix of supportive connective tissues is either a semisolid or solid, cells of these tissues occupy small spaces or lacunae. In connective tissues, the extracellular space is termed the extracellular matrix because products of specialized cells accumulate here. These products include protein fibers and ground substances (mixes of various chemical substances).
1 In most connective tissues, these form the extracellular matrix and protein fibers. 2  cytes-less active cells that typically occupy the matrix of mature connective tissues. 3  Think of these as maintaining a completed tissue rather than forming one. 4  clasts-a type of cell involved in remodeling or breakdown of bone matrix. In connective tissues, the extracellular space is termed the extracellular matrix because products of specialized cells accumulate here. These products include protein fibers and ground substances (mixes of various chemical substances).
Fluid connective tissue types, of which there are only two, are important in transport and body defense. Most connective tissues are variants of the second group, connective tissue proper where cells are interspersed among protein fibers in a fluid-filled matrix. In connective tissues, the extracellular space is termed the extracellular matrix because products of specialized cells accumulate here. These products include protein fibers and ground substances (mixes of various chemical substances).
Fibroblasts are by far the most common native cell type of connective tissue. The fibroblast synthesizes the collagen and ground substance of the extracellular matrix. These cells make a large amount of protein that they secrete to build the connective tissue layer. Cartilage. Cartilage is a specialized form of connective tissue produced by differentiated fibroblast-like cells called chondrocytes. It is characterized by a prominent extracellular matrix consisting of various proportions of connective tissue fibers embedded in a gel-like matrix.
Bone is a connective tissue that is characterized by a mineralized extracellular matrix. The matrix is secreted by cells called osteocytes. It consists mostly of mineralized collagen fibres arranged in lamellae. What little ground substance is present is also mineralized. Connective tissues have cells and an extracellular matrix. Connective tissue consists of cells and extracellular material secreted by some of those cells. Thus, unlike the other basic tissues (epithelia, muscle, nervous), the cells in CT may be widely separated from one another within the
Cartilage is a connective tissue whose cells, called chondrocytes, secrete a very specialized matrix. The basophilia of the matrix is due to the GAGs in its ground substance, specifically hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate and keratan sulfate. Connective tissues have cells and an extracellular matrix. Connective tissue consists of cells and extracellular material secreted by some of those cells. Thus, unlike the other basic tissues (epithelia, muscle, nervous), the cells in CT may be widely separated from one another within the