(4) Wages for some occupations that do not generally work year-round, full time, are reported either as hourly wages or annual salaries depending on how they are typically paid. (5) This wage is equal to or greater than $90.00 per hour or $187,199 per year. (8) Estimates not released. (9) The location quotient is the ratio of the area concentration of occupational employment to the national average concentration. (2) Annual wages have been calculated by multiplying the hourly mean wage by a year-round, full-time hours figure of 2,080 hours; for those occupations where there is not an hourly mean wage published, the annual wage has been directly calculated from the reported survey data.
It's a profession that's immensely rewarding and imme... To See How Few Women There Are at the Top, Photoshop Out the Men. If you watched the Democratic primary debate last night, one thing probably stood out to you, regardless of your political leanings: Hillary Clinton w... The 3 Most and Least Recession-Recovered Cities.
Charlottesville, VA Salary. Charlottesville, VA average salary is $58,379, median salary is $47,810 with a salary range from $19,762 to $1,086,800. Charlottesville, VA salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Charlottesville, VA salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. Charlottesville, VA salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Links to OES estimates for other areas and States. Major Occupational Groups in Charlottesville, VA (Note --clicking a link will scroll the page to the occupational group): 1  00-0000 All Occupations. 2  11-0000 Management Occupations. 3  13-0000 Business and Financial Operations Occupations. These estimates are calculated with data collected from employers in all industry sectors in Charlottesville, VA, a metropolitan statistical area in Virginia.
(5) This wage is equal to or greater than $90.00 per hour or $187,199 per year. (8) Estimates not released. (9) The location quotient is the ratio of the area concentration of occupational employment to the national average concentration. These estimates are calculated with data collected from employers in all industry sectors in Charlottesville, VA, a metropolitan statistical area in Virginia.
Average salaries for job postings in Charlottesville, VA are 10% higher than average salaries for job postings nationwide. 
In the tables you can see a comparison of national and state average salaries for each nursing specialty as well as a detailed breakdown of employment and salary rates. Contents. 1  1 Registered Nurse Salary in Virginia. 2  1.1 Registered Nurse Salaries in Metro and Nonmetropolitan Areas, Virginia. In the tables below you can view all of the data available for different types of nursing salaries in the state of Virginia (VA).
Nurse practitioners in Virginia enjoyed a solid increase in salary in recent years. According to a survey conducted by Advance for NPs and PAs, a leading industry journal, NPs in Vermont earned an average of $94,406 in 2011, up from $81,000 in 2010. These tables provide salary and employment information compiled by the US Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics in May 2011. The data contained herein does not include self-employed nurses in independent practice.
The 2011 American Academy of Nurse Practitioners’ National Compensation Survey reports that NPs in the southeastern states, including Virginia, earned an average base salary of $87,653 and an average total income of $96,916 when benefits were included. These tables provide salary and employment information compiled by the US Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics in May 2011. The data contained herein does not include self-employed nurses in independent practice.