Meaning of Tasneem. African name. In African, the name Tasneem means-foundation of paradise.The name Tasneem originated as an African name. The name Tasneem is most often used as a girl name or female name. African Name Meaning-foundation of paradise. Origin-Africa. 
Find Tasneem meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Tasneem name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Tasneem. 
This name is a Muslim name from The Koran. Tasneem or Tasnim is the name of a fountain in heaven that The Koran says those who are close to God will drink from. Comments and insights on the name Tasneem: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Tasneem: | Edit. I had a friend named Tasneem, an African-American girl around my age from Kansas City, MO. She was a great person who I always admired and a good friend. Years later the name popped up again when I was pregnant
Self-awareness test of the baby. Performing the self-awareness test of the baby is quite simple. If you put a red dot on the baby’s forehead and show him the mirror, notice what he does. If they rub the dot, they are aware, else not. Higher ratio of birth mark. The ratio of birth mark among babies is very high i.e. one baby born out of every 3 babies have a birth mark present on their body. Baby girls have more probability of birth marks than baby boys.
Fatemah: Fatemah is derived from the name of the beloved daughter of the Messenger of Allah (saws), Hadrat Fatemah binte Mohammed (r.a.); and its literal meaning is one who is innocent. Murtuza: The correct spelling of the name is Murtadha, and it means something or someone that is liked. Meaning of names tasneem,alifiya,fatema,nafisa. In the name of Allah, We praise Him, seek His help and ask for His forgiveness. Whoever Allah guides none can misguide, and whoever He allows to fall astray, none can guide them aright.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. TASNEEM: Name of a fountain in Jannahh (Paradise) whose drink is superior to the purest of wines. Its nectar will only be drunk by those nearest to Allah Ta'ala. Literally means rich and elevated. 
List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Tasneem in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Higher ratio of birth mark. The ratio of birth mark among babies is very high i.e. one baby born out of every 3 babies have a birth mark present on their body. Baby girls have more probability of birth marks than baby boys.
5. Tasneem. Tasneem means an aggressive psychotic demon its meaning came from an old legend in the old Asian myths this name has normally been given to females due to their beliefs of women being a human form of demons. Many ancient old tribes name the girl tribe leader Tasneem with this definition. 3. Tasneem. usually, a girl named tasneem, is very sophisticated and beautiful. she most likely has an awesome personality. and is definitely SUPER FINEEEE. gorgeous eyes, enchanting smile, cute laugh. but is too good for any guy :). the girl of your dreams.