For example, if your name is Athena, your name meaning may start out saying that she was goddess of wisdom or goddess of war, which are two of her roles in Greek mythology. The first person who wrote that is really rude. The meaning of a person's name can make them feel more noble or comfortable with who they are... being named after someone can cause a lot of introspection and either rebellion against that example, or close following of the same. + 3 others found this useful.
You also spelled especially wrong. If your name meaning starts out w … ith goddess of... as the name meaning, then it was either derived from the name of a mythological goddess or is the same name as the goddess in a given mythology. The meaning of a person's name can make them feel more noble or comfortable with who they are... being named after someone can cause a lot of introspection and either rebellion against that example, or close following of the same. + 3 others found this useful.
You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. Your name brings love and new starts into life and attracts money. In business, you are the creator and promoter of original ideas and usually enjoy considerable financial success.You are frank, methodical and believe in law, system and order. It represents the Law and Order and also associated with a Karmic Law of cause and effect. Number 6 is a perfect number, symmetrical in all parts, the number of the Soul. Therefore, people of number Six have a special mission in their life.
soliana name meaning and Name Origin. soliana is vey popular for American babies name and its popularity ranking is very high in all the years ranging from 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. soliana is not a popular first name but a very popular surname or last name for all people. American Girl
Solana /so-lana/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced so-LAH-nah. It is of Spanish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Solana is sunlight; eastern wind. Also a combination of Anna and Sol. A saint's name. Kreatif forms: Scolana, Siolana, Solany. Solana is an unusual given name for women but a very prominent surname for all people (#38706 out of 150436, Top 26%). (2000 U.S. Census). Ana (#222 the previous year) , Ann (#945) , Anna (#34) , Annalee (#987) , Annamarie, Annemarie, Annika (#576) and Annmarie are the prominent variation forms of Solana (not ranked) .
Meaning of Solana. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Solana means-Sunshine.. Other origins for the name Solana include-Spanish, Latin-American.The name Solana is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-Sunshine. Origin-Spanish
1 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. It represents the Law and Order and also associated with a Karmic Law of cause and effect. Number 6 is a perfect number, symmetrical in all parts, the number of the Soul. Therefore, people of number Six have a special mission in their life.
Solana is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced So-la-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3088 in baby name popularity for girls with 54 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 