The Hmong are sometimes referred to as the Meo in Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam. In China, one of the official nationalities is Miao, a group that includes Hmong, ancient predecessors of the Hmong, and non-related peoples. In an effort to pacify the Hmong, the French established an autonomous Hmong district that was allowed to partake in self-government. This created competition, however, between the heads of two prominent families in the district, one headed by Fong and one by Bliayao.
Hmong Americans are Americans of Hmong descent from Southeast Asia, most notably from Thailand, Vietnam and Laos. Hmong Americans are one group of Asian Americans. Many Lao Hmong war refugees resettled in the U.S. following the North Vietnamese invasion of Laos and Laotian Civil War during the Vietnam War. Hmong girls and boys had also encountered difficulties in achieving success in the field of education as they adapted the Hmong culture, which is considered as rural, to the contemporary American society (Ngo & Lor, 2013).
Izzy S. and Gabby. Games have been a part of Hmong culture ever since they’ve lived in China. They have been passed down from generation to generation. There are many similarities between Hmong and American games. For example tub lub (too-loo) is very much like tops. Jacks is also similar to stick and stone game. Soccer is American is exactly the same as in Asi
The teens also had an opportunity to enjoy traditional Ojibwe food. One teen noticed similarities between the Ojibwe and Hmong cultures. The teens previously have learned about 19th century life in Minnesota by touring Murphy’s Landing in Shakopee and Fort Snelling in St. Paul. 
Hmong high school students perform a traditional dance at a high school on the outskirts of Vientiane, Laos. Many Hmong families are moving into lowland villages, and are becoming more integrated into Lao life but still retain a strong sense of their own culture and heritage. The clan (xeem) remains a dominant organizing force in Hmong society. There are about eighteen Hmong clans that are known in Laos and Thailand. Clan membership is inherited upon birth or occasionally through adoption. All children are members of the father’s clan, through which they will trace their ancestors.
Hmong Medicine is important because it has a deep relationship with religion and culture. Much of it has to do with spiritual beliefs that revolve around shamanism. For example, within Hmong Culture, the secret to perfect health is the balance between the body and spirit. (1) This is a strong belief and it usually requires the help of a shaman, as the shaman is the center of Hmong culture. (2) This is why the most significant factor relating to Hmong Medicine is
Whilst many Hmong are still left in Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, and China (which houses one of the biggest Hmong populations in the world, 5 million), since 1975 many Hmong have fled Laos in fear of persecution. The clan (xeem) remains a dominant organizing force in Hmong society. There are about eighteen Hmong clans that are known in Laos and Thailand. Clan membership is inherited upon birth or occasionally through adoption. All children are members of the father’s clan, through which they will trace their ancestors.
The biggest problem of the cultural differences is the fact that Hmong religion requires animal sacrifices, especially when it comes to the attempt of trying to retrive a lost or trapped soul, and fixing damaged souls. (1) This is a strong belief and it usually requires the help of a shaman, as the shaman is the center of Hmong culture. (2) This is why the most significant factor relating to Hmong Medicine is shamanism.
Modern American Medicine is very simple unlike Traditional Hmong Medicine. In America, when a person becomes sick, the regular person would go to a doctor, either at a clinic or the hospital. (1) This is a strong belief and it usually requires the help of a shaman, as the shaman is the center of Hmong culture. (2) This is why the most significant factor relating to Hmong Medicine is shamanism.
Social scientists estimate that there are between six and seven million Hmong in the world. Until recently, almost all Hmong lived in the mountains of southern China, Laos, Thailand, and northern Vietnam. In an effort to pacify the Hmong, the French established an autonomous Hmong district that was allowed to partake in self-government. This created competition, however, between the heads of two prominent families in the district, one headed by Fong and one by Bliayao.