It is a close call, but the polar bear is generally considered the largest bear on Earth. A close second is the brown bear, specifically the Kodiak bear. The Kodiak is a subspecies of the brown bear native to Alaska. The consensus among experts is that the polar bear is the largest, but some believe the Kodiak bear to be larger. Part of the dissension comes from the vagueness of the word largest..
Kodiak bears are the largest bears in the world. They have been weighed up to 2,500lbs (approx.) and as long/tall as 14ft (approx.) (measured after being killed). The Kodiak b … ear's range is limited to the Kodiak Island off the coast of Alaska. No. The polar bear is actually the largest bear in the world, and is the largest predator on land. The largest polar bear weighed 2210 pounds and stood 14 ft tall on hind legs … , while the largest grizzly bear weighed 1760 pounds and stood 12 ft tall. 3 people found this useful.
The world's largest grizzly bear ever recorded is contingent on definition. Issues center around what determines the biggest. Factors include weight, head size, length of the bear, height of the bear when standing, dimension of shoulders, etc. 
Tweet. It is a close tie between the Polar bear and the Kodiak bear; a subspecies of brown bear found only in Alaska. The polar bear wins out weighing between 300 and 600 kg and are 2 to 3 meters long. They reside in the Canadian north, Alaska (USA), Greenland, Norway and Russia, and sadly, like many other majestic animals, have an IUCN conservation status of Vulnerable. Their IUCN conservation status is Least Concern. Interestingly, there are some genetic similarities between the Kodiak bear and other brown bears found in eastern Russia. The Kodiak bear is the biggest land based carnivore in the world subsisting on mainly river salmon, mountain blueberries, and animal remains.
Kodiak bears are the largest bears in the world. They have been weighed up to 2,500lbs (approx.) and as long/tall as 14ft (approx.) (measured after being killed). The Kodiak bear's range is limited to the Kodiak Island off the coast of Alaska. Some accepted estimates place the total number of Kodiak bears at around 3,500 total. The Polar bear is the second largest species of bear. They have been weighed up to 2,200lbs (approx) and as long/tall as 12ft (approx). Their range is rather large, covering much of the Arctic.
The largest polar bear ever recorded was shot in Kotzebue Sound, Alaska in 1960 weighing a grizzly 1002 kilograms or 2,210 pounds and stood 11 feet 11 inches in height. The largest brown bear, a Kodiak bear, which is a subspecies of the brown bear, weighed in at over 2,500 pounds and was almost 14 feet tall. 
Best Answer: The Polar Bear is generally considered the largest bear species on the planet. the largest ever specific bear measured was a Kodiak Bear weighing in at over 2500 lbs. and nearly 14 feet tall. 
The polar bear is the largest land carnivore in the world. A lot of bears have a nasty reputation, but polar bears back it up. More people have been killed and eaten by polar bears than by all other bears combined. The opportunity to hunt a huge polar bear has been turned upside down in the past couple decades. The biggest brown bears come from Kodiak Island itself. While bears are found on many islands off Alaska and the Alaskan peninsula, 17 of the top 25 Alaskan brown bears were taken from Kodiak. The world record was bagged by Roy Lindsley in 1952.