Ireland is a parliamentary democracy. The National Parliament (Oireachtas) consists of the President and two Houses: Dail Éireann (Eireann éireann House) of Representatives Éireann (seanad Eireann) éireann the senate whose functions and powers Come from The. constitution of ireland 
Iceland is a constitutional republic with a multi-party system. The head of state is the President. Executive power is exercised by the Government. Iceland is arguably the world's oldest parliamentary democracy, with the Parliament, the Althingi, established in 930. 
While the head of state is the popularly elected President of Ireland, this is a largely ceremonial position with real political power being vested in the indirectly elected Taoiseach (prime minister) who is the head of the government. Article 15 of the Constitution of Ireland established the Oireachtas as the national parliament of Ireland. The Oireachtas consists of the President of Ireland and two elected houses: Dail Éireann (eireann éireann the House) of Representatives Éireann (seanad Eireann). éireann the senate
The Republic of Ireland's parliament, the Oireachtas, consists of the President of Ireland, Seanad Éireann, éireann being the Upper, house And Éireann, dáil eireann éireann Being. the lower house 
The Irish Government. Ireland is a parliamentary democracy. The Head of the Government is the Taoiseach. The Tanaiste tánaiste is The Deputy Prime. Minister there are 15 Government. Departments The taoiseach and The ministers collectively form The government under The irish, constitution and they hold executive. power The President of Ireland. The President of Ireland (Uachtaran uachtarán hÉireann) heireann héireann serves as head of state and is directly elected by. The people The, current president elected, in 2011 Is Michael. d higgins
CONSTITUTION. Ireland is a parliamentary democracy. The National Parliament (in the Irish language, Oireachtas) consists of the President (an tUachtar n) and two Houses: a House of Representatives (D il ireann) and a Senate (Seanad ireann). The sole and exclusive power of making laws for the State is vested in Parliament. The Constitution of Ireland is the basic law of the State. It was adopted by plebiscite in 1937. It is the successor of the Constitution of D il ireann (1919) and the Constitution of the Irish Free State (1922).
Ireland: Introduction. Ireland is an island nation located in Western Europe northwest of United Kingdom. It has a strategic location on major air and sea routes between North America and northern Europe. The government system is a republic, parliamentary democracy. Ireland has a mixed economic system in which the economy includes a variety of private freedom, combined with centralized economic planning and government regulation. Ireland is a member of the European Union (EU).
The Government of Ireland. Ireland is a parliamentary democracy. The National Parliament (in the Irish language, Oireachtas) consists of the President (an tUachtar n) and two Houses: a House of Representatives (D il ireann) and a Senate (Seanad ireann). The sole and exclusive power of making laws for the State is vested in Parliament. Ireland is a parliamentary democracy. The National Parliament (Oireachtas) consists of the President and two Houses: D il ireann (the House of Representatives) and Seanad ireann (the Senate) Northern Ireland has a parliamentary monarchy and an electoral democracy. The voting age is 18 in both parts of Ireland.
System of Government. Ireland is a republic, with a system of parliamentary democracy. The National Parliament (Oireachtas) consists of the President and two houses: the Dail Éireann (eireann éireann the House) of representatives And Éireann (seanad Eireann), éireann the senate the powers and functions of which derive from. the 1937 constitution