Basics. Hawaii is a US state, and as such adheres to the basics of American dress. You could wear what you’d normally wear at home on your day off and not feel out of place in Hawaii. At the same time, Hawaiian culture retains the island lifestyle: comfortable, laid-back and with an emphasis on dressing quickly. Women can wear Hawaiian shirts just as men do, as well as tank-top dresses in floral patterns. The traditional Hawaiian women’s dress is the muumuu, which hangs from the shoulders and fits loosely around the body.
Never ever go into someone's home in Hawaii wearing your shoes! I don't care if they have dirt floors.. It is a matter of respect and honor. One thing that we all hope for when we travel is that we don't 'look' like a tourist, at least I do. Normally you will see a whole slew of shoes and slippas outside the door of Hawaiian residents. It is pretty darn cute. Mahalo (thank you in Hawaiian), for removing your shoes is often posted on a lot of Hawaii residents homes just outside their front door.
Wearing shoes inside the home is a practice in many cultures. So, it really depends on your culture. A good rule of thumb is just to follow what everyone in the home does. If they all keep their shoes on, then that’s okay in that household and if they all remove them, then remove yours too. This way you are respecting the home owners wish
Shirt and tie is best to be a professional, no suits though, that isn't something you'll see like on the East Coast. Women in Hawaii do wear pantyhose also, I don't see it here on the mainland but at home they do wear it. You can dress up and look nice while wearing Aloha clothing or wearing short sleeves but men going sleeveless or w/ tanks on, ick ick ick, not classy at all. lkl · 5 years ago. For casual wear it's shorts, t shirts, Hawaiian shirts, tank tops for guys and shorts and summer tops or sun dresses for girls. Businessmen can wear Hawaiian shirts with slacks and still be considered professional. Only tourists wear muu muus.
You can also dress the children in pants that have the same design as the shirt does. The boys Hawaiian shirts and cabana outfits can even be matched to the rest of the family's clothing. Hawaiian shirts for women are normally more feminine in color and the designs are usually quite flowery. Of course what to wear depends a lot on why you came to Hawaii in the first place. Most conventioneers are going to be dressed in a pre-agreed upon style, usually aloha shirts or casual attire. But on rare occasions the convention dress code may be mainland style business suits.
So you could find yourself having to dress for business, as well as personal time. Hawaii is not some alien place at the edge of our solar system. The men, women, and children living on the islands wear everything and anything that mainlanders do and that includes aloha shirts, t-shirts, shorts and flip flops. Of course what to wear depends a lot on why you came to Hawaii in the first place. Most conventioneers are going to be dressed in a pre-agreed upon style, usually aloha shirts or casual attire. But on rare occasions the convention dress code may be mainland style business suits.
NEVER, ever, enter someone's home in Hawaii without removing your shoes first, not even if they have dirt floors. Ya just wouldn't do that out of respect for their home and person. Normally you will see a whole slew of shoes and slippas outside the door of Hawaiian residents. It is pretty darn cute. Mahalo (thank you in Hawaiian), for removing your shoes is often posted on a lot of Hawaii residents homes just outside their front door. Craftspeople wisely take advantage of this opportunity by making signs out of tiles or wood and other materials
Hi Moms! I'm curious to hear how you handle asking people to take their shoes off before entering your homes. We never wear our shoes in our house because of our 18 month old. He's always on the floor playing so we leave our shoes at the front door. Close friends and family you can ask to take off shoes, people you first meet and invite over no, We don't wear shoes in our house but i don't ask friends to take their shoes off, if you feel you have to do this, and like that worker refused buy shoe footies to put over their shoes like they do in hospitals.
Pictured above is Hawaiian surfing legend Duke Kahanamoku and the Waikiki Beachboys at the Outrigger Canoe Club, Waikiki, Hawaii, 1963. Duke Kahanamoku is in the back row, towards the right, wearing a simple red and white Hawaiian shirt. Of course what to wear depends a lot on why you came to Hawaii in the first place. Most conventioneers are going to be dressed in a pre-agreed upon style, usually aloha shirts or casual attire. But on rare occasions the convention dress code may be mainland style business suits.