The supraclavicular lymph nodes are a paired group of lymph nodes located on either side in the hollow of clavicle close to where sternum joins it. Supraclavicular lymph nodes. Dr Tim Luijkx and Stefano Pacifici et al. The supraclavicular lymph nodes are a paired group of lymph nodes located on either side in the hollow of clavicle close to where sternum joins it. It is the final common pathway of the lymphatic system as it joins the central venous system.
Location. There are two supraclavicular lymph nodes, one on the right side and one on the left side. They are laterally located where it joins the sternum in the hollow above the clavicle (collarbone). Others in the clavicle area where the left and right Supraclavicular locations include the following: Supraclavicular Lymph Nodes. A Pain in the Neck with a Lump. Not all pains in the neck are going to be in the form of a co-worker or offspring. Supraclavicular lymph nodes are in the neck in the hollow that is just above the clavicle (collarbone). When enlarged it can cause pain in the neck or may just be a lump without pain.
Location of Subclavicular lymph nodes. These types of lymph nodes are two in number, one situated on the left and the other on the right side of the body. These are placed in a lateral position where the nodes join the sternum in the hollow just above the clavicle. 
Swelling and pain in the lymph nodes are signs of an infection and sometimes, a malignancy (a cancerous tumor). The swollen supraclavicular lymph nodes are easily felt as small tender lumps at the top of the collarbone. The lymphatic fluid from the head and neck regions is filtered by the lymph nodes in the neck area. Specific to the right supraclavicular lymph node is the drainage of the mid-section of the chest, esophagus, and lungs, while the left lymph node drains the thoracic duct, the abdomen, and thorax.
Lymph node: Also sometimes referred to as lymph glands, lymph nodes are small rounded or bean-shaped masses of lymphatic tissue surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. Lymph nodes are located in many places in the lymphatic system throughout the body. Lymph nodes filter the lymphatic fluid and store special cells that can trap cancer cells or bacteria that are traveling through the body in the lymph fluid. The lymph nodes are critical for the body's immune response and are principal sites where many immune reactions are initiated. During a physical examination, doctors often look for swollen lymph nodes in areas where lymph nodes are abundant, including the neck, around the collarbone, the armpit (axilla), and the groin.
Small, bean-shaped structures called lymph nodes are found near the lymphatic vessels. There are about 600 lymph nodes throughout the body, some in deep tissues and others closer to the skin. Clusters of nodes are found in the neck, armpits, abdomen and groin. Other nodes are found in the chest, arms, and legs. Those in the neck, underneath the arms, and in the groin can be felt with the fingers.
supraclavicular lymph nodes. The supraclavicular lymph nodes are a set of lymph nodes found just above the clavicle or collarbone, toward the hollow of the neck. Lymph nodes are responsible for filtering the lymphatic fluid of unwanted debris and bacteria. The lymphatic fluid from the head and neck regions is filtered by the lymph nodes in the neck area. Specific to the right supraclavicular lymph node is the drainage of the mid-section of the chest, esophagus, and lungs, while the left lymph node drains the thoracic duct, the abdomen, and thorax.
1. Know where the lymph nodes are located. You have the highest concentration of lymph nodes in your neck, around your collarbone, in your armpits, and in your groin. 1  Lymph nodes are present in groups, and are about the size of a pea or bean. 2  Lymph nodes located in the groin are also called inguinal lymph nodes. Check the lymph nodes on your neck and collarbone. Use the first 3 fingers of each hand to circle behind your ears, down each side of your neck and under your jaw line. If you feel lumps accompanied by tenderness, you may have swollen lymph nodes. You may also feel fullness in your throat and have difficulty swallowing.