I knew that the word indigenous meant native, and some of the Native American tribes in the United States and around the world, such as the Cherokee. I learned a ton of new interesting facts. For instance, that 3 million Native Americans stretch from the United States to Canada. 
Word Root of NATIVE. The Latin word nāscī, meaning “ to be born, ” and its form nātus give us the roots nat and nai. Words from the Latin nāscī have something to do with being born. When someone is nat ive to a particular place, she or he was born there. A nat ion, or country, is a place where people are born. Anyone nai ve has a lack of knowledge and experience as if he or she was only recently born
native, indigen, indigene, aborigine, aboriginal (noun). an indigenous person who was born in a particular place. the art of the natives of the northwest coast; the Canadian government scrapped plans to tax the grants to aboriginal college students. Wiktionary (3.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: native (Noun). A person who is native to a place (literal or metaphoric). She is a regular Wiki* native. native (Noun). A North American Indian or Aboriginal person. native (Noun).
• NATIVE AMERICAN (noun). The noun NATIVE AMERICAN has 1 sense: 1. any member of the peoples living in North or South America before the Europeans arrived. Familiarity information: NATIVE AMERICAN used as a noun is very rare.
native. adj. 1. relating or belonging to a person or thing by virtue of conditions existing at the time of birth: my native city. 2. inherent, natural, or innate: a native strength. 3. born in a specified place: a native German. na•tive. 1. being the place or environment in which a person was born or a thing came into being: one's native land. 2. belonging to a person by birth or to a thing by nature; inherent: native ability. 3. belonging to or originating in a certain place; indigenous: native dress. 4. born in a particular place: a native Chicagoan. 5. of or pertaining to something first acquired by a person: one's native language
Connecticut-From Mohican and other Algonquin words meaning long river place.. Delaware-Named for Lord De La Warr, early governor of Virginia; first applied to river, then to Indian tribe (Lenni-Lenape), and the state. Hawaii-Possibly derived from native word for homeland, Hawaiki or Owhyhee. Idaho-A coined name with an invented Indian meaning: gem of the mountains; originally suggested for the Pike's Peak mining territory (Colorado), then applied to the new mining territory of the Pacific Northwest. 
Native (noun). one who, or that which, is born in a place or country referred to; a denizen by birth; an animal, a fruit, or vegetable, produced in a certain region; as, a native of France. Native (noun). any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished from such as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds. Wiktionary (3.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: native (Noun). A person who is native to a place (literal or metaphoric). She is a regular Wiki* native. native (Noun). A North American Indian or Aboriginal person. native (Noun).
• NATIVE (noun). The noun NATIVE has 1 sense: 1. a person who was born in a particular place; an indigenous person. Familiarity information: NATIVE used as a noun is very rare. 1. characteristic of or existing by virtue of geographic origin. 2. belonging to one by birth. 3. characteristic of or relating to people inhabiting a region from the beginning. 4. as found in nature in the elemental form. Familiarity information: NATIVE used as an adjective is uncommon.