Best Answer: Cytoplasm is the area within the cell inside the plasma membrane (the membrane separate the cell to others) and outside the nucleus (the region contaning genetic materials DNA). Cytoplasm contains many internal organelles (internal structures) that are necessary for cell's functions. The cytoplasm is everything in the cell that is not an organelle. It contains many of the proteins, molecules, and important substances that the cell needs, as well as keeping the organelles separate.
noun. (Science: Cell Biology). In eukaryotic cells, the cytoplasm is that part of the cell between the cell membrane and the nuclear envelope. It is the jelly-like substance in a cell that contains the cytosol, organelles, and inclusions, but not including the nucleus. In prokaryotic cells that do not have a well-defined nucleus, the cytoplasm is simply everything enclosed by the cell membrane. It therefore contains the cytosol, and all the other cellular components, including the chromosome in the nucleoid region.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. Characteristics of Cytoplasm. 1  Cytoplasm is the fluid substance that fills the space between the cell membrane and the cellular organelles. 2  Cytoplasm shows differential staining properties, the areas stained with the basic dyes are the basophilic areas of the cytoplasm and is termed as ergatoplasm for this material.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The cytoplasm consists of all of the contents outside of the nucleus and enclosed within the cell membrane of a cell. This includes the cytosol and in euckaryotic cells, organelles such as mitochondria and ribosomes. 
Cytoplasm is a gel like substance that fills the cell from the membrane to the nucleus.   It is composed of about 80% water and contains mini-organs.   Its job is to kee … p everything in place. It also contains ribsomes and proteins. The cytoplasm's job is to keep all of the cell organelles in place, so they do not bump into each other and destroy each other. it is to pick up all the left over stuff on the floor or ground of the cell.
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred. Characteristics of Cytoplasm. 1  Cytoplasm is the fluid substance that fills the space between the cell membrane and the cellular organelles. 2  Cytoplasm shows differential staining properties, the areas stained with the basic dyes are the basophilic areas of the cytoplasm and is termed as ergatoplasm for this material.
The jelly-like material that makes up much of a cell inside the cell membrane, and, in eukaryotic cells, surrounds the nucleus. The organelles of the cell, such as mitochondria and (in green plants) chloroplasts, are contained in the cytoplasm. The cytoplasm together with the nucleus make up the cell's protoplasm. 
Cytoplasm is a gel like substance that fills the cell from the membrane to the nucleus.   It is composed of about 80% water and contains mini-organs.   Its job is to kee … p everything in place. It also contains ribsomes and proteins. The cytoplasm's job is to keep all of the cell organelles in place, so they do not bump into each other and destroy each other.     it is to pick up all the left over stuff on the floor or ground of the cell.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division.