Palladium Jewelry. Palladium is the newest precious metal. A platinum group metal, palladium is rare, lustrous, and naturally white. Palladium has the purity and white tone of platinum but is less dense, making it more affordable. From the same metal family as platinum, palladium is a naturally bright white metal. However, palladium is lighter and less dense than platinum, which also means that it's lighter on your wallet. And just like platinum, palladium jewelry is 95% pure, which means you get more precious metal in your jewelry: White gold is only 58.5% pure. And while white gold needs rhodium plating to keep it shiny, palladium jewelry does not. In fact, palladium is often used in white gold alloys.
Over half of the supply of palladium and its congener platinum goes into catalytic converters, which convert up to 90% of harmful gases from auto exhaust (hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen dioxide) into less-harmful substances (nitrogen, carbon dioxide and water vapor). Palladium is a soft silver-white metal that resembles platinum. It is the least dense and has the lowest melting point of the platinum group metals. It is soft and ductile when annealed and greatly increases its strength and hardness when it is cold-worked.
Palladium is a chemical element with symbol Pd and atomic number 46. It is a rare and lustrous silvery-white metal discovered in 1803 by William Hyde Wollaston. Palladium is a soft silver-white metal that resembles platinum. It is the least dense and has the lowest melting point of the platinum group metals. It is soft and ductile when annealed and greatly increases its strength and hardness when it is cold-worked.
Guide to Buying Palladium. Palladium resembles the lustrous appearance of platinum and has been used as a precious metal since 1939. It has recently seen an upsurge in popularity to become one of our most fashionable metals. Palladium falls within the platinum group of metals, but is softer than platinum and more affordable. It can be used as a bleaching within the manufacturing of white gold. Its natural, lustrous, silvery-white colour does not need to be plated. 
Palladium is a platinum group metal, and though it is often confused for its more expensive counterpart, palladium is a separate elemental metal. Because of its likeness to platinum, palladium is also used as an industrial catalyst and is a common metal alloyed in the jewelry industry. Palladium and gold alloy, or white gold, is a common and crucial part of the fine jewelry market.
Palladium is one of the three most popular metals used to make white gold alloys (nickel and silver can also be used). Palladium-gold is a more expensive alloy than nickel-gold, but seldom causes allergic reactions (though certain cross-allergies with nickel may occur). Palladium is a soft silver-white metal that resembles platinum. It is the least dense and has the lowest melting point of the platinum group metals. It is soft and ductile when annealed and greatly increases its strength and hardness when it is cold-worked.
Palladium itself has been used as a precious metal in jewelry since 1939, as an alternative to platinum for making white gold. This use resulted from the naturally white color of palladium, which required no rhodium plating. Palladium is much less dense than platinum. Palladium is a soft silver-white metal that resembles platinum. It is the least dense and has the lowest melting point of the platinum group metals. It is soft and ductile when annealed and greatly increases its strength and hardness when it is cold-worked.
Palladium is a lustrous silvery white metal with the atomic number 46 and chemical abbreviation of Pd. It is used in electronics, jewelry, and certain other industries. Because the metal is extremely rare, palladium is considered to be a precious metal, and it can command a high price on the open market. Ad. As a member of the platinum group, which also includes metals like rhodium and iridium, palladium is considered a transition metal. It is one of the softer metals in the platinum group, but it retains other valuable properties that are shared by metals in this group.