David V. Barrett, author of Secret Societies: From the Ancient and Arcane to the Modern and Clandestine, uses slightly different terms to define what does and does not qualify as a secret society. Anthropologically and historically, secret societies are deeply interlinked with the concept of the Mannerbund, the all-male warrior-band or warrior-society of pre-modern cultures (see H. Schurtz, Alterklassen und Mannerbunde, Berlin, 1902; A. Van Gennep, The Rites of Passage, Chicago, 1960).
Night Mode and anomalies (Christmas2014 update) Edit. There is a glitch in the Christmas2014 update that means that anomalies cannot appear in pictures that are in Night mode. If you need an anomaly to appear in a certain picture for a quest then make sure it is not in Night mode or none will appear. To investigate the picture with the anomaly in it, simply press the green 'Research' button. Every anomaly gives 5 minutes to play the picture (as opposed to the standard 3 minutes for Text and Silhouette modes).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In data mining, anomaly detection (or outlier detection) is the identification of items, events or observations which do not conform to an expected pattern or other items in a dataset. 
In the Secret Society: Hidden Mystery game it is possible to investigate pictures in different modes. The game modes essentially create different types of hidden object games within the same picture. The pictures randomly rotate through the game modes as you play them. There is no way to force a particular mode to appear in a picture in order to complete a quest. Text mode is the most basic hidden object game available. In text mode you are given the words for objects you need to find in the picture. Up to 6 words at a time are displayed on the brown banner at the base of
Game Questions & Answers (Q&A) service lets you ask questions about video games for game consoles or PC games. So ask your The Secret Society: Hidden Mystery question for iPhone-iPod and get answers from real gamers or answer questions and share your insights and experience with the rest of the gaming community. Game Boxshot & Details. 1  Developer: G5 Entertainment.
Home Desktop showing the anomaly 'Lost Time' in Venice, the Anomaly 'Ghostly Mirror' in Misty Shed and Crashed Plane and the Anomaly 'Scrolleater' in Bungalow. Anomalies randomly appear in pictures as you play the Secret Society: Hidden Mystery game. Anomalies do not affect puzzles. To investigate the picture with the anomaly in it, simply press the green 'Research' button. Every anomaly gives 5 minutes to play the picture (as opposed to the standard 3 minutes for Text and Silhouette modes).
So ask your The Secret Society: Hidden Mystery question for iPhone-iPod and get answers from real gamers or answer questions and share your insights and experience with the rest of the gaming community. They will just show up. On one of your pictures you will see an icon on the left side that looks like a mirror, a stopwatch, a column of smoke or a scroll. If you have earned one of the items that gets rid of that type of anomaly, you can banish it, but if you don't have any of those, you'll just have to play through it
64 pages on this wiki. An Anomaly is someone who has committed heinous crimes such as murder, rape, or other such offenses. The Markhams' real son was supposedly killed by an Anomaly (this Anomaly was not caught). They are usually then deported to the Outer Provinces, where they are killed off by the Society