1 Pender Island Amenities – this page gives you an overall view of what is available. 2  Destinations near Pender Island – there are many wonderful cities and other recreational areas close to North and South Pender Island. 3  Pender Island History – Pender Island and the Gulf Islands in general have an interesting history. We try to include lots of Pender Island photographs on this site but if you wish to see more or see what many of the other Gulf Islands look like (they are all different!) take a look at the Gulf Islands Photography Gallery.
Pender Island (Saanich: st̕ey̕əs) is one of the Southern Gulf Islands located in the Gulf of Georgia, British Columbia, Canada. Pender Island is approximately 34 km 2 (13 sq mi) in area and is home to about 2,250 permanent residents, as well as a large seasonal population. The islands, along with Pender Harbour on the Sunshine Coast, were given their current name by Captain Richards for Staff Commander, later Captain, Daniel Pender, RN who surveyed the coast of British Columbia aboard HMS Plumper, HMS Hecate and the Beaver from 1857 to 1870.
1 Destinations near Pender Island – there are many wonderful cities and other recreational areas close to North and South Pender Island. 2  Pender Island History – Pender Island and the Gulf Islands in general have an interesting history. 3  Visit The Gulf Islands Guide for some of the other Gulf Islands’ histories. We try to include lots of Pender Island photographs on this site but if you wish to see more or see what many of the other Gulf Islands look like (they are all different!) take a look at the Gulf Islands Photography Gallery.
Both North Pender Island and South Pender Island are wonderful places to visit and this section will help you explore the island from some different viewpoints. 1  Pender Island Amenities – this page gives you an overall view of what is available. We try to include lots of Pender Island photographs on this site but if you wish to see more or see what many of the other Gulf Islands look like (they are all different!) take a look at the Gulf Islands Photography Gallery.
Countless Treasures. Pender Island is one of the Southern Gulf Islands located along the Pacific Coast of British Columbia, Canada. Pender Island consists of two islands, North Pender and South Pender, which are separated by a narrow canal connected by a one-lane bridge. Pender Island lies between Vancouver, BC and Victoria BC. Pender Island is a 2-hour ferry ride from Vancouver and a 40-minute ferry ride from Sidney, BC
Two Islands ... Pender Island is one of the Southern Gulf Islands located along the Pacific Coast of British Columbia, Canada. Pender Island consists of two islands, North Pender and South Pender, which are separated by a narrow canal connected by a one-lane bridge. Pender Island lies between Vancouver, BC and Victoria BC. Pender Island is a 2-hour ferry ride from Vancouver and a 40-minute ferry ride from Sidney, BC
Pender Island consists of two islands, North Pender and South Pender, which are separated by a narrow canal originally dredged in 1903. In 1955 the islands were connected by a one lane bridge, as it remains today. The islands, along with Pender Harbour on the Sunshine Coast, were given their current name by Captain Richards for Staff Commander, later Captain, Daniel Pender, RN who surveyed the coast of British Columbia aboard HMS Plumper, HMS Hecate and the Beaver from 1857 to 1870.
(Andrea Johnson photo). Pender Island is one of BC's laidback, picturesque southern Gulf Islands. Still retaining a bucolic rural feel with its historic farms and port communities, Pender offers lovely waterfront parks, rolling countryside perfect for cycling, a lively arts scene, and a full slate of water activities. The brochure rack here has B&B flyers, an artist studio guide and the annually updated Pender Island Visitors' Guide and Map (also available on BC Ferries). Richard Fox's The Pender Islands Handbook covers every last aspect of island life in great detail and rates among the most comprehensive of all BC guidebooks.
Welcome to Poets Cove, British Columbia’s premier resort in the Southern Gulf Islands. Travel by ferry, fly from Victoria, Vancouver or Seattle or boat in and moor at our marina. Either way you are a short trip away from paradise. 