1 To reduce inflammation and relieve pain, put ice on your heel. 2  You can also try a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) such as ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin, for example) or naproxen (Aleve, for example). 3  NSAIDs come in pills and in a cream that you rub over the sore area.
1 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) , such as ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin, for example) or naproxen (Aleve, for example). 2  You can buy these medicines without a prescription. 3  NSAIDs are often used if you have only had symptoms of plantar fasciitis for a few days or weeks.
Naproxen. Plantar fasciitis is quite common among runners as well as overweight individuals who use shoes that do not provide enough support. Naproxen is a medication that belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . Take note that this group of medications is utilized to reduce pain and the inflammation. Naproxen can minimize the inflammation around the plantar fascia and help manage the pain linked with this condition.
Hammertoes can be a... 1  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) , such as ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin, for example) or naproxen (Aleve, for example). 2  You can buy these medicines without a prescription. 3  NSAIDs are often used if you have only had symptoms of plantar fasciitis for a few days or weeks.
The efficacy of oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication (NSAID) in the treatment of plantar fasciitis: a randomized, prospective, placebo-controlled study.
Your doctor may recommend medicine to relieve the pain and inflammation caused by plantar fasciitis. Drug treatment does not cure plantar fasciitis. But by reducing pain, medicine may make it easier for you to follow other treatment steps, such as stretching.
Ibuprofen. Ibuprofen is another non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is used to treat plantar fasciitis. The medication works the same way just like naproxen but some individuals respond in a different way to certain types of NSAIDs.