Leaders need to be methodical : Many strict distinctions between management and leadership suggest that management is analytical & objective and that leadership is intuitive & subjective. Methodological rigor and analytics are not exclusive to “management” type duties. 1 Both management and leadership are important; both contribute to individual and organizational success. 2  They complement and need each other. 3  Leadership and management are intertwined: there is some management in leadership and some leadership in management —at these points, the distinction between them washes away.
I read your comment on managers with a lot of consternation. The truth is that we need managers who also double up as leaders in their roles. The essence is that managers help units pull in one direction using the corresponding communication channels. Managers also enhance the spirit of responsibility and shorten the required time in delivery. We need managers who can lead a team by example, assist team members to grow their individual contribution, and work as catalyst to increase team efficiency and throughput. I'm sure in any organization to be lucky and gifted with such a great leader, the question of why we need a manager will not be asked :).
Managers benefit from being creative and authentic : Authenticity is not exclusive to those who have the word “leader” in their job title. We need supervisors, managers, and leaders at all levels to be ethical, authentic, self-aware, present, and integrious (have integrity). This is not just a technique thing. 1 Both management and leadership are important; both contribute to individual and organizational success. 2  They complement and need each other. 3  Leadership and management are intertwined: there is some management in leadership and some leadership in management —at these points, the distinction between them washes away.
10.2 MANAGERS AND LEADERS Management and leadership are important for the delivery of good health services. Although the two are similar in some respects, they may involve diff erent types of outlook, skills, and behaviours. 
Leaders, in contrast, tolerate chaos and lack of structure and are willing to delay closure in order to understand the issues more fully. In this way, Zaleznik argued, business leaders have much more in common with artists, scientists, and other creative thinkers than they do with managers. Managers prefer to work with people; they avoid solitary activity because it makes them anxious. Several years ago, I directed studies on the psychological aspects of careers. The need to seek out others with whom to work and collaborate seemed to stand out as an important characteristic of managers.
What we need today is leaders, not managers. Too many managers did not do their roles e.g. managing, developing, evaluating people and their contributions, while leaders are expected to lead, provide direction and coach them-leaders are listened to and respected while managers sometimes are just enjoying their seats. We need managers who can lead a team by example, assist team members to grow their individual contribution, and work as catalyst to increase team efficiency and throughput. I'm sure in any organization to be lucky and gifted with such a great leader, the question of why we need a manager will not be asked :).
When we look at what our leaders actually do—what we want them to do, the kind of work that they are expected to do, and what we want them to achieve—we see that they are responsible for both leadership and management type duties. 1 Both management and leadership are important; both contribute to individual and organizational success. 2  They complement and need each other. 3  Leadership and management are intertwined: there is some management in leadership and some leadership in management —at these points, the distinction between them washes away.
Leaders do some of the same things. They must plan and organize but they do this with a much longer timeframe in mind. They have a much more long-term focus. They must think more strategically, but yet they may still have to deal with tactical issues. A manager is someone who manages more of the day-to-day tactical issues of his or her group. The manager plans and organizes resources on a short-term basis. These resources include people.
Most companies spend more time and money training management than they do training leadership. The most successful organizations – whether they are a business, government, community or military – are successful because of great leaders. Of all the skills needed in groups, leadership is the most important. 
Reprint: R0401G. Managers and leaders are two very different types of people. Managers’ goals arise out of necessities rather than desires; they excel at defusing conflicts between individuals or departments, placating all sides while ensuring that an organization’s day-to-day business gets done. Managers prefer to work with people; they avoid solitary activity because it makes them anxious. Several years ago, I directed studies on the psychological aspects of careers. The need to seek out others with whom to work and collaborate seemed to stand out as an important characteristic of managers.