Back to Top. Cefazolin is a prescription medication used to treat bacterial infections, including lung, skin, bone, joint, stomach, blood, heart valve, and urinary tract infections. It is also used to prevent infection before, during, and after surgery. This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Common side effects of cefazolin include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and stomach cramps. This is not a complete list of cefazolin side effects. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Cefazolin is mainly used to treat bacterial infections of the skin (cellulitis). It can also be used to treat moderately severe bacterial infections involving the lung, bone, joint, stomach, blood, heart valve, and urinary tract. Cefazolin is often used as a prophylactic antibiotic before a wide range of surgical operations due to being one of the most widely studied antibiotics with proven efficacy. The antibiotic is ideally given within the 60 minutes before the start of the surgical procedure.
Cefazolin is a broad spectrum antibiotic that is often used to treat different types of infections including urinary tract, skin, and bone infections. In order to kill the targeted bacteria, antibiotics must reach a certain level in the blood. Cefazolin is often used as a prophylactic antibiotic before a wide range of surgical operations due to being one of the most widely studied antibiotics with proven efficacy. The antibiotic is ideally given within the 60 minutes before the start of the surgical procedure.
Cefazolin is a cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotic. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Cefazolin is used to treat many kinds of bacterial infections, including severe or life-threatening forms. Cefazolin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Before using cefazolin, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs (especially penicillins), or if you have kidney disease, liver disease, or a stomach or intestinal disorder such as colitis. Before using cefazolin, tell your doctor if you are also using probenecid (Benemid).
Uses. Cefazolin is an antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. It may also be used before and during certain surgeries to help prevent infection. This medication is known as a cephalosporin antibiotic. Depending on your specific product, this medication is given by injection into a vein or into a muscle. Use this product exactly as directed by your doctor. The dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment.
Be the first to review this Drug. Cefazolin is a cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotic. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Cefazolin is used to treat many kinds of bacterial infections, including severe or life-threatening forms. Cefazolin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Cefazolin Interactions. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or bloody, stop using cefazolin and call your doctor. Do not use anti-diarrhea medicine unless your doctor tells you to.
Precautions. Before using cefazolin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other cephalosporins; or to penicillins; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Depending on your specific product, this medication is given by injection into a vein or into a muscle. Use this product exactly as directed by your doctor. The dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment.
Cefazolin (INN), also known as cefazoline or cephazolin, is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. Cefazolin is often used as a prophylactic antibiotic before a wide range of surgical operations due to being one of the most widely studied antibiotics with proven efficacy. The antibiotic is ideally given within the 60 minutes before the start of the surgical procedure.
Cefazolin is a cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotic. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Cefazolin is used to treat many kinds of bacterial infections, including severe or life-threatening forms. Cefazolin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 