How long is the independent driving part of the test. How long this part of the driving test lasts depends on traffic conditions. Generally, the independent part of the test last for around 10 minutes and will often include roundabouts, junctions, and crossroads of all types. 
Best Answer: How long did it take you to learn your favorite sport? How long did it take you to learn to walk/run/ride a bike? It takes the average person approximately 60 hours to learn to drive. When you take a Driver Education course, it is assumed that you will be getting additional practice between lessons. Make it a priority because you will be driving for many years and I know you want to have a safe and enjoyable life ahead of you. How long, on average, does it take someone to learn to drive well enough to pass their driver's test? I have just registered with a driving a school that is one of the best in Queens, NY.
Congratulation! You have passed your driving theory test. As per driving standard agency the average amount of driving lesson one can complete is 48 hours of regular practices with driving instructor and 24 hours of private practices. To pass driving test learner driver need to learn and practice as much as they can. Best Answer: Average is around 40. It took me a year but that was because I was in college and did around 1 lesson every week or two. If you have a lot of free time you should be fine. Also you need to consider how well a learner can take information in.
How long does it take to pass a driving test? What is the average amount of lessons or months it takes to pass a driving test, ive passed my theory and have been learning since december. Best Answer: Average is around 40. It took me a year but that was because I was in college and did around 1 lesson every week or two. If you have a lot of free time you should be fine. Also you need to consider how well a learner can take information in.
How long are driving lessons. Weekly driving lessons is the typical method that most learners choose for learning to drive. It usually takes around 30 to 40 hours to reach test standard. 2 x 1.5 hour lessons per week should allow you to reach test standard within around 2 to 3 months depending on your ability. Opting for one lesson per week can take up to six months to reach test standard. The driving test. We often get asked ‘ How long is the driving test’ . This depends on the examiner, as some to like slightly shorter tests and also the traffic conditions during the test. Generally speaking however, the driving test lasts for around 40 minutes.
Location: london. Posts: 236. It seems so much harder to pass your test these days-my neice is in the process and she seems to be spending a fortune-even though on her 17th birthday we all chipped in and bought her a block of lessons. 20 years ago when I was learning I took 10 lessons and passed first time (and gawd knows how I did that!!). Started driving when i was 18 had a few lessons left it after 8 lessons started again when i was 23 took test in feb this year-failed, again in april failed all over silly things lol roll on next friday!!!!!!!! had to wait over 6 weeks for a test date!
My brother is a driving instructor for BSM and he says the best way to pass your test is to do the theory before you even get in a car to get it done and out the way and then to do intensive driving lessons over a 2 to 3 week period, 2 hours a day every day, having put in for your test beforehand. I had 24 lessons over 6 months and passed second time. The only reason that it was that long was apparently 2001 was REALLY busy and you had to wait AGES for tests. It would have been November but I was really lucky and got a cancellation! I passed on September 11th 2001.
It depends on the individual really, some people pass after 10 lessons, some after 100 lessons. I passed about 2 weeks ago and was literally over the moon when I glanced over at the examiner's paper to see that he'd checked the 'pass' box. guiclaw. 1  0 badges. I passed in two and a half months with 4 hours a week (2x2 hour) so with 2-3 hours every other day I'd say you should be able to do it, though of course some people take to driving a lot quicker than others so it really depends on you! yoyo462001. 1  2 badges. 2  Follow.