The small intestine is a tubular structure within the abdominal cavity that carries the food in continuation with the stomach up to the colon from where the large intestine carries it to the rectum and out of the body via the anus. The main function of this organ is to aid in digestion. The small intestine is the part of the intestines where 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. Digestion involves two distinct parts.
When the food mixture (chyme) from your small intestine gets to your large intestine, there are hardly any nutrients left. The large intestine still has a very important job to do though – it takes water from the chyme and returns it to your body. As your body takes back water, it just leaves waste products behind. 
The intestines are a long, continuous tube running from the stomach to the anus. Most absorption of nutrients and water happen in the intestines. The intestines include the small intestine, large intestine, and rectum. The small intestine (small bowel) is about 20 feet long and about an inch in diameter. Its job is to absorb most of the nutrients from what we eat and drink. Velvety tissue lines the small intestine, which is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The large intestine (colon or large bowel) is about 5 feet long and about 3 inches in diameter. The colon absorbs water from wastes, creating stool. As stool enters the rectum, nerves there create the urge to defecate.
Functions of the small intestine. The small intestine is the part of the intestines where 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. Digestion involves two distinct parts.
The small intestine is the location in the body where the majority of the nutrients from ingested food are absorbed. Whereas the stomach is responsible for the churning and mechanical breakdown of food, the small intestine is very important for absorption. The ileum is preceded by the jejunum. This section of the small intestine is approximately 6 to 12 feet (3.5 meters) long. The ileum absorbs mainly vitamin B12, other water soluble vitamins, bile salts, and nutrients that were not absorbed in the jejunum.
Tweet. Your small intestine is a bundled up, continuous tube located in your abdomen that receives food from the stomach at the duodenum, digests and absorbs food in the jejunum, and deposits food into the large intestine at the ileocecal valve. Within the microvilli of the small intestine are networks of capillaries and lymph vessels called lacteals. Capillaries are the smallest components of your blood vessels, the site at which your blood exchanges nutrients, oxygen and waste products with your body’s tissues.
Your small intestine and digestion. The small intestine is a long tube that is approximately 18 feet long (6 meters). The small intestine is called small because the diameter or the width of the tube is much less than the large intestine. The parts of the small intestine include the duodenum, jejunum and the ileum. The duodenum is a segment of intestine between the stomach and the jejunum that is very active in digestion where many different enzymes mix from the stomach, liver, gallbladder and pancreas. The ileum is preceded by the jejunum. This section of the small intestine is approximately 6 to 12 feet (3.5 meters) long. The ileum absorbs mainly vitamin B12, other water soluble vitamins, bile salts, and nutrients that were not absorbed in the jejunum.
Although, it is much longer than the large intestine, it has a much narrower diameter, thus accounting for its name. The majority of food digestion and nutrient absorption occurs in the small intestine. The small intestine receives partially digested food from your stomach. At the point when food reaches the duodenum of the small intestine, it has been mixed with stomach acid and manually broken up by the contraction of the stomach walls. Within the microvilli of the small intestine are networks of capillaries and lymph vessels called lacteals. Capillaries are the smallest components of your blood vessels, the site at which your blood exchanges nutrients, oxygen and waste products with your body’s tissues.
Structure of the large intestine. The large intestine is made up of the colon and the rectum. The colon is a tubular structure that is around 1.5 m, about one quarter of the length of the small bowel. Its largest diameter is at the cecum (7.5 cm) and narrowest in the sigmoid (2.5 cm). 