After cooking in the slow cooker you will need to process in a boiling water canner. You will need enough apples to fill your crock pot. About 6 pounds. I make this in my large 6 quart slow cooker. Adjust the amount of apples and sugar to the size of your cooker. 
1 To speed up the cooking process, you can leave the slow cooker on high but if the apple butter begins to burn around the edges, turn it back down to low. 2  The apple butter will need to cook for at least 6 to 10 hours. 3  Test for doneness after 6 hours. 1 Pour the applesauce into the slow cooker, leaving at least 1 inch of headspace. 2  Add the sugar and spices to the applesauce. 3  Note: If the applesauce is already fairly sweet, you may want to cut back on the amount of sugar you add.
That's right, apple butter starts with applesauce! You can use store bought applesauce, but the apple butter won't taste nearly as good. It's better with your own applesauce (either previously canned or fresh made). So if you haven't made some applesauce yet start here with how to make applesauce. Q. I am planning on canning apple butter soon, and want to make apple sauce first. Can i make apple sauce, cool it and then make the apple butter in the slow cooker the next day.
Since making apple butter is more of a technique than a strict recipe, you can use any amount of apples you want. The applesauce recipe we'll be using as a base calls for 3 pounds of apples, and this will make 2-3 cups of apple butter. You can double or triple or quadruple this if you want! Step 2: Make Applesauce. For longer storage, can your apple butter using the hot water bath method. Variations: In the Oven or In the Slow Cooker. If you're making a very large batch of apple butter-say, from a bushel of apples-we find it easier to cook the sauce in the oven.
Step 1 - Make unsweetened applesauce! That's right, apple butter starts with applesauce! You can use store bought applesauce, but the apple butter won't taste nearly as good. It's better with your own applesauce (either previously canned or fresh made). So if you haven't made some applesauce yet start here with how to make applesauce. Fill the crock pot to within an inch of full with applesauce, mine takes about 5.5 quarts. You will add the remaining applesauce later, in step 5. Now, you CAN do this using a regular large pot on very low heat on the stove, but the crockpot works much better, because its heat is very low.
1 The apple butter will need to cook for at least 6 to 10 hours. 2  Test for doneness after 6 hours. 3  To test for doneness, mound a spoonful of apple butter on a small plate. 4  The apple butter should stay mounded and there should not be any accumulations of liquid around the edges of the mound. 1 Pour the applesauce into the slow cooker, leaving at least 1 inch of headspace. 2  Add the sugar and spices to the applesauce. 3  Note: If the applesauce is already fairly sweet, you may want to cut back on the amount of sugar you add.
1 Fill the warm sterilized jars with the hot apple butter. 2  Leave 1/2 inch headspace. 3  After the jars are properly filled, wipe the top rim and the screw threads on the neck of the jars with a damp cloth or paper towel to remove anything that may have gotten on them while filling the jars. 1 Pour the applesauce into the slow cooker, leaving at least 1 inch of headspace. 2  Add the sugar and spices to the applesauce. 3  Note: If the applesauce is already fairly sweet, you may want to cut back on the amount of sugar you add.
It’s hard to find any apple butter, let alone good apple butter in the grocery store these days. Making apple butter is a great way to preserve the fruits of an apple harvest. In contrast to what the name implies, there is no “butter” in apple butter. The name comes from its smooth and buttery texture. 6 Pour into hot, sterilized jars and seal. If you plan to store the apple butter un-refrigerated, make sure to follow proper canning procedures. Before applying the lids, sterilize the lids by placing them in a bowl and pouring boiling water over them. Wipe the rims of the jars clean before applying the lids.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F. Combine the apples, apple cider, brown sugar and 1/2 teaspoon salt in a large ovenproof pot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Bring to a simmer, partially cover and cook until the apples are soft, about 20 minutes. 