The meaning of Carissa has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Carissa are: 1  French Meaning: Caress. Form of: Caressa. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Carissa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Carissa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sound
Personal experiences with the name Carissa: | Edit. One of my best friends has the name Carissa and I agree that it is a super pretty name. My friend is a singer and always gets lots of compliments on her name wherever she performs. I love, love, love it! Doesn't get much better than Carissa. My name is spelled Karisa, but pronounced the same as Carissa. I love my name, but a lot of times people mispronounce it, ca-ree-sa.
Carissa /ca-ris-sa/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ka-RISS-ah. It is of Latin and Greek origin, and the meaning of Carissa is beloved; grace. Simplified spelling of Charissa, from Charis. Also possibly an elaborated form of Cara or Carys. Used by Edmund Spencer in his epic 1590 poem The Faerie Queene. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Carissa for girls. Carissa was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its peak position of #239 in the U.S. in the year 1992, but is not ranked at the moment. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014).
The different meanings of the name Carissa are: The meaning of the name “Carissa” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Form of: Caressa. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Carissa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Carissa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
Incoming search terms: biblical meaning of carissa, the meaning from the name carissa grace, carissa meaning hebrew, the christian meaning of the name carissa. Our research results for the name of Carissa (Carissa name meaning, Origin of Carissa, Pronounced etc. ) is fit name.You can give to your baby with complacency.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Carissa for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Carissa is a girl name. The name Carissa is of Italian origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Form of: Caressa. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Carissa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Carissa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
Greek Meaning: The name Carissa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Carissa is: Very dear. American Meaning: The name Carissa is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Carissa is: Very dear. Latin Meaning: The name Carissa is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Carissa is: Artistic or giving; Very dear.
[ 3 syll. ca-ris-sa, car-i- ssa ] The baby girl name Carissa is pronounced as KaaR IH-Saa- †. Carissa is mainly used in English, and its language of origin is Italian and Old Greek. In addition, Carissa is a pet form of the English, German, and Italian name Cara in the English language. Carissa is also a variant form of the English and German name Charis in the English language. Carissa is also a variant form of the English and Greek name Charissa in the English language. Carissa is a widely used name; it has 28 variant forms