How To Proof Moonshine With A Parrot. The best way to measure proof of moonshine is by using a proofing hydrometer and a copper moonshine parrot. A proofing hydrometer is a very easy tool to use. Place the proofing hydrometer into the parrot making sure that the drip arm from the moonshine still drips into the parrot. Knowing the proof of the moonshine not only important when diluting or proofing the final product, but it can also be used to help aide in making cuts during a run. When doing a run it is important to take notes on temperature and proof of the product when the cuts were made.
Traditional Moonshine is usually cut to 80-100 proof, (40% - 50% ABV), however, if it is triple-distilled in a pot still it can reach 160 proof on the third run, (80% ABV), bu … t this is much too hot to drink. 1 Finding the Proof of an Alcohol The proof of an alcohol is a number that describes the alcoholic content of liquor and spirits. 2  This number offers a reference point to determine the strength of a type of li…. 3  Healthy Varieties of Delicious Drinks Do not give up your favorite drinks just because they are unhealthy.
Most legal moonshine as produced in VA and WVa is 90-100 proof, (45-50% ABV), to make it more palatable. Triple pot-distilled spirits are usually diluted with limestone spring water and ages a few weeks to soften it. 1 Finding the Proof of an Alcohol The proof of an alcohol is a number that describes the alcoholic content of liquor and spirits. 2  This number offers a reference point to determine the strength of a type of li…. 3  Healthy Varieties of Delicious Drinks Do not give up your favorite drinks just because they are unhealthy.
The biggest difference between proofing and brewing hydrometers is the scale. The brewing hydrometer is used during the mash process and can measure up to a mash with a potential alcohol of 20% ABV. Proofing hydrometers are used for proofing moonshine and can measure up to 200 proof or 100% ABV. Knowing the proof of the moonshine not only important when diluting or proofing the final product, but it can also be used to help aide in making cuts during a run. When doing a run it is important to take notes on temperature and proof of the product when the cuts were made.
Publisert 23. des. 2012. How to test proof moonshine alcohol by shaking it. Prudential Texas Realty REALTOR®, Downtown Austin Real Estate and Live Work Real Estate Expert Perry Henderson, MBA www.perryhenderson.com 512.791.7462. How to test proof moonshine alcohol by shaking it. Moonshine, white lightning, mountain dew, hooch, and Tennessee white whiskey are terms used to describe high-proof distilled spirits, generally produced illicitly. 
Sorry, but this is just a cocktail. Reall apple pie moonshine is in the range of 60-70 proof. By rough calculation you are diluting one quart of 95% alcohol by 8 parts (8 quarts of apple juice and cider). That brings the alcohol level down to the realm of wine, barelywine or a strong belgian ale. 
Transfer the alcohol to jars. Finished moonshine is between 180 and 190 proof (90 to 95%) - practically pure grain alcohol. To make this product drinkable, responsible brewers cut it to half strength by mixing with pure spring water.
Moonshine is typically made with corn mash as the main ingredient. The word moonshine is believed to be derived from the term  moonrakers  used for early English smugglers and the clandestine nature of the operations of illegal Appalachian distillers who produced and distributed whiskey. The distillation was done at night to avoid discovery.
Moonshine, white lightning, mountain dew, hooch, homebrew, and white whiskey are terms used to describe high-proof distilled spirits that are generally produced illicitly. The word moonshine is believed to be derived from the term  moonrakers  used for early English smugglers and the clandestine nature of the operations of illegal Appalachian distillers who produced and distributed whiskey. The distillation was done at night to avoid discovery.
In modern usage, the term moonshine ordinarily implies that the liquor is produced illegally; however, the term has also been used on the labels of some legal products as a way of marketing them as providing a similar drinking experience as found with illegal liquor. The word moonshine is believed to be derived from the term  moonrakers  used for early English smugglers and the clandestine nature of the operations of illegal Appalachian distillers who produced and distributed whiskey. The distillation was done at night to avoid discovery.