variable cost. The costs of production that vary directly in proportion to the number of units produced. Variable costs often include labor expenses and raw material costs, because labor and raw material usually must be increased to increase output. 
Variable Cost. Definition: A variable cost is a cost that varies in relation to changes in the volume of activity. The variable cost concept can be used to model the future financial performance of a business, as well as to set minimum price points. The most common variable costs are: 
Variable costs are those costs that vary depending on a company's production volume; they rise as production increases and fall as production decreases. Variable costs differ from fixed costs such as rent, advertising, insurance and office supplies, which tend to remain the same regardless of production output. Variable Costs. Variable costs go up when a company produces more goods or services, and go down when it produces fewer goods or services. This is compared to fixed costs, which do not change in proportion to ...
A variable cost is a cost that changes in relation to variations in an activity. In a business, the activity is frequently production volume, with sales volume being another likely triggering event. 
Variable costs are corporate expenses that vary in direct proportion to the quantity of output. Unlike fixed costs, which remain constant regardless of output, variable costs are a direct function of production volume, rising whenever production expands and falling whenever it contracts. 
In economics, average variable cost (AVC) is a firm's variable costs (labor, electricity, etc.) divided by the quantity of output produced. Variable costs are those costs which vary with output. where VC = variable cost, AVC = average variable cost, and Q = quantity of output produced. 
Variable costs are costs that change in proportion to the good or service that a business produces. Variable costs are also the sum of marginal costs over all units produced. They can also be considered normal costs. Fixed costs and variable costs make up the two components of total cost. Direct costs, however, are costs that can easily be associated with a particular cost object. However, not all variable costs are direct costs
Loading the player... Variable costs vary depending on a company's production volume. Variable costs go up when a company produces more goods or services, and go down when it produces fewer goods or services. This is compared to fixed costs, which do not change in proportion to production volume
Variable cost is an expense that changes in relation to a company s business activity. As opposed to fixed costs, which remain constant, these costs arise in direct proportion to a business s output, increasing and decreasing along with the volume of production. Most often, variable rates are associated with production and packaging materials, as well as some hourly wage labor expenses.