The data elements in the file (UPIN, full name, specialty, Physician License State Code, zip code, Medicare provider billing number and State) are extracted from the UPIN Database and are approved for public release in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) System of Records. 
The UPIN or unique physician identifier number used by Medicare to identify doctors across the United States. They are six-place alpha numeric identifiers assigned to all physicians. The United States Congress authorized the creation of the unique physician identifier number through Section 9202 of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is responsible its creation for each doctor accepting Medicare insurance.
A UPIN or Unique Physician Identification number used by Medicare for the purpose of identifing doctors thruought the United States. Welcome to UPIN Numbers. This is our first post. There is an enormous amount of work in the industry that has been dependent on UPIN Numbers for a long time. I’ll gather information on UPIN Numbers compile it and place it here in a series of postings.
A unique physician identification number, or UPIN, was a six-character alpha-numeric identifier used by Medicare to identify doctors in the United States. They were discontinued in June, 2007 and replaced by National Provider Identifier, or NPI numbers. The United States Congress authorized the creation of UPIN IDs through Section 9202 of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA). The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) was responsible for creation of the UPINs for each doctor accepting Medicare insurance
Back in 1985 the United States Congress authorized creation of the Medicare UPIN Numbers with Section 9202 of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act. The department responsible for creation is the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services known as the CMS. They have created UPIN Numbers for each Doctor accepting Medicare insurance. UPIN Numbers were discontinued back in 2007 during the second quarter. Welcome to UPIN Numbers. This is our first post. There is an enormous amount of work in the industry that has been dependent on UPIN Numbers for a long time. I’ll gather information on UPIN Numbers compile it and place it here in a series of postings.
Difference between the Medicare Provider Numbers. In order for a provider to enroll into Medicare program, the provider must have a National Provider Identifier (NPI) issued by the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System (NPPES). The NPI is used to identify providers in the HIPAA standard process, such as the claims submission process. After the Carrier issued the PTAN, a Unique Provider Identification Number (UPIN) was issued to the provider through the UPIN Registry. The PTAN is used for claims processing system and access to information purposes and the UPIN was used for ordering and referring purposes.
Tom Schmucker/iStock/Getty Images. To identify Medicare providers, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services uses the National Provider Identifier Standard. Prior to the NPI program, the CMS used the Unique Physician Identification Number, or UPIN, directory. Any Medicare or Medicaid provider must give its NPI to other Medicare providers, health plans or other companies that need it for billing purposes. Anyone can search for a provider’s NPI through the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System, the organization responsible for assigning NPI numbers.
21st Century Health Care Consultants. Open your very own Health Care Agency. An NPI (National Provider Identifier) is an identification number given to health care providers by the CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services). It is a 10-digit number used for a variety of reasons in the health industry. The NPI number is the official identifier for Medicaid service providers as well as other private health services. The NPI number officially replaced the UPIN (unique provider identification number), which was used in the past.
This UPIN system was replaced by the NPI or National Provider Identifier numbering system way back in 2007 by the health services department of the United States but a UPIN lookup can still be done either in directories or online. There is also a directory of UPIN numbers available which has listed all those physicians who practiced before 2007. This is so because the directory is not published any more, however older versions are still available which used to be published by the health and human services department.