Polished concrete pricing is basically dependent upon how many levels of grinding will be required to get the floor to a suitably smooth surface. The cost for polished concrete can go up from there depending upon any decorative effects that are applied such as staining or scoring, etc. Basic cost for a polished concrete floor that requires only a few levels of grinding, according to Greg Demmert of Demmert & Assoc. in Los Angeles. $3-$8/ sq ft. For concrete floors requiring more in-depth grinding or including coloring with stains and dyes, according to Demmert. In the Denver area
Concrete Floors Las Vegas. Add a beautiful polished concrete floor to your home interior, garage, office, or exterior and other concrete surfaces. Polished Concrete is a unique way to transform almost any surface in your home into an elegant natural look.
Economical. The cost of concrete floors is very low, about $2 to $6 per square foot to polish a plain gray slab, giving it a lustrous sheen. The concrete's tonal differences, subtle cracks and aggregates take on a stonelike, natural feel.
Polished concrete cost tends to be more economical with large spaces. John Buteyn, Senior Technical Manager for Colorado Hardscapes in Denver says smaller residential floors tend to be a bit higher in price because of the requirement for smaller equipment and for getting into smaller spaces. Basic cost for a polished concrete floor that requires only a few levels of grinding, according to Greg Demmert of Demmert & Assoc. in Los Angeles. $3-$8/ sq ft. For concrete floors requiring more in-depth grinding or including coloring with stains and dyes, according to Demmert. In the Denver area
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.
Greg Demmert, with Demmert & Assoc. in Los Angeles, installs polished concrete along the West Coast in both residential and commercial locations. For a fairly smooth floor, that requires only a few levels of grinding, Demmert says $3 sq. ft. is the basic cost for a polished concrete floor. “It’s more difficult to get a consistent look using a smaller machine,” he explains about residential floors, “so the typical cost range is $6-$12 sq. ft.”. Each area of the country, along with each contractor is likely to offer different price points for the various levels and designs for polished concrete.
1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase). 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the
This price is usually for commercial floors and includes staining or scoring the floors, according to John Buteyn of Colorado Hardscapes. $6-$12/ sq ft. The typical cost for polished concrete in a residential floor because it is more difficult to get a consistent look using a smaller machine, according to Buteyn. Basic cost for a polished concrete floor that requires only a few levels of grinding, according to Greg Demmert of Demmert & Assoc. in Los Angeles. $3-$8/ sq ft. For concrete floors requiring more in-depth grinding or including coloring with stains and dyes, according to Demmert. In the Denver area