Bowen Therapy is a holistic and multidimensional approach to pain relief and healing that has achieved remarkable results over the past 50 years. Bowen Therapy, through specific soft tissue or fascial release and integration techniques, stimulate specific receptors that enable the body itself to correct dysfunctions and restore homeostasis (balance) on a holistic level.
Bowen disease was first described in the medical literature by a physician named JT Bowen in 1912. Bowen disease is also known as squamous cell carcinoma in situ, and is generally considered an early, noninvasive form of intraepidermal squamous cell carcinoma. Bowen Disease. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Bowen Disease is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Geography [edit]. Bowen is located on the north-east coast of Australia, at exactly twenty degrees south of the equator. In fact, the twentieth parallel crosses the main street. Bowen is halfway between Townsville and Mackay, and 1,130 kilometres by road from Brisbane. Bowen sits on a square peninsula, with ocean to the north, east, and south.
Bowen's disease is a very early form of squamous cell skin cancer. It is also called squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Doctors call Bowen's disease pre invasive. That means that there are cancer cells there but they are only in the outermost layer of skin, the epidermis. Sometimes it can spread along the skin surface. One type of Bowen's disease is called bowenoid papulosis. This is associated with infection with a type of genital wart virus called HPV 16. This is one of the types of virus that is also associated with cervical cancer and cancer of the penis.
Introduction. Bowen's disease is a very early form of skin cancer, which is easily curable. The main sign is a red, scaly patch on the skin. The abnormal growth takes place in the squamous cells – the outermost layer of skin – and Bowen's disease is sometimes referred to as squamous cell carcinoma in situ.
Share |. Bowen's disease, which is also called 'squamous cell carcinoma in situ' (SCC in situ), is a form of skin cancer. The term in situ added on the end tells us that this is a surface form of skin cancer. Invasive squamous cell carcinomas are the type that grow inward and may spread. SCC in situ is also known as Bowen's disease after the doctor who first described it almost 100 years ago.
The Bowen Technique (also known as Bowtech-the Original Bowen Technique and Bowenwork) is a dynamic system of muscle and connective tissue therapy that was developed by the late Tom Bowen in Geelong, Australia. 
Bowen is a gentle form of body work in which subtle moves performed over the muscles and connective tissue send messages deep into the body, retrieving cellular memory of a relaxed, balanced way of well-being. Bowen moves are light, gentle and very precise. There is no forceful manipulation. The practitioner is able to discern stress build-up in the muscles and other soft-tissue, enabling them to perform specific Bowen moves to assist recovery and pain relief. Bowen was founded in Australia by the late Tom Bowen, who discovered that making small and gentle movements on strategic points in the body generated an integrated healing response.
Like squamous cell cancer of the skin, Bowen's disease can grow anywhere. It is most common on the trunk, arms or legs. The phrase Bowen's disease is often used for squamous cell carcinoma in situ around the genitals or anus. One type of Bowen's disease is called bowenoid papulosis. This is associated with infection with a type of genital wart virus called HPV 16. This is one of the types of virus that is also associated with cervical cancer and cancer of the penis.