The process of gas exchange in the human body is also known as the process of inspiration and expiration. Inspiration is when you are breathing in. The diaphragm moves downward, allowing for the lungs to expand. The human gas exchange process happens in the lungs and this process is accomplished by the mechanisms of the heart. The process of movement of the air in and out of the lungs is called ventilation.
The exchange takes place in the millions of alveoli in the lungs and the capillaries that envelop them. As shown below, inhaled oxygen moves from the alveoli to the blood in the capillaries, and carbon dioxide moves from the blood in the capillaries to the air in the alveoli. Diffusion is the spontaneous movement of gases, without the use of any energy or effort by the body, between the gas in the alveoli and the blood in the capillaries in the lungs. Perfusion is the process by which the cardiovascular system pumps blood throughout
The human gas-exchange process transfers the gases contained by the human blood in exchange for the gases found in atmosphere. The human gas exchange process happens in the lungs and this process is accomplished by the mechanisms of the heart. The process of movement of the air in and out of the lungs is called ventilation.
Diffusion occurs in the lungs of the body in the alveoli. Oxygen diffuses from the alveoli of the lungs into the small capillaries that surround them and carbon dioxide diffus … es in the opposite direction; this is called gaseous exchange and it happens to oxygenate and get rid of the waste carbon dioide. Diffusion is important in the body as it the way oxygen travels from sir in our lung to red blood cells in our blood. It is also the process by which carbon dioxide travel f … rom our blood to our lungs from where it can then be exhaled.
So, we can see that oxygen and carbon-di-oxide, this 2 major gas exchanged from alveolus to blood and from blood to alveolus respectively by diffusion in the lung. This exchange happening maximum in base of the lung and minimum in apex of the lung. The human gas exchange process happens in the lungs and this process is accomplished by the mechanisms of the heart. The process of movement of the air in and out of the lungs is called ventilation.
Answer by Dylanleeprice. Confidence votes 74. In mammals diffusion occurs at 2 places in the respiratory system. The first place it occurs is in the lungs. The carbon dioxide from the blood diffuses into the lungs and the oxygen in the lungs diffuses into the blood. The second place where diffusion occurs is at the cell. Carbon dioxide diffuses out of the cell and into the blood whereas oxygen diffuses into the cell from the blood
~the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the blood in the capillaries and the body cells ex. oxygen in the blood diffuses through the intracellular fluid into the body cells. carbon dioxide diffuses from the body cells through the intracellular fluid, into the capillary blood.   . describe the diffusion of oxygen and carbon dioxide (earthworm). oxygen from air in the soil diffuses through their skin into the capillaries carbon dioxide diffuses from the blood in the capillaries through the skin into the air.
Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood. This exchange process occurs in the alveoli (air sacs) in the lungs. In fish and many invertebrates, respiration takes place through the gills. 
The main respiratory surface in humans is the alveoli, which are small air sacs branching off from the bronchioles in the lungs. They are one cell thick and provide a moist and extremely large surface area for gas exchange to occur. Inhaled oxygen is able to diffuse into the capillaries from the alveoli, while CO 2 from the blood diffuses in the opposite direction into the alveoli. The waste CO 2 can then be exhaled out of the body. Continuous blood flow in the capillaries and constant breathing maintain a steep concentration gradient