Bacterial infections may develop after a viral illness such as a cold or the flu. Bacterial infections may affect the upper or lower respiratory system, and symptoms tend to localize to one area. The most common sites of bacterial infections in the upper respiratory system are the sinuses and throat. Pneumonia is the most common bacterial infection of the lower respiratory system. Antibiotics are effective against bacterial infections only after they have developed, so most doctors do not prescribe them until a bacterial infection is suspected or confirmed
In many cases, the chemical process of respiration requires oxygen, although some organisms are able to carry out respiration in the absence of oxygen. This page will explain the three types of respiration found in microorganisms, as well as how these types of respiration affect the wastewater treatment plant. Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration is respiration in the presence of oxygen. Most multicellular organisms and many microorganisms produce their energy using aerobic respiration. In aerobic respiration, sugars are broken down in the presence of oxygen to produce carbon dioxide, water, and energy. Without oxygen, aerobic microorganisms are unable to produce energy and quickly die
Bacterial pneumonia. This type is caused by various bacteria, the most common of which is streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus). It usually occurs when the body is weakened in some way, such as by illness, malnutrition, old age, or impaired immunity, and the bacteria are able to work their way into the lungs. 
Some species of bacteria go through the process of cellular respiration. This is a more complex process that doesn t need oxygen, and the energy of the organic molecules is more efficient in the creation of ATP. Carbon dioxide and water are the byproducts most usually produced. To get energy from molecules such as sugars, bacteria must use fermentation or cellular respiration. These are processes that use the energy in the molecules to make adenosine triphosphate, known as ATP.
Anaerobic bacteria basically mean bacteria that respire anaerobically. All living cells need to respire in order to release energy for vital cell activities. Anaerobic respiration is respiration in the absence of oxygen, hence anaerobic bacteria does not breathe at all. The purpose of respiration is to provide the cell with the appropriate molecules for creating energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate, ATP Many types of bacteria respire anaerobically. In other words, they can go through the process of respiration without oxygen present. 
The respiration in bacteria is basically of two types aerobic and anaerobic which may be obligate or facultative. They are further classified as: Obligate aerobes: These are strict aerobes that mean they always require oxygen for their survival. They are not able to withstand anaerobic conditions. 
Aerobically respiring forms of bacteria require oxygen to live. They utilize oxygen as fuel to help burn energy and provide them with the energy needed for life. This type of bacterial respiration is the same kind that human beings use, hence the term aerobic exercise.. The major byproduct of aerobic respiration from bacteria is carbon dioxide. Other forms, such as the bacteria that causes the Bubonic Plague, can kill a person if left untreated. There are many different types of bacteria and they respire using different methods. The two primary methods of bacterial respiration are aerobic respiration and anaerobic respiration.
Respiration is a process by which organic substances such as carbohydrates, proteins, fats (or) organic acids are degraded to release energy. It is a catabolic process. All living organisms require a continuous supply of energy for carrying out various functions of the body related to growth, development and movement. • Mitochondria is the seat of cellular respiration. • Energy is stored in the form of ATP in cells. • Glycolysis is also called as EMP pathway. • Formation of ATP during electron trasnsport chain is called oxidative phosphorylation.
Electron Transport and Oxidative Phosphorylation. In the final stage of respiration, ATP is formed through a series of electron transfer reactions within the cytoplasmic membrane that drive the oxidative phosphorylation of ADP to ATP. Bacteria use various flavins, cytochrome, and non-heme iron components as well as multiple cytochrome oxidases for this process. 
Quick Fact: With the exception of the ribosomes, prokaryotes lack organelles. To get energy from molecules such as sugars, bacteria must use fermentation or cellular respiration. These are processes that use the energy in the molecules to make adenosine triphosphate, known as ATP. This is used for growth, movement, temperature regulation, and many other processes that require energy