I'm in the business of getting you ripped, so let's get down to it. If you are dieting, it is important to drink water so your liver can effectively metabolize body fat. It's also important to drink lots of water when you are carb-loading so your body can store glucose as glycogen. It's also possible to argue that drinking water can help you lose weight because it makes you feel full and therefore less apt to eat. However, the medical research is conflicted: some studies say drinking water helps you eat less, other studies says it doesn't.
The mere addition of water to your diet won’t help you lose weight -- this is a health myth. However, there may be benefits to this strategy, if drinking more water means drinking less soda or sugar-added fruit drinks. Nothing beats an improved diet and being more active for losing weight. If you're consuming more fiber-rich foods, like fruit, veggies and whole grains, drinking a lot of water can help prevent constipation. And studies show that drinking water can help ward off certain cancers, like bladder and kidney cancers.
The body basically can’t convert alcohol into body fat. Take the alcohol calories from your fat macros – and then if you drink so much they’re all gone, take from the carb category. Get all of your protein in, and if you can help it, try not to eat during or after drinking.
Water & 6 Other Weight Loss Drinks. 1. Ice cold water. You can burn up to an extra 100 calories per day drinking ice cold water because…. Your body has to burn calories (or fat) in order to heat the ice cold water back up to your body temperature so You'll lose an extra 10 lbs. a year JUST by drinking ice cold water. 1  Water before meals makes you eat less & lose weight faster (see step #3 here). 1 You'll burn 35-to-43% more fat daily drinking 3-to-5 cups of green tea or using a supplement. 2  Green tea contains caffeine which increases your fat burning metabolism. 3  Green tea is a diuretic which flushes out excess water weight.
Soda contributes to weight gain with empty calories. If you drink sugary soda regularly, you can lose body fat by kicking the habit -- provided you're maintaining a steady weight on your current diet and you don't pick up the lost calories through additional foods and beverages. Soda and Calories. On average, a can of non-diet cola contains about 135 calories. If you drink three cans a day, you're getting roughly 405 daily calories from soft drinks. A pound of fat equals 3,500 calories, so if all other things in your diet are equal, cutting out soda spares you more than a pound of fat every 10 day
If you want to lose fat, you must reduce your calorie intake and move your body more. You body needs to burn more calories than it takes in. Weight-loss supplements such as protein shakes can aid in muscle recovery, but drinking protein shakes alone will not help you to burn fat. Food. The food you eat can affect the speed at which you lose weight. If you drink protein shakes and exercise without modifying your diet, your weight-loss progress will be much slower. Therefore, examine the food you consume to see where you can change your diet.
So make sure you are drinking enough water to support your fat loss goals. Aim for 1 gallon of water a day. If it makes it easier, fill up a 1 gallon jug of water, and make sure it’s gone by the end of the day. This might seem like a lot, but that is only 8 – 16 ounces glasses. 
Considerations. If you want to burn fat and lose weight, include plenty of water in your diet before, during and after working out. Do not just focus on drinking protein shakes and forget about drinking water, which plays an important role in weight loss. It increases the metabolism and flushes toxins from the body. Food. The food you eat can affect the speed at which you lose weight. If you drink protein shakes and exercise without modifying your diet, your weight-loss progress will be much slower. Therefore, examine the food you consume to see where you can change your diet.
At 155 pounds, you will most likely lose weight eating 1,860 calories per day. This assumes that you exercise, which is also key to losing weight. If you're inactive or have high levels of body fat, subtract a few hundred calories from your calculated total. Soda and Calories. On average, a can of non-diet cola contains about 135 calories. If you drink three cans a day, you're getting roughly 405 daily calories from soft drinks. A pound of fat equals 3,500 calories, so if all other things in your diet are equal, cutting out soda spares you more than a pound of fat every 10 days