A railgun comprises a pair of parallel conducting rails, along which a sliding armature is accelerated by the electromagnetic effects of a current that flows down one rail, into the armature and then back along the other rail. A railgun consists of two parallel metal rails (hence the name) connected to an electrical power supply. When a conductive projectile is inserted between the rails (at the end connected to the power supply), it completes the circuit.
Putting these two ideas together, you can make a railgun. The device is simple in design. You have two parallel rails (thus called a railgun) and a moveable projectile that is also like a wire. An electric current goes down one wire, across the projectile and then back down the other rail. 
In addition to military applications, NASA has proposed to use a railgun from a high-altitude aircraft to fire a small payload into orbit; however, the extreme g-forces involved would necessarily restrict the usage to only the sturdiest of payloads. A railgun consists of two parallel metal rails (hence the name) connected to an electrical power supply. When a conductive projectile is inserted between the rails (at the end connected to the power supply), it completes the circuit.
1 Coilgun, an entirely magnetic gun which uses a linear motor to accelerate projectiles. 2  Helical railgun, combines the railgun and the coilgun. 3  Benchrest rifle, also known as a rail gun, a type of rifle that is built into a machine rest. Rail-gun, railgun or rail gun may refer to: 1  Railway gun, a large caliber artillery piece mounted on a railcar for rail mobility. 2  Railgun, an entirely electrical gun which uses a homopolar motor to accelerate projectiles. 3  Coilgun, an entirely magnetic gun which uses a linear motor to accelerate projectiles
1 Railway gun, a large caliber artillery piece mounted on a railcar for rail mobility. 2  Railgun, an entirely electrical gun which uses a homopolar motor to accelerate projectiles. 3  Coilgun, an entirely magnetic gun which uses a linear motor to accelerate projectiles. Rail-gun, railgun or rail gun may refer to: 1  Railway gun, a large caliber artillery piece mounted on a railcar for rail mobility.
A railgun is an electrically powered electromagnetic projectile launcher based on similar principles to the homopolar motor. A railgun consists of two parallel metal rails (hence the name) connected to an electrical power supply. When a conductive projectile is inserted between the rails (at the end connected to the power supply), it completes the circuit.
Railgun™ origin network optimizer. Railgun ensures that the connection between your origin server and the CloudFlare network is as fast as possible. Railgun achieves a 99.6% compression ratio for previously uncacheable web objects by using techniques similar to those used in the compression of high-quality video. Railgun uses a collection of techniques to accelerate and cache these previously uncacheable web pages so that even when the origin server must be consulted web pages are delivered quickly. And that even works for rapidly changing pages like news sites, or for personalized content.
With Railgun. Railgun consists of two software components: the Listener and Sender. The Railgun Listener is installed at your web host on an origin server. It's a small piece of software that runs on a standard server and services requests from CloudFlare using the encrypted, binary Railgun protocol. Railgun uses a collection of techniques to accelerate and cache these previously uncacheable web pages so that even when the origin server must be consulted web pages are delivered quickly. And that even works for rapidly changing pages like news sites, or for personalized content.
Is it possible to overcome these challenges? One solution is the electromagnetic rail gun, or rail gun for short. Using a magnetic field powered by electricity, a rail gun can accelerate a projectile up to 52,493 feet (16,000 meters) per second. And while current Navy guns have a maximum range of 12 miles, rail guns can hit a target 250 miles away in six minutes. 