A glomerulus is a network (as a tuft) of capillaries located at the beginning of a nephron in the kidney. It serves as the first stage in the filtering process of the blood carried out by the nephron in its formation of urine. The glomerulus is surrounded by a cup-like sac known as Bowman's capsule. The blood plasma is filtered through the capillaries of the glomerulus into the capsule. The Bowman's capsule empties the filtrate into the proximal tubule that is also part of the nephron. A glomerulus receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation. 
Of the 625 ml/min of plasma that goes to the glomerulus, 125 ml/min are filtered into Bowman's Capsule forming the filtrate (this is known as the glomerular filtration rate). The remaining 500 ml/min remain in the blood and enter into the peritubular capillaries. 
The Renal Corpuscle. Together, the glomerulus and its surrounding Bowman's capsule are called a renal corpuscle. This structure is located in the renal cortex. You should also be aware that the nephron is composed of two main parts: the renal tubule and the renal corpuscle. The Glomerulus. As blood is pumped out of the heart, it will pass through the aorta before reaching the kidney. Once this blood enters the kidneys, it will eventually enter the first part of each nephron. This part is a network of capillaries responsible for the filtration of blood that is called a glomerulus.
Glomerular filtration is the process by which the kidneys filter the blood, removing excess wastes and fluids. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a calculation that determines how well the blood is filtered by the kidneys, which is one way to measure remaining kidney function.
Each glomerulus and its associated renal tubule make up a unit known as a nephron, and in humans there are more than a million nephrons in each kidney. Normally, the glomerular filtration rate is so efficient that the whole of the blood volume passes through the kidneys within about five minutes. A glomerulus, plural glomeruli, is a knot of extremely tiny blood vessels involved in filtering the blood to form urine. There are many glomeruli inside the kidney, each contained within a capsule known as Bowman's capsule.
Together, the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule make up the renal corpuscle of the nephron. These parts of the nephron filter blood and are vital to our body's survival. The Glomerulus. As blood is pumped out of the heart, it will pass through the aorta before reaching the kidney. Once this blood enters the kidneys, it will eventually enter the first part of each nephron. This part is a network of capillaries responsible for the filtration of blood that is called a glomerulus.
FILTRATION IN GLOMERULUS. 1. One of the capillary networks that are part of the renal corpuscles in the nephrons of the kidney. Each is surrounded by a Bowman's capsule, the site of renal (glomerular) filtration, which is the first step in the formation of urine. The glomerulus is an integral part of the nephron, the basic unit of the kidney. Each nephron is capable of forming urine by itself, and each kidney has many nephrons. The specific function of each glomerulus is to bring blood (and the waste products it carries) to the nephron.
glomerular filtration, the renal process whereby fluid in the blood is filtered across the capillaries of the glomerulus and into the urinary space of Bowman's capsule. 
Glomerular Filtration. The first step in renal processing involves the filtration of plasma in the glomerulus. Glomerular filtration is a process of bulk flow: water and low molecular weight substances move from the lumen of the capillary, across the filtration membrane, and into Bowman s space. 
Glomerulus /ɡlɒˈmɛrələs/ is a common term used in anatomy to describe globular structures of entwined vessels, fibers, or neurons. Glomerulus is the diminutive of the Latin glomus, meaning ball of yarn. Glomerulus may refer to: 1  the filtering unit of the kidney; see Glomerulus (kidney) . 2  the structure in the olfactory bulb; see Glomerulus (olfaction) . 3  the contact between specific cells in the cerebellum; see Glomerulus (cerebellum) 