Like fossil-derived natural gas, renewable natural gas —which is produced from decaying organic materials—must be compressed or liquefied for use as a transportation fuel. Natural gas is an odorless, gaseous mixture of hydrocarbons—predominantly methane (CH 4).
Although the processing of natural gas is in many respects less complicated than the processing and refining of crude oil, it is equally as necessary before its use by end users. The natural gas used by consumers is composed almost entirely of methane.
However, natural gas found at the wellhead, although still composed primarily of methane, is by no means as pure. Raw natural gas comes from three types of wells: oil wells, gas wells, and condensate wells. Natural gas that comes from oil wells is typically termed ‘associated gas’.
Natural gas is a mixture of small organic molecules that are all gasses at normal temperatures. Methane is the most abundant constituent of natural gas, while ethane, propane, and helium are also present. Natural gas also includes trace amounts of other organic gases.
Liquefied natural gas, or LNG, is natural gas in its liquid form. LNG is produced by purifying natural gas and super-cooling it to -260°F to turn it into a liquid. During the process known as liquefaction, natural gas is cooled below its boiling point, removing most of the compounds found in the fuel.
Most of the natural gas that we use is called dry.. It generally consists of 95% methane, 3% ethane, propane, and butane, and 2% non-hydrocarbon gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen, or helium (EPA 2010). On the other hand, some forms of natural gas-called “wet” - contain up to 20% of ethane, propane, and butane.
Natural gas is one of the cleanest, safest, and most useful forms of energy in our day-to-day lives. Natural gas is a hydrocarbon, which means it is made up of compounds of hydrogen and carbon. The simplest hydrocarbon is methane; it contains one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. Natural gas can be found by itself or in association with oil.