The Plaza de Toros de la Real Maestranza de Caballeria caballería De sevilla is a bullring In, Seville. spain During the annual Seville Fair in Seville, it is the site of one of the most well-known bullfighting festivals in the world. It is a part of the Real Maestranza de Caballeria caballería De, sevilla a noble guild established for traditional cavalry. training
Though Seville is one of the most famous cities for bullfighting in Spain, there are actually only bullfights in the city for a few weeks of the year. On this page you will find information about the bullfighting events in Seville in 2015. See also: 1  Madrid Bullfighting Schedule 2015. 2  Spain Bullfighting Schedule 2015. 
Plaza de Toros – Seville’s Magnificent Bullring is the Oldest in Spain: Plaza de Toros-Seville. The Plaza de Toros de la Real Maestranza de Caballeria de Sevilla is a mouthful, but beyond this long name is a magnificent Seville bullring that is the oldest in Spain. The Plaza de Toros is one of the most visited monuments in Seville. I must say that we do not agree with any sport that involves the killing of animals, but even if you do not approve of this blood-spilling sport, it is worthwhile visiting the bullring to get a sense of Spain’s bullfighting culture.
Tours of Spain. Spanish Blog. Things to do in Seville Spain-The Maestranza Bullring by Juan Navarro Seville's Maestranza Bullring is to the art of bullfighting what the La Scala in Milan is to opera. Both venues are considered the most prestigious and emblematic settings in which to perform.
Building of the Maestranza Bullring in Seville began in 1758 making it Spain’s oldest Plaza de Toros. The origin of modern day bullfighting on foot (rather than horseback) can be traced back to here and Ronda. 
The charming city of Seville is the capital of the autonomous community of Andalusia and the province of the same name. It is situated on both sides of the Guadalquivir, which is navigable up to this point. With over 700,000 inhabitants it is the fourth largest city in Spain. 
Spanish Blog. Things to do in Seville Spain-The Maestranza Bullring by Juan Navarro Seville's Maestranza Bullring is to the art of bullfighting what the La Scala in Milan is to opera.
The Plaza de Toros de la Real Maestranza de Caballeria caballería De sevilla is a bullring In, Seville. Spain during the Annual Seville fair In, seville it is the site of one of the most-well known bullfighting festivals in the. world During the annual Seville Fair in Seville, it is the site of one of the most well-known bullfighting festivals in the world. It is a part of the Real Maestranza de Caballeria caballería De, sevilla a noble guild established for traditional cavalry. training