There are at least 11 different types of skin conditions that produce eczema. In order to develop a rational treatment plan, it is important to distinguish them. This is often not easy. 1 Eczema is not a single disease but a reaction pattern of the skin produced by a number conditions. 2  Atopic dermatitis, a common causes of eczema, is more prevalent in those with asthma and hay fever. 3  Eczema appears as small blisters that can weep and ooze, or as crusted, thickened plaques of skin.
The skin diseases associated with a certain type will usually exhibit similar symptoms, be caused by similar sources, and is treated and/or cured in a similar manner. Of course each skin disease will exhibit variances in the symptoms and severity and may display some unique characteristics. Most bacterial skin diseases are caused by staphylococci or staph. This bacteria causes the majority of the bacterial skin diseases. The staph bacteria which cause the diseases live on humans. In fact, as much as 40% of humans are carriers of the type of staph which causes diseases.
The skin is the largest organ of the human body. There are different types of conditions that can affect the skin. This write-up provides information on some of the common types of skin diseases. Advertisement. The skin consists of the epidermis, dermis, and the subcutaneous tissues. Eczema is a term given to a variety of skin conditions. It is concerned mainly with the upper layer of the skin. It is characterized by symptoms such as formation of red bumps or skin rashes, itching, scaling, crusting, flaking, weeping, and inflammation of the skin. Different types of eczema include atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, irritant dermatitis, seborrheic eczema, nummular eczema, and dyshidrotic eczema
Genetic predispositions to certain conditions are also attributed to the emergence of certain skin diseases. Even the occurrence of one type of skin disease can lead to the appearance of another. Skin diseases usually fall into a specific category or type. Most bacterial skin diseases are caused by staphylococci or staph. This bacteria causes the majority of the bacterial skin diseases. The staph bacteria which cause the diseases live on humans. In fact, as much as 40% of humans are carriers of the type of staph which causes diseases.
Lupus is a skin disease that can occur in three forms. These are chronic cutaneous (discoid) lupus erythematosus, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, and acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The sun often worsens lupus skin problems. Each of these forms of lupus causes different skin problems. They include: 1  round lesions on the face and head. 2  thick, red, scaly disc-shaped lesions. 3  red, ring-shaped lesions on body parts exposed to sunlight. 4  hair loss. 5  flat rash on the face and body that looks like a sunburn. 6  calcinosis cuti
Dermatitis is the general term for skin rashes. There are many different types of skin diseases, but some of the more common kinds are psoriasis, eczema, herpes simplex, lupus, acne, rosacea and skin cancer. There are two main types of skin cancer: non-melanoma and melanoma. Melanoma is the more deadly, while non-melanoma is the more common
As is true of many of the diseases on the medical spectrum, skin diseases reference a wide array of conditions which affect the skin. Diseases affecting the skin can be caused by complications of other medical conditions, fungal infections, bacterial infections, allergic reactions, and even insect bites. Most bacterial skin diseases are caused by staphylococci or staph. This bacteria causes the majority of the bacterial skin diseases. The staph bacteria which cause the diseases live on humans. In fact, as much as 40% of humans are carriers of the type of staph which causes diseases.
Eczema (dermatitis): A particular type of inflammatory reaction of the skin in which there is erythema (reddening), edema (swelling), papules (bumps), and crusting of the skin followed, finally, by lichenification (thickening) and scaling of the skin. Eczema characteristically causes itching and burning of the skin. 1 Atopic dermatitis -- a chronic skin disease characterized by itchy, inflamed skin. 2  Irritant contact eczema -- a localized reaction that includes redness, itching, and burning where the skin has come into contact with an irritant such as an acid, a cleaning agent, or other chemical.
The skin diseases are common in the whole world. In the countries in the process of development, the infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, leprosy and the onchocercose are common, while in the developed countries, inflammatory disorders such as eczema and the acne are common.