The sensory nervous system is a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information. A sensory system consists of sensory receptors, neural pathways, and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception. 
neurons. neurons: the basic building blocks of the brain and the central nervous system individual nerve cells are specialised to receive input from other nerve cells and process of transmit information to other nerve cells via electrochemical impulses. a network of nerves that branch out from the CNS to all parts of the body delivers information from the sensory receptors via afferent nerves, to the CNS then transmitting them to the muscular of glandular efferent organs via efferent nerves. the PNS is divided into the somatic and autonomic nervous systems.
When we feel pain, such as when we touch a hot stove, sensory receptors in our skin send a message via nerve fibres (A-delta fibres and C fibres) to the spinal cord and brainstem and then onto the brain where the sensation of pain is registered, the information is processed and the pain is perceived. 
Definition of Proprioception. The term proprioception is used to describe the sensory information that contributes to the sense of position of self and movement. Sir Charles Bell named the sixth sense as the sense of the positions and actions of the limbs (McCloskey 1978). Sensory Afferent Pathway of Proprioception. In general, impulses from peripheral receptors in the skin, muscles and joints are synthesized into a picture of the body's position, condition, The brain then functions to perceive this information. Sensory perception is based on a multi-component sensory system that includes: various types of peripheral receptors which detect specific signals and major sensory afferent pathways which carry the information from the spinal cord up to the cortex
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Sensory neurons are nerve cells that transmit sensory information (sight, sound, feeling, etc.). They are activated by sensory input, and send projections to other elements of the nervous system, ultimately conveying sensory information to the brain or spinal cord. The somatic sensory system includes the sensations of touch, pressure, vibration, limb position, heat, cold, and pain. The cell bodies of somatic sensory afferent fibers lie in ganglia throughout the spine. These neurons are responsible for relaying information about the body to the central nervous system.
1 all the motor axons pass into the ventral roots before uniting with the sensory axons to form the mixed nerves. 2  It connects a large part of the peripheral nervous system to the brain. 3  Information (nerve impulses) reaching the spinal cord through sensory neurons are transmitted up into the brain. 1 Information (nerve impulses) reaching the spinal cord through sensory neurons are transmitted up into the brain. 2  Signals arising in the motor areas of the brain travel back down the cord and leave in the motor neurons.
Sensory information is transmitted from sensory receptor cells in the peripheral nervous system via sensory neurons to the central nervous system. Sensory information is also known as afferent information—'afferent' means 'coming towards', and in this instance it refers to coming towards the central nervous system. a network of nerves that branch out from the CNS to all parts of the body delivers information from the sensory receptors via afferent nerves, to the CNS then transmitting them to the muscular of glandular efferent organs via efferent nerves. the PNS is divided into the somatic and autonomic nervous systems.
1 It connects a large part of the peripheral nervous system to the brain. 2  Information (nerve impulses) reaching the spinal cord through sensory neurons are transmitted up into the brain. 3  Signals arising in the motor areas of the brain travel back down the cord and leave in the motor neurons. 1 Information (nerve impulses) reaching the spinal cord through sensory neurons are transmitted up into the brain. 2