Bacteremia, Septicemia. Bacteremia is the presence of bacteria in the blood. Bacteria may enter the blood from the site of infection, like pneumonia or meningitis, during inserting vascular catheters, drug administration, surgery, tooth extraction, and so on. 
Sepsis due to Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 1  A41.02 is a billable ICD-10-CM code that can be used to indicate a diagnosis for reimbursement purposes. 2  Reimbursement claims with a date of service on or after October 1, 2015 require the use of ICD-10-CM codes. 3  This is the American ICD-10-CM version of A41.02. 
Sepsis Overview. Sepsis is a condition in which the body is fighting a severe infection that has spread via the bloodstream. If a patient becomes septic, they will likely have low blood pressure leading to poor circulation and lack of perfusion of vital tissues and organs. 
staphylococcal clumping test. used as a means of measuring the quantity of fibrinogen-split products in a sample of blood. equine staphylococcal dermatitis. see equine staphylococcal dermatitis. staphylococcal food poisoning. a disease of humans caused by enterotoxins elaborated by coagulase-positive Staphylococcus aureus of human origin. Dangerous foods for this disease are ham, dried milk and cold meats generally.
Skin infections caused by staph bacteria include: Boils. The most common type of staph infection is the boil, a pocket of pus that develops in a hair follicle or oil gland. The skin over the infected area usually becomes red and swollen. If a boil breaks open, it will probably drain pus. 
[Staphylococcus aureus sepsis--still life threatening disease]. [Article in Polish]. Kowalik M(1), Ellert-Zygadłowska J, Smiatacz T, Trocha H, Weyna L, Orłowski M, Pajuro R. Author information: (1)Klinika Chorob Chorób Zakaźnych Akademii medycznej W. gdańsku 
Staph Bacteremia. Staph bacteremia is a type of bacteremia which may occur. A staph infection is an infection which may be a result of infection in the organs or poisoning of the blood aka sepsis. This causes the internal organs or the skin to become inflamed which is caused by bacteria in the blood. 
MRSA (methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus) is a type of staphylococcus bacteria (staph) that is resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics. MRSA is contagious and can cause life-threatening infection. MRSA isn’t found in the natural environment (soil or water). 
Sepsis: The Basics. Sepsis is an extreme response to an infection. Your body sends a flood of chemicals into your bloodstream to fight the threat. This causes widespread inflammation which, over time, can slow blood flow and damage your organs. 
Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections. 