A: You'll spend about 6 hours on brew day brewing and cleaning up (this will get shorter as you gain experience). Then the beer will ferment for about 2 weeks. Then you'll spend another 2-3 hours bottling the beer and it will be another week or two before it's ready to drink. A: The typical amount of homebrew you will make each time is 5 gallons or around 2 cases. The cost depends on the type of beer you want to make, but generally runs between $25 and $37.50. That translates to $.52 to $.78 per bottle.
From Brewing to Drinking. The time it takes for your beer to go from raw materials to finished, ready to drink beer depends on a number of different factors. Generally, the process takes between four and eight weeks (one to two months). Four weeks is pretty much the least amount of time you’ll have to wait. Total fermentation time is about two weeks, so factor this into the total wait. After your beer has completed its first fermentation, you’ll need to bottle your brew after adding priming sugar (or if you want to save a little time and trouble, carbonation tablets).
It depends. You can turn around a low alcohol ale in a couple weeks. It usually takes a commercial brewer 3-4 weeks to make a regular strength ale. Same time frame for a homebrewer making a regular strength ale. Force carbonating your beer, rather than bottle conditioning, will make it faster, probably in the 2-3 week range. Higher alcohol beers take longer as they need more time to ferment and, in many case, need some time for the beer to age to mellow it. Some styles, like Imperial Stout, can take 6 months before they are ready. 
Below is a breakdown of our estimate on how long it would take brew a batch of home brew given different methods. Extract Batch without steeping grains: 1  30 minutes – setup, and wait for water to boil. 2  1 hour – boil. 3  30 minutes – cooling, fill primary, pitch yeast. 4  30 minutes – clean up. 5  2 hours 30 minutes total. 
The question of how long it takes beer to ferment and condition is largely dependent on beer style. On the short end, a low-gravity ale can take as little as 2-3 weeks if you have a way to force carbonate the beer. When talking about how long it takes to make beer, we can't ignore the difference between ales and lagers. In general, ales are ready to drink sooner that lagers. It’s not unusual to open the first beer after 4-6 weeks of fermentation and conditioning.
Report Abuse. If you get an extract kit it should take about 3 hours to brew. The directions will probably tell you to ferment for a week and then bottle, but I usually let it go for 2 weeks. Then bottle conditioning takes at least 2 weeks, 4-6 is better. If you're serious about starting to brew, I'd check out www.howtobrew.com. depends on what kind of beer you want to make and how many fermentations there actually is a plastic how to brew beer sheet that gives you basic information on how to brew beer available at barnes and noble and borders for ~ 99 cents. urgit39 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Conclusion. So, how long does it take to make a beer? Though the amount of time from start to finish can be as little as a month, most of that time is spent allowing the beer to ferment and condition. In general, expect to spend 6-10 hours of hands-on time brewing, and 2-4 months between brew day and drinking. When talking about how long it takes to make beer, we can't ignore the difference between ales and lagers. In general, ales are ready to drink sooner that lagers. It’s not unusual to open the first beer after 4-6 weeks of fermentation and conditioning.
Different styles of beer may take slightly more or less time to ferment and do better with longer or shorter periods of bottle conditioning. For instance, ales generally do not take more than two weeks to be ready to drink after leaving your beer brewing kit for bottles. Total fermentation time is about two weeks, so factor this into the total wait. After your beer has completed its first fermentation, you’ll need to bottle your brew after adding priming sugar (or if you want to save a little time and trouble, carbonation tablets).
The actual process of preparing the ingredients takes only a few hours, but your beer-to-be will need to ferment in your beer brewing kit for at least two weeks (or longer, depending on the type of beer you’re brewing), followed by two weeks of bottle conditioning after you’ve bottled your home brew. Total fermentation time is about two weeks, so factor this into the total wait. After your beer has completed its first fermentation, you’ll need to bottle your brew after adding priming sugar (or if you want to save a little time and trouble, carbonation tablets).