Confidence votes 618. THAT DEPENDS ON YOUR STYLE OF DECORATION AND HOW MUCH MONEY YOU HAVE TO SPEND. SOME PEOPLE GO TOP DOLLAR ON EVERYTHING AND SPEND UPWARDS FROM $20,000 OR MORE. FOR PEOPLE ON LIMITED BUDGETS THEY SHOP SECOND HAND AND CAN FURNISH A WHOLE HOUSE FOR UNDER $2,000. A steam shower's cost will depend mostly on the quality and size of it. For a decent, low-budget steam shower, you may spend only $999 for one. However, on average, a steam … shower will cost about $2000 and can go up to $10000. For a two bedroom condo, the cost should be somewhere from $1000-$2000.
I also bought all of the furniture, in a separate negotiation after we had settled on a price for the house. That furniture (including refrigerator) cost $1500. You can furnish a house for much less by going to the Salvation Army. Right now, ten years later, I am refurnishing my house, room by room, with middle of the line furniture. No warehouse sale furniture, but also I haven't set foot in Ethan Allen. 
I don't think it has any thing to do with how much your house cost, but how much you earn/save and can allocate to furniture, etc. I'm in CA, but if I moved to a cheaper part of the country I would not spend less on furniture ... I would probably have to spend more because the cheaper house would probably be larger!. Don't assume your DR table/set will be a keeper for 30 years. Search on this forum and you will read about plenty of homeowners who no longer love the set they bought 10 years ago.
June 2013 | By Barbara Ballinger. Surveys such as Remodeling magazine’s “ Cost vs. Value ” report detail how much it costs to complete a variety of major popular home improvement projects each year, including the always popular kitchen and bathroom redos. Tip: To accomplish this effect for less, choose semi-custom cabinets, a good (but not top) exhaust hood, and granite countertops ($40 to $50 per square foot). What: Master Bedroom. How Much: $28,575.
I mean things change very quickly. First, if you are living in an aparment building your cost will be much lower than if you are renting a … house. On average a month I pay about $30 water/sewer/trash, $200 tv/phone/internet, $100 electric, $50 summer/$150 winter for gas. A steam shower's cost will depend mostly on the quality and size of it. For a decent, low-budget steam shower, you may spend only $999 for one. However, on average, a steam … shower will cost about $2000 and can go up to $10000. For a two bedroom condo, the cost should be somewhere from $1000-$2000.
A furnished apartment will cost you roughly $400 to $500 more, depending on geographical location, local property values, and the number of rooms you are looking for. Furnishe … d apartments typicality cost between $400 and $2,000, depending on the variables mentioned above. Answers Publisher. 49,340 Contributions. 
The cost to furnish your new home is up to you. Do you have a champange taste or do you prefer the college dorm look? It is up to you. There is a store called Rooms To Go that has preselected room packages for about $2500-$3500. So for the cost of one serious piece of furniture you can get the whole room. Otherwise you could use a designer and have your home decorated to look like a showplace. It is ultimately up to you. It has a fomal living room, formal dining room, a family room, kitchen with nook, master bedroom, 2 rooms, and a loft. How much will it cost (average) to furnish each part of the house?
I have helped hundreds of homeowners excited to make updates to their home, as well as new home buyers that are starting from scratch. They tend to be excited and in good spirits until they find out it costs not hundreds, but many thousands of dollars to furnish a home. Even with the cheapest quality product, the number will be in the thousands. The low cost items above are in reference to the sort of furniture quality one finds at IKEA, low end discount furniture stores, or online furniture sources. This is furniture that usually will not last more than a couple years before looking beaten down.
After buying a new home, how much will it cost me to furnish the living room, dining, master bedroom and room? Asked by Dan, Bakersfield, CA • Fri Oct 10, 2008. I am planning to buy a new home. It has a fomal living room, formal dining room, a family room, kitchen with nook, master bedroom, 2 rooms, and a loft. How much will it cost (average) to furnish each part of the house?