Using 3D CT reconstructions,they reported a mean glenoid retroversion of 19 2.4 anda posterior bone loss of 7 2 mm. Although agreementbetween the 4 recorders was very high using both 2D scans Figure 1 Parameters of glenoid anatomy include (A) glenoid height, (B) width, and (C) version. 
The glenoid cavity or glenoid fossa of scapula is a part of the shoulder. This tendon originates on the superior margin of the glenoid cavity and loops over the shoulder bracing humerus against the cavity. The rotator cuff also reinforces this joint more specifically with the supraspinatus tendon to hold the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity.
1 a common condition in which an organ is tipped backward, usually without flexion or other distortion. The uterus may be retroverted in as many as one fourth of normal women. Uterine retroversion is measured as first-, second-, or third-degree, depending on the angle of tilt with respect to the vagina. Compare antevers
By Arun Pal Singh 5 Comments. Anteversion and Retroversion describe the rotation of an organ or part of it. Anteversion means rotated forwards (towards the front of the body). Retroversion means rotated backwards (towards the back of the body). The version is in comparison to a reference position. 
In the arthritic shoulder group, the values of glenoid retroversion were widely distributed from -8.8° to 42.3° with the conventional method and from 1.4° to 56.8° with the vault method (Figure 4 B). No difference was found in their distributions of arthritic shoulders (p = 0.737). Our study is the first computed tomographic analysis of glenoid vault version with three-dimensionally reconstructed slices. In the normal shoulders, the glenoid has almost neutral version when measured with the conventional method and a mean of 9° retroversion with the vault method.
Purpose. To determine whether glenoid retroversion is a predictor of posterior shoulder instability, contralateral instability, or recurrent instability in patients with traumatic, contact-related posterior shoulder instability. Whereas glenoid retroversion has been implicated in patients with posterior MDI, few studies have been able to corroborate this in patients with traumatic/athletic posterior instability. Multiple characteristics of the glenoid have been studied; so too has the optimal way to measure these aspects of glenoid anatomy.
The humerus is held in place within the glenoid cavity by means of the long head of the bicep tendon. This tendon originates on the superior margin of the glenoid cavity and loops over the shoulder bracing humerus against the cavity. The rotator cuff also reinforces this joint more specifically with the supraspinatus tendon to hold the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity.
Second, patients with a glenoid bone lesion had a higher incidence of a humeral lesion and vice versa (P = .035). No difference was noted in the anterior instability group with relation to glenoid bone lesions, humeral bone lesions, or any other variable included. Whereas glenoid retroversion has been implicated in patients with posterior MDI, few studies have been able to corroborate this in patients with traumatic/athletic posterior instability. Multiple characteristics of the glenoid have been studied; so too has the optimal way to measure these aspects of glenoid anatomy.
The mean glenoid retroversion values of the arthritic shoulder group were larger than the values of the normal shoulder group. The arthritic shoulder glenoid demonstrated a mean of 10.8° ± 9.3° retroversion with the conventional method and a mean of 18.2° ± 9.1° retroversion with the vault method. Our study is the first computed tomographic analysis of glenoid vault version with three-dimensionally reconstructed slices. In the normal shoulders, the glenoid has almost neutral version when measured with the conventional method and a mean of 9