y-ax•is. 1. (in a plane Cartesian coordinate system) the axis, usu. vertical, along which the ordinate is measured and from which the abscissa is measured. 2. (in a three-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system) the axis along which values of y are measured and at which both x and z equal zero. n. 1. (Mathematics) a reference axis, usually vertical, of a graph or two-or three-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system along which the y-coordinate is measured. (ˈwaɪˌaek ˈwaɪˌæk). sɪs., n. pl-y•ax (es ˈwaɪˌaek). ˈwaɪˌæk siz
A vertical compression is the squeezing of the graph towards the x-axis. If the original (parent) function is y = f (x), the vertical stretching or compressing of the function is the function a f(x). A horizontal compression is the squeezing of the graph towards the y-axis. If the original (parent) function is y = f (x), the horizontal stretching or compressing of the function is the function f (ax).
Most chart types have two axes: a horizontal axis (or x-axis) and a vertical axis (or y-axis). This example teaches you how to change the axis type, add axis titles and how to change the scale of the vertical axis. To create a column chart, execute the following steps. 
The Vertical Axis in the Cartesian Plane. The vertical axis is part of what is called the Cartesian plane, or what is known more colloquially as the x-y plane. The vertical axis intersects the horizontal axis at what is called the origin.. This is the point (0,0). The Cartesian plane is parametrized with coordinates, which means that the vertical axis is broken up into units. Representation of the Vertical Axis. The vertical axis is represented as a vertical line with arrows at the top and bottom to indicate that it continues indefinitely in both the positive and negative direction.
Horizontal and Vertical Lines. A line parallel to the x-axis is called a horizontal line. The graph of a relation of the form x = 5 is a line parallel to the y-axis because the x value never changes. A line parallel to the y-axis is called a vertical line.
Note: A line parallel to the x-axis is called a horizontal line. The graph of a relation of the form x = 5 is a line parallel to the y-axis because the x value never changes. A line parallel to the y-axis is called a vertical line.
The world's tallest vertical-axis wind turbine, in Cap-Chat, Quebec. Vertical-axis wind turbines (VAWTs) are a type of wind turbine where the main rotor shaft is set transverse to the wind (but not necessarily vertically) while the main components are located at the base of the turbine. 
Change the scale of the vertical (value) axis in a chart. By default, Microsoft Office Excel determines the minimum and maximum scale values of the vertical (value) axis when you create a chart. In a chart, click the vertical (value) axis that you want to change, or do the following to select the axis from a list of chart elements: Click anywhere in the chart.