Cuba, Convertible Peso. The Cuban Convertible Peso is the currency of Cuba. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Cuba Convertible Peso exchange rate is the CUC to CAD rate. The currency code for Convertible Pesos is CUC, and the currency symbol is CUC$. Below, you'll find Cuban Convertible Peso rates and a currency converter.
Cuba, Peso. The Cuban Peso is the currency of Cuba. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Cuba Peso exchange rate is the CUP to USD rate. The currency code for Pesos is CUP, and the currency symbol is ₱. Below, you'll find Cuban Peso rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take CUP rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.
The Dual Economy. The economic and monetary situation in Cuba is quite complex, for a start there are 2 currencies 1  : The Peso Convertible-CUC-the main currency used by tourists. 2  The Peso Cubano-CUP (or M.N-moneda nacional) - used mostly by Cubans at places like ration stores. 
Cuban Pesos CUP. The rate of change of the Cuban Peso (CUP) with the USD or the Convertible Peso is of 1/26. A foreigner can use these CUP's for p.a. a public transportation, buying market food (vegetables and fruits), perhaps some juice or a pizza in the streets. 
Money. Cuba operates a dual currency system. Visitors usually use the Cuban Convertible Peso (CUC), whereas locals use the Cuban Peso (CUP). The CUP is worth much less than the CUC; check transaction sums carefully. US Dollars aren’t accepted as legal tender; you’ll be charged 10% commission to exchange them
The peso (ISO 4217 code: CUP, sometimes called the national peso or in Spanish moneda nacional) is one of two official currencies in use in Cuba, the other being the convertible peso (ISO 4217 code: CUC, occasionally referred to as dollar in spoken language). The conversion between (CUC) and (MN) is $1(CUC)=$25(MN). Cuban state workers receive a portion of their wages in convertible pesos, the rest in national pesos. Shops selling basics, like fruit and vegetables, generally accept only the normal peso, while dollar shops sell the rest. The word pesos may refer to both non-convertible and convertible money.
The Cuban Convertible Peso (CUC) is the main currency used by island visitors. It can only be obtained in Cuba and is worthless outside of Cuba. The purchasing power of the CUC is similar to that of the US dollar. 