Aluminum chloride is an ionic compound because aluminum is a metal and chlorine is a nonmetal. The combination of a metal bonded with a nonmetal is an ionic compound. Incorr … ect. Aluminium Chloride is covalent. Some ionic compounds are in fact partly c … ovalent because the positive cation (e.g. magnesium) polarizes (attracts the electrons of) the anion forming a stronger bond than if it was 100% ionic. A table of ELECTRONEGATIVITY can help one determine whether a bond is ionic or covalent.
The compound is a very hard material that has a Wurtzite crystal structure. Its wide band gap of 3.4 eV affords it special properties for applications in optoelectronic, high-power and high-frequency devices. GaN is a very hard, mechanically stable wide bandgap semiconductor material with high heat capacity and thermal conductivity. In its pure form it resists cracking and can be deposited in thin film on sapphire or silicon carbide, despite the mismatch in their lattice constants.
Aluminium nitride is stable in hydrogen and carbon dioxide atmospheres up to 980 °C. The material dissolves slowly in mineral acids through grain boundary attack, and in strong alkalies through attack on the aluminium nitride grains. The material hydrolyzes slowly in water. Aluminium nitride is resistant to attack from most molten salts, including chlorides and cryolite.
Aluminium nitride is stable at high temperatures in inert atmospheres and melts at 2800 °C. In a vacuum, AlN decomposes at ~1800 °C. In the air, surface oxidation occurs above 700 °C, and even at room temperature, surface oxide layers of 5-10 nm have been detected. The material dissolves slowly in mineral acids through grain boundary attack, and in strong alkalies through attack on the aluminium nitride grains. The material hydrolyzes slowly in water. Aluminium nitride is resistant to attack from most molten salts, including chlorides and cryolite.
Abstract. A process for direct bonding a copper film to an yttria-doped aluminum nitride substrate comprises treating the substrate by preoxidation at elevated temperature to create an overlying thin film of Al 2 O 3, followed by step cooling to a lower temperature. Thus the copper film is bonded to a substrate of Al 2 O 3 which is grown on the surface of the aluminum nitride substrate. The Toshiba and Mitsubishi research, however, is unsuitable for the purposes for which the instant invention is required.
It is generally known that a metal film cannot be bonded to a ceramic substrate unless oxygen is present; that is, without oxygen, generally present as the metal oxide, there can be no eutectic process. Likewise, copper cannot wet a ceramic of aluminum nitride unless some form of oxygen is present. Thus the copper film is bonded to a substrate of Al 2 O 3 which is grown on the surface of the aluminum nitride substrate. The Toshiba and Mitsubishi research, however, is unsuitable for the purposes for which the instant invention is required.
This short flash animation attempts to show how the ionic bond forms in Aluminium Nitride (AlN). From www.flashscience.co.uk. 1  Education. 
Aluminum nitride has a hexagonal crystal structure and is a covalent bonded material. The use of sintering aids and hot pressing is required to produce a dense technical grade material. The material is stable to very high temperatures in inert atmospheres. In air, surface oxidation begins above 700°C. Zirconium Oxide. Aluminum Nitride, formula AlN, is a newer material in the technical ceramics family. While its discovery occurred over 100 years ago, it has been developed into a commercially viable product with controlled and reproducible properties within the last 20 years.
Patents. A process for direct bonding a copper film to an yttria-doped aluminum nitride substrate comprises treating the substrate by preoxidation at elevated temperature to create an overlying thin film of Al2 O3, followed by step cooling to a lower temperature. A copper foil of thickness between 1.0 and 4.0... Thus the copper film is bonded to a substrate of Al 2 O 3 which is grown on the surface of the aluminum nitride substrate. The Toshiba and Mitsubishi research, however, is unsuitable for the purposes for which the instant invention is required.
Epitaxially grown thin film crystalline aluminium nitride is used for surface acoustic wave sensors (SAWs) deposited on silicon wafers because of AlN's piezoelectric properties. One application is an RF filter which is widely used in mobile phones, which is called a thin film bulk acoustic resonator (FBAR). The material dissolves slowly in mineral acids through grain boundary attack, and in strong alkalies through attack on the aluminium nitride grains. The material hydrolyzes slowly in water. Aluminium nitride is resistant to attack from most molten salts, including chlorides and cryolite.