English Meaning: The name Sandy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sandy is: Abbreviation of Alexander 'defender of man. Scottish Meaning: The name Sandy is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Sandy is: Abbreviation of Alexander defender of man. Greek Meaning: The name Sandy is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Sandy is: Defender of men; protector of mankind. American Meaning: The name Sandy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sandy is: Defender of men; protector of mankind.
[ 1 ] [ 2 ]. ABAVEN: Armenian name meaning protector.. AEDELWEARD: ædelweard-Anglo saxon, name composed of The Old english elements aeðel æðel noble and, weard guard hence.. NOBLE: Guard aedhelweard ædhelweard Variant-Spelling Ædelweard, anglo saxon aedelweard.. ædelweard meaning noble guard BAO: Vietnamese name meaning protection.. 1  BRANIMIR (бранимир): Bulgarian name composed of the Slavic elements bron protection and mir peace, hence protector of peace.. 2  Also in use by the Croatians and Slovenians.
Defender Names. Defender baby names and what they mean, for defender, guardian, protector, protection, guard, keeper, helmet, shield, protecting, vigilant, protect, savior. Here is the list of Defender names for girls. 
24 Apr, 2013. The baby name Kindra is a girl name. The name Kindra comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kindra is: Blend of Ken: (royal obligation:clear water) and Sandra: (protector of man) or Andrea: (manly or masculine). 24 Apr, 2013. The baby name Kendria is a girl name. The name Kendria comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kendria is: Blend of Ken: (royal obligation:clear water) and Sandra: (protector of man) or Andrea: (manly or masculine).
Defender Names. Defender baby names and what they mean, for defender, protector, protection, patroness, helmet, guardian. Here is the list of Defender names for boys. Baby Names associated with Defender for Girls. These girl names were at the apex of their popularity during 1900-1909 (usage of 0.1741%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.1369%, ▼ 21.4%), but with names like Sandra, Barbara, Raina, Bridget and Sondra becoming somewhat outmoded.
Origin [edit]. Etymologically, the name is derived from the Greek ἀλέξανδρος (Alexandros), aléxandros Meaning defender of the people Or defending men and, Also protector of, men a compound of the verb ἀλέξειν, alexein to ward, off to, avert to defend and the noun ἀνήρ, anēr (. man ἀνδρός). andros Alexander (/ˈaeləɡzˈaendər/ , /ˈæləɡzˈændər/) ˈaeləɡzˈɑːndər ˈæləɡzˈɑːndər is a common male, first name and less common surname derived From THE (Greek). αλέξανδρος alexandros
The baby name Kendra is a girl name. The name Kendra comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kendra is: Blend of Ken: (royal obligation:clear water) and Sandra: (protector of man) or Andrea: (manly or masculine). 24 Apr, 2013. The baby name Kendria is a girl name. The name Kendria comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kendria is: Blend of Ken: (royal obligation:clear water) and Sandra: (protector of man) or Andrea: (manly or masculine).
EASTMUND: Anglo-Saxon name composed of the Old English elements east beauty, grace and mund protection, hence gracious protector.. ED: Short form of English Edward, meaning guardian of prosperity.. Used also as a short form of other longer names beginning with Ed-. BAO: Vietnamese name meaning protection.. 1  BRANIMIR (бранимир): Bulgarian name composed of the Slavic elements bron protection and mir peace, hence protector of peace.. 2  Also in use by the Croatians and Slovenians.