1 Day Park Hopper Pass-One day park hopper ticket, which allow you to visit both Disneyland and California Adventures in the same day, is $155 for ages 10 – adult, and $149 for children 3 – 9. 2 Day 1 Park Ticket-Two day ticket prices are $185 for adults and kids 10 and up, $172 for kids 3 – 9.
1 Adult (10 years and older) 4-Day Disneyland Park Hopper plus 1-Day Legoland California Tickets are $352, plus a $2 convenience fee, which is $31 less than the gate price of the same set of tickets. 2  Includes one Magic Morning admission to Disneyland (available on select days).
Get Disneyland ticket discounts for your cheap Disney vacations at Disneyland, in Anaheim, Cal, about 90 minute drive north of San Diego. You can visit Disneyland California, the original Disneyland, and its newer sister theme park Disney California Adventure on the same day with most park hopper tickets and passes.
Get 1 day Disneyland ticket and multi-day discount passes. Before you buy, be sure to check out the discount tickets to Disneyland. Updated September 28 2015 by Best California Vacation. Disneyland in Anaheim, California should be one of your destinations on your California vacation. If you only have one day to spend at Disneyland, a 1 day Disneyland ticket is affordable for most budgets. For 3 day or longer vacations, there are many discount Disney park hopper tickets to choose from.
Disney raised ticket prices for its theme parks Sunday, including Disneyland and California Adventure in Anaheim. An entry ticket to either park climbed $3 to $99 for those over 10 years old. Want to ride both the Matterhorn at Disneyland and California Screamin’ at...
A one-day ticket to the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World in Florida is now $105, up from $99. The price jump is just the latest for Disney. Last May, the company upped Disneyland tickets by $4 to $96 and temporarily halted new sales of a very popular annual passes for Southern California residents.
1 Day 1 Park Ticket-If you are just interested in one park (either Disneyland or Disney California Adventure), you can get a 1 day 1 park ticket for $99 adults ages 10 and up, and $93 for kids. This is the best price for a one day ticket, and is available both online and at the gate.