Overview Italy's Amalfi Coast is located in the region of Campania where winemaking is a 2,000 year-old tradition. Its volcanic soil is home to grape varieties such as Greco and Aglianico introduced by the ancient Greeks and beloved by the Romans. If you would like to learn more about the wine, cuisine, and culture of Italy's Amalfi Coast please Contact Us. Privacy Policy A great source for Campania wines is Vino, New York City's premier Italian wine merchant.
Places to see in Amalfi Coast Italy. The Amalfi Coast Italy is a pictographic enormous coastline situated in the south of Naples, Campania is composed of charming fishing villages and towns which are sticking lightly to the surrounding rock faces. The costal beauty of Amalfi Coast Italy has been a year's long attraction for the Europe voyagers for its adventurous and unconventional life outs. For being the major tourist attraction of Italy, Amalfi Coast has got an amazing number of hotels that has mushroomed all over the small towns of Amalfi Coast in Italy.
The Amalfi Coast (Italian: Costiera Amalfitana) is a stretch of coastline on the southern coast of the Sorrentine Peninsula in the Province of Salerno in Southern Italy. The Amalfi Coast is a popular tourist destination for the region and Italy as a whole, attracting thousands of tourists annually. The Coast is also mentioned several times in The Coast of Amalfi, a song by Steve Harley, appearing on his 2005 album The Quality of Mercy. In the spy comedy Knight and Day, Tom Cruise's character speaks of living on the Amalfi coast with nothing but a backpack and a motorcycle.
The Amalfi Coast is known for its production of limoncello liqueur as the area is a known cultivator of lemons, known as sfusato amalfitano in Italian, which are grown in terraced gardens along the entire coast between February and October. The Coast is also mentioned several times in The Coast of Amalfi, a song by Steve Harley, appearing on his 2005 album The Quality of Mercy. In the spy comedy Knight and Day, Tom Cruise's character speaks of living on the Amalfi coast with nothing but a backpack and a motorcycle.
E ven if you have never heard of this Italian region, we'll bet you've dreamed of visiting it at least once! With Naples as its capital, it is home to the world-renowned Amalfi Coast, the ancient tragic city of Pompeii, and the romantic Isle of Capri (pronounce that CAH-pree, please!). Campania Photographs, Museums, Amalfi Coast, Transportation. B ack in the 18th and 19th centuries, no self-respecting Northern European aristocrat would dream of leaving Italy without spending a month or so in Naples.
For other uses, see Amalfi (disambiguation) . Amalfi is a town and comune in the province of Salerno, in the region of Campania, Italy, on the Gulf of Salerno. It lies at the mouth of a deep ravine, at the foot of Monte Cerreto (1,315 metres, 4,314 feet), surrounded by dramatic cliffs and coastal scenery. Amalfi is the main town of the coast on which it is located, named Costiera Amalfitana (Amalfi Coast), and is today an important tourist destination together with other towns on the same coast, such as Positano, Ravello and others.
The Amalfi Coast is the region of coastline located just south of Naples. The Amalfi Coast contains the famous coastal resort towns of Amalfi, Positano and Ravello. Amalfi Coast Map and Travel Information. Share. Find a guided tour of the Amalfi Coast or island of Capri, see the coast on a boat excursion, visit Pompeii or Paestum on a day tour, or take a cooking class on the Amalfi Coast of Italy.
Sorrento by Jesse Andrews Amalfi on the Amalfi Coast, by Darcy Aubin A view of the Mediterranean from Capri By Jesse Andrews. The region of Campania on the south-west coast of Italy is home to one of the world's most famous and most beautiful coastlines-the Amalfi Coast.