By Adario Strange. It's rare that a leader of one of Silicon Valley's leading companies openly reveals what his bet on the future is with any specificity. But Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg did exactly that on Tuesday during a conference call after the company announced it had acquired Oculus VR. We want to focus on the next major computing platform that will come after mobile, Zuckerberg said. Admittedly, virtual reality with the Kinect, which has to be viewed on a monitor or wall, is not as cool as the immersive Oculus experience, but it's still a form of VR. And some of the recent demonstrations we've seen showing off the Kinect's augmented-reality capabilities are indeed impressive.
Oculus VR is an American virtual reality technology company founded by Palmer Luckey and Brendan Iribe. Their first product, still in development, is the Oculus Rift, a head-mounted display for immersive technology virtual reality (VR). In March 2014, Facebook agreed to acquire Oculus VR for US$2 billion in cash and Facebook stock
A surprise contender entered the VR ring early in the E3 week, with game publisher Starbreeze announcing it had purchased VR startup InfinitEye. The company showed off a prototype StarVR headset with a demo for a Walking Dead virtual reality game. There are other companies looking to be part of the coming VR market, some of which had a presence at E3. Two virtual reality veterans, Vuzix and eMagin, have announced new headsets coming in the next 12 months.
The Rift is a virtual reality head-mounted display developed by Oculus VR. It was initially proposed in a Kickstarter campaign, during which Oculus VR (at the time an independent company) raised US$2.5 million for the development of the product. The Rift will be released in the first quarter of 2016, making it one of the first consumer-targeted virtual reality headsets. On May 6, 2015 Oculus VR announced that the consumer version of the Rift will ship in the first quarter of 2016 with pre-orders starting in late 2015.
Oculus Rift, the Facebook owned virtual reality headset company, says you will need a powerful Windows PCs to run the device, while Mark Zuckerberg predicts that in time the headset will be no bigger than a pair of glasses. By Techworld Staff | May 18, 2015. Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Google Plus. Oculus was keen on Facebook buying it since the social media company has the capital to invest in developing a virtual reality platform, he added. Fred O'Connor writes about IT careers and health IT for The IDG News Service. Follow Fred on Twitter at @fredjoconnor.
The company that kicked off the revival of VR held a special event in San Francisco a few days before E3 began. There, it unveiled the final version of its Oculus Rift headset, due to arrive in that first quarter of 2016. There are other companies looking to be part of the coming VR market, some of which had a presence at E3. Two virtual reality veterans, Vuzix and eMagin, have announced new headsets coming in the next 12 months.
Oculus Rift VR. Being pioneer & Trusted name in more than 30+ countries, it was a proud moment where we have catered Virtual Reality Application and Solutions for Real Estate Companies, while most of the companies are still about to adopt the VRT as their sales & Marketing Tool for their Mega Project worldwide. Yantram have got expertise & take very early initiative to implement VR, for the real estate world and will be catering different solutions to the tycoons of the real estate in the world. But there are in fact, a wide variety of applications for virtual reality which include: 1  Architecture. 2  Sport.
Virtual Reality Is Finally Growing Up. At E3 2015 last week, several companies made pitches for their vision of VR. Here is how it all stands at the cusp of VR's maturation. By. When E3 2015 kicked off last week in Los Angeles, there was a growing sense that this was virtual reality's official bar mitzvah or Quinceanera—quinceañera the celebration of a format that was finally coming of. Age right, now you seeing a lot of exploration of. things There are other companies looking to be part of the coming VR market, some of which had a presence at E3. Two virtual reality veterans, Vuzix and eMagin, have announced new headsets coming in the next 12 months.