Back to Top Causes. The cause of cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is unknown. The condition occurs when arteries in the brain connect directly to nearby veins without having the normal vessels (capillaries) between them. 
Normal and abnormal blood vessels. In a brain AVM, blood passes directly from arteries to veins via a tangle of abnormal blood vessels. A brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a tangle of abnormal blood vessels connecting arteries and veins in the brain. The arteries are responsible for taking oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the brain. Veins carry the oxygen-depleted blood back to the lungs and heart. 
An AVM is a tangle of arteries and veins in your brain that likely develop before your are born. Blood normally enters your brain through arteries, which branch into smaller blood vessels. The brain then uses oxygen removed from the blood in your capillaries. Arteriovenous malformations are abnormalities in blood vessels that can affect the arteries or the veins. They can be found in all parts of the body including the brain, lungs, the extremities and in organs, such as the kidney and liver.
Arteriovenous malformation (AVM): An arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a congenital disorder (one present at birth) of blood vessels in the brain, brainstem, or spinal cord that is characterized by a complex, tangled web of abnormal arteries and veins connected by one or more fistulas (abnormal communications). AVMs typically cause problems before the age of 40. The most common symptoms of AVM include hemorrhaging (bleeding), seizures, headaches, and neurological problems such as paralysis or loss of speech, memory, or vision. The frequency of hemorrhage in various series ranges from 30-82%.
AVMs are usually congenital and belong to the RASopathies. The genetic transmission patterns of AVM, if any, are unknown. AVM is not generally thought to be an inherited disorder, unless in the context of a specific hereditary syndrome. The most general symptoms of a cerebral AVM include headache and epilepsy, with more specific symptoms occurring that normally depend on the location of the malformation and the individual. Such possible symptoms include: 1  Difficulties with movement coordination, including muscle weakness and even paralysis;
A Baptist Health South Florida answered. An arteriovenous malformation, better known by its acronym AVM, occurs in less than 1 percent of the general population. Why they occur is not very clear, although brain AVMs are the most common and are usually congenital, meaning you are born with them. Arteriovenous malformations are abnormalities in blood vessels that can affect the arteries or the veins. They can be found in all parts of the body including the brain, lungs, the extremities and in organs, such as the kidney and liver.
Arteriovenous malformations or AVMs are abnormal blood vessels in the brain and are a congenital disorder. The cerebrovascular malformations vary greatly from person to person. AVMs are a tangled web of arteries and arterialized veins. 
When an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) occurs, a tangle of blood vessels in the brain or on its surface bypasses normal brain tissue and directly diverts blood from the arteries to the veins. Symptoms may vary depending on where the AVM is located: More than 50 percent of patients with an AVM have an intracranial hemorrhage. Among AVM patients, 20 percent to 25 percent have focal or generalized seizures. Patients may have localized pain in the head due to increased blood flow around an AVM.
Description. Cerebral arteriovenous malformations—or AVMs—are defects of the circulatory system that are congenital or generally believed to arise soon after birth. In an AVM, the arteries in the brain connect directly to nearby veins, and compromise the oxygen delivery to the brain or spinal cord. Most people with neurological AVMs experience few, if any, significant symptoms. Although is a rare condition, it affects about 300,000 Americans.
Arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is an abnormal connection between arteries and veins, bypassing the capillary system. This vascular anomaly is widely known because of its occurrence in the central nervous system, but can appear in any location. The most general symptoms of a cerebral AVM include headache and epilepsy, with more specific symptoms occurring that normally depend on the location of the malformation and the individual. Such possible symptoms include: 1  Difficulties with movement coordination, including muscle weakness and even paralysis;