The pancreas is also a digestive organ, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids in the chyme. The pancreas /ˈpaeŋkriəs/ ˈpæŋkriəs is a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of. Vertebrates in, humans it is located in the abdominal cavity behind the. stomach
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Functioning as an exocrine gland, the pancreas excretes enzymes to break down the proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in food. The pancreas is classified as a heterocrine gland because it contains both endocrine and exocrine glandular tissue. The exocrine tissue makes up about 99% of the pancreas by weight while endocrine tissue makes up the other 1%. The exocrine tissue is arranged into many small masses known as acini.
Digestive enzymes are diverse and are found in the saliva secreted by the salivary glands, in the stomach secreted by cells lining the stomach, in the pancreatic juice secreted by pancreatic exocrine cells, and in the intestinal (small and large) secretions, or as part of the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. 1 Pepsinogen is then activated by the stomach acid into its active form, pepsin. 2  Pepsin breaks down the protein in the food into smaller particles, such as peptide fragments and amino acids. 3  Protein digestion, therefore, first starts in the stomach, unlike carbohydrate and lipids, which start their digestion in the mouth.
These secretions flow to the surface of the body or to the lining of a hollow structure in the body. The exocrine secretions are involved in many important functions, such as sweating, digestion and lubricating the eyes. There are many types of exocrine glands in the exocrine system. Examples include the salivary glands, liver, stomach, prostate, lacrimal glands, pancreas, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, and mammary glands. A few examples of conditions that afflict the exocrine system include infection, ulcer, cancer, tumors, obstruction, genetic conditions and sebaceous cysts.
Exocrine Function: The pancreas contains exocrine glands that produce enzymes important to digestion. These enzymes include trypsin and chymotrypsin to digest proteins; amylase for the digestion of carbohydrates; and lipase to break down fats. The pancreas is an organ located in the abdomen. It plays an essential role in converting the food we eat into fuel for the body's cells. The pancreas has two main functions: an exocrine function that helps in digestion and an endocrine function that regulates blood sugar.
Exocrine Function. The pancreas also plays a significant role in the digestive system as an exocrine gland. It secretes a fluid that is rich in enzymes needed to aid digestion in the small intestine. The digestive enzymes help to break down different nutrients from the diet, such as carbohydrates, lipids and proteins. The pancreas is an organ that sits in the abdominal cavity behind the stomach and plays a role in both the digestive and endocrine system. In the endocrine system, it is responsible for producing several hormones, such as insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide.
Three enzymes found in pancreatic juice, called trypsin, chymotrypsin and carboxypeptidase, are the pancreatic enzymes that complete the digestion of proteins. Because proteins are held together by peptide bonds, these enzymes work by breaking peptide bonds. Your pancreas plays an important role in the digestion of food. In this lesson, you will learn about the enzymes found in pancreatic juice that allow your body to break down carbohydrates, proteins and fats.
1. Proteases Digestion of proteins is initiated by pepsin in the stomach, but the bulk of protein digestion is due to the pancreatic proteases. Several proteases are synthesized in the pancreas and secreted into the lumen of the small intestine. Three major groups of enzymes are critical to efficient digestion: 1. Proteases.