Safe Thawing. Food must be kept at a safe temperature during defrosting. Foods are safe indefinitely while frozen; however, as soon as food begins to defrost and become warmer than 40°F, any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to multiply. Never thaw food at room temperature or in warm water
[ Top of Page ]. Refrigerator Thawing. When thawing a turkey in the refrigerator: 1  Plan ahead: allow approximately 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds in a refrigerator set at 40 °F or below. 2  Place the turkey in a container to prevent the juices from dripping on other foods. Allow about 30 minutes per pound. First be sure the turkey is in a leak-proof plastic bag to prevent cross-contamination and to prevent the turkey from absorbing water, resulting in a watery product. Submerge the wrapped turkey in cold tap water. Change the water every 30 minutes until the turkey is thawed.
If you're thawing your turkey on the kitchen counter, the outside of the bird will reach those temperatures pretty quickly, but the inside will still be frozen solid. Instead, the optimal temperature for thawing a turkey is around 40 Fahrenheit (4 Celsius). Assuming you don't want to give your guests food poisoning, there are three different ways to thaw a turkey, but there's one way to skip the thawing entirely if you need to. 
1 Place the bird on a tray or in a pan to collect any juices that leak out. 2  Keep it at the bottom of your fridge so that any leakage won't contaminate anything below. 3  Allow 24 hours for every 4 to 5 pounds of frozen turkey. 1 Make sure that your refrigerator is at 40°F or colder. 2  Leave the turkey in its original wrapper. 3  Place the bird on a tray or in a pan to collect any juices that leak out. 4  Keep it at the bottom of your fridge so that any leakage won't contaminate anything below. 5
A package of frozen meat or poultry left thawing on the counter more than 2 hours is not at a safe temperature. Even though the center of the package may still be frozen, the outer layer of the food is in the “Danger Zone” between 40 and 140 °F — at a temperature where foodborne bacteria multiply rapidly. Refrigerator Thawing When thawing a turkey in the refrigerator:• Plan ahead: Allow approxi-mately 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds in a refrigerator set at 40 °F or below.• Place the turkey in a container to prevent the juices from dripping on other foods.
Refrigerator Thawing. Plan on about 24 hours for every 5 pounds in at 40° F in the refrigerator. Keep the turkey in its wrapper and place it on a platter or pan in the refrigerator breast side up. Refrigerator Thawing Times for Whole Turkey. 1  8 to 12 pounds..........1 to 2 days. 2  12 to 16 pounds..........2 to 3 days
• Place the frozen turkey in the fridge — be sure your refrigerator temperature is set at 40 °F or below. • You’ll need to a llow about 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds of frozen turkey you plan to thaw in the fridge. Approximate times to defrost a whole turkey in the fridge: Cold Water Thawing. You can defrost your frozen turkey much faster in cold water. But compared to refrigerator thawing, the process will require a lot more attention on your behalf. • Make sure the frozen turkey is in a leak-proof package or plastic bag.
Turkeys must be kept at a safe temperature during “the big thaw.” While frozen, a turkey is safe indefinitely. However, as soon as it begins to thaw, any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to grow again. A package of frozen meat or poultry left thawing on the counter more than two hours is not at a safe temperature. Even though the center of the package may still be frozen, the outer layer of the food is in the “Danger Zone” between 40 and 140 degrees F — at a temperature where foodborne bacteria rapidly multiply.