If both copies are identical, we say that individual is homozygous for that gene. A recessive gene is one that has to be homozygous to have an effect on the plant's or animal's traits. If you have a lab rat with a dominant gene, you'll see its effect whether the rat has one copy of the gene or two. 
An individual that is homozygous-dominant for a particular trait carries two copies of the allele that codes for the dominant trait. This allele, often called the dominant allele, is normally represented by a capital letter (such as P for the dominant allele producing purple flowers in pea plants). If both alleles of a diploid organism are the same, the organism is homozygous at that locus. If they are different, the organism is heterozygous at that locus. If one allele is missing, it is hemizygous, and, if both alleles are missing, it is nullizygous.
(2) Having two identical alleles that code for the same trait. Supplement. A ‘homozygous’ organism for a particular trait is described to possess either a pair of dominant alleles (e.g. AA) or a pair of recessive alleles (e.g. aa). Word origin: G. ‘homo’ meaning ‘same’ + zygous, which pertains to a zygote. Related forms: homozygosity (noun)
There are three forms of alleles; Homozygous dominant Homozygous recessive Heterozygous dominant 'Homo' means the same, so a homozygous DOMINANT allele would be 'BB' and a homozygous RECESSIVE allele would be 'bb'. 'Hetero' means different, so a heterozygous DOMINANT allele would be 'Bb'. A heterozygous dominant trait would be composed of two different alleles, and since it's dominant those alleles would be 'Bb' 4. A homozygous recessive trait would have the same alleles but they would be recessive, so a homozygous recessive trait would be 'bb'. Hope that made some sort of sense!
Both alleles for a trait are the same in an individual. They can be homozygous dominant (YY), or homozygous recessive (yy). hybrid. heterozygous; usually referring to the offspring of two true-breeding (homozygous) individuals differing in the traits of interest. 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Heterozygous refers to having two different alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Homozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r). 
Definition of Homozygous Dominant. Many genes come in two versions: the dominant allele and the recessive allele. Since diploid organisms (like you and me) have two copies of each of our genes, we could have one of each allele and be heterozygous or have two of the same and be homozygous. Because this allele is dominant, we can't know from looking at this cat whether she has two copies of the agouti allele (this would make them homozygous dominant) or whether she has just one agouti allele and carries the recessive non-agouti allele.
A dominant allele can show with only one copy present (B) and recessive needs two alleles present (bb) to show. Remembering that B = dominant, b = recessive... 1. 'Homo' = same. A homozygous trait means the alleles are the same (bb or BB) 2. A heterozygous dominant trait would be composed of two different alleles, and since it's dominant those alleles would be 'Bb' 4. A homozygous recessive trait would have the same alleles but they would be recessive, so a homozygous recessive trait would be 'bb'. Hope that made some sort of sense!
I would think the opposite of homozygous dominant is homozygous recessive. A genotype that is homozygous dominant contains two dominant alleles (forms of the gene), and one th … at is homozygous recessive contains two recessive alleles. Heterozygous would be in between the other two, with one dominant and one recessive allele. 3 people found this useful. homozygous dominant means two alleles that are the same that are capital letters, heterozygous recessive means that to alleles are different BUT the same letters in lower case … . (alleles for gender) EX: TT, Tt is homozygous dominant tt, tt is heteroz
Best Answer: Well, homozygous means same so a homozygous recessive trait would be a same [with parents] trait that is not the stronger trait which is dominant. Dominant= stronger showing trait, recessive= weaker trait. If you are dealing with Punnett squares then tt= homozygous recessive and TT= homozygous dominant. 