Description. Spiky cases protect the fruits. The copper beech is a large tree that often grows on chalky soil. The inconspicuous flowers are pollinated by the wind and the fruits are three-sided nuts (called beech mast) inside spiky cases (see image, right). The size and shape of Fagus sylvatica depends on its environment. Copper beech trees can be propagated by grafting to maintain the colour of the leaves. Copper beech (Fagus sylvatica 'Atropunicea') at Kew Gardens.
The Copper Beech is native to Europe, rather than North America. There, its natural range extends from southern Sweden to Sicily and from northwest Turkey to the north of Portugal and southern England. In the southern part of its range in the Mediterranean, it grows only in mountain forests above 2,000 ft altitude. 
Welcome to the Copper Beech Inn, a Premier Cape Cod Vacation Rental The Inn is conveniently located in Falmouth on the road to Woods Hole and is within walking distance to the Shining Sea Bicycle Path and just 3/10 of a mile from beautiful downtown Falmouth. About the Inn... Welcome to the Copper Beech Inn, a Premier Cape Cod Vacation Rental. About the Inn... The Inn is conveniently located in Falmouth on the road to Woods Hole and is within walking distance to the Shining Sea Bicycle Path and just 3/10 of a mile from beautiful downtown Falmouth.
The Copper Beech Inn. A country inn and renowned award-winning restaurant in Essex Connecticut, located in the beautiful Connecticut River Valley and along the Long Island Sound shoreline. This fine Ivoryton, CT bed and breakfast luxury inn is close to charming historic towns, shops, attractions and many outdoor activities.
copper beech (Fagus sylvatica purpurea) tree. description: The Copper beech is widespread in Europe as a park or garden tree. It is a mutation of Beech, wherein the epidermal layer of the sheet is non-transparent and hence can not be seen, the green color of chlorophyll. leaf: The leaves of the Copper beech are ovate. The color of the leaves can vary from dark red to red-green. In the sprouting leaves are dark red. The leaf margin is slightly serrated. ovoid
It is a large tree, capable of reaching heights of up to 50 m (160 ft) tall and 3 m (9.8 ft) trunk diameter, though more typically 25–35 m (82–115 ft) tall and up to 1.5 m (4.9 ft) trunk diameter. 1 copper beech or purple beech (Fagus sylvatica Purpurea Group) - leaves purple, in many selections turning deep spinach green by mid-summer. 2  In the United States Charles Sprague Sargent noted the earliest appearance in a nurseryman's catalogue in 1820, but in 1859 the finest copper beech in America...
Any size, shape, or species. From the smallest project to the largest, Copper Beech Millwork will provide you with the finest quality millwork products at the best value with unparalleled service. We aim to be the most respected name in our industry
Copper beech trees (Fagus sylvatica), also commonly known as European beech trees, infuse the home landscape with larger-than-life visual impact. Particularly well suited to large landscapes, these deciduous trees grow slowly but develop into sturdy, low-maintenance shade trees. Copper beech trees take on a dense, oval to pyramidal shape. Generally growing to heights of 50 to 75 feet with a width of 40 to 60 feet, these trees can reach an ultimate height of 100 feet.