Neal attended Aberdeen High School and Calvert Hall College High School in Maryland then played college basketball at La Salle University before transferring to Towson University. He began his professional career abroad with teams in Turkey, Spain, and Italy before signing with the San Antonio Spurs in 2010. At 1.93 m (6 ft 4 in) tall and weighing 95 kg (210 lb), Neal is considered a combo guard. Before the 2004–05 season, Neal was dismissed from the team due to a rape allegation by a University of New Haven women's basketball player who was working at La Salle camp. Neal was later acquitted after prosecutors failed to convince a jury that the woman was too drunk to consent to sex.
The Milwaukee Bucks are actively looking to move guard Gary Neal, according to sources familiar with Milwaukee's thinking.. This is Neal's first season with the Bucks after spending the first three years of his career with the San Antonio Spurs. Buzzy item out of Reno: Bucks, I'm told, will do everything they can to find new home for guard Gary Neal via trade before Feb. 20 deadline— Marc Stein (@ESPNSteinLine) January 7, 2014. 
Gary Neal could be involved in a sign-and-trade deal this offseason. Neal is a free agent, and although he won't be back with the Timberwolves, Minnesota could help jettison him to a new home. Jun 29 - 12:45 PM. Source: Darren Wolfson on Twitter. Gary Neal (ankle) will not play on Wednesday vs. the Thunder. Getting traded to Minnesota ruined his fantasy value this season, and it's pretty obvious that he isn't a huge part of their plans moving forward. Gary Neal has agreed to a one-year, $2.1 million deal with the Wizards. Since his departure from San Antonio, things have not gone well for Neal at all. The Bucks and Hornets both dumped him after some reported issues, and he's also had some struggles at shooting the rock
View gallery. Danny Green made 7 of 9 3-pointers in the Spurs' Game 3 victory over the Heat. (AP) Then there was the other star, Gary Neal, who not only was never drafted coming out of college, but never even got a training camp invite. He figured the NBA was mostly a pipe dream until, after a stint in Europe, he received a long-shot offer to play on the Spurs' summer-league team in Las Vegas
Recent News. Gary Neal has agreed to a one-year, $2.1 million deal with the Wizards. Since his departure from San Antonio, things have not gone well for Neal at all. The Bucks and Hornets both dumped him after some reported issues, and he's also had some struggles at shooting the rock
O'Neil was born in Beckenham, London. Tony Pulis gave O'Neil his Portsmouth debut as a 16-year-old on 29 January 2000 at home to Barnsley in the First Division, but kept him out of the spotlight for the rest of the season. O'Neil scored his first goal for West Ham in a 4–1 away win against Blackpool on 21 February 2012 and proved to be a key player in the team's end of season form which saw them reach the Premier League after beating Blackpool 2-1 at Wembley in the Championship play-off final.
Gary Neal (born October 3, 1984) is an American professional basketball player who currently plays for the Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Before the 2004–05 season, Neal was dismissed from the team due to a rape allegation by a University of New Haven women's basketball player who was working at La Salle camp. Neal was later acquitted after prosecutors failed to convince a jury that the woman was too drunk to consent to sex.
View gallery. Gary Neal made 6 of 10 3-pointers in the Spurs' Game 3 victory. (AP) Cleveland picked Green in the second round coming out of North Carolina, yet he did little as LeBron's teammate back in 2009-10. Danny Green made 7 of 9 3-pointers in the Spurs' Game 3 victory over the Heat. (AP) Then there was the other star, Gary Neal, who not only was never drafted coming out of college, but never even got a training camp invite.