Medical Definition of RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. : a system of organs functioning in respiration and consisting especially of the nose, nasal passages, nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs—called also respiratory tract; see lower respiratory tract, upper respiratory tract. : a system of organs functioning in respiration and in humans consisting especially of the nose, nasal passages, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. See respiratory system defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Respiratory system. Definition. noun. The system which includes bodily organs chiefly involved in gaseous exchange (respiration) between the body and the external environment. Supplement. The respiratory system functions by taking in oxygen to the body and giving off carbon dioxide to the external environment. This gas exchange happens in the alveolar region of the lungs.
The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract. Respiratory System. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level.
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system see renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. respiratory system the group of specialized organs whose specific function is to provide for the transfer of oxygen from the air to the blood and of waste carbon dioxide from the blood to the air. The organs of the system include the nose, the pharynx, the larynx, the trachea, the bronchi, and the lungs
Definition of RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. : a system of organs functioning in respiration and in humans consisting especially of the nose, nasal passages, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. See respiratory system defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
. . one answer at a time. The main function of the respiratory system is to discard waste in the form of carbon dioxide and to take in oxygen. Carbon dioxide is carried to the lungs in erythrocytes (red blood cells) and released, then the erythrocytes collect oxygen and deliver this essential gas to our bodies. The function of the respiratory system is to allow gas exchange it, taking oxygen into the blood and removing carbon dioxide from the blood. The oxygen absorbed is used by the ….
In humans and other mammals, the anatomical features of the respiratory system include trachea, bronchi, bronchioles, lungs, and diaphragm. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood. See also: Respiratory tract. The respiratory system (called also respiratory apparatus, ventilatory system) is a biological system consisting of specific organs and structures used for the process of respiration in an organism.
Introduction to parts of the respiratory system and their function. Respiratory system consists of the organs that help to breathe. Respiration also known as breathing is the process which delivers oxygen from the external atmosphere to the body and removes the carbon dioxide from body and expels out. The main parts of the respiratory system and their functions are as follows. 1  The nostrils.