It is formed by the vertebral column, ribs, and sternum and encloses the heart and lungs. In humans, the rib cage, also known as the thoracic cage, is a bony and cartilaginous structure which surrounds the thoracic cavity and supports the pectoral girdle (shoulder girdle), forming a core portion of the human skeleton.
Description of Backbone. Backbone: The bones, muscles, tendons, and other tissues that reach from the base of the skull to the tailbone. The backbone encloses the spinal cord and the fluid surrounding the spinal cord. Also called spine, spinal column, and vertebral column. Source: National Institute of Health. Backbone: the series of vertebrae forming the axis of the skeleton and protecting the spinal cord; the fall broke his back.
The mediastinum is the middle section of the chest cavity. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum. 
Vertebral column of a goat. The vertebral column, also known as the backbone or spine, is a bony skeletal structure found in vertebrates. It is formed from individual bones called vertebrae (singular: vertebra), which houses the spinal canal, a cavity that encloses and protects the spinal cord. There about 50,000 species of animals that have a vertebral column. The human vertebral column is one of the most-studied examples. It is commonly called the spine, or simply backbone. The articulating vertebrae are grouped into their regions; there are seven cervical vertebrae of the neck (C1 to C7); twelve thoracic vertebrae of the thorax (T1 to T12); and five lumbar vertebrae of the lower back above the pelvis (L1 to L5).
The vertebral column is more commonly known as the spine, spinal column, or backbone, and it consists of several oddly shaped bones, called vertebrae. It performs a number of essential functions in the human body. These functions include structure and support, movement, and protection of vital nerves and organs. The atlas and the axis are the top two vertebrae of the backbone that combine to make a pivot joint. This joint allows the head to move from side to side, and also up and down. The rest of the spine, along with a number of different muscles and ligaments, also aids a person in certain types of other movements.
The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protects the spinal cord. 
Vertebrae: 33 vertebrae make up your spine. Column of ring-like bones. Also known as your backbone, your spine is a strong, flexible column of ring-like bones that runs from your skull to your pelvis. It holds your head and body upright and allows you to bend and twist your body. Your spine is made up of 33 irregularly shaped bones called vertebrae. Each vertebra has a hole in the middle through which the spinal cord runs. The spinal cord can be divided into five different regions, from top to bottom:
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. The backbone is made up of the bones, muscles, tendons, and other tissues that reach from the base of the skull to the tailbone. The backbone encloses the spinal cord and the fluid surrounding the spinal cord. The backbone is also called the spinal column, spine, and vertebral column. This answer is based on source information from the National Cancer Instititute.