On April 22, 1970, the Environmental Teach-In held a nationwide day of environmental education and activism that it called Earth Day. The event was inspired and organized by environmental activist and U.S. Sen. Gaylord Nelson from Wisconsin. The first Earth Day celebration took place on March 21, 1970, the vernal equinox that year. It was the brainchild of John McConnell, a newspaper publisher and influential community activist, who proposed the idea of a global holiday called Earth Day at a UNESCO Conference on the Environment in 1969.
Earth Day Flag created by John McConnell. Earth Day is an annual event, celebrated on April 22, on which day events worldwide are held to demonstrate support for environmental protection. While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Earth Day is an annual event created to celebrate the planet's environment and raise public awareness about pollution. The day, marked on April 22, is observed worldwide with rallies, conferences, outdoor activities and service projects. 
The first Earth Day – April 22, 1970 – marked the beginning of the modern environmental movement. Approximately 20 million Americans, especially on college campuses, participated in a national teach-in on environmental issues and protests against environmental deterioration on the first Earth Day. But the April 22 date for the first Earth Day also stemmed from a much-earlier observance: Arbor Day, which began in Nebraska in 1872. The date of Earth Day, April 22, stems from an earlier observance, Arbor Day.
Learn how Earth Day became a global environmental event that will include a billion people on April 22. By John Roach, for National Geographic News. PUBLISHED. People at an Earth Day event lift their bicycles in Budapest, Hungary, on April 22, 2012. Photograph by Attila Volgyi, Xinhua/Eyevine/Redux. More than a billion people around the world will celebrate Earth Day on April 22, 2013—the 43rd anniversary of the annual day of action on the environment. Instead, April 22, 1970, was chosen for the first Earth Day in part because it fell on a Wednesday, the best part of the week to encourage a large turnout for the environmental rallies held across the country, Rogers said.
More from LifesLittleMysteries.com. Ira Einhorn was on stage hosting the first Earth Day event at the Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on April 22, 1970. Seven years later, police raided his closet and found the composted body of his ex-girlfriend inside a trunk. 
In 1990, Earth Day became a global event. Two hundred million people around the world staged dramatic displays of environmental support, such as a 500-mile human chain in France. In 2000, Earth Day entered cyberspace, with e-mails and live Web events bolstering participation. On April 22, 1970, 20 million people gathered across the country to show their support for the environment on the very first Earth Day. The events were far larger than any protest occurring at the time.
The celebration of Earth Day is on April 22nd and it began 1970. It has grown into a global event recognized by over 192 countries. Devoting special a day to helping for the earth is a way to demonstrate how much we care about the future of our planet. 
This day of nature's equipoise was later sanctioned in a Proclamation written by McConnell and signed by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations. A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22, 1970. Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in recognition of his work. While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.