Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airtight container. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge
There are three ways to thaw frozen lamb safely: in the refrigerator, in cold water, and in the microwave. In the Refrigerator. Once frozen lamb has thawed in the refrigerator, roasts, steaks and chops can be stored safely in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days and ground lamb will be safe for 1 to 2 days. If you decide not to use it during this time period, you may refreeze lamb without cooking it first. In Cold Water.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge.
Make sure your freezer keeps a steady temperature of 0 degrees or below. Lamb cuts can be kept in a freezer for six to nine months, while it is best to keep ground lamb frozen for up to four months. {h3}Freezer of Refrigerator?{/h3] Lamb can be stored in either the refrigerator or freezer, depending on when it will be used.
Leftover cooked lamb that is refrigerated should be used within 3 or 4 days and can be frozen for up to 3 months. Lamb should be stored in the coldest part of the refrigerator until it is ready to use. Lamb that will not be used within a few days should be stored in the freezer. They can be stored in a freezer with a temperature of 0°F or less for 6 to 9 months. Refrigerated ground lamb should be used within 1 or 2 days and can be stored in the freezer for up to 4 months.
Refrigerator / Freezer. Most cuts of lamb can be safely stored in the refrigerator at temperatures between 33°F and 40°F for 2 or 3 days. They can be stored in a freezer with a temperature of 0°F or less for 6 to 9 months. Refrigerated ground lamb should be used within 1 or 2 days and can be stored in the freezer for up to 4 months.
Storing. Refrigeration: Packaged whole cuts of fresh lamb may be refrigerated in their original wrapping in the coldest part of the refrigerator up to four or five days after purchase. Ground lamb can be stored in the refrigerator for up to two days; cooked lamb is at its best refrigerated no longer than four days. 1  Use an appliance thermometer and maintain a temperature of 34 to 38 ° F.
Fresh lamb may be kept in the refrigerator for up to two or three days prior to cooking (check use-by date at purchase). Store lamb in the coldest part of the refrigerator, keeping it as dry as possible. Keep lamb covered (ideally in the original wrapping) to prevent moisture loss. 
LAMB STORAGE. Store fresh American Lamb in the refrigerator or freezer after purchasing. Fresh lamb should be refrigerated at or below 40 degrees. Ground lamb and stew meat should be used within 2 days. Use chops and roasts in 3 to 5 days.