Silk fabric was first developed in ancient China. The earliest example of silk fabric is from 3630 BC, and it was used as wrapping for the body of a child from a Yangshao site in Qingtaicun at Xingyang, Henan. Legend gives credit for developing silk to a Chinese empress, Leizu (Hsi-Ling-Shih, Lei-Tzu). Several kinds of wild silk, which are produced by caterpillars other than the mulberry silkworm, have been known and used in China, South Asia, and Europe since ancient times. However, the scale of production was always far smaller than for cultivated silks.
Where Does Nylon Come From. 15 Nov, 2010 where does 0. Nylon is a polymer that is made from petroleum products and is used to create a synthetic fabric. It is similar in texture to silk and was produced as an alternative to silk in the 1930’s. 
Silk originates from Old English sioloc, seolec, from late Latin sericum, neuter of Latin sericus, based on Greek Seres, the name given to the inhabitants of the Far Eas … tern countries from which silk first came overland to Europe. Confidence votes 36.1K. The word originates in Asia. The Manchurian word is 'sirghe' and the Mongolian word is 'Sirkek' The word passed into Greek as 'serikos' via an oriental people from whom the Greeks obtained silk and smuggled the silk worms from China in the 1st century. The word silk originates from Ol' Spain
The word silk comes Old English sioloc, from Greek serikos, ... Malaysia is no longer engaged in sericulture but does only plant mulberry trees. It was also the first book to use the word tie in ... and they did not come ... A seven-fold tie is constructed completely out of silk. A six-fold tie is a modern ... Colorful silk world : ...
Answer by Lord Arador. Confidence votes 1.5K. Silk originates from Old English sioloc, seolec, from late Latin sericum, neuter of Latin sericus, based on Greek Seres, the name given to the inhabitants of the Far Eastern countries from which silk first came overland to Europe. Answer   Silk is a Chinese word that means silk. O.E. sioloc, seoloc silk, ultimately from an Asian word (cf. Chinesesi silk, Manchurian sirghe, Mongolian si … rkek) borrowed into Gk. asserikos silken, serikon silk (cf. Gk. Seres, a name for an oriental people from whom the Greeks got silk). The use of-l- instead of-r-in the Balto-Slavic form of the word (cf. O.C.S. shelku, Lith. silkai) apparently passed into English via the Baltic trade and may reflect a Chinese dialectal form, or a Slavic alteration of the Gk. word
Silk is a natural protein fiber, some forms of which can be woven into textiles. The protein fiber of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and is produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons. The best-known silk is obtained from the cocoons of the larvae of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity (sericulture). Several kinds of wild silk, which are produced by caterpillars other than the mulberry silkworm, have been known and used in China, South Asia, and Europe since ancient times. However, the scale of production was always far smaller than for cultivated silks.
Linen is made from a plant (cotton), silk is made by (not from!) an animal (the silk worm spins silk to make cocoons, very similar to the ones you sometimes see caterpillars make), and nylon is made by people in factories! Although all three of these materials come from different sources, they are very similar. Silk comes from a silk worm's cocoon. A silk worm is a domesticated caterpillar form of the silk moth. Nylon comes from a chemical process so if completely man made. Of the tree line is the only one from a plant. Linen is made from fibers of the flax plant.
Paint is applied to a silk or nylon screen and penetrates areas of the screen not blocked by the stencil. But there is a word of warning with this list. It is a general list for removing stains from silk, but ... If it does not work, ... It was also the first book to use the word tie in ... and they did not come ... A seven-fold tie is constructed completely out of silk. A six-fold tie is a modern ... Colorful silk world : ...