Contact Us. We have listed here a listing of countries and the languages spoken in them, ordered by precedence (the first language listed is generally the official language of the country). This listing is also cross-indexed in hypertext format to a listing of languages and the countries where it is spoken. There is an alphabetical index to countries and languages on each page. Language to Country Chart.
The only single indigenous language spoken by more than a million people in Mexico is the Nahuatl language; the other native American language with a large population of native speakers include Yucatec Maya. German (spoken mainly in Mexico City and Puebla), Arabic, Venetian (in Chipilo), Italian, French, Occitan, Catalan, Basque, Galician, Asturian, Filipino, Chinese, Hebrew, Korean, Ladino, Plautdietsch, Armenian, Japanese, Cherokee and other languages are spoken by smaller numbers.
Country to Language Chart. We have listed here a listing of countries and the languages spoken in them, ordered by precedence (the first language listed is generally the official language of the country). This listing is also cross-indexed in hypertext format to a listing of languages and the countries where it is spoken. There is an alphabetical index to countries and languages on each page. Language to Country Chart.
MLA Language Map Data Center. Use one of the forms below to find out about speakers of each language in a particular location. Data are not available for all years or locations. The top two forms provide data from 2000, 2005, and 2010, but the lower forms reflect data only for the years indicated. Data marked 2010 are aggregated by the American Community Survey (ACS) from information collected between 2006 and 2010.
Navajo is the most prevalent Native American language, with more than 170,000 speakers, while Dakota lags behind with just 18,000. According to the census, there are more speakers of Navajo in Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona than there are speakers of other Native American languages in all other states combined. *. Data source: Census Bureau American Community Survey. Map by Ben Blatt/ Slate. 
The 1991 Indian census, which says there are 18 languages spoken by at least 50,000 people in India, has a list of the languages recorded. 0. Hindi is the most widespread language, spoken by about 40 percent of the population, followed by Bengali (8.3 percent), Telugu (7.87 percent) and Marathi (7.45 percent). About half of the world's countries have at least one official language. The official language is not necessarily the most widely spoken especially when it defines nationalism (eg Ireland) or describes former colonial control (eg Liberia).
The slow process of replacing Mexico's indigenous languages with Spanish began with the arrival of Spanish forces and colonists in Mexico in the 16th century. German (spoken mainly in Mexico City and Puebla), Arabic, Venetian (in Chipilo), Italian, French, Occitan, Catalan, Basque, Galician, Asturian, Filipino, Chinese, Hebrew, Korean, Ladino, Plautdietsch, Armenian, Japanese, Cherokee and other languages are spoken by smaller numbers.
Since the 1965 Immigration Act, Spanish is the second most common language in the country, and is spoken by approximately 35 million people. The United States holds the world's fifth largest Spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by Mexico, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina. As Filipinos are the second largest Asian ethnic group in the United States, Tagalog is the second most spoken Asian language in the country. Taglish, a form of code-switching between Tagalog and English, is also spoken by a number of Filipino Americans.
For the Indigenous language sometimes called Mexicano or The Mexican language, see Nahuatl. Several different languages are spoken in Mexico, with a large majority of the population fluent in Spanish while some indigenous Mexicans are monolingual in indigenous languages. German (spoken mainly in Mexico City and Puebla), Arabic, Venetian (in Chipilo), Italian, French, Occitan, Catalan, Basque, Galician, Asturian, Filipino, Chinese, Hebrew, Korean, Ladino, Plautdietsch, Armenian, Japanese, Cherokee and other languages are spoken by smaller numbers.