Winter brings average daily temperatures of 12 to 13 degrees in Marbella, about 5 days of rain across the month on average and the sea temperature drops down to 12 degrees. The winters are mild with relatively little precipitation. Marbella Holiday Weather Overview. Marbella weather is extremely mild, with average temperatures of around 19°C / 66°F year-round as it stands between the coastline and the Sierra Blanca Mountains. While visiting Marbella you will enjoy an appealing micro-climate, with plenty of sunny weather.
The Climate in Marbella. Marbella’s rumoured ‘micro-climate’ is a fact. It renders an average temperature of 19º C throughout the year. Sheltered by the high peaks of the Sierra Blanca (Marbella, 1.215 m and Juanar 1.160 m) the climate of Marbella is supposedly more soothing than in any other neighbouring location
Marbella: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Marbella with an average temperature of 24°C (75°F) and the coldest is January at 11°C (52°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 14 in July. The wettest month is November with an average of 115mm of rain
Marbella Climate & Temperature. In the case of the Marbella climate in the winter average temperatures in December have a range of between 9 and 17 degrees celcius. The temperature values for the Marbella climate increase in the springtime reaching a range of 10 to 19 degrees celcius in March. Climate & Temperature Spain. In the case of the Marbella climate in the winter average temperatures in December have a range of between 9 and 17 degrees celcius.
Winter. Winter brings average daily temperatures of 12 to 13 degrees in Marbella, about 5 days of rain across the month on average and the sea temperature drops down to 12 degrees. Marbella Yearly Weather Summary. Marbella weather is extremely mild, with average temperatures of around 19°C / 66°F year-round as it stands between the coastline and the Sierra Blanca Mountains. While visiting Marbella you will enjoy an appealing micro-climate, with plenty of sunny weather
Marbella boasts an average of around 320 days of sunshine per year, making this a major tourist destination and one of the most popular resort cities in Spain. With fewer than 50 days of rainy weather each year, Marbella is known for its dry climate and springtime is no exception. As summer approaches, the temperatures begin to rise, with average temperatures in February and March hovering around 17°C / 62°F, compared to highs of 22°C / 72°F in late April. Easterly winds can be quite refreshing and cooling on Marbella's hottest spring days.
MARBELLA WEATHER FORECAST. The weather and climate in Marbella is excellent. Marbella is a town on the Costa del Sol coast of Spain. Marbella enjoys more than 2,800 hours of sunshine each year with an average annual temperature of 19.3 degrees Celsius. Because the Marbella weather and climate is so favourable, Marbella has become a popular tourist destination for sun lovers enjoying approximately 325 sunny days each year