Chemistry. The primary function of the Chemistry Section is to analyze items of evidence in order to determine the presence or absence of controlled substances. Chemists provide expert testimony to the courts, supply the courts and other state agencies with factual drug information, and provide information to the general public and news media about drug abuse. Additionaly, a team of scientists is trained to assist police officers in clandestine laboratory seizures.
In 2009, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation trained more than 1,600 police officers in the use of the D-L test, resulting in a 98 percent reduction in the use of marijuana lab tests. Several studies claim, falsely, to have validated the specificity of the D-L test. For instance, a seemingly authoritative 2000 study funded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) purported to have validated the capacity of the D-L test to specifically and definitively identify marijuana.
Mission Statement: The Division of Forensic Sciences will provide the highest quality forensic services for our customers, achieved through accurate and thorough analyses utilizing state of the art technology. Value Statement: The Division of Forensic Sciences values a customer service oriented team of professionals that is motivated and hard working. We employ accountable and responsible individuals whose effectiveness is reflected in their leadership, strong work ethic, intelligence, and innovation.
The Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) is an independent, statewide agency that provides assistance to the state's criminal justice system in the areas of criminal investigations, forensic laboratory services and computerized criminal justice information. The Bureau consists of three divisions: 
In February, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency extended a temporary order that makes five of the chemicals used to produce spice illegal through Aug. 29. Georgia law makes about 90 percent of synthetic cannabinoid products illegal, Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said. Currently, the GBI can test for some versions of spice and are expanding testing capabilities, Bankhead said. 
15. Use of an illegal drug or combination of illegal drugs, other than marijuana, during the past 10 years. 16. Use of any prescription drug or legally obtainable substance in a manner for which it was not intended within the past three (3) years. 
Vision Statement: The Division of Forensic Sciences envisions a future in which we continue to build and develop an internationally recognized forensic laboratory system that partners with governmental and private entities to effectively meet the needs of the Georgia criminal justice community. Value Statement: The Division of Forensic Sciences values a customer service oriented team of professionals that is motivated and hard working. We employ accountable and responsible individuals whose effectiveness is reflected in their leadership, strong work ethic, intelligence, and innovation.
The bureau's pot-smoking standard, in place for at least 13 years, was revised after internal debate about whether the policy was eliminating prospects because of drug experimentation, said Jeff Berkin, deputy director of the FBI's Security Division. In Las Vegas, where the department is attempting to hire 2,000 officers over the next five years, the background failure rate is about 70%. The department does not disclose details of its drug policy for applicants in part as a test of candidates' candor.