Squid are cephalopods of the order Teuthida, which comprises around 304 species. Like all other cephalopods, squid have a distinct head, bilateral symmetry, a mantle, and arms. Squid, like cuttlefish, have eight arms arranged in pairs and two, usually longer, tentacles. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Squid's have complex, closed circulatory systems. They have three hearts; two of the hearts pump blood to the gills. Once the blood has circulated through the gills it is then directed to the main heart to be pumped to the rest of the body. 
In squids, one of the excretory system's primary organs is the rectum. It is the rectum that passes out solid waste. Next to the rectum is the ink sac. The ink sac allows a squid to rapidly unload black ink into the mantle cavity. 
The Squid's nervous system. The squid's nervous system contains one giant axon which may be up to one millimeter in length. This axon is somewhat like a brain, as it is the head of the nervous system of the squid. As cephalopods, squids exhibit extremely high intelligence among invertibraes. They can hunt cooperatively together, and they also exhibit forms of communciation with members of the same species. Squids are cephalopods in the phylum mollusca and the order of teuthida. Like other cephalopods, they have eight legs arranged in pairs and two longer tentacles.The most famous squid of all time is Spongebob's next-door neighbor, Squidward.
The nervous system of cephalopods is the most complex of the invertebrates and their brain-to-body-mass ratio falls between that of endothermic and ectothermic vertebrates. The brain is protected in a cartilaginous cranium. 
The nervous sysytem is the control unit of the body.It is responsible for regulating and coordinating the activities of all the other sysytem of the body.Through the nervous s … ystemthe body is able to adjust to changes that occur within itself and in its surroundings. The central nervous system contains the brain, spinal cord, and retina. The peripheral nervous system consists of sensory neurons, clusters of neurons called ganglia, and nerves connecting them to each other and to the central nervous system.
The simplest type of nervous system is found in hydras and jellyfish (cnidarians) and is referred to as a nerve net.. Nerve nets do not have distinct central or peripheral regions, and lack anything that resembles a brain. Instead, the scattered nerve cells form loose networks in each cell layer of the body wall. In vertebrates, it also includes a spinal cord. The primary cell type found in the nervous system is the neuron, which has a cell body, containing the nucleus, and long extensions to carry information from one part of the body to another.
Invertebrates are those animals without a backbone (spinal column). Invertebrates include animals such as insects, worms, jellyfish, spiders-these are only a few of the many types of spineless creatures. Invertebrates have played an important role in discoveries about how the nervous system works. The octopus has the most complicated brain of all the invertebrates. The octopus nervous system has about 500,000,000 neurons, with two-thirds of these neurons located in the arms of the octopus. Neurons in the octopus brain are arranged in lobes and tracts that are more specialized than simple ganglia.