A social worker, practicing in the United States, usually requires a doctoral degree (Ph.D or DSW), master's degree (MSW) or a bachelor's degree (BSW or BASW) in social work from a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accredited program to receive a license in most states. Purporting to be either a social worker or a student social worker without registering with the relevant Social Work Register and holding or undergoing training for the recognised qualifications is now a criminal offence. Social workers must renew their registration every three year
Social Worker Qualifications. EducationA bachelors degree in social work is typically the minimum educational qualification for an entry-level social worker position. Some employers may also consider applicants with a degree in a closely related field, such as psychology or sociology. 
Entry requirements. To become a social worker in England, you will need to take a three-year undergraduate degree or a two-year postgraduate degree in social work that is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). As a social worker, you would provide advice and support to vulnerable individuals, families, and those living on the margins of society. You would also be responsible for helping them to get access to the services they need to improve their situation and well-being.
The baseline educational requirement to become a social worker is a Bachelor's degree, usually in Social Work or a related field. A four-year degree program is comprised of both coursework and a minimum number of hours (usually 400 for accredited programs) of supervised experience in the field. Social workers must be emotionally mature, self-aware, and compassionate. Social worker education requirements are fairly stringent, as all states and the District of Columbia have guidelines for degrees and licensure.
To become a social worker you will need to study a three-year undergraduate degree or a two-year postgraduate degree in social work that is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). You will also need to pass background checks by the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS). As a social worker, you would provide advice and support to vulnerable individuals, families, and those living on the margins of society. You would also be responsible for helping them to get access to the services they need to improve their situation and well-being.
A four-year Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) is required for entry into the field in most parts of Canada. In Alberta, the entry-level requirement is the diploma in social work practice. A Master's degree in Social Work (MSW) is usually required to provide psychotherapy treatment. Purporting to be either a social worker or a student social worker without registering with the relevant Social Work Register and holding or undergoing training for the recognised qualifications is now a criminal offence. Social workers must renew their registration every three years
How to Become a Social Worker. Although most social workers need a bachelor’s degree in social work, clinical social workers must have a master’s degree and two years of post-master experience in a supervised clinical setting. Clinical social workers must also be licensed in the state in which they practice. A bachelor’s degree in social work is not required to enter a master’s degree program in social work. A degree in almost any major is acceptable. However, courses in psychology, sociology, economics, and political science are recommended.
In a number of countries and jurisdictions, registration or licensure of people working as social workers is required and there are mandated qualifications. In other places, the professional association sets academic and experiential requirements for admission to membership. Purporting to be either a social worker or a student social worker without registering with the relevant Social Work Register and holding or undergoing training for the recognised qualifications is now a criminal offence. Social workers must renew their registration every three years
• Required Education. To be a social worker you need at least a bachelor's degree, generally in social work (BSW), but some employers will accept a bachelor's degree in another subject such as psychology. It generally takes four years to complete an undergraduate degree program. Some typical courses in a BSW program are: