The types of vegetation found in each region of the wetland are based on what stage of creation/deterioation is occurring there. The dynamic nature of the deltaic cycle leads to rapid changes in soil stability, salinity, and subsequently vegetation type in the active zone of the marsh. 
Although every species of plant or animal in the Okefenokee Swamp also can be found in other regions of the Southeast, the collective biodiversity creates a wildlife array of natural history that is unparalleled. 
Cattails. Cattails are common aquatic plants found along the edges of ponds, lakes and rivers as well as swamps. The tall upright emergent plant grows in shallow water and can reach heights up to 10 feet tall. The tips of cattails are brown and cigar shaped with yellow spikes at the top
Medicinal plants can also be found in the southeastern swamp ecosystem, and these include such species as: sweet flag (Acorus americanus), sassafras (Sassafras albidum), willow (Salix sp.), bog bean (Menyanthes trifolia), sundew (Drosera filiformis and Drosera rotundifoli a) and saw palmetto (Serenoa repens). Swamps often have an abundance of fish and turtles as well as a variety of wading birds and waterfowl in southeastern the swamp ecosystem. In addition, raccoons, opossums, muskrats, beavers, nutria, swamp rabbits and alligators can also be found there.
Although the freshwater swamp seen in this picture is dominated by cypress trees, other freshwater swamps found in Florida can be dominated by bay trees (i.e. sweetbay, sweet gum) or hardwoods (i.e. oak, elm, red maple). Other plants found in swamps include epiphytes (air plants) growing on trees, vines, and ferns. Hammocks may contain many different species of trees such as the sabal palm, live oak, red maple, mahogany, gumbo limbo and cocoplum. Many types of epiphytes (air plants) and ferns can be found here as well.
Trees and Plants of The Great Swamp. The under layer of The Swamp consists mostly of limestone and marble rather than the schist and gneiss that is the foundation layer of most of Putnam and Westchester Counties. The Swamp, therefore, is lower in acidity, which influences the types of plants and trees that are found in The Swamp. Plants Provide an Important Source of Food. The plants of the Swamp provide year round food for the wildlife of the Swamp. Even in the cold weather of winter, plant material is a critical food source. Many of the songbirds that stay north in the winter congregate in the Swamp. In the wet meadows and the shrub swamp areas they can find many plants with winter seeds as well as shrubs with berries that remain most of the winter. Wetland shrubs like Black Alder provide seeds. Vines of wild grape and bittersweet provide berries, although the grapes are all usually eaten early in the season
In South Florida, hammocks occur in marshes, pinelands, and mangrove swamps. Hammocks may contain many different species of trees such as the sabal palm, live oak, red maple, mahogany, gumbo limbo and cocoplum. Many types of epiphytes (air plants) and ferns can be found here as well. Wildlife in hammocks can include tree snails, raccoons, opossums, birds, snakes, lizards, tree frogs, and large animals such as the Florida panther, bobcat, and deer
A marsh is a wetland that is dominated by herbaceous rather than woody plant species. Marshes can often be found at the edges of lakes and streams, where they form a transition between the aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Marsh in shallow water on a lakeshore. A marsh is a wetland that is dominated by herbaceous rather than woody plant species. Marshes can often be found at the edges of lakes and streams, where they form a transition between the aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. They are often dominated by grasses, rushes or reeds.