Throughout the application and assessment process, you should do your best to emphasize your ability to work well with others and your desire to be on time and work hard. Age requirements. You need to be at least 15 years old to work at McDonald’s, though the age requirements vary depending on the position. For example, you will need to be at least 18 to work in management. 
If local law allows the minimum age of employment to be 14 years of age or younger, the minimum age of employment shall be 14 years of age, and the employment of any individual in the production of products for McDonald’s below that age shall be strictly prohibited. To find out the minimum age where you live all you have to do is go into your local McDonald's and ask what the age requirement is to work there and they will tell you. If you are old enough ask if they are hiring and if they are, ask for an application. Source(s): http://www.mcdonalds.com/corp/values/pur..
Cashier – Minimum starting age is 16 years old. Shift Manager – Have to be at least 18 years old. Manages people, product and equipment to execute outstanding food quality, customer service, and restaurant cleanliness. About McDonald’s. McDonald’s is the leading global food service retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants serving more than 58 million people in 118 countries each day. More than 75% of McDonald’s restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
How old do you have to be to work at McDonalds? The legal working age for most states is 16. McDonald's employment age varies from state to state and country to country. No matter how old you have to be to work at McDonald's, you will be required to undergo on the job training, performance evaluations and to follow procedures.
Teen Job Positions at McDonald’s. Crew – Crew members are divided into Kitchen Crew, Counter Crew, and Maintenance Crew. Minimum age is generally 14 years old. Night Closers – Must be 18 years old or older. About McDonald’s. McDonald’s is the leading global food service retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants serving more than 58 million people in 118 countries each day. More than 75% of McDonald’s restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
In New York, for example, potential McDonald's employees must be 15 years old. In Australia, the age is 14. If you are interested in working for McDonald's, you should contact your local franchise to determine their age requirements. Each state determines legal age for employment. No matter how old you have to be to work at McDonald's, you will be required to undergo on the job training, performance evaluations and to follow procedures.
Jobs for 14, 15 and 16 year old teenagers to work at McDonald’s fast food restaurants, their employment policy depends on each franchisees’ policy. - Sponsored Links-. About McDonald’s. McDonald’s is the leading global food service retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants serving more than 58 million people in 118 countries each day. More than 75% of McDonald’s restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
*In most States the legal age to work is 16 years of age. To find out the minimum age where you live all you have to do is go into your local McDonald's and ask what the age requirement is to work there and they will tell you. If you are old enough ask if they are hiring and if they are, ask for an application. Source(s): http://www.mcdonalds.com/corp/values/pur..
Well I'm from the UK and I'm going to ask them what age you have to be, but I got told it was 14 but gonna check that Nope soz people its 16 to work at mcdonalds you can onl … y work at under 16 years old if you are on work expierence. Answered. In Fast Food. 