A beach is a landform along the coast of an ocean or sea, or the edge of a lake or river. It usually consists of loose particles, which are often composed of rock, such as sand, gravel, shingle, pebbles, or cobblestones. The particles comprising a beach are occasionally biological in origin, such as mollusc shells or coralline algae.
Coastal Deposition is when the sea drops or deposits material. This can include sand, sediment and shingle. Beaches. The beach is the area between the lowest spring tide level and the point reached by the storm waves in the highest tides. Every beach is different but they are usually made up of material deposited on a wave-cut platform. Spit. Longshore drift moves material along a coastline. Where there is an obstruction or the power of the waves is reduced the material is deposited
Beach nourishment is the importing and deposition of sand or other sediments in an effort to restore a beach that has been damaged by erosion. Beach nourishment often involves excavation of sediments from riverbeds or sand quarries. It usually consists of loose particles, which are often composed of rock, such as sand, gravel, shingle, pebbles, or cobblestones. The particles comprising a beach are occasionally biological in origin, such as mollusc shells or coralline algae.
Weathering: The breaking down of rocks. Sediment: Broken down rocks. Erosion: The carrying away of sediment. Transport: The carrrying of sediment. Deposition: When the sediment is deposited or put down. Destructive process: Process that wears down, or removes material. Erosion is a destructive process. Constructive process: Process that makes greater or builds up material on the surface of the earth
Deposits By Waves. Waves shape a coast when they deposit sediment, which can form beaches, spits and barrier beaches. Deposition occurs when the waves slow down, causing the water to drop the sediment. This process is similar to the deposition that occurs in a river
A beach is an area of wave-washed sediment along a coast. A beach is formed when a wave drops its sediment on a coast. The sediment deposited on a beach is usually sand. Most sand comes from rivers that dumped eroded particles of rock in the ocean. Waves shape a coast when they deposit sediment, which can form beaches, spits and barrier beaches. Deposition occurs when the waves slow down, causing the water to drop the sediment. This process is similar to the deposition that occurs in a river
While most of the landmass of Earth is made of igneous and  metamorphic rocks, most of the rocks that we can actually see (i.e.  those on the surface) are sedime … ntary. Sedimentary rocks are formed  from deposition by forces like rivers, waves and glaciers.  Sediment, however, comes from eroded material. The same forces that  deposit material also erode material. Most sand in deserts and on  beaches is made by silicon oxide, otherwise known as quartz. Quartz  is an extremely common mineral in igneous (volcanic) rocks. 
Landforms of deposition. Landforms of deposition occur where accumulation of sand and shingle is greater than it is removed. This is particularly the case where constructive waves are prevalent or where there is an abundant amount of beach material supplied. Ridge and runnel systems are formed due to the interaction of tides, currents, sediments and the beach topography. They only form on beaches with a shallow gradient. They form as a simple drainage route for tides. Water flows in and out via the runnel.
Sand dunes only form where the rate of beach deposition is greater than erosion (positive sediment budget). Sand Dunes on Flamborough Head. When the dried sand reaches the top of the beach it can be trapped by debris such as driftwood, dead seaweed or rocks and pebbles. Ridge and runnel systems are formed due to the interaction of tides, currents, sediments and the beach topography. They only form on beaches with a shallow gradient. They form as a simple drainage route for tides. Water flows in and out via the runnel.