How much does the toro 3180 snowblower weigh, We purchased. How much does the toro 3180 snowblower weigh, We purchased it in 1990 and it is small and listed for small jobs. Submitted: 4 years ago. 
“Parents are often surprised at how much their child’s backpack actually weighs,” said Dr. Cara Barone, pediatrician at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation ’s Palo Alto Center (and a mother of two). Here’s a way to calculate the maximum amount of weight your child should tote: Child’s weight x .15 = max backpack weight. For example…. 50-pound child should carry a maximum of 7.5 lbs.
A good electric leaf blower with blowing and sucking abilities will usually cost between $40 and $60. A cordless electric leaf blower may cost a little more, typically between $75 and $100. Gas leaf blowers vary in price extensively, with some models costing as little as $100 and much as $1,500. For the best prices and deals, try shopping at an online marketplace, such as Amazon or eBay
Gas-powered wheeled blowers don't require a mix of fuel of oil, but they can't vacuum or shred like most other leaf blowers can. They weight 100-plus pounds, so they can be harder to maneuver uphill and on sharp turns. They are expensive and noisy, and usually require 8 square feet of storage space. A cordless electric leaf blower may cost a little more, typically between $75 and $100. Gas leaf blowers vary in price extensively, with some models costing as little as $100 and much as $1,500.
As far as power goes, handheld and backpack leaf blowers are equal; however, do keep in mind that it will be much harder to move a handheld leaf blower than a backpack blower of equal caliber. With the handheld leaf blower, all of the weight and force from the machine must be born in the arms. By contrast, the backpack design helps distribute the weight and force so there is less hand and arm strain.
Backpack, Handheld, or Push Leaf Blower. When choosing a leaf blower, the first thing you will want to decide is how you want to move the leaf blower. There are three options: handheld, backpack, and push leaf blowers. With the handheld leaf blower, all of the weight and force from the machine must be born in the arms. By contrast, the backpack design helps distribute the weight and force so there is less hand and arm strain.
Gas-powered backpack blowers. These blowers typically add power over handheld blowers. Most weight 17 pounds or more--roughly twice as much as gas-powered handheld blowers. But your back and shoulders, rather than your arms, support the weight. Like handheld gas models, they're typically noisier than electrics, though a few meet most or all noise limits where they apply. They can't vacuum or shred.
Guidelines used by recreational backpackers are that an individual in good health should be able to carry about 20% of their body weight, a 40 lb pack for a 200-pound person. More experienced backpackers should be able to carry 25% of their body weight, a 50 lb pack for a 200-pound person. Very experienced and well-conditioned backpackers can carry 35% of their body weight – a 70 lb pack for a 200-pound person. Age and sex can affect the above suggested weights, a doctor told me that most men in their 70’s should not carry over 20 lbs for any long distance. Children are another problem and you as parents will have to make the decision on how much weight they can carry. 
“As a general rule, to prevent injury, your child’s full backpack should weigh no more than 10 to 20 percent of his or her body weight.”. How a student wears his or her backpack is often just as important as its overall weight. Here’s a way to calculate the maximum amount of weight your child should tote: Child’s weight x .15 = max backpack weight. For example…. 50-pound child should carry a maximum of 7.5 lbs.
Gas-powered handheld blowers have no cord like electric handheld blowers, but they weigh a little more, usually between 7 and 12 pounds. They have a pull-cord engine starter, require regular tune-ups and are loud enough to warrant hearing protection. A cordless electric leaf blower may cost a little more, typically between $75 and $100. Gas leaf blowers vary in price extensively, with some models costing as little as $100 and much as $1,500.