Flowering dogwoods can be grown in sun or shade; however, trees planted in partial shade generally perform better. Trees planted in full sun can be stressful, making them more susceptible to dogwood borers and heat stress. For care of flowering dogwood trees, regular watering once a week to a depth of 6 inches should suffice. However, adding a generous layer of mulch will help retain moisture, minimizing watering chores. Most established trees do not require fertilizer.
The pink dogwood trees that I, myself grow are considered Cornus florida var. Rosea in plant taxonomy terms. Rubra may be a more popular pink-flowering C. florida variety than Rosea, however (see below). Pink flowering dogwoods are broadleaf, deciduous trees. Characteristics: With a common name like  flowering dogwood , it's no surprise that the various types of Cornus florida put on a terrific floral performance in the spring (although what appear to be four flower petals are actually bracts).
By Nikki Phipps (Author of The Bulb-o-licious Garden). Flowering dogwoods (Cornus florida) are deciduous trees native to the eastern half of the United States. These trees can add year-round beauty to the landscape. Let’s look at how to grow dogwood trees. For care of flowering dogwood trees, regular watering once a week to a depth of 6 inches should suffice. However, adding a generous layer of mulch will help retain moisture, minimizing watering chores. Most established trees do not require fertilizer.
For care of flowering dogwood trees, dogwoods that are planted in full sun must also rely on frequent watering, especially during hot conditions. While dogwoods will grow in a variety of climates and soil conditions, they typically grow best in, and even prefer, well-drained, humus-rich soil that is slightly acidic. For care of flowering dogwood trees, regular watering once a week to a depth of 6 inches should suffice. However, adding a generous layer of mulch will help retain moisture, minimizing watering chores. Most established trees do not require fertilizer.
One of the most widely planted ornamental trees in Georgia is the flowering dogwood (Cornus florida). It is native to the eastern United States and can be found growing throughout Georgia. The showy part of a dogwood flower is actually bracts, which are modified leaves that turn color. 
Cornus florida inflorescence, showing four large white bracts and central flower cluster. Flowering dogwood is a small deciduous tree growing to 10 m (33 ft) high, often wider than it is tall when mature, with a trunk diameter of up to 30 cm (1 ft). A 10-year-old tree will stand about 5 m (16 ft) tall. The flowering dogwood is usually included in the dogwood genus Cornus as Cornus florida L., although it is sometimes treated in a separate genus as Benthamidia florida (L.) Spach.
How to Grow Dogwood Trees. In their natural habitat, dogwoods are understory trees, which are generally surrounded or protected by other larger trees. Therefore, when caring for dogwood trees, this should be considered carefully before placement in the landscape. For care of flowering dogwood trees, regular watering once a week to a depth of 6 inches should suffice. However, adding a generous layer of mulch will help retain moisture, minimizing watering chores. Most established trees do not require fertilizer.
How to Grow Flowering Dogwood. Flowering dogwood (Cornus Florida L.) is an ornamental tree with beautiful flowers and it's the State tree of Virginia. It is native to North America and grows in various states of the USA and provinces of Canada. Ad. 
Flowering Dogwood (C. florida). Mature Height/Spread: The flowering dogwood will grow 40 feet tall when grown as an understory tree in a woodland setting. In the sun, the same tree may only grow 15 to 20 feet tall and wide. Spread can be greater than height at maturity. It can be grown as a single or multi-trunk tree. 