In English, the name Gayla means-festive party.The name Gayla originated as an English name. The name Gayla is most often used as a girl name or female name. Meaning of Gayla. English name. In English, the name Gayla means-festive party.The name Gayla originated as an English name. The name Gayla is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-festive party.
Gayla /gay-la/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Hebrew and English derivation, and the name Gayla means father of exaltation. Gayla is an alternate spelling of Gail (Hebrew): short variant of Abigail. Gayla is also a derivative of Gayle (English). Kreatif forms: Gaella, Gayma, Gayta. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Gayla for girls. Gayla was first listed in 1940-1949 and reached its highest position of #493 in the U.S. during 1950-1959, but is not found in the list currently.
English Meaning: The name Gayla is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Gayla is: Festive party. American Meaning: The name Gayla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gayla is: Festive party. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony.
The name Gayla has the following meaning: My father's joy. An elaborated form of Gail, in turn a variant of Abigail. Also a variant of the French name Gala, meaning merry maker. The following names are baby names related to Gayla and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Gayla: Boys-Amon, Areli, Asher, Elzie, Enoch, Jadon, Javon, Joel, Raphael, Girls-Anais, Derora, Diza, Mikaila, Ona, Yadira, Both genders-Jesse.
As a baby girl name, Gayla is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. The following chart shows the popularity of the name Gayla in the USA, over the past 100 years. USA baby name statistics. You'll need the Adobe Flash Player and a browser with JavaScript enabled to see all baby name popularity charts. The following names are baby names related to Gayla and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Gayla: Boys-Amon, Areli, Asher, Elzie, Enoch, Jadon, Javon, Joel, Raphael, Girls-Anais, Derora, Diza, Mikaila, Ona, Yadira, Both genders-Jesse.
[ syll. gay-la, ga-yla ] The baby girl name Gayla is pronounced G EY-LAH †. Gayla is of Old Norse and English origin. It is used mainly in English. Gayla is a variation of Gail (English). Gayla is also a variation of Gala (Scandinavian, Hebrew, Russian, and Slavic). Gayla is also a variation of Gay (English). Gayla is rare as a baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 1954, 0.031% of baby girls were named Gayla. 
Meaning of Gayla: This is a modern variant of the name Gail, which is a variant of the name Abigail, which is derived from the Hebrew name Avigail (joy of the father). Origin and meaning of Gayla. 3 5. The meaning of Gayla is  Joy of the Father . Its origin is  Variant of the name Gail . Gayla is a form of Gail and is generally pronounced like  GAY lah  and  GALE ah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name
Gayla is a very prominent first name for females (#1027 out of 4276, Top 24%) but an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Gayla for girls. Gayla was first listed in 1940-1949 and reached its highest position of #493 in the U.S. during 1950-1959, but is not found in the list currently.