Because of potentially lethal dietary and drug interactions, monoamine oxidase inhibitors have historically been reserved as a last line of treatment, used only when other classes of antidepressant drugs (for example selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants) have failed. MAOIs act by inhibiting the activity of monoamine oxidase, thus preventing the breakdown of monoamine neurotransmitters and thereby increasing their availability. There are two isoforms of monoamine oxidase, MAO-A and MAO-B.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) should not be combined with other drugs that increase brain serotonin levels [for example, MAOIs, TCAs, sumatriptan (Imitrex), linezolid (Zyvox), St John's Wort, amphetamines] because there is a risk of dangerous adverse effects. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) interactions. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) should not be combined with other antidepressants or other drugs that increase serotonin levels [for example, amphetamines, linezolid (Zyvox), St. Johns Wort, sumatriptan (Imitrex)].
MAOIs (monoamine oxidase inhibitors) are a class of medications used to treat depression. They were first introduced in the 1950s as the first class of drugs designed for depression. Today, they are less popular than other medications, but some people benefit from their use. 
Monoamine-oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressants are a group of medicines that are used to treat depression. They include moclobemide, phenelzine, isocarboxazid and tranylcypromine, and come in various different brand names. Monoamine-oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressants are usually prescribed when several of the newer types of antidepressants have been tried but have not worked so well, or caused troublesome side-effects. Some examples of newer types of antidepressant are fluoxetine, citalopram and sertraline.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) were the first medications approved for the treatment of depression symptoms and are also used to treat several other medical conditions, such as Parkinson's disease and bulimia nervosa. 1  History of MAOIs. Today, monoamine oxidase inhibitors are often seen as a last resort treatment when other antidepressants have failed. For various reasons, some individuals do not respond well to newer classes of antidepressants. In these cases, doctors often fall back upon older formulations, such as MAOIs or tricyclics.
MAOIs also affect other neurotransmitters in the brain and digestive system, causing side effects. MAOIs are sometimes used to treat conditions other than depression, such as Parkinson's disease. Like most antidepressants, MAOIs work by changing the levels of one or more of these naturally occurring brain chemicals. An enzyme called monoamine oxidase is involved in removing the neurotransmitters norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine from the brain.
Monoamine oxidase. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are chemicals which inhibit the activity of the monoamine oxidase enzyme family. They have a long history of use as medications prescribed for the treatment of depression. They are particularly effective in treating atypical depression. MAOIs act by inhibiting the activity of monoamine oxidase, thus preventing the breakdown of monoamine neurotransmitters and thereby increasing their availability. There are two isoforms of monoamine oxidase, MAO-A and MAO-B.
3 What is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor? Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are medications that slow the enzymemonoamine oxidase (MAO) in its breakdown of amine compounds includingneurotransmitters, such as norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine. MAOIs also slow the breakdown of tyramine, another monoamine compound. 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) were the first type of antidepressant developed. They're effective, but they've generally been replaced by antidepressants that are safer and cause fewer side effects. Like most antidepressants, MAOIs work by changing the levels of one or more of these naturally occurring brain chemicals. An enzyme called monoamine oxidase is involved in removing the neurotransmitters norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine from the brain.