More years of relevant experience do not necessarily translate to higher paychecks. The average beginner in this position makes around $33K, but folks who have been around for five to 10 years see a markedly higher median salary of $38K. Chemical Dependency Counselors bring in $40K after working for 10 to 20 years. Veterans who have worked for more than two decades do tend to make the most in the end; the median pay for this group is $42K.
The median expected salary for a typical Chemical Dependency Counselor in the United States is $45,759. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Chemical Dependency Counselor in the United States is $49,889 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Chemical Dependency Counselor in the United States are expected to make less than $49,889. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $49,889. Typically requires a bachelor's degree or equivalent; meets the standards for Chemical Dependency Counselor Certification Board, or other appropriate certification and 2-4 years of experience. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Chemical Dependency Counselor in the United States. Typically requires a bachelor's degree or equivalent; meets the standards for Chemical Dependency Counselor Certification Board, or other appropriate certification and 2-4 years of experience. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
Pros of a Career as a Chemical Dependency Counselor. Potential to make a difference in clients' lives by helping them come to terms with and overcome their addictions*. Job growth is predicted to rise much faster than the national average (31% expected growth between 2012 and 2022)**. A Chemical Dependency Counselor Career: Pros and Cons. Chemical dependency counselors, also known as substance abuse or behavioral disorder counselors, are responsible for assisting people who have struggled with addictions to drugs and alcohol. Read on for some positive and negative aspects of this career.
Chemical Dependency Counselor Job Description The following is a full job description for Chemical Dependency Counselor. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Chemical Dependency Counselor along with statistics.
Salary. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median annual salary for chemical dependency counselors is $38,620 per year, with a range of $25,200 to $60,160. Many (but not all) states license chemical dependency counselors. In order to earn a license, candidates must generally meet education and work experience requirements and pass an exam.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Chemical Dependency Counselor may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Typically requires a bachelor's degree or equivalent; meets the standards for Chemical Dependency Counselor Certification Board, or other appropriate certification and 2-4 years of experience. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
Chemical Dependency Counselors in the United States may have to scrimp and save; the median compensation is $36K annually. Pay generally varies between $26K and $46K per year. Residence is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by career duration. Chemical Dependency Counselors bring in $40K after working for 10 to 20 years. Veterans who have worked for more than two decades do tend to make the most in the end; the median pay for this group is $42K.