Yes, roundworms from dogs (and cats) can be contracted by humans. This occurs from coming into contact with fecal material, dirt or even in-animate objects that have been in c … ontact with dirt or fecal material that is contaminated and then putting your hands to your mouth. 1 Prevention and Cure of Roundworms in Dogs Roundworms in dogs are transmitted through the ingestion of fecal matter that is infected with the parasite. 2  This can happen a number of ways including your dog eating cat fe….
Roundworms do pose a significant risk to humans. Contact with contaminated soil or dog feces can result in human ingestion and infection. Roundworm eggs may accumulate in significant numbers in the soil where pets deposit feces. Once infected, the worms can cause eye, lung, heart and neurologic signs in people. To get rid of roundworms that are passed from the mother dog, puppies should be treated at 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks of age and then receive a preventive treatment monthly. Fecal (stool) examinations should be conducted 2 to 4 times during the first year of life and 1 or 2 times each year in adults.
Roundworm. Roundworm is the most common worm found in your dog, and not only can it be spread to other dogs but also humans, so it's important to be very careful around infected dogs. Roundworm is spread through the vomit or feces of infected dogs. These roundworms can live in the soil for years, even after the waste is cleaned up. Children are especially susceptible to infection because they often play in the same dirt that the dog does, and inadvertently put their hands in their mouths afterward. Dogs' worms are contagious, but not in the same way that kennel cough is. Dogs can't contract them by coming in contact with each other, but they can often contract them by coming in contact with an infected dog's feces.
· just now. Report Abuse. Roundworms are transmitted when dogs eat dirt or feces contaminated with roundworm eggs. Humans can get roundworm, too, so--as if you need reminding--always wash your hands after handling dog feces, and don't allow children to play near soil where dogs have pooped. 
Certain cat worms can be contagious to humans. Three of the most common types of contagious cat worms include roundworm, ringworm, and tapeworms. These types of worms are also easily transmitted between cats. Tapeworms are the easiest to transmit only because of where they actually come from. Tapeworms are transmitted to cats though flea
Roundworms are not picky parasites and make themselves at home in cats, dogs and humans alike. An infected cat can pass his pesky squatters to every other member in the household. Feline housemates can ingest eggs from social grooming sessions or by stepping in infected poop during their potty break. Once in the cat's intestines, the eggs hatch and the larvae roundworms travel through the cat's innards as they mature. Weeks later, the well-traveled juveniles return to the intestines, where they mature into adults and begin laying their own eggs.
Licensed Veterinary Technician. Yes, roundworms from dogs (and cats) can be contracted by humans. This occurs from coming into contact with fecal material, dirt or even in-animate objects that have been in contact with dirt or fecal material that is contaminated and then putting your hands to your mouth. 1 Prevention and Cure of Roundworms in Dogs Roundworms in dogs are transmitted through the ingestion of fecal matter that is infected with the parasite. 2  This can happen a number of ways including your dog eating cat fe….