Membrane proteins are important for transporting substances across the cell membrane. They can also function as enzymes or receptors. On the extracellular fluid side of a cell membrane, you find carbohydrates. They help a cell to be recognized as a certain type of cell and are important for holding cells together. Carbohydrates, or sugars, are sometimes found attached to proteins or lipids on the outside of a cell membrane. That is, they are only found on the extracellular side of a cell membrane. Together, these carbohydrates form the glycocalyx. The glycocalyx of a cell has many functions.
An integral membrane protein (IMP) is a type of membrane protein that is permanently attached to the biological membrane. All transmembrane proteins are IMPs, but not all IMPs are transmembrane proteins. IMPs comprise a significant fraction of the proteins encoded in an organism's genome. 
While the lipid bilayer provides the structure for the cell membrane, membrane proteins allow for many of the interactions that occur between cells. As we discussed in the previous section, membrane proteins are free to move within the lipid bilayer as a result of its fluidity. page 1 of 2. In addition to the lipid bilayer, the cell membrane also contains a number of proteins. We have already mentioned the presence of certain proteins in the cell membrane. In this section we will discuss the different classes of proteins found there.
Delete Content. Reason. Delete | Cancel. Close. Transport proteins in the cell membrane. A plasma membrane is permeable to specific molecules that a cell needs. Transport proteins in the cell membrane allow for selective passage of specific molecules from the external environment.
All membrane proteins have one thing in common, which is that they are all associated with a membrane. As a group, however, they are structurally and functionally highly diverse. In this lesson, we will explore the different types of membrane proteins, how they function, and their structure. In all cellular organisms, the plasma membrane is the outermost layer of a cell. It serves to separate the cell from the external environment. In prokaryotes, it is the only membrane. Eukaryotes have membrane-bound organelles.
The proteins of the plasma serve the function of acting as porins. Porins are channels control the transport of substances in and out of the cell, imparting the membrane … its property of semipermeabililty. Also, proteins make up 60-70% of the plasma membrane and thus form the bulk of it. Besides, the proteins are also involved in some important cellular reatio
Cell Membrane Structure. The cell membrane is primarily composed of a mix of proteins and lipids. Depending on the membrane’s location and role in the body, lipids can make up anywhere from 20 to 80 percent of the membrane, with the remainder being proteins. 
Membrane proteins are proteins that interact with biological membranes. They are one of the common types of protein along with soluble globular proteins, fibrous proteins, and disordered proteins. They are targets of over 50% of all modern medicinal drugs. Membrane proteins perform a variety of functions vital to the survival of organisms: 1  Membrane receptor proteins relay signals between the cell's internal and external environments. 2  Transport proteins move molecules and ions across the membrane.