For other uses, see Inning (disambiguation) . An inning in baseball, softball, and similar games is the basic unit of play, consisting of two halves or frames, the top (first half) and the bottom (second half). In each half, one team bats until three outs are made, with the other team playing defense. In Japanese baseball, however, games end if tied after 12 innings (or, in postseason play in Nippon Professional Baseball, 15 innings). Since 2011 it will also end in a tie if regular-season game has reached its 3-hour, 30-minute time limit and both teams are tied.
(June 2010). An innings is a fixed-duration segment of a game in cricket, during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring. In First-class cricket and Test cricket, each side has two innings. In one-day cricket and other abbreviated forms of the game, an innings lasts only for a set period or for a certain number of overs (typically 50 in one-day cricket and 20 in Twenty20 cricket). An individual innings usually lasts until the batsman is given out, or until the end of the team innings
A game shall be considered regulation, no matter how many innings have been played, after one hour and 45 minutes have been played and the inning in progress when the time expires is completed or immediately when time expires if the team last at bat is batting and is ahead in score. 26.1.3.3 Suspended games shall be replayed at least three weeks before the Post-Season Softball Tournament, if possible. DETERMINATION: The AIA Executive Board determined that any suspended or postponed games in the Post-Season Softball Tournament will be played from the point of suspension.
(8 cm) larger than a baseball. The infield in softball is smaller than on an adult or high school baseball diamond but identical to that used by Little League Baseball; each base is 60 ft (18 m) from the next, as opposed to baseball's 90 ft. (27 m). Gloves used in softball are usually larger than the ones used in baseball. No glove larger than 14 (36 cm) can be used in ASA (American Softball Association) sanctioned play. There are different size gloves for different positions on the field.
1 Games consist of 7 innings. 2  The game will be called at the completion of the 3 inning if one team is ahead by 20runs, in the 4th inning if a team is ahead by 15 runs, and in the 5th inning if a team is ahead by 10 runs. 1 The distance from pitcher's mound to home plate will be 50 feet. 2  The Players-A team must have 9 players to start or to continue a game with the maximum of 10 players (not including an EP-SEE LAST RULE UNDER BATTING).
In most leagues, if the score is tied after the final scheduled inning, the game goes into extra innings until an inning ends with one team ahead of the other. In Japanese baseball, however, games end if tied after 12 innings (or, in postseason play in Nippon Professional Baseball, 15 innings). Since 2011 it will also end in a tie if regular-season game has reached its 3-hour, 30-minute time limit and both teams are tied.
A softball game can last anywhere from 3 to 7 innings, depending on the league, rules, and type of softball; however 7 innings is the most common. In each inning, each team bats until three batters have been put out (see below). Gloves used in softball are usually larger than the ones used in baseball. No glove larger than 14 (36 cm) can be used in ASA (American Softball Association) sanctioned play. There are different size gloves for different positions on the field.
Softball rules vary somewhat from those of baseball. Two major differences are that the ball must be pitched underhand—from 46 ft. (14 m) for men or 43 ft(13.1 m) for women as compared with 60.5 ft. (18.4 m) in baseball—and that seven innings instead of nine constitute a regulation game. Gloves used in softball are usually larger than the ones used in baseball. No glove larger than 14 (36 cm) can be used in ASA (American Softball Association) sanctioned play. There are different size gloves for different positions on the field.
1 The game will be called at the completion of the 3 inning if one team is ahead by 20runs, in the 4th inning if a team is ahead by 15 runs, and in the 5th inning if a team is ahead by 10 runs. 2  If the home team is ahead at the middle of the inning and the above scenarios exist then the game is over. 1 The distance from pitcher's mound to home plate will be 50 feet. 2  The Players-A team must have 9 players to start or to continue a game with the maximum of 10 players (not including an EP-SEE LAST RULE UNDER BATTING).