Applications. These unusual properties are exploited in the four main applications of Nafion today. 1  Nafion is used to fabricate ion-exchange membranes used to produce chlorine gas and lye (sodium hydroxide) by the electrolysis of salt water. 2  Nafion is used to selectively dry or to humidify gases. Nafion is a super-acid catalyst. The sulfonic acid groups attached to the Teflon backbone within Nafion function as an extremely strong proton donor due to the stabilizing effect of the large polymer matrix attached to the sulfonic acid.
Nafion PFSA membranes are widely used for Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) fuel cells and water electrolyzers. The membrane performs as a separator and solid electrolyte in a variety of electrochemical cells that require the membrane to selectively transport cations across the cell junction. 
Nafion membranes are proton-conductive polymer film, also known as electrolyte or ionomer, that allow only protons to cross-over, the key function of Nafion proton exchange membrane fuel cells and water electrolyzers. The membrane performs as a separator and solid electrolyte in a variety of electrochemical cells which require the membrane to selectively transport cations across the cell junction. The polymer is chemically resistant and durable.
Nafion has received a considerable amount of attention as a proton conductor for proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cells because of its excellent thermal and mechanical stability. The chemical basis of Nafion's superior conductive properties remain a focus of research. This form of Nafion, referred to as the neutral or salt form, is finally converted to the acid form containing the sulfonic acid (-SO 3 H) groups. Nafion can be cast into thin films by heating in aqueous alcohol at 250 °C in an autoclave.
These unusual properties are exploited in the four main applications of Nafion today. 1  Nafion is used to fabricate ion-exchange membranes used to produce chlorine gas and lye (sodium hydroxide) by the electrolysis of salt water. Nafion is a super-acid catalyst. The sulfonic acid groups attached to the Teflon backbone within Nafion function as an extremely strong proton donor due to the stabilizing effect of the large polymer matrix attached to the sulfonic acid.
Application. Nafion ® is a perfluorinated ion-exchange membrane which has a wide variety of commercial uses. The acidic (hydrogen ion) form and derivatives are solid, superacid catalysts useful in a wide variety of synthetic applications. 1. 1 ea in rigid mailer. 
Dupont Nafion PFSA membranes are non-reinforced films based on Nafion PFSA polymer, a perfluorosulfonic acid/PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene) co-polymer in the acid (H+) form. Nafion PFSA membranes are widely used for Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) fuel cells and water electrolyzers. The membrane performs as a separator and solid electrolyte in a variety of electrochemical cells which require the membrane to selectively transport cations across the cell junction. The polymer is chemically resistant and durable.
Nafion is a sulfonated tetrafluoroethylene based fluoropolymer-copolymer discovered in the late 1960s by Walther Grot of DuPont. It is the first of a class of synthetic polymers with ionic properties which are called ionomers. This form of Nafion, referred to as the neutral or salt form, is finally converted to the acid form containing the sulfonic acid (-SO 3 H) groups. Nafion can be cast into thin films by heating in aqueous alcohol at 250 °C in an autoclave.