Rump steak is a term used in describing cuts of beef. It may refer to: 1  A steak from the top half of an American-cut round steak primal. 2  A British-or Australian-cut from the rump primal, largely equivalent to the American sirloin. Rump steak corresponds roughly to the French cut culotte (literally, the 'trousers', the 'pants'), which is used for different recipes: In the 20th century the English term rump steak was adopted, although with modified orthography romsteak or romsteck.
In the United Kingdom, a prized cut of rump is called the popeseye steak, or Pope's eye.. Trimmed from the tenderest regions of the top, bottom and eye sections of the round primal, this cut is renowned for being tender. This characteristic makes its especially suited for the frying pan. Ad. Rump steak is trimmed from the round, or rump, primal section of a cow.
Definition of RUMP STEAK. : a steak cut from the rump. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
Cut Location. Rump steak is located in the hindquarters of the cow, which is known as the rump or round. This area is the leanest area of a cow, and the meat derived from this section has less fat and marbling associated with it. Rump steaks, also referred to as round steaks, are found in the upper portion of the hindquarters. Though round steak cannot simply be thrown on a grill and cooked in the same manner as a simple grilling steak cut such as sirloin; rump steak is ideal for recipes in which the beef is cooked, stewed or braised in liquid to impart tenderness. Other People Are Reading.
It's best to cook it very slowly using moist heat. A steak cut from this roast is an eye round steak. Substitutes: rump roast. eye round steak = eye steak = eye of round steak Notes: This is a small, boneless steak cut from an eye round roast. It's tough, so it's sometimes cut into stew meat or processed into cube steak. Substitutes: tri-tip roast OR rump roast. round tip steak Notes: This is a steak cut from an untrimmed round tip roast. If the steak is cut from a trimmed roast, it's called a trimmed tip steak = ball tip steak. If you first marinate them overnight, you can grill, broil, or pan-fry these steaks.
1 A steak from the top half of an American-cut round steak primal. 2  A British-or Australian-cut from the rump primal, largely equivalent to the American sirloin. Rump steak corresponds roughly to the French cut culotte (literally, the 'trousers', the 'pants'), which is used for different recipes: In the 20th century the English term rump steak was adopted, although with modified orthography romsteak or romsteck.
In North America, a Rump Steak starts off as a larger cut known as a Rump Roast of Beef, from the Round area of a cow -- it's hindmost area. This cut is boneless. (See main entry for Beef Round.) It will have next to no marbling or fat. This larger cut is then cut into smaller portions known as steaks. When you are looking at recipes for Rump Steak, it's very important to suss out what audience the recipe is primarily addressed to. You can't cook a North American Rump Steak the way you would a British or New Zealand one, as they are actually two very different cuts despite the name being confusingly the same.
What a Rump Steak is depends on where you are. North Americans have a completely different interpretation from the rest of the English-speaking world, and in France, it's completely different again, taken to higher levels of refinement. When you are looking at recipes for Rump Steak, it's very important to suss out what audience the recipe is primarily addressed to. You can't cook a North American Rump Steak the way you would a British or New Zealand one, as they are actually two very different cuts despite the name being confusingly the same.