A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should enroll in a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. College students who want begin a four year pharmacy program need to complete two years of undergraduate course work and pass the Pharmacy college admission test (PCAT). A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should have a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. Students should earn a passing score in the Pharmacy college admission test and complete two years of their undergraduate program to enroll in a four year pharmacy program.
Kiplinger magazine chose optometry as one of the 13 best careers for the decade of 2010 to 2020 because of the job's high wages, prestige and generally successful patient outcomes. Earnings and Outlook. In 2010, about 50 percent of the 34,200 optometrists nationwide worked for optometry offices and 23 percent were self-employed, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).
Although not medical doctors, optometrists follow a similar educational course. A bachelor’s degree is not necessarily required, but you will need at least three years of post-secondary education in order to apply for the mandatory four-year doctor of optometry (OD) program. 
In America, it takes four years of optometry school to get an Optometry Doctorate (OD). Most optometrists also have a bachelor's degree, so it generally takes a minimum of eight years after graduation from high school. 
On the surface, the steps you need to take to learn how to become a nurse anesthetist would seem fairly self-evident: complete master's-level training in nurse anesthesia and pass a certification exam. 2. Get experience. As an RN or BSN student, gear your hands-on practice toward acute care, which is usually the type of experience nurse anesthesia master's programs require. Add that to a year or so of experience after you graduate, and you are well on your way to entry in a nurse anesthesia master's program.
A: If you want to be a pharmacist in U.S. you will need to have a doctorate of pharmacy degree. Students who have completed two years of college education and have passed the Pharmacy college admission test can begin their pharmacy program. This program in pharmacy will take 4-7 years to complete. A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should have a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. Students should earn a passing score in the Pharmacy college admission test and complete two years of their undergraduate program to enroll in a four yea
It will take between 7-9 years to become an optometrist. The first three or four years will be spent completing undergraduate coursework, then one can expect to spend another four years in optometry school. After finishing school, many graduates choose to complete an internship program in a specialized field which will take one more year. To become an optometrist, one must complete at least three years of undergraduate coursework in science, math, and other general education classes, take the Optometry Admission Test, gain acceptance into a Doctor of Optometry program, and then pass a national licensing exam.
Complete a Doctor of Optometry Program. These programs take four years to complete, and must be completed at an accredited optometry school. 1  The cost of the program will vary depending on what school you choose, but annual tuition ranges from roughly $9,000 to $22,000 for state residents. 2. Obtain a bachelor's degree from a four-year institution. Most optometry schools require coursework in biology, chemistry, physics, English, and mathematics. Talk to your counselor to determine what courses you should be taking, and check the requirements at the optometry programs you plan on applying to.
The remainder worked in physicians' offices, health care stores or outpatient care centers. As of 2011, the average hourly wage for optometrists came to $51.79, or $107,720 for a year of 40-hour weeks, according to the BLS. Annual wages ranged from $51,690 at the 10th percentile to $183,980 at the 90th percentile. Earnings and Outlook. In 2010, about 50 percent of the 34,200 optometrists nationwide worked for optometry offices and 23 percent were self-employed, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).
The first step in understanding how to become a pediatrician is accepting that this career choice will involve many years of schooling. The first level of schooling for a pediatrician, after graduation of high school, includes pursuing a four-year degree, also known as a bachelor s degree, at an accredited university. 