Geographic Range. African lions (Panthera leo) live in most of sub-Saharan Africa except in desert and rainforest habitats. Lions were once exterminated from South Africa, where they remain in Kruger and Kalahari Gemsbok National Parks and possibly some other protected areas. Each subspecies is identified by geographic region. Panthera leo senegalensis (west African or Senegalese lions), P. l. azandica (north east Congo lions), P. l. bleyenberghi (Katanga, Angolan, or south Congo lions), and P. l. krugeri (south African or Transvaal lions).
Two subspecies are currently recognised: the African lion (Panthera leo leo) and the Asiatic lion (Panthera leo persica) . The Asiatic lion is slightly smaller than its African cousin, and has a shorter, thinner mane and a fold of skin running the length of the belly that is rare in African lions. 
Panthera is a genus within the Felidae family that was named and first described by the German naturalist Oken in 1816. The British taxonomist Pocock revised the classification of this genus in 1916 as comprising the species tiger, lion, jaguar and leopard on the basis of cranial features. Results of genetic analysis indicate that the snow leopard also belongs to the Panthera, a classification that was accepted by IUCN assessors in 2008. Only the tiger, lion, leopard and jaguar have the anatomical structure that enables them to roar.
Classification. Lions belong to the genus Panthera which contains well known animals such as the tiger, leopard, and jaguar. Within the genus Panthera, the lion is further classifed as the species Panthera leo. The full scientific classification is as follows: 1  Kingdom: Animalia. 2  Phylum: Chordata. 3  Class: Mammalia. 4  Order: Carnivora. 5  Family: Felidae. 6  Genus: Panthera.
Scientific Name: Panthera leo. The lion is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae. The cat’s closest relatives are the other species of the genus Panthera: the tiger, the jaguar, and the leopard. Panthera leo appears to have evolved in Africa between 1 million and 800,000 years ago, before spreading throughout the Northern Hemisphere. It is the second-largest wild cat after the tiger. Since then it evolved into what is known as the true Cave Lion (Panthera leo spelaea) which, during the last 60,000 years, became extinct, probably due to a combination of climate change and over-hunting by humans.
The lion (Panthera leo) is the second-largest living cat after the tiger-with some males exceeding 250 kg (550 lb). 
Lions (Panthera leo) are the largest of all African cats. They are the second largest cat species worldwide, smaller than only the tiger. Lions range in color from nearly white to tawny yellow, ash brown, ochre, and deep orange-brown. They have a tuft of dark fur at the tip of their tail. 
The lion (Panthera leo) is one of the five big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae. The commonly used term African lion collectively denotes the several subspecies found in Africa. The lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a major population decline in its African range of 30–50% per two decades during the second half of the 20th century.
• PANTHERA LEO (noun). The noun PANTHERA LEO has 1 sense: 1. large gregarious predatory feline of Africa and India having a tawny coat with a shaggy mane in the male. Familiarity information: PANTHERA LEO used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (Panthera leo is a kind of...): big cat; cat (any of several large cats typically able to roar and living in the wild). Meronyms (parts of Panthera leo): mane (long coarse hair growing from the crest of the animal's neck).