You can get more information by reading the military's regulations yourself. It is also a good idea to talk to a civilian lawyer or counselor experienced in military law. Military regulations give you important ways to protest what's going on in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Philippines and elsewhere. People in the military don't have the same constitutional right to express themselves as civilians do. Courts have upheld some of these limitations, reasoning that the right to free speech must give way if the military says that is necessary for it to accomplish its mission.
To begin our discussion, we need to distinguish terminology. Under government contract law, you have the right to protest and also the right to dispute.. While these terms seem very similar and are often used interchangeably in everyday language, government contracting regulations treat them differently. If a protest is received before the award of the contract, the contract will not be awarded, pending a decision on the protest, unless the items or services are urgently needed, delivery or the performance will be unduly delayed, or the prompt award will otherwise be in the best interests of the government.
Search GAO’s bid protest docket for status information about protests filed in the past 12 months. Docket information includes the protester, agency involved, solicitation at issue, GAO attorney assigned to the protest, and key dates. 
A protest can itself sometimes be the subject of a counter-protest. In such a case, counter-protesters demonstrate their support for the person, policy, action, etc. that is the subject of the original protest. In some cases, these protesters can violently clash. 1 Picketing, a form of protest in which people congregate outside a place of work or location where an event is taking place. 2  Often, this is done in an attempt to dissuade others from going in (crossing the picket line), but it can also be done to draw public attention to a cause.
The military regulation that covers protest and dissent by members of the military is Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 1325.6 -- Guidelines for Handling Dissident and Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces.. This directive allows members to possess and read anything they want. People in the military don't have the same constitutional right to express themselves as civilians do. Courts have upheld some of these limitations, reasoning that the right to free speech must give way if the military says that is necessary for it to accomplish its mission.
If things can't be resolved through open conversation and you submit a bid protest or award protest to an agency, you can expect an informal and procedurally simple resolution to the protest that may involve another agency's personnel, third-party neutrals or alternative dispute techniques. If the bid protest or award protest is received prior to the award of a contract, the contract typically will not be awarded pending the outcome of the protest. There are some exceptions to this rule -- for example, if the government is in dire need of the products or servic
Members of the military have rights under the U.S. Constitution, laws passed by Congress, and the military's own regulations. If you are in the military, you probably know by now that the military doesn't tell you much about your rights. This leaflet provides basic information about your right to attend demonstrations, as well as to protest and say what's on your mind. People in the military don't have the same constitutional right to express themselves as civilians do. Courts have upheld some of these limitations, reasoning that the right to free speech must give way if the military says that is necessary for it to accomplish its mission.
Various forms of self-expression and protest are sometimes restricted by governmental policy (such as the requirement of protest permits), economic circumstances, religious orthodoxy, social structures, or media monopoly. One state reaction to protests is the use of riot police. 1 Picketing, a form of protest in which people congregate outside a place of work or location where an event is taking place. 2  Often, this is done in an attempt to dissuade others from going in (crossing the picket line), but it can also be done to draw public attention to a cause.