1 Be sure to sign and date the form on the first page. 2  Locate your current passport. 3  Gather 1 color photograph that is acceptable. 4  Make your $110 check or money order payable to the Department of State ($140 for both the passport card and book).
Passport applications may be expedited for an additional fee of $60 per application. The turn-around time for an expedited passport is 3 to 4 weeks. Make your check or money order payable to: U.S. Department of State. This fee is in addition to regular passport fees.
The fees for the Passport Cards are payable to the Department of State by check or money order. IDENTIFICATION. In addition to submitting proof of your U.S. citizenship, it is also necessary to show current and acceptable documentation of identification (ID).
The $110 fee is sent to U.S. Department of State with the passport application. The $25 fee is paid to the Orange County Clerk-Recorder Department for processing the application. The $110 fee can be paid by check, cashier's check or money order payable to U.S. Department of State.
Must have a certified copy of Birth Certificate Cost:$110 (check or money order) payable to U.S. Department of State $25 (cash or check) payable to Clerk of Court for processing Ages under 16: Form DS-11 Ages under 16 - passport is valid for 5 years and cannot be renewed.
The $80 fee is sent to U.S. Department of State along with the passport application. The $25 fee is paid to the Orange County Clerk-Recorder Department for processing the application. The $80 fee can be paid by check, cashier's check or money order payable to U.S. Department of State.
Adult Passport Book Fee (age 16 and older) (check or money order only, payable to U.S. Dept of State). A U.S. passport book is an internationally recognized travel document that verifies the identity and nationality of the bearer.
$110.00 for application fee, $60.00 for expedited service, and $14.85 for mailing your new passport to you via overnight mail. The total of $184.85 must be in the form of a check or money order and payable to the U.S. Department of State.