Meaning of Kesari. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Kesari means-youthful, young at heart.The name Kesari originated as an Spanish name. The name Kesari is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-youthful, young at heart. Origin-Spain. 
1 Hind Kesari: For the 1935 Hindi film, see Hind Kesari (film). 2  Hind Kesari is an Indian-style wrestling championship, established in 1958. 3  It is affiliated to All India. 4  Kesari bhath: Kesari bhat (Kannada:ಕೇಸರಿ ಬಾತ್) is an Indian dessert that is popular throughout the country. 1 INS Kesari (L15): Not to be confused with INS Kesari (2008), a Shardul-class tank landing ship. 2  INS Kesari was a Kumbhir-class tank landing ship of the Indian Navy. 3  Built. 4  Hind Kesari: For the 1935 Hindi film, see Hind Kesari (film). 5
1 Kesari: Kesari may refer to: Kesari (newspaper), an Indian Marathi-language newspaper INS Kesari, ships of the Indian Navy Kesari (Ramayana), father of Hanuman. 1 INS Kesari (L15): Not to be confused with INS Kesari (2008), a Shardul-class tank landing ship. 2  INS Kesari was a Kumbhir-class tank landing ship of the Indian Navy. 3  Built. 4  Hind Kesari: For the 1935 Hindi film, see Hind Kesari (film). 5  Hind Kesari is an Indian-style wrestling championship, established in 1958.
1 Kesari Balakrishna Pillai (1889–1960), Indian writer, critic in Malayalam who wrote under the pseudonym Kesari, and the name of a Malayalam-language newspaper he started. 2  K. N. Kesari (1875–1953), Indian physician, social reformer, philanthropist, author, magazine editor and music patron. 
1 Sri Kesari Warmadewa: Sri Kesari Warmadewa was the first king of Bali to leave a written inscription. 2  He authored the inscription on the 914 CE Belanjong pillar (Prasasti Blanjong). 3  Kesari (newspaper): article is about the Marathi newspaper. 4  For other uses, see Kesari (disambiguation). 1 INS Kesari (L15): Not to be confused with INS Kesari (2008), a Shardul-class tank landing ship. 2  INS Kesari was a Kumbhir-class tank landing ship of the Indian Navy. 3  Built. 4  Hind Kesari: For the 1935 Hindi film, see Hind Kesari (film). 5  Hind Kesari is an Indian-style wrestling championship, established in 1958.
Meaning of the name Kesari (saffron; a lion) is '(a woman with beautiful hari)'. Kesari (saffron; a lion) is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Kesari (saffron; a lion) is '4'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Kesari (saffron; a lion)'.
1 Kesari bhath: Kesari bhat (Kannada:ಕೇಸರಿ ಬಾತ್) is an Indian dessert that is popular throughout the country. 2  It originated from the Karnataka. 3  It is a Cuisine of Karnataka. 4  Sri Kesari Warmadewa: Sri Kesari Warmadewa was the first king of Bali to leave a written inscription. 1 INS Kesari (L15): Not to be confused with INS Kesari (2008), a Shardul-class tank landing ship. 2  INS Kesari was a Kumbhir-class tank landing ship of the Indian Navy. 3  Built. 4  Hind Kesari: For the 1935 Hindi film, see Hind Kesari (film). 5  Hind Kesari is an Indian-style wrestling championship, established in 1958.
Meaning of name 'Kesari' in different Region (Origin). Meaning of name 'Kesari' in different Religion (Caste). Meaning of name 'Kesari' in different Rashi. Meaning of name 'Kesari' in different Nakshatra (Star's). Find qualities of Gemini (Mithun) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Kesari or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mithun (Gemini) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Kesara, Kasir, Kesare, Kausar, Kesar, Kaiser.
Name Kesari generally means Saffron or Lion, is of Indian origin, Name Kesari is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Kesari are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Kesari belongs to rashi Mithun (Gemini) and Nakshatra (stars) Punarvasu. Find qualities of Gemini (Mithun) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Kesari or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mithun (Gemini) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Kesara, Kasir, Kesare, Kausar, Kesar, Kaiser.