Rocky IV was scored by Vince DiCola who mainly introduced new themes of his own but Gonna Fly Now returned with its composer for later installments. In Rocky Balboa, a slightly different version of the song used more trumpets and different vocal tones. Billboard ranked Conti's version as the No. 21 song of 1977. Conti's single was certified Gold by the RIAA, for shipments exceeding one million in the United States. The American Film Institute placed it 58th on its AFI's 100 Years...
Rocky ‍ '​s soundtrack was composed by Bill Conti. The main theme song,  Gonna Fly Now , made it to number one on the Billboard magazine's Hot 100 list for one week (from July 2 to July 8, 1977) and the American Film Institute placed it 58th on its AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs. Rocky was acknowledged as the second-best film in the sports genre, after Raging Bull. In 2008, Rocky was chosen by British film magazine Empire as one of The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time. In contrast, in a 2005 poll by Empire, Rocky was No. 9 on their list of The Top 10 Worst Pictures to Win Best Picture Oscar.
&nbsp Rocky's movement in the film is often away from the camera. After he wins the opening match, he leaves the locker room, walks out into the streets of Philadelphia past some singers, and then continues alone, walking away from the camera as it pans right to left in a long shot. A wall inscription of one word is evident behind the boxers and the audience: Resurrection. The scene uses low key lighting, and it emphasizes non-heroic sounds such as the voices of the crowd and the bell signaling the end of a round. Rocky wins, but the film s techniques make his victory seem like a loss.
Small time boxer and debt collector for a loan shark, Rocky 'The Italian Stallion' Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) gets the chance of a lifetime when he is invited to fight the current world heavy-weight champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) in an exhibition match. The song is Summer Madness by Kool And The Gang. There are two versions of the song: the original studio version and a live one. The one used in the movie is the studio version. On the soundtrack recording, there is also a song by Bill Conti called Reflections that samples a bit of Summer Madness.
Rocky The Italian Stallion. Balboa is a hard-living, but failing prize fighter from an Italian neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Rocky was acknowledged as the second-best film in the sports genre, after Raging Bull. In 2008, Rocky was chosen by British film magazine Empire as one of The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time. In contrast, in a 2005 poll by Empire, Rocky was No. 9 on their list of The Top 10 Worst Pictures to Win Best Picture Oscar.
Rocky Unlike Rocky in the film version, the stage Rocky actually speaks, and is a very different character. Rayner Bourton, the original Rocky from the first London production, hates the film presentation of his character. He says, Rocky is the noble savage, the feeling beast. The beast within everyone. The Rocky Horror Show, that great cult phenomenon with music and lyrics by Richard O Brien, and a script by O Brien and (uncredited) by director Jim Sharman and the original cast, was really not all that ground-breaking in 1973, and yet it was also utterly unique.
Themes of Masculinity in Rocky. In 1976, Sylvester Stallone created the character of Rocky Balboa and introduced the first in a series of films featuring this lower class Italian boxer and his drive to become successful. Rocky Balboa symbolized something far more than a simpleminded pugilist
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Gonna Fly Now , also known as  Theme from Rocky , is the theme song from the movie Rocky, composed by Bill Conti with lyrics by Carol Connors and Ayn Robbins, and performed by DeEtta Little (the sister of actor Cleavon Little) and Nelson Pigford. Billboard ranked Conti's version as the No. 21 song of 1977. Conti's single was certified Gold by the RIAA, for shipments exceeding one million in the United States. The American Film Institute placed it 58th on its AFI's 100 Years...
It tells the rags to riches American Dream story of Rocky Balboa, an uneducated but kind-hearted working class Italian-American boxer working as a debt collector for a loan shark in the slums of Philadelphia. Rocky was acknowledged as the second-best film in the sports genre, after Raging Bull. In 2008, Rocky was chosen by British film magazine Empire as one of The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time. In contrast, in a 2005 poll by Empire, Rocky was No. 9 on their list of The Top 10 Worst Pictures to Win Best Picture Oscar.